



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:09:53
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

FEARS RISE OF MORE ATTACKS;
 TERROR IN THE STATES

BYLINE: Louise Day And Abby Alford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words


PENTAGON officials were due to meet a South Wales defence company on Friday to
look at state-of-the-art anti-terrorism detection.

But yesterday's devastation on New York and Washington by suicide plane
hijackers has thrown the meeting into doubt.

Representatives from the American government had timetabled talks at the Wales
Office in Cardiff with Bridgend firm Biotrace. They had expressed interest in
the firm's products, which detect the presence of biological weapons in
terrorist attacks.

But a spokesman for Biotrace said today it was unknown if the discussions would
still go ahead.

Ian Johnson - chief executive of the company, which also has a North American
office just one hour away from the World Trade Centre devastation in New York -
said: "Our detection equipment wouldn't have prevented this disaster but it does
raise the issue of increasing concerns of terrorist attacks which can include
the use of biological weapons."

Biotrace already supplies Britain's Ministry of Defence with agents able to
detect the presence of substances in the air emitted by bombs.

Mr Johnson said: "We were due to meet representatives from the Pentagon in the
Wales Office on Friday to discuss the company's biological weapon detection.

"We have an office in New Jersey which is about one hour away from New York but
we are not concerned about it at this stage."

As yet, no group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The leader of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) denied
his group was involved. Qais Abdel Rahim was reacting to reports that two Arab
satellite stations in the Gulf had received anonymous claims of responsibility
on behalf of the DFLP, a radical PLO faction.

Abdel Rahim said his group condemned the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNED Biotrace chief executive Ian Johnson and, above, firefighters
tackle the blazing Pentagon building. MAIN PICTURE: Allsport; UK/ALLSPORT

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

Attacks echo earlier failed 'day of terror' aimed at New York

BYLINE: James Bone in New York

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 676 words


THE wave of attacks on the United States looked like a virtual replay of the
failed plot by Islamic radicals to inflict a "day of terror" on New York.

Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, a blind Egyptian cleric, and nine followers received
long jail terms in January 1996 for their plan to stage simultaneous bombings of
the United Nations, the FBI headquarters in Manhattan, the city's two tunnels
and the George Washington Bridge.

The conspirators were not charged in the 1993 lorry-bomb attack on the World
Trade Centre, in which six people died and for which four other Islamic
militants were found guilty. But the plotters were accused of being part of the
same extremist organisation.

Among them was el-Sayyid Nosair, who was sentenced to life in prison for his
role in the bomb plot and for killing the militant anti-Arab Rabbi Meir Kahane
in a New York hotel in 1990.

Sheikh Omar was also convicted of plotting to assassinate President Mubarak of
Egypt, whom he accused of "spreading corruption, homosexuality, Aids and
encouraging birth control", when he visited a New York hotel.

In an impassioned speech in Arabic at the trial, the sheikh told the court:
"This case is nothing but an extension of the American war against Islam."

But the judge disagreed, saying: "You were convicted of directing others to
perform acts that would have brought about deaths -tens if not thousands of
deaths -in a scale unseen in this country since the Civil War."

Four other Islamic militants, all followers of Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi
fundamentalist leader, are awaiting sentencing in Manhattan for conspiring with
a Saudi dissident to kill Americans, and a fifth is scheduled to go on trial
next week.

The men are all being held at the Metropolitan Correction Centre, just blocks
away from the twin towers brought down in yesterday's attacks.

The four men awaiting sentencing -Mohamed Rashed Daoud al-'Owhali, 24, Khalfan
Khamis Mohamed, 27, Wadih el-Hage, 40, and Mohamed Sadeek Odeh, 36 -were
convicted in May of helping bin Laden to bomb the American embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania two years ago, killing 224.

The fifth defendant, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, alleged to be a high-level aide to
bin Laden, was scheduled to go on trial separately next week after he seriously
injured a prison guard with a sharpened comb in November.

Just last month, Abu Doha, 37, an Algerian living in London, was indicted for
his alleged role in the millennium bombing plot that included an attack on Los
Angeles airport. He was accused of overseeing the group of Algerian "terrorists"
and meeting.

In 1995, the Philippine authorities broke up an alleged plot by the terrorist
responsible for the 1993 World Trade Centre bombing to blow up a string of
American commercial airliners.

Police who searched the hideout of Ramzi Yousef in Manila found evidence that he
had planned to carry out 11 simultaneous bombings of airliners heading from Asia
to the West Coast of the United States.

Yousef was also accused of placing a bomb on a Philippines Airlines flight en
route from Manila to Tokyo, killing one passenger, in what was described as a
test run.

He was accused at the time of being a member the Fifth Battalion of the
Liberation Army, an anti-Israeli group based in Pakistan.

Yousef, who said he was born in Pakistan and raised in Kuwait, received
explosives training in Afghanistan and originally entered the United States to
bomb the World Trade Centre on an Iraqi passport.

For his airliner plot he planned to use five terrorists to smuggle bombs aboard
a series of US commercial aircraft in January 1995. The plotters would get off
at the first stop, leaving the bombs to explode in midair or when they arrived
in the United States.

Some terrorists would plant more bombs on later flights, before all five made
their way separately to Pakistan.

The man who shared Yousef's bomb-making factory in Manila and received a life
term for the airliner plot, was a commercial pilot, named Adbul Hakim Murad.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

'TERRORIST ATTACKS WILL CONTINUE'

BYLINE: Joanne Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 298 words


MUSLIM campaigners in Wales vowed that terror attacks will continue until
occupiers withdraw from Muslim lands worldwide.

Sajid Idris represents the Cardiff branch of "Al Muhajiroun, " an Islamic
movement working towards Muslim supremacy which took to the streets during the
aftermath of yesterday's terror attacks.

He said that the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon were to be
expected.

"It's no surprise that such incidents occur considering America's actions
against our people, " he said.

"They bomb Iraq day in and day out, and so Muslims are just fighting violence
with violence. Muslim children are being born into war and conflict, as the
living dead.

"We are retaliating against the American government and military, and their role
in helping the occupiers of Muslim lands."

Idris claims that the thousands of casualties resulting from the terrorist
attacks are unavoidable.

"Islam does not target civilians, or aim to injure innocent people. However,
there are bound to be casualties involved in such incidents, people who are
directly or indirectly involved in the activities of the American government or
military."

He called the Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat "a puppet of Western governments,
" and said, "Talking has failed, now it is time for the Islamic people to take
direct action."

Idris claims that the influence of the US government throughout the world led to
these attacks.

"America supports the occupiers of Muslim people in Kashmir, Chechnya, Israel
and Bosnia both financially and by providing them with weapons.

"They prolong the wars, rather than working to end them.

"Until this involvement ends, and the occupiers withdraw from lands that are
rightfully ours, the violence will continue."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAITH: Islamic followers in Cardiff Picture: DAVID HURST

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 12, 2001

'Of course the U.S. and Britain have plans to deal with terrorist attacks, even
on this scale, but they are often kept in dusty drawers. They are certainly
being dusted off now';
 FORMER NATO DEPUTY SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER IN EUROPE

BYLINE: GENERAL SIR JOHN AKEHURST

SECTION: News, Pg.12/ 13

LENGTH: 288 words


THESE EVENTS will have repercussions for everyone in the world.

Up until now getting on an aeroplane in the States has been rather like getting
on a train in this country. There are very few security checks on internal
flights. I am sure the U.S. will now be taking some severe measures to improve
security.

But it is very hard to know what anyone can do about this sort of terrorist
attack. If we presume that this is the work of Moslem fanatics, these people are
willing to sacrifice their own lives for hope of glory in the afterlife. How can
you work against such indoctrination?

I am sure there will now be some sort of retaliation from the United States.
Osama Bin Laden threatened an attack three weeks ago. I think the United States
will shift heaven and earth to find the person responsible for this atrocity.

If the terrorists had wanted to target Britain I believe they would have timed
the attack to coincide with the one in New York. Of course, Britain is enemy
number two for Middle Eastern terrorists, but I think those responsible for this
horrific attack will now be sitting back and enjoying the impact of what they
have done for the moment.

What will follow is a massive drive to improve security throughout the world.

The impact on the stock exchanges will continue and oil prices will inevitably
rise.

The effect of these attacks is just too big to contemplate. People will be
thinking very hard about what has happened.

Of course the United States and Britain have contingency plans to deal with
terrorist attacks, even on this scale, but often they are kept in dusty drawers
and tend to be pulled out after the event. Those plans will certainly be being
dusted off now.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 13, 2001

MoD tightens security following attacks in US;
 Terror in America: HIGH ALERT: defence bases across the west are extra vigilant

BYLINE: Hywel Lloyd

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 344 words


SECURITY at Ministry of Defence sites in Bath and Wiltshire has been stepped up
in line with a nationwide clampdown.

After the New York and Washington attacks, Prime Minister Tony Blair announced
that Government buildings and defence posts across the world had been moved to a
state of high alert.

This included the Defence Communication Services Agency at Corsham, where 700
people work.

Defence Communication Services Agency spokeswoman LieutenantCommander Susie
Thomson said:

"Security awareness at all military establishments has been raised as a prudent
precautionary measure following events in the US."

"We are closely monitoring the situation and will take whatever additional
measures are deemed appropriate and necessary."

She said two search and rescue specialists were on standby to assist in the
continuing search for survivors in New York, if required by the American
authorities.

"Obviously we will do all we can to assist our American colleagues, " she added.

Laurie Manton at the Warship Support Agency at Foxhill also confirmed the site
had increased its security measures for its 1,800 civilian and military staff.

A spokesman for the Defence Logistics Organisation, which oversees all the local
military establishments, would not be drawn on the nature of the extra
precautions but said all staff were aware of the heightened tension.

He said: "We are all human beings, like everyone we watched in shock and horror
the television screens and media reports.

"But the UK has lived with the problem of terrorism for many years.

Security precautions are a way of life - something we have always been aware
of."

Staff at Bath and North East Somerset Council, where flags on civic buildings
are flying at half-mast, have also been reminded to step up security
precautions.

Emergency planning chief Gordon Hector has e-mailed the authority's 2,500 office
staff asking them to ensure that they look out for suspicious activity.

They are asked to be vigilant about suspect packages and visitors.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 13, 2001

Taliban denies claims of bin Laden's arrest;
 Terror in America: TERRORIST ATTACKS: a massive worldwide hunt for suspects

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty PA News in New York

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 551 words


CONFUSION today surrounded the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden, the man suspected
of having masterminded the terrorist attacks on the US.

The alleged terrorist commander was reported to have been placed under house
arrest by Afghanistan's ruling Taliban militia, online Arabic newspaper Ilaf
claimed.

But the Taliban militia later denied the reports of Bin Laden's house arrest.

Afghan Islamic Press said that Taliban sources described the claims as "false
and fabricated".

Ilaf claimed a number of Afghan fighters were under house arrest along with bin
Laden.

Quoting "fundamentalist Arab sources", Ilaf said: "The Taliban have arrested
Osama bin Laden before placing him under surveillance with several of his
assistants."

The men under house arrest included bin Laden's military commander Muhammad Atef
Al-Makni and the head of the Egyptian branch of fundamentalist terror group
Al-Jihad, Ayman AlZawahri.

A diplomat at the Taliban's embassy in Abu Dhabi said:

"All we know is that he is somewhere in Afghanistan, but we are not aware if he
is under house arrest."

Bin Laden quickly emerged as the prime suspect in the terror attacks on New York
and Washington using hijacked airliners.

But the FBI's most-wanted suspect has reportedly denied his involvement in the
attacks.

The chairman of the Afghan defence council claims the Saudi millionaire would
not kill innocent people. Mullah Sami Al Haq also claims bin Laden's arms have
been taken by the Taliban who are thought to be hiding him.

He told the BBC: "He is a real Muslim and I don't think, therefore, that he
could kill innocent people because it is un-Islamic.

"It's no secret he doesn't like America because America has made him a target.

But he could never do something like this.

"His weapons have been taken by the Taliban and he doesn't want to make things
worse for them by doing something like this and he doesn't want to give his
hosts any more trouble."

The reported house arrest came as the FBI's huge investigation got under way.

The FBI's probe stretches from the Canadian border, where they suspect some of
the hijackers entered the country, to Florida, where some of the participants
are believed to have learned how to fly commercial jetliners.

Addresses in Massachusetts, New Jersey and Florida were searched for evidence
and the FBI issued photos of two suspects who had stayed in Venice, Florida -
Mohamed Atta and Marwan Alshehhi - who had studied at Huffman Aviation School.

And today Time magazine reported in a special edition on the attack that two of
the men believed to have been among the hijackers of the flight which destroyed
a wing of the Pentagon had been allowed into the United States by mistake.

The men, who have yet to be named, slipped through the border despite being on a
list given to immigration officers of people who should not be allowed into the
country.

And the magazine also reported counter-terrorism officials had begun asking the
airlines for fuel loads on the plane and aviation experts to calculate the
explosive yield of each blast in kilotons, the measure of power used to grade
nuclear weapons.

Bin Laden and his commander Atef have been indicted for the 1998 bombings of the
US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 13, 2001

'Attack on US is attack on all Nato';
 Terror in America

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 233 words


NATO has delivered the backing America was seeking over the terrorist attacks in
New York and Washington.

Nato Secretary-General Lord Robertson confirmed that the terrorist attacks in
America were deemed to have been an attack on the whole Alliance.

He said the US would therefore receive support for military action if the
attacks were identified as having been perpetrated by foreign nationals.

Talks between ambassadors of the 19 Alliance nations in Brussels resulted in the
unanimous declaration reaffirming that an attack on one Nato member is
considered as an attack on them all.

The move endorses one of Nato's founding principles and virtually guarantees
America strategic, as well as moral support, in the event of any military
retaliation devised by Washington - if a perpetrator is clearly identified.

Last night's declaration from Nato headquarters after a day of talks completed a
series of strong public statements of sympathy and support from key global
allies and institutions.

The European Union declared a day of mourning tomorrow and issued a statement
expressing solidarity and pledging full support in seeking out and punishing the
perpetrators.

And when asked if the EU would support any military response by the US
authorities, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted: "Issues of military action
are matters for Nato, not for the European Union."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 13, 2001

Dorsey delayed by US horror;
 RUGBY: terrorist attack leaves prop forward stranded in California

BYLINE: Stuart Collier

SECTION: Sport, Pg.40

LENGTH: 399 words


BATH'S latest ploy to solve their front row shortfall has fallen victim to the
aftermath of Tuesday's horrific terrorist assault on the United States.

Head coach Jon Callard had intended to welcome American prop Dan Dorsey to the
squad yesterday morning but the 23-year-old is stuck in California, unable to
fly out of the country.

There is now little or no chance that he will be able to get to Bath in time for
the registration deadline for players for the Heineken Cup on Friday.

"I am hoping that a little common sense will prevail in this particular case, "
said Callard yesterday.

Dorsey, a US Eagles squad member, trained at the Recreation Ground during the
summer and travelled with the squad for their two-match pre-season tour to
Ireland.

His potential was duly noted and he was lined up as a potential fourth front
-line prop for Bath.

Unfortunately, not being a full international, Dorsey will not be able to play
as a professional for his new club.

"He is coming over as an amateur, " Callard confirmed. "He wants to play for us
because he is desperate to win his first cap for America."

Dorsey's first chance to break his international duck will come in the Test
match against South Africa back in America in December.

There he will certainly be joined by Bath teammate Dan Lyle, who yesterday
confirmed that he would be taking the field against Saracens on Saturday
(2.15pm), despite the terrible events which have unfolded in his homeland this
week.

He has recovered from a back injury and is in full training ahead of the clash,
which is vital to get his team back on track following two straight defeats.

Also certain to feature are England duo Iain Balshaw and Mike Tindall, who now
look likely to start against the London outfit.

Welsh openside Gavin Thomas has recovered from his hamstring injury and could be
in the starting line-up, while fellow countryman Andy Lloyd has been given the
allclear to start training following a scan on his knee.

Meanwhile, Callard is professing to not be feeling the strain after the adverse
start to the season which has left his side propping up the table.

"I think at this stage of the season I am quite relaxed about it all really, "
he said.

"It is something you come to terms with - you can't get uptight about it. I know
everyone here is working hard to turn things around."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 13, 2001

Vox Pop: Is there anything we can do to protect our cities from terrorist
attacks like the ones that happened in America?

SECTION: Letters, Pg.10

LENGTH: 101 words


Suzanne Ashley, 18, St George:

"I don't think there is a lot we can do to stop that kind of attack. Airports
should step up security but that will mean less freedom.

Thomas Bradshaw ,62, and Phyllis Bradshaw , aged 61, Totterdown :

"There only thing you can do is have another war but nobody wants that. We have
already lived through one and we don't want to see another."

Barbara Sawyers, aged 56, Coalpit Heath:

"It is difficult because there are always going to be fundamentalists and they
will always find a way round whatever you do to stop them. We need a period of
calm."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 13, 2001

SOAPBOX: Terrorist attack;
 Open Lines

BYLINE: Tom Palermo

SECTION: Letters, Pg.10

LENGTH: 288 words


TODAY, we Americans are reminded of your Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill:
"you do your worst and we will do our best." Terrorists have done their worst to
us. You will see us at our best.

We will quietly mourn thousands of private tragedies.

Terrorists have hurt us but also misunderstood us.

The World Trade Centre and the Pentagon will be proudly rebuilt - in tribute to
the victims and to our own indefatigable spirit.

In our righteous might, we will win through to absolute victory and the coldest
justice.

For all that America is and all that America might be, tonight we are of one
mind, one heart, one soul: to war and to victory.

We will defend ourselves to the utmost in the hope that this form of treachery
will never endanger us again.

We will rebuild the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon and do so with America's
indefatigable spirit: the can-do pride that says that no obstacle is
insurmountable and that this, too, we shall overcome.

I know that we will once more stand together against the uncivilized cowards who
gnaw at the soul of our democracies.

America's desire is for justice for the terrorists who committed this atrocity.
We will find those responsibile - we will support a general declaration of war
against all terrorists.

Pugilism is over; the gloves are off.

We would hope that all peoples would stand with us - no matter what
disagreements we may have had in the past, there is only honor in defending
other innocents from such a fate.

America is grateful for the words of support from Prime Minister Blair and the
resolve of the British people to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with us.

Tom Palermo, Magdalene Manor Drive Tampa, Florida, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK TERROR FROM THE SKY;
 ASTONISHING SATELLITE PICS

BYLINE: Cara Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 157 words


DRAMATIC images taken from hundreds of miles out in space show the true enormity
of the New York disaster.

The picture on the right, taken by the Iconos satellite, shows a huge pall of
smoke and dust spiralling upwards, dwarfing the towering skyscrapers on
Manhattan Island.

Incredibly, this image of the choking smoke funnelling through the narrow
streets was taken more than 24 hours after the towers had crumbled.

The Ikonos was travelling at 17,500 miles an hour and was 423 miles up when the
image was taken.

Another picture, topleft, taken from the International Space Station, shows the
smoke being driven north across the rest of New York.

It was taken by Expedition Three Commander Frank Culbertson as the space station
flew 250 miles up above New York.

High winds trailed the smoke for hundreds of miles, blocking out daylight in a
column stretching from New York right over the state of New Jersey.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: OCEAN OF TEARS;
 OUTPOURING OF GRIEF AND SYMPATHY AROUND THE WORLD FOR TERROR VICTIMS

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 383 words


STUNNED Americans flocked to their consulate in Edinburgh yesterday to lay
flowers and light candles in memory of the terror victims.

Among the tearful tourists and expats was Susan Stanliff, of Atlanta, Georgia,
who said her best friend's husband worked in the twin towers and was unaccounted
for.

She said: "It's dreadful being so far away from home and not being able to do
anything."

In Glasgow, 100 people gathered for a special service at St Andrew's Cathedral -
where Monsignor James Clancy said the outrage was "a great tragedy"- while a
minute's silence was held at the city's Central Mosque.

Mosque general secretary Dr Muhammed Kauser said: "It is a token of solidarity
to make it clear that the Moslem world does not condone what happened."

In Aberdeen, Canadian Father Clive Clapson led prayers at St Mary's Church. He
said: "We have one of the highest concentrations of Americans in the UK because
of the oil industry. This tragedy also affects all of us."

Grief-stricken Americans arrived in their dozens at London's American Church to
pray for their dead.

Scores of tributes and bouquets of flowers were laid outside while inside many
people lit candles, openly wept and quietly said prayers.

Elsewhere around the world, church bells pealed, flags stood at half-mast, and
conferences, concerts and sports matches were cancelled.

In Ireland, Prime Minister Bertie Ahern declared a day of mourning tomorrow in
memory of the terror victims.

And in Berlin, a banner pleading "No revenge please, No World War 3" hung near
the US Embassy where well-wishers placed flowers and candles.

Stock exchanges, including London and Madrid, suspended trading for a minute,
mourning bells rang out in Austria and the Czech Republic and Belgium opened a
public book of condolences.

President Vladimir Putin of Russia decreed a minute's silence today at noon
Moscow time. He said: "The people of Russia share the grief of the American
people and sympathise with the relatives and friends of those killed."

Pakistan president General Pervez Musharraf condemned the attacks.

Addressing his weekly audience in St Peter's Square, Rome, Pope John Paul told
Americans that "those who believe in God know that evil and death do not have
the final say".

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: HOW THE WORLD READ OF HORROR;
 TERROR ON FRONT PAGES

BYLINE: Fiona Cummins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 572 words


AMERICAN newspapers led reports of the terrorist atrocities with the message
that their government had to "fight back" swiftly and brutally.

In a strongly-worded leader article, the New York Post said: "It's time for a
random application of American power - tangible attacks on targets of
opportunity. And that's just for starters."

That stance was echoed by the New York Times, which warned that worse may yet
happen.

It said: "The United States must also consider a future in which the assaults
carried out yesterday may be overshadowed by even more lethal nuclear,
biological, or chemical attacks by terrorists."

Around the world, newspapers agreed it wasn't just Americans who were now living
under threat.

The South China Morning Post in Hong Kong said: "No city anywhere is exempt from
attack."

Russia's Kommersant declared: "Armageddon now".

And a security expert writing in Sweden's Dagens Nyheter newspaper warned: "This
is the day the world war began. The attacks against the US are attacks against
the world."

In France, Le Parisien reported simply that: "The world is afraid", while Le
Figaro ran the headline: "The New War".

The Sowetan in South Africa asked ominously: "World War?"

Spain's El Pais summed up the mood. "This act marks the start of a 21st century
racked by grave uncertainties," their article read.

In Rome, La Republica said the attacks had "changed the course of our era".

There was also shock that American defences had been breached so easily.

Belgium's Le Soir newspaper said: "The world is uneasy because it has discovered
that the American giant has feet of clay."

Italy's La Stampa added: "It is a Pearl Harbour without Japan, a war without an
enemy, against whom even the atomic bomb and missile defence in space is
useless."

The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung claimed the US had been aware of the
terrorist threat, but had done nothing.

Hardline Arab newspapers, meanwhile, gloated over the killing of thousands of
innocent people, saying the "American cowboy" had got what he deserved.

The official al-Iraq newspaper said: "The American rulers practised great
harshness against humanity until the situation exploded."

Iraqi state television dubbed the atrocity as the operation of the century.

A TV commentary stated: "The American cowboy is reaping the fruits of his crimes
against humanity."

The Iranian Tehran Times headline trumpeted: "Horror in the White House. Paying
the price for its blind support of the Zionist regime."

FRANCE

Evening newspaper France Soir told readers: "The worst has arrived" while the
biggest- selling daily broadsheet Le Figaro called the atrocities: "The new
war."

SOUTH AFRICA

South African newspapers described the shocking events as all-out war and others
simply carried the headline, "Armageddon" over the enduring image of the blazing
towers.

SPAIN

Spanish daily El Pais told how the world was holding its breath to see how
President Bush was going to retaliate while tabloid el Periodico called the
disaster: "World-wide terror."

GREECE

Greek newspapers joined the condemnation of the atrocities and Ta Nea produced a
virtually all-black front page with the chilling pictures of the Twin Towers on
fire

SWEDEN

Sweden's English newspaper described the events as, "USA under attack" while
Dagens Nyheter warned: "This is the day the new world war began."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: US FACE WAKE-UP CALL;
 AMERICANS POINT FINGER OF BLAME AT FAILED INTELLIGENCE NETWORK AS FURY GROWS
OVER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18, 19

LENGTH: 804 words


AMERICANS woke up yesterday to realise that their multi-billion-dollar
intelligence services had sold them short.

They had suffered the greatest act of war ever on American soil - and there had
been no warning.

The FBI, CIA and military have access to a huge high-tech surveillance armoury
including spy satellites.

But the world's richest and most powerful country was caught napping.

As the US public bays for blood, experts are questioning the superpower's
ability to target those responsible.

Defence expert Paul Beaver said: "The Americans have a tremendous military
capability.

"But all these things are irrelevant if they do not know who they are striking.

"What they need is good intelligence and that looks pretty ropey.

"American intelligence gathering has been shown to be seriously flawed and I
would say that does not augur well for the future."

And Chris Aaron, editor of Jane's Intelligence Review, said: "Obviously there
has been an intelligence failure."

The country's awesome arsenal includes 10 aircraft carrier battle groups, each
with 90 warplanes.

The US can launch long-range missiles from submarines and from bombers flying
beyond the earth's atmosphere. Washington claims accuracy of within a metre for
its latest missiles.

But Aaron said: "The question now is whether, if they focus on a particular
operation, they have the capability to put the intelligence together."

Tuesday's attack was also a wake-up call for President George W Bush. His
indifference to what goes on outwith US borders was one of his selling points in
last year's election.

Now he knows that if America doesn't involve itself in what happens around the
world, then its conflicts will come to them.

And from the rubble of the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, Bush has to
build a foreign policy.

Up until now his indifference to what goes on outside the US has been matched by
his ignorance.

During the Presidential race, when candidates are usually heavily briefed by
their advisers, Bush's lack of knowledge was worrying for someone bidding to be
the most powerful man on the planet.

Talking about foreign policy on the hustings, he confused Slovakia with
Slovenia, referred to the Greeks as Grecians and couldn't name the leaders of
either India or Pakistan.

He may have been haunted in the campaign by what had happened to his father when
he lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton.

George Bush senior had won the Gulf War, but it got him little return at the
polls.

American voters decided, in the famous phrase, it was "the economy, stupid"
which decided elections, and Bush junior has downgraded foreign affairs ever
since.

As a platform of his administration, Bush's foreign policy has few planks.

Before Tuesday it could be summed up in two words - Russia and nukes.

That reflects the interests of the people he has gathered around him, many of
whom are throwbacks to the days of Ronald Reagan and his dad.

Vice-President Dick Cheney was his father's defence secretary, while Secretary
of State Colin Powell was the general in charge of the Gulf War.

On Tuesday, more Americans were killed than on any other single day in history.
Now Bush is facing a growing chorus of demands for revenge.

Even the sober, influential Washington Post yesterday stated: "The nation must
prepare itself to fight the first war of the new century.

"In the past, the United States has shied away from squarely confronting regimes
that were linked to terrorist attacks against Americans. It can no longer afford
to do so."

It added: "Americans will have to make sacrifices that a state of war requires

But the added terror of Tuesday is that Bush cannot see his enemy. There is no
foreign battlefield to fight on, no obvious capital city to bomb.

And America's dilemma is harder because it cannot afford to repeat the fiasco of
its last strike against terror mastermind Osama bin Laden.

After his bombers struck at US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, the US unleashed
59 cruise missiles at suspected terror targets in Sudan and Afghanistan.

The retaliation failed. The only victims were 150 civilians in Sudan - where the
Americans blew up the wrong building - and a barren hillside full of sheep in
Afghanistan.

Bush will have to choose his targets carefully. He must balance the size of a
response America needs to restore pride, against making a dangerous situation
even worse.

A clue to the instincts of the White House was given during the election
campaign by his Security Adviser, Condoleeza Rice.

Referring to the Gulf War, she said that there was no point in going up against
somebody like Saddam Hussein unless you were prepared to finish the job.

President Bush's instincts will be to go all the way.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: TINSEL TOWN IS REELING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 115 words


ONE of the unlikely victims of the atrocities is Hollywood.

Several films are now in jeopardy because of the similarities their plots bear
to the events.

Arnie Schwarzenegger's Collateral Damage features a bomb in a skyscraper. It was
due for release in the US next month but that has been thrown into doubt.

Trailers for a new Spiderman film have also been withdrawn.

Scenes from it feature a helicopter trapped in a giant web strung between the
towers of the World Trade Centre.

Action movie Swordfish has been withdrawn from UK cinemas as it shows blasts
rocking LA.

And Disney have delayed the Tim Allen film Big Trouble. The plot involves a bomb
on a plane.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: POUNDS 150BN BILL FOR THE DEVASTATION;
  ATTACKS COULD SPARK RECESSION

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 328 words


THE terrorist attacks on America have cost pounds 150billion - and counting.

British business is braced for its share of massive global insurance claims.

And the cost of two days' lost trade as Wall Street shut down will badly damage
the UK stock exchange.

Now finance experts fear the atrocities could push us into recession.

Yesterday, Martin Hayward, of the Henley Centre research group, warned that the
damage to our travel industry, insurance companies and consumer confidence may
push the UK economy over the edge.

And with recession looming, the terrorist outrages could be the last nail in the
coffin of the world economy. Hayward said: "There were pictures yesterday of
supermarkets in the States being cleared - panic has really hit there and a
siege mentality has developed.

"Although the UK is not at that stage, confidence has been badly damaged. The
economy is not in recession yet but this may be the straw that broke the camel's
back.

"We only have to look at the link between our stock exchange and Wall Street to
understand that we are not some kind of separate entity. This could cost our
economy billions of pounds."

Hayward said even a five per cent fall in consumer spending can cause a
recession. He added: "The basic fact is, if you are happy and smiling, you are
more likely to spend money.

"It sounds bizarre that what I might spend in the High Street on a Saturday
morning is affected by a terrorist attack in New York.

"But all you need to do is look at the travel industry. That suffered straight
away yesterday because people are going to be less happy to get on
aeroplanes."Americans have already shown how they react. The BSE issue kept them
out of Britain a few years ago - so an incident like this is bound to stop them
from flying."

The insurance industry is also facing meltdown. The International Underwriting
Association said the impact of the atrocities would be felt around the world.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: I THANK ALMIGHTY ALLAH AND BOW BEFORE HIM;
  WARNING OF THOUSANDSPREPARED TO DIE IN HOLY WAR

BYLINE: Ian Dow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 715 words


THE man the world suspects of masterminding the US atrocities yesterday
congratulated the bombers on their deadly attacks.

And he thanked Almighty Allah and bowed before him when he heard the news.

But No 1 suspect Osama bin Laden denied he was responsible and claimed he had no
information or knowledge about the attack ahead of time.

At the same time, he warned that thousands of Moslems were prepared to die in a
jihad, or holy war.

In the past, he has written poems glorying in suicide bomb attacks on US
targets.

The fanatical Saudi dissident is holed up in Afghanistan, shielded by the
country's fundamental Islamic rulers, the Taliban.

His gloating over America's agony was relayed through an aide to a trusted
Palestinian journalist.

Bin Laden called the devastation "a punishment from Allah".

The United States had invited Allah's wrath because it is trying to control the
entire world with force, he said.

He said: "There are thousands of Moslems who have vowed for jihad and martyrdom.
They have experience to fight with all sorts of weapons."

Bin Laden is a prime suspect in the bombing of two US embassies in East Africa
in August 1998 that killed 224, including 12 US citizens.

He has never admitted responsibility but also congratulated those bombers.

Washington already wanted to put him on trial for those attacks but the Taliban
have steadfastly refused to hand him over, despite tough UN sanctions.

They hail him as an honoured guest and a hero of Islam.

He sits at the centre of a web of shadowy and secretive coalitions and factions
dedicated to a war against the West, especially the US.

He is often pictured with the obligatory AK 47 gun.

He comes from Saudi Arabia and has a personal fortune reported to be more than
pounds 200 million.

Bin Laden first achieved prominence in Afghanistan during an uprising against
the invading Soviet Union. It was led by Afghan Islamic rebels, heavily
bankrolled by the United States. He is said to have received a considerable
amount of cash from the CIA during the 10-year Afghan battle.

In 1989, when the fighting ended with Moscow's retreat, he returned home to
Saudi Arabia.

There, he clashed with the monarchy over inviting American troops into Saudi
Arabia, the site of two of Islam's holiest places, Mecca and Medina.

It set bin Laden on the road to becoming Public Enemy No 1.

In 1990, the US deployed its troops there for the Gulf War.

Bin Laden rallied disgruntled Saudi veterans of the Afghan uprising and openly
accused King Fahd of selling the holy sites to America.

Hounded by Saudi intelligence who arrested him, bin Laden quit Saudi in 1992 for
Sudan, where hardline Islamist Hasan Turabi was in power.

There, bin Laden's Al-Qaida organisation took shape, embracing a hardline Islam
from north African countries and the Gulf states.

Since then, a whole string of terrorist attacks against US targets have occurred
at regular intervals.

These included the attack on the World Trade Centre in 1993 when a bomb killed
six and injured 1000.

Bin Laden has never claimed responsibility for any attacks but he and his allies
have been accused of playing a role in most of them.

He operates several training camps in Afghanistan and has urged young Moslems
worldwide to wage a holy war against the United States.

There are training camps in every province of Afghanistan, the Taliban have
admitted. Those camps are training militant Moslems from Chechnya, Uzbekistan,
Pakistan, China and most Arab countries.

Bin Laden has even written poems about terror attacks against the US.

At the wedding of his son in February bin Laden praised last year's suicide
bombing of the USS Cole.

Last spring, bin Laden instructed hard-line Islamic activists attending a Moslem
convention in neighboring Pakistan to prepare the next generation for the jihad
as well.

In 1996, Sudan bowed to relentless pressure from the United States and asked bin
Laden to leave.

He moved to Afghanistan with 180 followers and three wives.

Earlier, the FBI put a pounds 3million bounty on his head.

The US State Department have called bin Laden one of the most significant
sponsors of Islamic extremist activities in the world today.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: US MOBILISES UK-BASED PLANES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 139 words


SPECULATION that the United States might be preparing to launch a retaliatory
strike mounted yesterday as three giant refuelling tankers took off from
America's biggest UK air base.

The KC-135 Stratotankers, each capable of carrying 40 tons of aviation fuel,
roared off the runway in rapid succession at around 10.30am at the United States
Air Force base in Mildenhall, Suffolk.

The coloured tankers - 136ft long with a 130ft wing span - enable US attack
fighters and bombers to fly long-distance missions with mid-air refuelling.

The aircraft from Mildenhall, which have a range of 1500 miles, were used to
refuel planes during the Gulf War and the US bombing raid on Libya.

But Sgt Theresa McCullough, a USAF spokeswoman at the base, insisted the tankers
were only involved in a routine training exercise.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: NOSTRA DAMNED US;
 IN THE CITY OF YORK THERE WILL BE A GREAT COLLAPSE, TWO TWIN BROTHERS TORN
APART BY CHAOS. WHILE THE FORTRESS FALLS THE GREAT LEADER WILL SUCCUMB, THIRD
BIG WAR WILL BEGIN WHEN THE BIG CITY IS BURNING

BYLINE: Gary Ralston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 530 words


THE world-wide web was buzzing yesterday with claims that the tragedy in the US
was foretold by Nostradamus.

Office workers e-mailed two chilling prophecies around the world and scores of
Internet websites also carried the alleged visions of the 16th-century French
seer.

The first read: "In the year of the new century and nine months. From the sky
will come a great King of Terror. The sky will burn at 45 degrees. Fire
approaches the great new city."

The second read: "In the city of York, there will be a great collapse. Two twin
brothers torn apart by chaos. While the fortress falls, the great leader will
succumb. Third big war will begin when the big city is burning."

However, one of the world's leading experts on Nostradamus dismissed the
suggestions the French visionary gave a chilling glimpse of the apocalypse.

Peter Lemesurier, who has written six books on Nostradamus, said: "The first
verse is a complete non-starter. His words have been twisted and badly
-translated.

"Nostradamus never wrote about the new century and the ninth month, but 1999 and
the seventh month. He did not write about the King of Terror, but the Host King.

"As for the second prophecy, it's a total invention. It was never written by
Nostradamus. It's a complete nonsense, the figment of someone's imagination."

Lemesurier said the closest the soothsayer came to predicting the terrorist
attack on New York was a vague reference in his prophecy 6: 97.

It reads: "At five and 40 degrees the sky will burn. Fire will approach the
great new city. Vehemently scattered flame will jump up. When they try
conclusions with the northerners."

But the author pointed out: "New York sits on a 40 degree parallel - 45 degrees
is 300 miles away. There are towns in France, Italy and Spain with names that
literally mean 'new city' - such as Villeneuve in south-west France - that sit
exactly on a 45 degree parallel.

"I don't think he predicted the dreadful events in the United States at all."

Nostradamus was born in 1503 in the south of France and studied astronomy and
astrology, but did not begin writing his prophecies until the age of 52.

Supporters claim he has foretold major world events from the birth of Napoleonic
empire, to the rise of Hitler to the nuclear attack on Hiroshima.

But Lemesurier claimed: "Nostradamus was a clever businessman, a PR man who knew
on which side his bread was buttered. He left his language as vague as possible
to cover every eventuality.

"People have turned to him at this time to put meaning into a terrible act no
-one really understands."

Lemesurier estimates that only five per cent of Nostradamus's 6338 four-line
predictions, known as quatrains, have come true. He said: "Nostradamus did not
clearly predict most of the major events for which he is credited. He could be
credited with prophecising the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Empire
generally, but not specifically.

"For me, his most impressive prediction referred to the rise and fall of the
Soviet Empire, which he predicted would take 74 years - the date of the October
Revolution in 1917 to the fall of Communism in 1991."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: FACE OF TERROR PILOT;
 FBI NAME FANATIC AS KEY MAN BEHIND MASS MURDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 405 words


A RINGLEADER of the World Trade Centre atrocity was trained as a pilot in the US
and boasted a poster of terrorist kingpin Osama bin Laden in his car window.

The FBI have named Mohamed Atta as one of the fanatics who attacked the US.

They have revealed prime suspect Atta, 33, learned to fly in 1999 at the pounds
14,000-a-year Hoffmann Aviation School and the renowned Emby-Riddle Aeronautical
University, both in Florida.

Now one former classmate claims he made a formal complaint about the poster of
bin Laden, who declared war on the US several years ago.

The student said: "I was driving up for a parade behind his maroon Oldsmobile
and was shocked to see bin Laden's picture.

"I served with the RAF allied forces over Kosovo and they hammered into us that
we should always be suspicious of anything unusual.

"I remember the English officer telling us, 'You have to protect yourself. You
Americans need to be more careful regarding terrorists'."

The revelation came after the FBI swooped on three targets in their hunt for 12
key suspects.

Director Robert Meuller said his agents' main goal was to identify the hijackers
and their accomplices, in or outside the US.

They believe there were four separate cells of three to six trained pilots on
each of the four hijacked planes.

Atta's brother Marwan - who like him had a United Arab Emirates passport - is
thought to have flown with him. Several men were taken into custody in Florida
and six bag-loads of information were removed from his flying schools last
night.

Hoffmann worker Charlie Voss, who put the brothers up in his house while they
trained, was also questioned.

Hire cars Atta had left at Boston airport - one containing an Arabic flying
manual and the Koran - were also removed

A further three suspects were taken into custody off an Amtrak train after it
was ordered to stop in Providence, Maine, en route from Boston to Washington DC.

One other man was taken into custody yesterday as the FBI raided a Boston hotel.

Over 20 SWAT officers armed with machine guns used fibre-optic scopes to check
inside rooms at the Westin Hotel.

They said the man and tapped mobile phone calls could offer "important material
information" to the attacks.

Attorney-General John Ashcroft said last night: "The Department of Justice is
undertaking perhaps the most massive and intensive investigation ever
conducted."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: LOCKERBIE FAMILY'S ESCAPE IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 221 words


A BROTHER and sister who lived through the Lockerbie disaster escaped terrorism
again in New York.

Geoffrey and Victoria McQueen were in the States for their cousin's wedding.

They were staying with relatives in Staten Island and on Tuesday, they had
planned to visit the World Trade Centre.

But before they left, they saw the disaster on TV.

Victoria, 26, immediately phoned home to say she and Geoffrey, 31, were safe.

Their mum, Marjory, said: "Victoria phoned me about half an hour after I heard
about the attack. It was a great relief to hear she and her brother were all
right.

"Victoria told me it was all very scary. She said, 'They missed me again,' but I
think she was just putting a brave face on it.

"She said there were lots of military helicopters flying around, just like
Lockerbie after the air disaster. It brought it all back to her."

Geoffrey, who is about to start a journalism course, and Victoria, a conference
organiser, were about to go to Manhattan when they heard about the attack.

On the night of the Lockerbie disaster - December 21, 1988 - they were at home
with their mum and dad Ken, a local GP.

They were just a few hundred yards from the spot where the doomed Pan Am jumbo's
fuel-filled wings killed 11 locals, bringing the total death toll to 270.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: CONTACT PLEA FOR WORRIED SCOTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 186 words


FOREIGN OFFICE HELPLINE 0207 008 0000

SCOTTISH families who have not heard from relatives in New York since Tuesday's
attacks were yesterday told to contact the Foreign Office in London immediately.

The plea came from the British Consul General in New York, Tom Harris.

It is understood there are still 15 Britons missing in New York, although Mr
Harris refused to reveal if any of them were from Scotland. He told the Record:
"We are fielding calls from distressed families in the UK and Scotland and
putting people in touch where it has been possible to do so."

British Consulate staff are working around the clock after the carnage. They
have been finding shelter for British citizens in the city and kept regular
contact with the hospitals and emergency services.

Mr Harris said: "We have no confirmed deaths but as and when we get news of
casualties we will pass on the information to the emergency centre in London to
inform the next of kin."

Among the unsung heroes were Coach USA/Stagecoach drivers who braved the chaos
to ferry around rescue teams and take people to safety.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FAMILY'S ESCAPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 90 words


GEOFFREY & VICTORIA'S STORY

A BROTHER and sister who lived through the horror of the Lockerbie bombing
narrowly escaped being caught up in the New York attacks.

Geoffrey McQueen, 31, and sister Victoria, 26, who are on holiday on Staten
Island, planned to visit the World Trade Centre on Tuesday. They found out about
the attacks just before they were due to leave.

Mum Marjory, said: "Victoria phoned me and said, 'They missed me again'."

The family live just yards from where Pan Am Flight 103 exploded in 1988.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: I CHEATED DEATH BY ONE HOUR

BYLINE: Bob Dow Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 159 words


ALLAN'S STORY

SCOTS businessman Allan MacLeod cheated death in the World Trade Centre carnage
by just one hour.

The Edinburgh-based sales director was due to hold a meeting in the doomed
building shortly after the first jet exploded into it.

He watched in horror from a nearby tower block as the centre was engulfed in
smoke and flames.

Terrified Allan then had to fight his way through the panic in the Manhattan
streets to get to safety.

As he recovered yesterday, Allan said: "Those first few hours were just pure
terror. If this was a film you would not believe it - this was a living
nightmare."

The 35-year-old had spent the entire previous day working in the WTC in a series
of business meetings with American colleagues.

Allan, who works for Edinburgh fund managers Martin Currie, said fear was
everywhere on the street.

"When you heard something you kept wondering if another plane was coming down,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

JET-LAG SAVED US;
 HOLIDAY COUPLE MISS TERROR ATTACK AFTER OVER-SLEEPING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 360 words


HUGH & JOANNA'S STORY

A SCOTTISH couple who should have been in the area of the Twin Towers missed the
devastation by minutes because of jet-lag.

Hugh Jarvis, 25, and girlfriend Joanna, 23, were due in the Financial District
that morning to collect a rental car.

However, the pair over-slept after their flight from Scotland on Monday and when
they woke up the horror was already unfolding.

Instead of being caught up in the atrocity, they watched from their hotel room
in Brooklyn as the tragedy unfolded across the river.They immediately tried to
phone their families at home to let them know they had avoided the carnage.

But communication problems made the inter-national calls from New York
impossible, and it took hours before they could contact their families.The
couple, from Edinburgh, told relatives they had planned to visit the World Trade
Centre during their two-week holiday and were relieved they had missed the
devastation.

Yesterday, Hugh's sister-in-law Viv Calgaro spoke of her relief at hearing the
couple were safe.

She said: "It was so utterly horrific and unbelievable watching everything
unfold on the television.

"We hadn't heard from Hugh and Joanna until late on Tuesday night, so obviously
we were extremely concerned for their safety.

"Thankfully, they somehow managed to contact friends in Cleveland because some
of the internal US phonelines were operating.

"It was only the inter-national lines that were down, which meant he couldn't
phone home.

"Until we heard that everything was okay, you automatically think that something
is wrong."

Viv, 42, added: "They only missed everything because they didn't pick up the car
in Manhattan, so they were really lucky.

"We are just so relieved they are both well."

Hugh, a second-year student at Napier Universty in Edinburgh, and his partner of
six months, Joanna, had been planning their trip since Easter.

The pair planned to stay in New York and visit the tourist attractions before
moving on to stay with friends in Cleveland, Ohio.

Yesterday they were stranded in Brooklyn, unable to cross the East River into
Manhattan.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK AMERICA: WE WILL GIVE THEM A WAR SAYS POWELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 110 words


SECRETARY of State Colin Powell told Americans yesterday: "We are at war. The
people who did this declared war.

"It's a war not just against the United States, it's a war against
civilisation."

Powell said the administration was "far from selecting any particular military
targets" for retaliation against the attacks on New York and Washington.

He said: "I would not remove any of the options available to the president, but
we have to build the case first.

"Americans have made the judgment - and they want a comprehensive response. They
want us to act as if we are at war and we're going to do that - diplomatically
and militarily."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: WASHINGTON BUSH ANGER AT PENTAGON

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 209 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush said he was "sad, angry and overwhelmed" last night when
he visited the blackened and gutted Pentagon.

He revealed: "I am overwhelmed by the devastation," as he stood among the
debris, with smoke and dust still heavy in the air a day after the attack.

Meanwhile, the grim search for bodies went on. US Defence Secretary Donald
Rumsfled shed some hope by revealing the initial death toll of 800 was too high
- 200 workers are now thought to have been killed.

The building was partially reopened yesterday to allow the rescue work, despite
the fire on one section of roof still burning.

Several thousand staff also returned, eager to show they were unbowed by
Tuesday's terrorist strike.

Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said: "The priority today is to take care
of the injured, to take care of the dead and to take care of their families."

Once unstable rubble has been cleared, four search-and- rescue teams will be
able to move in to hunt for missing Pentagon workers - and the hijacked jet's
black box recorder.

Fire chief Mike Tamillow said: "It's like a game of pick up sticks. If you pull
out the wrong one they could all come crashing down. That's exactly what we're
trying to prevent."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: WASHINGTON: GRIM SEARCH AT PENTAGON

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 254 words


RESCUERS were battling desperately yesterday to search for missing Pentagon
workers.

But the US Defence Secretary last night offered a glimmer of hope when he said
that early estimates of the number of people killed were too high.

Donald Rumsfeld said around 200 workers were thought to have perished - the
original toll was put at 800.

As the risky search for those still unaccounted for began, the building was
partially reopened and several thousand staff returned to work.

Pentagon officials said that it was a matter of pride that the US was seen to be
unbowed by the terrorist strike.

Smoke from the blackened concrete building was still drifting over Washington.
The pall rose from a roof fire which continued to burn more than 24 hours after
a hijacked airliner slammed into a corner of the building on Tuesday.

Pentagon spokesman Victoria Clarke said: "The priority today is to take care of
the injured, to take care of the dead and to take care of their families."

Rescue teams were preparing to use a large wrecking ball on the collapsed
section of the huge complex.

Once unstable rubble has been cleared, four search and rescue teams will be able
to move in.

Fire Chief Mike Tamillow said: "It's like a game of pick up sticks.

"If you pull out the wrong one they could all come crashing down. That's exactly
what we're trying to prevent."

The hijacked American Airlines jetliner's blackbox recorder, containing vital
data, was still thought to be buried in the rubble.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SHOCKING IMAGES OF AN EVIL ACT THAT SHOOK THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 151 words


THESE are images which will be ingrained in the memories of everyone who sees
them for the rest of their lives.

As a video camera was being used to record a street scene of firemen at work in
a New York street, heads turned at the sound of a jet flying unusually low.

Moments later there were horrified shouts as the plane smashed into the north
tower of the World Trade Centre.

Soon afterwards the evil spectacle was repeated at the south tower.

In those brief moments thousands of lives were doomed to end in shocking pain
and terror. They were events that shook the world and changed it forever.

IMPACT No1

Witnesses gasp as the first plane crashes into a tower

EXPLOSION

Smoke and flames billow out as the airliner explodes

IMPACT No2

The second plane nears its destination on its deadly mission

DEATH PALL

A cloud of smoke rises above the doomed building

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BOSTON CLUES TO ARABS

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 252 words


THE battle to identify the hijackers continued as the full horror of the attack
began to sink in.

Police seized a hire car at Logan Airport in Boston containing manuals in Arabic
on how to fly passenger jets.

Officers were led to the car by a traveller who got into an argument with the
men in it as they parked.

Boston newspapers said police had identified five Arabs as possible suspects.

One was a trained pilot and two were brothers whose passports were traced to the
United Arab Emirates.

Police believe the brothers boarded United Airlines 175, the second jet to hit
the World Trade Centre.

At least two of the five men were said to have flown into Boston from Portland,
Maine, on Tuesday. They had earlier entered the US through Canada.

One suspect's luggage did not reach his connecting flight out of the city.

It held a video on flying airliners, a device for calculating aircraft fuel
consumption and a copy of the Koran.

Six bags of evidence were taken from the airport for forensic tests.

Police and the FBI believe Osama bin Laden's terror group has "entrenched cells"
in Boston. Two men who lived in the city have been linked to other plots by the
Saudi-born fanatic.

Police were also probing claims that three Arab men tried to charter a corporate
jet at Norwood Airport in Massachusetts on Monday.

Three other men were being questioned after being stopped in a van in New
Jersey. They were initially held in connection with the terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK WASHINGTON: HEROES OF FLIGHT 93;
 HIJACK DAD PHONES WIFE WE'LL DIE FIGHTING, HE SAYS THREE TACKLE TERRORISTS
PLANE MISSES ITS TARGET

BYLINE: Jan Disley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 891 words


THREE hero passengers may have saved the White House by forcing their plane to
crash before it got to Washington.

United Airlines Flight 93 went down in a Pennsylvania field instead of going on
to the US capital.

It's believed it was heading for the President's mansion or his country retreat
at Camp David.

And it's thought the terrorists on board were attacked by ordinary travellers
who knew they were doomed and wanted to die fighting.

Dad-of-three Tom Burnett rang his wife Deena from the plane just before it
crashed, killing all 45 people on board.

He told her: "We're all gonna die but three of us are gonna do something. I love
you honey."

Businessman Tom, 38, of San Ramon, California, also told Deena someone had been
stabbed. Then the line went dead.

Moments later, the Boeing 757 hit the ground at a steep angle about 80 miles
south-east of Pittsburgh.

US authorities have not said whether UA93 could have been downed by passengers
trying to overpower the terrorists.

But one experienced airline pilot said: "My guess is that somebody decided to
fight back. What kind of political statement are you trying to make by blowing
up farmland?"

Secret Service officials had alerted the White House that the hijackers of UA93
may have been heading for Camp David. They also feared the White House could be
a target.

As a result, they advised President Bush not to return directly to Washington
from a trip to Florida.

He was diverted to military bases, first in Louisiana and then in Nebraska.

Flight 93 left Newark, New Jersey, bound for San Francisco. But as it approached
Cleveland, it turned sharply left and headed back towards Pennsylvania.

Cleveland Mayor Michael White said air traffic controllers heard screaming on a
plane.

One caller, locked in a toilet, repeatedly told emergency operators: "We're
being hijacked!"

Operator Glenn Cramer said: "He heard an explosion and saw white smoke coming
from the plane. We lost contact."

Other passengers were told the terrorists had bombs.

Mark Bingham, 31, phoned his mum Alice just before dawn in her native San
Francisco.

He told her: "We've been taken over. There are three men that say they've got a
bomb."

Alice wept: "He said, 'I want you to know that I love you very much, in case I
don't see you again.

"Mark told me he was calling from the airphone of the airplane.

"He repeated that he loved me. Then he became distracted, as if someone was
speaking to him.

"He said something to the effect that it was true. Then the phone went dead."

Alice said her only consolation was that her son, a well-built PR executive, may
have somehow helped thwart the terrorists.

CeeCee Lyles, a stewardess on UA93, rang her policeman husband Lorne at home in
Fort Myers, Florida.

Lorne heard her crying and passengers screaming in the background. Young mum
CeeCee told him, "We've been hijacked," then the connection was cut.

CeeCee's aunt Maria Schneider told reporters: "She called Lorne and let him know
how much she loved him and the boys."

FBI agents and forensic experts continued to pick through tiny scraps of
wreckage at the crash site yesterday.

Neither the cockpit voice recorder nor the flight data recorder had been found
and it was expected to be days before the dead could be identified.

More poignant calls to loved-ones were made from other flights.

Businessman Peter Hanson phoned his father from the United Airlines 175, the
second plane to plunge into the World Trade Centre.

Peter, travelling with his wife and two-year-old daughter, managed to reveal
that a stewardess had been stabbed. He was then cut off.

His mum Eunice said: "They went down together. The family stayed together in
death. That's the only consolation I have."

A stewardess on UA175 managed to ring the emergency services from the back of
the plane. She said her fellow stewards had been stabbed, the cockpit had been
taken over and they were going down in New York.

CNN TV pundit Barbara Olson called her husband and said the hijackers on her
flight were using "box-cutters and knives".

Barbara, 45, had not planned to be on board American Airlines 77, which hit the
Pentagon. But she'd missed an earlier plane and wanted to get home to be with US
Solicitor General Ted Olson on his birthday.

She rang Ted twice from a toilet and told him the hijackers had herded the
passengers and crew to the back of the plane.

Barbara told Ted to call the FBI and asked him what she should do. The call
ended seconds before the jet crashed.

Air traffic controllers heard hijackers talking to the pilots of AA11, the first
plane to hit the World Trade Centre.

One controller said: "One of the pilots keyed their mike so the conversation
between the pilot and the person in the cockpit could be heard.

"The person in the cockpit was speaking in English. He was saying something
like, 'Don't do anything foolish. You're not going to get hurt.'

"Someone in the cockpit was also heard telling the pilot, 'We have more planes,
we have other planes'."

The controller said: "The guys who handled that flight were traumatised. You
have a special relationship with everyone, every plane you work.

"The controllers heard what was happening in the cockpit and then they lost
contact."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: RELATIVES RELYING ON TEXTS AND E-MAILS

BYLINE: Amy Vickers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 208 words


TEXT-MESSAGING and e-mails became a communication lifeline yesterday as people
desperately tried to find out if loved ones had survived.

Phone networks had gone down just seconds after the atrocities making it
impossible for survivors to call relatives to tell them they were safe.

The chilling sounds of unanswered mobile phones from the rubble were heard by
rescue workers.

Networks across America folded on Tuesday with a sudden surge of more than 20
times the normal level of traffic, making voice calls impossible.

Thousands of World Trade Centre workers were unable to call out of the buildings
- their office switchboards swamped and their mobile networks choked by millions
of calls. The internet also came close to collapse in the aftermath of the
attack.

Traffic levels between Europe and the US peaked at more than 50 times the normal
level in the hours after the attacks.

Web monitoring firm Keynote Systems reported internet availability in the UK
dropped by half.

Dozens of big name sites failed under the weight of demand.

US networks CNN.com and MSNBC.com spent much of Tuesday inaccessible to users.

And the FBI's website crashed as people across the globe searched for the latest
information.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: PHONE YOUR LOVED ONES.. YOU'RE GOING TO DIE;
  PASSENGERS FORCED TO MAKE CALLS AT KNIFEPOINT

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 951 words


PASSENGERS on the hijacked jets were forced to tell loved-ones: "We're going to
die."

With knives at their throats, terrified victims made mobile phone calls to
families across the USA.

The harrowing messages were sent from the two jets which hit the World Trade
Centre and from the plane that struck the Pentagon.

It was a callous bid by the killers to torment their victims and maximise
America's terror.

The gangs also murdered stewardesses in cold blood to get control of the planes.

And they did it all with knives made from plastic and razor blades, leaving the
world asking how a gang with such weapons could have staged the world's worst
terror attack.

Experts believe the terrorists took the knives aboard in pieces, hidden in hand
luggage and toilet bags.

Airport staff X-raying their bags would have seen nothing unusual.

There were three terrorists on each of the four planes. It is believed they put
their weapons together in their seats or in toilets on the jets.

They then used the blades to kill the stewardesses, dragging the terrified women
to the backs of the aircraft and knifing them repeatedly.

Crews are trained to tell hijackers the cockpit door is locked and they don't
have a key. But that tactic proved useless against such cruelty.

The pilots opened their doors in a bid to save the hostesses and the terrorists
seized the controls.

Some experts believe the pilots would also have been murdered before the jets,
with 266 people on board, reached their targets.

Michael Barr, director of aviation safety programmes at the University of
Southern California, said: "You had to get rid of the crew because they would
not fly into a building.

"The pilot is dead anyway. He is dead if he hits the World Trade Centre or
doesn't. He is going to fly into the ocean to minimise the death.

"Whoever took the controls had to change course. He had to know how to navigate
and maintain altitude."

Other analysts insisted the terrorists were expert fliers. One pilot noted that
the fanatic steering the second plane to hit the World Trade Centre performed a
difficult banking manoeuvre just before the crash.

The airman also said the Pentagon was an extremely hard target to hit. He
explained: "One degree off and he overshoots it or undershoots it."

Pilots said it was no coincidence that all the hijacked planes were Boeing 757s
or 767s, which can be flown without special training.

All four planes were also full of fuel, perfect for causing a deadly fireball.

The hijackers of two of the jets are believed to have turned off "transponders",
cockpit devices which send data like the plane's altitude to air traffic
control. It was another piece of evidence that the Arabs were experts.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft confirmed that the first jet to hit the World
Trade Centre, American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston, was hijacked by
terrorists with knives.

Terrorism expert Mike Yardley said it made sense for the killers to use such
weapons. He added: "It would have reduced their security risks.

"Remember, they are trying to pull this off four times. If they had risked
firearms and one person had been seized, the whole operation could have been
compromised."

Yardley said US security staff would probably not have confiscated a small
pocket knife even if a passenger had been found with one.

Yet, such a weapon was all that was needed to take control of an aircraft.

Some US papers reported that fighters were scrambled as soon as news of the
hijackings emerged. But the warplanes were barely off the runway before the
terrorists hit their targets.

Investigators hope the jets' cockpit voice recorders will tell them more about
the hijackers' methods. The black boxes will have taped conversations for at
least 30 minutes before the crashes.

Security was in the spotlight yesterday at Logan Airport in Boston, where two of
the hijacked jets took off.

The airport has a poor record and bosses were fined more than pounds 100,000 in
1999 for 136 violations over two years.

Undercover agents were able to smuggle guns and even pipe bombs on to flights.

And a teenage boy managed to get through a fence and on to a British Airways
flight to London. He was not caught until he landed in the UK.

Despite those incidents, authorities at Logan insisted it was just as secure as
other US airports. The two other hijacked planes took off from Dulles in
Washington and Newark near New York.

Politicians called for tougher airport security across the USA.

Senator John Kerry said: "It's not just Logan. If you have four hijackings in a
day, you have a national problem."

Congressman John Mica, chairman of the House of Representatives' aviation sub
-committee, added: "We've seen that a determined terrorist isn't going to be
stopped by a metal detector and a couple of quick questions about who packed his
luggage."

The body representing all the world's airlines, The International Air Transport
Association, has told its members to step up security. Communications director
William Gaillard said: "Dealing with suicidal terrorists is a new challenge.

"I don't think anyone had considered this as a scenario for anything other than
a Hollywood movie."

Gaillard said US airlines had not focused on the threat of hijacking because no
planes had been seized there in 15 years.

He added: "In a place like the United States, where 700 million people fly every
year, flying has become a bit like taking the bus."

Some Americans are calling for armed "sky marshals" to be posted on every
passenger plane. Marshals were used in the past to deter hijackings to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: VICTIMS CAME FROM ALL WALKS OF LIFE

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261 words


THE terrorism that claimed so many lives killed people from all sections of
society. All of the 266 crew and passengers on the flights died.

Award-winning TV writer and producer David Angell, who created the sitcoms
Cheers and Frasier, was among them.

Angell, who was with his wife Lynn on the first plane which crashed into the
Twin Towers, won 24 Emmys in his career as a TV producer.

Other victims included the widow of Psycho actor Anthony Perkins, actress and
photographer Berry Berenson.

Barbara Olson, 45, a conservative TV political commentator and the wife of US
Solicitor-General Theodore Olson, also died.

During the hijack terror, she twice called her husband from the aircraft and
described details of the hijacking.

Garnet Bailey, the director of scouting for the Los Angeles Kings ice hockey
team, were also killed, along with amateur scout Mark Bavis.

Another victim was Al Marchand, who retired as a local lawman in Alamogordo, New
Mexico, and began a new career as a United Airways flight attendant.

Peter Hanson of Massachusetts was killed along with his wife, Susan, and young
daughter, Christine, aboard the second plane that crashed into the towers.

The Rev Bonnie Bardot, of Easton, Connecticut, where Hanson grew up, said: "He
called his parents' home and in that way they were so together in that moment."

About 600 people attended a service yesterday in Greenland, New Hampshire, for
Tom McGuinness, co-pilot of the American Airlines flight which crashed into the
north tower of World Trade Centre.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: FOUR HELD AFTER FBI SWOOPS ON TRAIN

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 310 words


THE FBI swooped on an intercity train last night and held three men suspected of
being involved in the US terrorism atrocity.

The Washington DC-bound train was searched and passengers were ordered off after
operators Amtrak were ordered to stop in Providence, Maine.

State Governor Angus King confirmed officers had been searching for suspects
from Boston and witnesses claimed one of those held had a long, dark beard.

At least one other man was taken into custody yesterday as the FBI raided a
Boston hotel and various Florida addresses looking for 12 suspects.

Over 20 swat team officers armed with machine guns used fibre-optic equipment to
search under doors at the Westin Hotel in up-market Back Bay in Boston before
bringing one man out.

They moved in after picking up information from tapped mobile phone calls and
said the man held could offer "important material information" to the attacks.

Several men were also taken into custody in Florida and six bag-loads of
information were removed from flying schools there.

Agents admitted Mohamed Atta, 33, their prime suspect in leading the hijack
gangs, was trained to fly in the US.

Atta is believed to have links with Osama bin Laden, the Afghan-based terrorist
who has declared war on the US.

Yet he studied at the pounds 14,000-a-year Hoffmann Aviation School and the
renowned Emby-Riddle Aeronautical University, both in Florida.

FBI agents believe there were up to five pilot-trained hijackers on each of the
four planes and that one of Atta's co-conspirators in the suicide disaster was
his brother Marwan.

Yesterday they questioned Hoffmann worker Charlie Voss, who put the brothers up
in his house while they trained.

They also took away a hire car left by Atta at Boston airport which contained a
flying manual in Arabic and a copy of the Koran.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SEVEN ARRESTED AFTER FBI SWOOP

BYLINE: Magnus Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 298 words


THE FBI last night confirmed they were holding several men in connection with
the US terrorist attacks.

The arrests came after three swoops earlier in the day.

A heavily armed team stormed the Westin Hotel in Boston, near the airport from
where the two planes which destroyed the World Trade Centre had been hijacked.

Two dozen officers wore bulletproof vests arrested on man after used fibre
-optic equipment to search under hotel room doors on the 16th floor. Information
linking him to Tuesday's massacres was also found.

Earlier, several other were arrested after agents moved on a house in Florida as
five suspects - two brothers from the United Arab Emirates - were identified.

The FBI - who have already had 700 tip-offs on a special website - interviewed
Florida couple Charlie and Drew Voss about the men, who stayed at their house
for a week last July while they were took flight training.

The couple said they Mohamaed Atta and another man called Marwan as a favour to
their employers, Huffman Aviation. Agents last night issued an alert for a red
1989 Pontiac registered to Atta.

The two brothers are suspected of being aboard United Airlines flight 175, which
crashed into the World Trade Centre.

Officials also confirmed a car hired by one of the hijackers was confiscated at
Boston's Logan International Airport.

Inside was found a flight manual in Arabic and a copy of the Koran, the Moslem
bible.

And last night another suspect was found on an intercity train in Providence,
Rhode Island.

Authorities also have intelligence linking the terrorists to a band of bin Laden
sympathisers in Canada.

Some, of Algerian origin, are suspected of planning an unsuccessful terrorist
attack on US soil during the Millennium celebrations.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FRASIER WRITER AMONG DEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 48 words


AWARD-WINNING TV writer and producer David Angell, who created the sitcoms
Cheers and Frasier, was among those who died in the terrorist attacks.

Angell, who was with his wife Lynn on the first plane which crashed into the
Twin Towers, won 24 Emmys in his career as a TV producer.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: MUM AND DAUGHTER KILLED IN JET AS HER BROTHER FLEES
THE CARNAGE

BYLINE: Lynne Kelleher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 670 words


A BUSINESSMAN was fleeing for his life from the World Trade Centre as a plane
carrying his sister and niece ploughed into one of the giant towers.

Irishman Ronnie Clifford was trying to save a critically injured woman after the
first explosion, when the second Boeing 767 carrying his sister, Ruth, and her
four-year-old daughter, Juliana, hit the south tower.

It was only after he eventually made it home to New Jersey that relatives in
Cork were able to give him the devastating news about hairdresser Ruth Clifford
McCourt, 45, and his little niece.

Last night, his brother, John, said: "He is traumatised."

Devoted mum Ruth had given up work to spend more time with her only child and
was taking her on a shopping trip to Los Angeles. A friend joining them had
boarded the earlier LA flight from Boston - which was steered into the north
tower 18 minutes before the second impact.

Ronnie Clifford had been at a meeting in the south tower when the other twin was
rocked by the first blast.

He was running for his life through the doors when a woman just ahead of him was
hit by a fireball blast.

He stopped to try to help her and, as she lay in his arms, the south tower was
struck high above them.

Ronnie had no idea that his sister and niece were on the second doomed jet.

He made it off Manhattan island in a daze and then remembered that his sister
was due to fly that day. But it was only when he saw the news reports that he
realised the terror planes were both diverted flights from Boston's Logan
Airport where his sister would have boarded her flight that morning.

In a rising panic, he phoned the family home in Cork, where his brother John
checked with Logan Airport. It was confirmed that his sister and niece had been
on board the second doomed flight.

John said: "Ronnie happened to be on the ground floor of the same building the
plane crashed into."

John, 47, had no idea that the second plane he saw on the TV news was carrying
his sister and her little girl.

He said: "My main concern was for Ronnie, initially. I never realised my sister,
who lived in Connecticut, was flying out of Boston with her daughter and just
going to LA for a few days.

"It's a tragedy that my sister's plane hit the tower building and her brother
was on the ground floor. He is very traumatised. He said he saw sights he will
never see again in his life.

"He was within an inch of his life. He was on the ground floor and the lady who
was three seconds in front of him was hit by a terrific fireball and she was
horrifically injured.

"He went to her assistance. While he was doing there was another explosion."

When Ronnie was finally out of danger, he remembered his sister. John said:
"When he was OK, he said he had a feeling that our sister had gone to Logan
Airport to go to Los Angeles with her daughter around 7.30 in the morning.

"So we became concerned that sister could have been on either of the two flights
that crashed into the towers."

He explained: "The FBI confirmed that she was on the flight.

"It was absolutely incredible. It's very sad, very evil. But Ronnie's safe. He's
obviously devastated that he's lost his sister. I've lost my sister."

John went on: "It is so difficult to watch the pictures. Yesterday, we watched
two planes crash into the two buildings.

"I was very concerned when the towers collapsed, because I knew Ronnie worked in
one.Then I discovered my sister and niece were on one of the planes.

His sister, Ruth, had waved off her friend Paige on the 7.45am Boston to LA
flight before following her on the 8.10am plane with Juliana.

John said his sister had sold her business in America to spend more time with
her daughter.

He said: "Her husband David is absolutely devastated. He's in total shock.
Juliana was their only child.

"Ruth had a great, outgoing, bubbly personality. She really was a lovely girl.
It's a total waste of life.

"She had a beautiful daughter just four years of age."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: PERKINS WIDOW PERISHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 80 words


ALL 266 crew and passengers on the flights died.

Among them was the widow of Psycho actor Anthony Perkins, actress and
photographer Berry Berenson.

Garnet Bailey and Mark Bavis, scouts from the Los Angeles Kings ice hockey team,
were also killed.

Peter Gay, general manager of special mission aircraft producers Raytheon
Company, was among the dead.

And Daniel C. Lewin, co-founder of internet firm Akamai Technologies, was on the
first plane to come down.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: FIREMAN SURVIVES PLUNGE THROUGH 83 FLOORS

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 344 words


THE grim work of the rescue crews went on yesterday in scenes of unimaginable
horror, crawling through rubble, soot and the dreadful remnants of victims.

But sometimes there was a glimmer of light in the gloom, like the finding of a
firefighter who had gone into one tower to help evacuate it.

He was alive - and conscious enough to tell how he had been on the 83rd floor
when the tower fell apart around him.

Rescuers were stunned when they found him on ground level.

He told them he had "curled himself into a ball" and rolled down floor by floor
as the building collapsed.

A rescue worker said: "He was conscious, he knew his name and where he lived and
how many kids he had. He was just a little uncomfortable."

Another collapse yesterday sent rescuers scrambling to safety as the remains of
One Liberty Plaza crashed down into the World Trade Center.

Firefighters and police said they were warned by engineers of the building's
imminent collapse and had ordered everyone out of the area.

People ran for their lives, and medical worker Rochelle Rubin said later: "They
just said get out and we ran."

Frank Lucier, of North American Emergency Management, said last night: "It's
impossible to find the pockets where people might be trapped without using
technology, listening devices and the like and the dogs that are trained for
this work.

"We are listening for people tapping, screaming, anything.

"We are looking at weeks, if not months, to complete a search.

"You can't simulate what happened.

"Firefighters will do their jobs and deal with the emotion when it's over."

The leader of Britain's firefighters yesterday praised the courage of the
hundreds of emergency services workers killed in the New York rescue effort.

Fire Brigades Union general secretary Andy Gilchrist said: "Our hearts and
thoughts are with all our brothers and sisters in the American Fire Service who
are still dealing with this tragedy.

"We are also thinking of the families and friends of all who have lost their
lives."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: VISION OF HELL

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3, 4

LENGTH: 1899 words


ASHES, twisted metal, corpses and ghosts were all that remained yesterday of the
World Trade Centre and thousands of people who worked there.

The 110-storey towers that soared to the heavens had turned into a vision of
hell - a grave for so many victims that no one wanted to think about the final
toll.

And America learned last night that its darkest day could have been far darker.

Government officials said the Arab terrorists who hijacked four airliners had
planned to destroy the White House, as well as the WTC and the Pentagon.

They failed - the fourth jet crashed in farmland. But the Manhattan moonscape
that was once the World Trade Centre was proof that they did more than enough.

As fears grew in the UK that hundreds of Britons may have been killed, police
and firefighters picked through the ashes for signs of life.

But there was little to find but horror. Rescuers saw countless body parts, many
floating in a sea of muck.

Volunteer Joe Caruso, an adman with training as a paramedic, said: "I saw what
looked to be human flesh, bloody clothing all over the place."

Paramedic Louis Garcia added: "A lot of vehicles are running over bodies buried
in the soot. They are everywhere."

"I must have seen body parts by the thousand", said Angelo Otchy, a mortgage
broker and National Guardsman.

"It is unimaginable, devastating, unspeakable carnage," firefighter Scott
O'Grady said. "To say it looks like a war zone, with bodies lying in the street
and blood and steel beams blocking roads, would not begin to describe it."

Through the night and on into yesterday, barges ferried load after load of
bodies across the Hudson River to a makeshift morgue in New Jersey.

Three New York cab companies ripped out seats and helped carry the dead.

Up to 800 more people lay in the rubble at the Pentagon, and investigators were
scouring the field where the fourth jet crashed with the loss of 45 lives.

Only seven storeys of the World Trade Centre's north tower remained, its girders
bent outwards. The south tower was a heap of rubble.

Experts said both buildings collapsed after heat from burning aircraft fuel
melted the steel frames inside them.

The air stank of escaped gas. A grey ash of pulverised concrete, insulation
material and paper shrouded the streets and choked the atmosphere.

Huge steel beams and aluminium panels littered the streets. Fruit on corner
stalls still sat in neat piles, covered in soot.

Paper from the office blocks lay everywhere. Reports, memos and ledgers were
strewn on the ground, helping to cover the bodies of those who wrote them.

Firefighter Rudy Weindler had been working 12 hours but continued to scour the
site for survivors. He had found only four, one of them a pregnant woman.

"I lost count of all the dead people I saw," Rudy said.

Like many others, he had to face the possibility of finding his friends among
the rubble. He knew 259 firefighters and police were still unaccounted for.

Nine people were dragged from the wreckage alive - six were firemen, three
police officers.

One cop was found trapped in a tiny space, up to his waist in ashes. He was
critically ill last night.

The rescues fuelled hopes of finding others alive, as did mobile phone calls
from people still under the rubble.

"We do believe there are people alive," said state governor George Pataki. "The
focus now is on search and rescue. We are not going to give up hope."

But many emergency workers were sceptical. Rescuer Gary Louisa said: "Inside?
Forget about it. There's nobody to be found in the tower I was in."

New York's Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said there were 41 confirmed deaths, to add to
the 266 aboard the hijacked planes.

It was a tiny tip on a very large iceberg. The final toll may not be known for
weeks.

The rescuers ploughed on with shovels and picks, helped by search dogs. Cranes
and bulldozers had to be used with great care, for fear of killing buried
survivors.

Those digging by hand had to beware of pockets of fire, still burning in the
rubble.

Normally, 50,000 people worked in the World Trade Centre. But Tuesday's attack
came before many people had got to their desks, and officials believe between
10,000 and 20,000 were there when the first plane hit.

They hope most managed to get out before the huge landmarks fell.

Giuliani revealed 1700 known injuries and said 259 uniformed officers, including
police and firefighters, were missing.

St Vincent's Hospital in lower Manhattan took in more than 400 people. They had
horrific burns, eye injuries, broken bones and lacerations.

Five patients died there, one of them a firefighter. Hospital director Martin
Ackermann said staff were running helplines for those mentally scarred.

Then he told of going home, to try to explain the attacks to his own daughter.

Doctors at St Vincent were hoping to see many more wounded yesterday. But most
of those removed from the rubble went straight to the morgues.

There was no normality anywhere in Lower Manhattan, and precious little across
the USA.

The skies remained largely empty of aircraft and borders with Mexico and Canada
remained closed. Baseball was cancelled for a second day.

The aircraft carrier USS George Washington was in position off New York,
providing some much-needed reassurance.

Every aspect of daily life in the city was disrupted, from phones to subways.

Schools and offices were closed. So was the Empire State Building, now once
again the tallest in the city.

Everyone in New York had suffered, but no one bore a heavier burden than the
brave men and women of the fire department.

Lieutenant JJ Vaughan, 60, was close to tears over the loss of so many friends.

Comrades

Son John, 31, told how his entire unit died. He only survived because he'd taken
two days off.

John said simply: "The Gods were looking down."

Irish-born JJ tried to focus on those who might still be alive. But his mind
turned to his dead comrades, including the fire chief and his two deputies.

JJ said: "So many good men were buried.

"When the first plane hit, we set up a command station on the first floor of the
north tower. Fire companies were holding there in reserve to relieve other
companies.

"That's how everybody was killed. The chief and his deputies were there when the
tower collapsed. There was no way out.

"The patch on our uniform has a picture of the New York skyline. Now two of its
buildings aren't there any more."

JJ and his colleagues worked through the night, stopping only to slump exhausted
on the rubble for a two-hour rest.

Many suffered eye injuries from the grit in the air but had to be dragged from
their duties to be treated.

No one could imagine their pain. But for many New Yorkers, the memories of
Tuesday's slaughter were worse than the sights of Wednesday.

Banker Clemant Lewin told how he saw people jumping from the burning 80th floor
of one of the towers.

A man and woman held hands as they plunged to death.

"I'm traumatised for life," Lewin said. "This was somebody's father, somebody's
sister, somebody's mother."

Other workers told how colleagues stayed in their offices because the stairs
were so crowded, condemning themselves to death.

"People didn't think the buildings would fall," said Mike Wilson, who was on the
51st floor.

Rescuers recalled how some people struggling to breathe were trampled underfoot
by the hordes trying to flee.

City worker Thomas Warren said: "All you could hear were the wails of pain and
screams for help."

But despite all the efforts of the terrorists, those caught in the bombing held
on to their humanity.

Survivors told how workers comforted each other as they tried to get down the
stairs.

Total strangers patted each other on the back as they walked away from the
scene.

Others passed around mobile phones so people could tell relatives they were
safe.

Thousands of citizens turned out to answer appeals for blood donors. Eight
hundred queued through the night at St Vincent's.

Yesterday, some New Yorkers tried to get back to some sort of reality. Outside
his shop, amid scenes of devastation never before seen in this city, one man was
quietly sweeping up some broken glass.

"I don't know why I'm bothering," he said. "I don't know what else to do."

There were even a few, a very few, happy endings.

Jason Beerman rushed toward the twin towers as soon as he heard news of the
attacks.

And somehow, amid all the mayhem, he managed to find his older brother Kenton.

Kenton,24, emerged from a stairwell straight into Jason's arms. "I don't know
how he found me," he said. "My brother is awesome."

But all over New York, thousands more people were failing to find loved-ones.
They frantically made phone calls and turned up at hospitals and police points.
No one had any news for them.

No survivors were expected at the Pentagon, where rescuers were preparing to
clear rubble with a wrecking ball.

Parts of the hijacked plane's fuselage were found outside the building.

Hours before it was confirmed that he too had been a target for the terrorists,
President Bush vowed to launch a "monumental struggle of good versus evil"
against those responsible for the outrage.

Prime Minister Tony Blair spent 20 minutes on the phone with Bush and pledged
Britain's full military support.

British and US intelligence are convinced that terrorist leader Osama bin Laden
was responsible for the catastrophe.

Bush, now back in the White House, said: "This battle will take time and
resolve, but, make no mistake about it, we will win.

"The deliberate and deadly attacks carried out yesterday against our country
were more than acts of terror. They were acts of war.

"This will require our country to unite in steadfast determination and resolve.
Freedom and democracy are under attack.

"The American people need to know we're facing a different enemy than we have
ever faced.

"This enemy hides in shadows and has no regard for human life.

"This is an enemy who preys on innocent and unsuspecting people, then runs for
cover. But it won't be able to run for cover forever.

"This is an enemy that tries to hide but it won't be able to hide forever.

"This is an enemy that thinks its harbours are safe, but they won't be safe
forever.

"This enemy attacked not just our people but all freedom-loving people
everywhere in the world.

"The United States of America will use all our resources to conquer this enemy.

"We will rally the world. We will be patient. We'll be focused, and we will be
steadfast in our determination.

"America is united. The freedom-loving nations of the world stand by our side."

Americans reacted to the atrocities with fury and patriotism. New Yorkers flew
US flags on their cars as they drove to work.

Secretary of State Colin Powell said he understood the anger of his countrymen.

He added: "We are at war and they want us to act as if we are at war. We're
going to do that - diplomatically and militarily."

REPORTING TEAM Brian McCartney, David McKay, Steve Smith, Simon Houston, Donna
Watson, Mark McGivern, Marie Sharp, Ian Dow, Robert Fairburn, Judith Duffy,
Annie Brown, Andrew Walker, Alex Dowdalls, ThomasSmith, Grace McLean and Bob Dow
PICTURES: Reuters, PA, AP

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: VISION OF HELL;
 WAR ON THE US

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3, 4

LENGTH: 1902 words


ASHES, twisted metal, corpses and ghosts were all that remained yesterday of the
World Trade Centre and thousands of people who worked there.

The 110-storey towers that once soared to the heavens had been turned into a
vision of hell.

Police and firemen picked their way through the Manhattan moonscape, searching
desperately for signs of life.

But there was little to find but horror upon horror. Rescue workers saw
countless body parts, many floating in a foot of sooty muck.

Volunteer Joe Caruso, an ad man with training as a paramedic, said: "I saw what
looked to be human flesh, bloody clothing all over the place. I thought I was
dreaming. I've never seen so much devastation."

Paramedic Louis Garcia added: "There's two feet of soot everywhere. A lot of
vehicles are running over bodies because they are all over the place."

"I must have seen body parts by the thousand", said Angelo Otchy, a mortgage
broker and member of the National Guard.

"It is unimaginable, devastating, unspeakable carnage," firefighter Scott
O'Grady said. "To say it looks like a war zone and to tell you about bodies
lying in the street and blood and steel beams blocking roads would not begin to
describe what it's like."

No one could believe the extent of the slaughter. Through the night, barges
ferried load after load of bodies across the Hudson River to a makeshift morgue
in New Jersey.

Three New York cab companies ripped out seats and helped carry the dead.

Only about seven storeys of the World Trade Centre's north tower remained, its
girders bent crazily outwards. The south tower was a heap of rubble.

The air stank of escaped gas. A grey ash of pulverised concrete, insulation and
paper shrouded the streets and choked the atmosphere.

Huge steel beams and aluminium panels littered the streets. Fruit on corner
stalls still sat in neat piles, covered in soot.

Tons of paper from the smashed office blocks lay everywhere. Expenses reports,
memos and ledgers lay strewn on the ground, helping to cover the bodies of the
people who wrote them.

Firefighter Rudy Weindler had been working 12 hours but continued to scour the
site for survivors.

He had found only four, one of them a pregnant woman.

"I lost count of all the dead people I saw," Rudy said. "It is absolutely worse
than you could ever imagine."

Like many others, Rudy had to face the possibility of finding his friends among
the rubble. More than 300 firefighters were missing, presumed dead after one of
the towers collapsed on to their command centre.

Two police officers were pulled alive from the rubble late yesterday morning,
raising hope for others. But witnesses and emergency workers were sceptical.

Rescuer Gary Louisa said: "Inside? Forget about it. There's nobody to be found
down there, not in the tower I was in."

New York's Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said there were 41 known deaths - a tiny tip
of a very large iceberg. The final toll may not be known for weeks.

Normally, 50,000 people worked in the World Trade Centre. But the first of
Tuesday's two attacks came before many people had got to work, and officials
believe between 10,000 and 20,000 were at their desks when the hijacked plane
hit.

They hope most managed to get out before the huge landmarks came crashing down.

Giuliani revealed 1700 known injuries and said 259 uniformed officers, including
police and firefighters, were missing.

St Vincent's Hospital in lower Manhattan took in more than 400 people. They had
horrific burns, eye injuries, broken bones and lacerations.

Five patients died there, one of them a firefighter. Hospital director Martin
Ackermann said staff were running helplines for those mentally scarred, then
told of going home to try to explain the bombings to his own daughter.

There was no normality anywhere in Lower Manhattan, and precious little across
the USA.

The skies remained empty of aircraft and borders with Mexico and Canada remained
closed. Baseball games were cancelled for a second day.

The aircraft carrier USS George Washington was in position off the coast of New
York, providing some much-needed reassurance.

Every aspect of daily life in the city was disrupted, from phones to subways.

An election scheduled for Tuesday to decide the candidates for Mayor was
postponed indefinitely.

Schools and offices were closed. So was the Empire State Building, now once
again the tallest in the city.

Everyone in New York had suffered, but no one bore a heavier burden than the
brave men and women of the fire department.

Lieutenant JJ Vaughan, 60, who heads a batallion in the South Bronx, was close
to tears over the loss of so many of his comrades.

His son, John, 31, told how his entire unit died. He only survived because he'd
taken time off.

John said: "I am so lucky to be alive. By rights I should be dead along with all
my friends.

"I should have been working yesterday but I had taken two days off. The Gods
were looking down."

Irish-born JJ tried to concentrate on those who might still be alive. He said:
"We're rescuing people who are on the surface.

"We're going through the rubble to see if people are alive. Then we will remove
select debris.

"We expect there to be survivors. There are some people being unearthed but it
is very few."

The department lost its chief, deputy and assistant.

JJ explained: "As soon as the first plane hit, we set up a command station on
the first floor of the north tower.

Unsafe

"Fire companies were reporting there and holding in reserve to relieve other
companies.

"That's how everybody was killed. The fire chief and his deputies were there
when the tower collapsed. There was no way out. So many good men were buried.

"The whole fire deparment is now on 24 hours on, 24 off. We can't commit too
many people at the moment because it's still too unsafe. There are dangerouis
buildings there.

"As a citizen I am shocked and stunned by what had happened. The patch on our
uniform has the skyline of New York city with two buildings that aren't there
anymore.

"Outrage is a very mild word. Just shock, we haven't comprehended the full
extent of what has happened."

"I may never get over this."

For many, the memories of Tuesday's slaughter were even worse than the sights of
Wednesday.

Banker Clemant Lewin told how he had looked from his window across from the
towers and saw people jumping to death from the burning 80th floor.

A man and woman held hands as they plunged to the pavement.

"I'm traumatised for life," Lewin said. "This was somebody's father, somebody's
sister, somebody's mother."

Other workers stayed in their offices because the stairs were so crowded.

"People didn't think the buildings were going to fall down," said Mike Wilson,
who was on the 51st floor.

Rescuers recalled how some people struggled to breathe in the aftermath of the
blast. They were trampled underfoot by the hordes trying to flee.

City worker Thomas Warren said: "The air was full of smoke and dust. All you
could hear were the wails of pain and screams for help."

But despite all the efforts of the terrorists, those caught in the bombing held
on to their humanity.

Office workers comforted each other as they tried to get down the stairs to
safety.

And survivors told how total strangers patted each other on the back as they
walked away from the scene. Others passed around mobile phones so people could
tell relatives they were safe.

Thousands of citizens turned out to answer appeals for blood donors. Eight
hundred queued through the night at St Vincent's Hospital.

Some New Yorkers tried to get back to some sort of reality. Outside his shop,
amid scenes of devastation never before seen in this city, one man was quietly
sweeping up some broken glass.

"I don't know why I'm bothering," he said. "I don't know what else to do."

There were even a few, a very few, happy endings.

Jason Beerman rushed toward the twin towers as soon as he heard news of the
attacks.

And somehow, amid all the mayhem, he managed to find his older brother Kenton.

Kenton,24, emerged from the gloom of a stairwell straight into Jason's arms. "I
don't know how he found me," he said. "My brother is awesome."

But all over New York, thousands more people were failing to find their loved
-ones. They frantically called relatives' colleagues and turned up at hospitals
and police checkpoints. No one had any news for them.

US officials confirmed yesterday that President Bush and his Airforce One plane
had also been targets of the terrorists.

And Bush vowed to launch a "monumental struggle of good versus evil" in the
aftermath of the outrage.

Prime Minister Tony Blair spent 20 minutes on the phone with Bush and pledged
Britain's full military support.

British and US intelligence are convinced that terrorist leader Osama Bin Laden
was responsible for the catastrophe.

Bush, now back in the White House, said: "This battle will take time and
resolve, but make no mistake about it, we will win.

"The deliberate and deadly attacks carried out yesterday against our country
were more than acts of terror. They were acts of war.

"This will require our country to unite in steadfast determination and resolve.
Freedom and democracy are under attack.

"The American people need to know we're facing a different enemy than we have
ever faced.

"This enemy hides in shadows and has no regard for human life.

"This is an enemy who preys on innocent and unsuspecting people, then runs for
cover, but it won't be able to run for cover forever.

"This is an enemy that tries to hide, but it won't be able to hide forever.

"This is an enemy that thinks its harbours are safe, but they won't be safe
forever.

"This enemy attacked not just our people but all freedom-loving people
everywhere in the world.

"The United States of America will use all our resources to conquer this enemy.

"We will rally the world. We will be patient. We'll be focused, and we will be
steadfast in our determination.

"America is united. The freedom-loving nations of the world stand by our side."

Americans reacted to the atorcities with anger and a burst of patriotism.

New Yorkers flew American flags on their cars as they drove to work. Radio
stations in Washington urged people to fly flags outside their windows.

Secretary of State Colin Powell said he understood the anger of his countrymen.

He added: "We are at war and they want a comprehensive response.

"They want us to act as if we are at war and we're going to do that -
diplomatically and militarily."

Arizona Senator John McCain described the national mood as one of controlled
fury.

Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat who was his party's vice
-presidential nominee last year, said: "This was more than a crime. It's
certainly at least a war crime.

At the Pentagon, where up to 800 people died, an army commander told how he was
watching the trade centre attack on TV when he realised his building was also
being hit.

He said: "We felt a rumble and heard the boom and knew something very
significant had happened. A few people began to panic immediately, most remained
calm.

"I walked into the hallway and saw people sprinting out of the Pentagon.

"It was almost like you were in a movie."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: CUT OFF;
 STEVE SMITH EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 5

LENGTH: 392 words


A YOUNG Scots banker is missing, presumed dead in the New York terrorist
atrocity.

Derek Sword, 29, rang his father from his 83rd-floor office in the World Trade
Centre seconds after the first airliner plunged into the north tower. He told
his dad: "Don't worry about me - I'm in the other tower and we are fine."

Minutes later, Derek - who got engaged only 10 days ago - rang his fiancee to
say: "I am in a secure room and we're OK."

But as he and his colleagues tried desperately to escape, a 757 crashed into the
south tower.

Derek's parents, David and Irene, watched in horror as both 110-storey towers
collapsed in a mountain of rubble live on TV.

Since then, they have heard nothing from their son.

Yesterday, Downing Street warned that British casualties from the terrorist
attacks in the US could run into hundreds.

But at their Dundee home last night, Derek's parents were still praying for a
phone call bringing news of some miraculous escape.

David said: "We have been glued to the TV screen.

"We have had no word from our son and both his mother and I are extremely
anxious.

"All we can hope for is that he is just unable to get to a phone."

Derek has worked in finance in the US for the past few years.

Fighting back tears, his mum said: "It's so hard because we've had no word. When
the plane hit the first World Trade Centre, he phoned my husband to say it
wasn't the tower he was in.

"Then he phoned his fiancee to say he was in a secure room, but we haven't heard
any more. It is an absolute nightmare."

Derek's twin brother Allan, who works in the Middle East, was being kept
informed last night. His older brother Graeme was also waiting for news.

Last night, a picture of the grim death toll of Brits working in the World Trade
Centre began to emerge.

Hotlines set up by Scotland Yard and the Foreign Office have been inundated with
calls from relatives of missing people.

A spokesman for Downing Street said: "The Prime Minister was advised by the
Scotland Yard casualty bureau there had been a massive number of calls.

"It is difficult to predict with any certainty, but it is becoming clear the
number of deaths is beginning to run into the hundreds."

If you have relatives or friends affected by the US terror attacks, call the
Record Hotline on: 0141 309 3251

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: CUT OFF;
 SCOTS DAD'S AGONY OVER FINAL PHONE CALL FROM BANKER SON

BYLINE: Steve Smith Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 5

LENGTH: 402 words


A YOUNG Scots banker is missing, presumed dead in the New York terrorist
atrocity.

Derek Sword, 29, rang his father from his 83rd-floor office in the World Trade
Centre seconds after the first airliner plunged into the north tower. He told
his dad: "Don't worry about me - I'm in the other tower and we are fine."

Minutes later, Derek - who got engaged only 10 days ago - rang his fiancee to
say: "I am in a secure room and we're OK."

But as he and his colleagues tried desperately to escape, a 757 crashed into the
south tower.

Derek's parents, David and Irene, watched in horror as both 110-storey towers
collapsed in a mountain of rubble live on TV.

Since then, they have heard nothing from their son.

At their home in Dundee last night, the couple were praying for a phone call
bringing news of some miraculous escape.

David said: "We have been glued to the TV screen.

"We have had no word from our son and both his mother and I are extremely
anxious.

"All we can hope for is that he is just unable to get to a phone."

Derek has worked in finance in the US for the past few years.

Fighting back tears, his mum said: "It's so hard because we've had no word. When
the plane hit the first World Trade Centre he phoned my husband to say it wasn't
the tower he was in.

"Then he phoned his fiancee to say he was in a secure room but we haven't heard
any more. It is an absolute nightmare."

Derek's twin brother Allan, who works in the Middle East, was being kept
informed last night. His older brother Graeme was also waiting for news.

Last night, Downing Street warned that British casualties from the terrorist
attacks in the USA could run into hundreds.

But Scottish brother and sister Geoffrey and Victoria McQueen had a lucky escape
from the Manhattan inferno.

They were in the States for a wedding and were planning to visit the World Trade
Centre when they saw the disaster on TV.

It brought back memories of the 1988 Lockerbie disaster when they were at home
with their parents a few hundred yards from the spot where the doomed Pan Am
flight came down, killing 207.

Mum Marjory said: "Victoria phoned me about half an hour after I heard about the
attack.

"It was a great relief to hear she and her brother were all right."

If you have relatives or friends affected by the US terror attacks, call the
Record Hotline on: 0141 309 3251

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: MIRACLE OF NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 730 words


PULLED FROM THE TOMB: A fireman screams in agony after being rescued from the
rubble of the World Trade Centre towers yesterday. He told rescuers he was on
the 83rd floor and he rolled himself into a ball, rolling down floor by floor as
the building gave way PICTURE: AP

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK TERROR FROM THE SKY;
 ASTONISHING SATELLITE PICS

BYLINE: Cara Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 156 words


DRAMATIC images taken from hundreds of miles out in space show the true enormity
of the New York disaster.

The picture on the right, taken by the Iconos satellite, shows a huge pall of
smoke and dust spiralling upwards, dwarfing the towering skyscrapers on
Manhattan Island.

Incredibly, this image of the choking smoke funnelling through the narrow
streets was taken more than 24 hours after the towers had crumbled.

The Ikonos was travelling at 17,500 miles an hour and was 423 miles up when the
image was taken.

Another picture, topleft, taken from the International Space Station, shows the
smoke being driven north across the rest of New York.

It was taken by Expedition Three Commander Frank Culbertson as the space station
flew 250 miles up above New York.

High winds trailed the smoke for hundreds of miles, blocking out daylight in a
column stretching from New York right over the state of New Jersey.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: OCEAN OF TEARS;
 OUTPOURING OF GRIEF AND SYMPATHY AROUND THE WORLD FOR TERROR VICTIMS

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 382 words


STUNNED Americans flocked to their consulate in Edinburgh yesterday to lay
flowers and light candles in memory of the terror victims.

Among the tearful tourists and expats was Susan Stanliff, of Atlanta, Georgia,
who said her best friend's husband worked in the twin towers and was unaccounted
for.

She said: "It's dreadful being so far away from home and not being able to do
anything."

In Glasgow, 100 people gathered for a special service at St Andrew's Cathedral -
where Monsignor James Clancy said the outrage was "a great tragedy"- while a
minute's silence was held at the city's Central Mosque.

Mosque general secretary Dr Muhammed Kauser said: "It is a token of solidarity
to make it clear that the Moslem world does not condone what happened."

In Aberdeen, Canadian Father Clive Clapson led prayers at St Mary's Church. He
said: "We have one of the highest concentrations of Americans in the UK because
of the oil industry. This tragedy also affects all of us."

Grief-stricken Americans arrived in their dozens at London's American Church to
pray for their dead.

Scores of tributes and bouquets of flowers were laid outside while inside many
people lit candles, openly wept and quietly said prayers.

Elsewhere around the world, church bells pealed, flags stood at half-mast, and
conferences, concerts and sports matches were cancelled.

In Ireland, Prime Minister Bertie Ahern declared a day of mourning tomorrow in
memory of the terror victims.

And in Berlin, a banner pleading "No revenge please, No World War 3" hung near
the US Embassy where well-wishers placed flowers and candles.

Stock exchanges, including London and Madrid, suspended trading for a minute,
mourning bells rang out in Austria and the Czech Republic and Belgium opened a
public book of condolences.

President Vladimir Putin of Russia decreed a minute's silence today at noon
Moscow time. He said: "The people of Russia share the grief of the American
people and sympathise with the relatives and friends of those killed."

Pakistan president General Pervez Musharraf condemned the attacks.

Addressing his weekly audience in St Peter's Square, Rome, Pope John Paul told
Americans that "those who believe in God know that evil and death do not have
the final say".

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: HOW THE WORLD READ OF HORROR;
 TERROR ON FRONT PAGES

BYLINE: Fiona Cummins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 572 words


AMERICAN newspapers led reports of the terrorist atrocities with the message
that their government had to "fight back" swiftly and brutally.

In a strongly-worded leader article, the New York Post said: "It's time for a
random application of American power - tangible attacks on targets of
opportunity. And that's just for starters."

That stance was echoed by the New York Times, which warned that worse may yet
happen.

It said: "The United States must also consider a future in which the assaults
carried out yesterday may be overshadowed by even more lethal nuclear,
biological, or chemical attacks by terrorists."

Around the world, newspapers agreed it wasn't just Americans who were now living
under threat.

The South China Morning Post in Hong Kong said: "No city anywhere is exempt from
attack."

Russia's Kommersant declared: "Armageddon now".

And a security expert writing in Sweden's Dagens Nyheter newspaper warned: "This
is the day the world war began. The attacks against the US are attacks against
the world."

In France, Le Parisien reported simply that: "The world is afraid", while Le
Figaro ran the headline: "The New War".

The Sowetan in South Africa asked ominously: "World War?"

Spain's El Pais summed up the mood. "This act marks the start of a 21st century
racked by grave uncertainties," their article read.

In Rome, La Republica said the attacks had "changed the course of our era".

There was also shock that American defences had been breached so easily.

Belgium's Le Soir newspaper said: "The world is uneasy because it has discovered
that the American giant has feet of clay."

Italy's La Stampa added: "It is a Pearl Harbour without Japan, a war without an
enemy, against whom even the atomic bomb and missile defence in space is
useless."

The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung claimed the US had been aware of the
terrorist threat, but had done nothing.

Hardline Arab newspapers, meanwhile, gloated over the killing of thousands of
innocent people, saying the "American cowboy" had got what he deserved.

The official al-Iraq newspaper said: "The American rulers practised great
harshness against humanity until the situation exploded."

Iraqi state television dubbed the atrocity as the operation of the century.

A TV commentary stated: "The American cowboy is reaping the fruits of his crimes
against humanity."

The Iranian Tehran Times headline trumpeted: "Horror in the White House. Paying
the price for its blind support of the Zionist regime."

FRANCE

Evening newspaper France Soir told readers: "The worst has arrived" while the
biggest- selling daily broadsheet Le Figaro called the atrocities: "The new
war."

SOUTH AFRICA

South African newspapers described the shocking events as all-out war and others
simply carried the headline, "Armageddon" over the enduring image of the blazing
towers.

SPAIN

Spanish daily El Pais told how the world was holding its breath to see how
President Bush was going to retaliate while tabloid el Periodico called the
disaster: "World-wide terror."

GREECE

Greek newspapers joined the condemnation of the atrocities and Ta Nea produced a
virtually all-black front page with the chilling pictures of the Twin Towers on
fire

SWEDEN

Sweden's English newspaper described the events as, "USA under attack" while
Dagens Nyheter warned: "This is the day the new world war began."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: US FACE WAKE-UP CALL;
 AMERICANS POINT FINGER OF BLAME AT FAILED INTELLIGENCE NETWORK AS FURY GROWS
OVER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18, 19

LENGTH: 803 words


AMERICANS woke up yesterday to realise that their multi-billion-dollar
intelligence services had sold them short.

They had suffered the greatest act of war ever on American soil - and there had
been no warning.

The FBI, CIA and military have access to a huge high-tech surveillance armoury
including spy satellites.

But the world's richest and most powerful country was caught napping.

As the US public bays for blood, experts are questioning the superpower's
ability to target those responsible.

Defence expert Paul Beaver said: "The Americans have a tremendous military
capability.

"But all these things are irrelevant if they do not know who they are striking.

"What they need is good intelligence and that looks pretty ropey.

"American intelligence gathering has been shown to be seriously flawed and I
would say that does not augur well for the future."

And Chris Aaron, editor of Jane's Intelligence Review, said: "Obviously there
has been an intelligence failure."

The country's awesome arsenal includes 10 aircraft carrier battle groups, each
with 90 warplanes.

The US can launch long-range missiles from submarines and from bombers flying
beyond the earth's atmosphere. Washington claims accuracy of within a metre for
its latest missiles.

But Aaron said: "The question now is whether, if they focus on a particular
operation, they have the capability to put the intelligence together."

Tuesday's attack was also a wake-up call for President George W Bush. His
indifference to what goes on outwith US borders was one of his selling points in
last year's election.

Now he knows that if America doesn't involve itself in what happens around the
world, then its conflicts will come to them.

And from the rubble of the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, Bush has to
build a foreign policy.

Up until now his indifference to what goes on outside the US has been matched by
his ignorance.

During the Presidential race, when candidates are usually heavily briefed by
their advisers, Bush's lack of knowledge was worrying for someone bidding to be
the most powerful man on the planet.

Talking about foreign policy on the hustings, he confused Slovakia with
Slovenia, referred to the Greeks as Grecians and couldn't name the leaders of
either India or Pakistan.

He may have been haunted in the campaign by what had happened to his father when
he lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton.

George Bush senior had won the Gulf War, but it got him little return at the
polls.

American voters decided, in the famous phrase, it was "the economy, stupid"
which decided elections, and Bush junior has downgraded foreign affairs ever
since.

As a platform of his administration, Bush's foreign policy has few planks.

Before Tuesday it could be summed up in two words - Russia and nukes.

That reflects the interests of the people he has gathered around him, many of
whom are throwbacks to the days of Ronald Reagan and his dad.

Vice-President Dick Cheney was his father's defence secretary, while Secretary
of State Colin Powell was the general in charge of the Gulf War.

On Tuesday, more Americans were killed than on any other single day in history.
Now Bush is facing a growing chorus of demands for revenge.

Even the sober, influential Washington Post yesterday stated: "The nation must
prepare itself to fight the first war of the new century.

"In the past, the United States has shied away from squarely confronting regimes
that were linked to terrorist attacks against Americans. It can no longer afford
to do so."

It added: "Americans will have to make sacrifices that a state of war requires

But the added terror of Tuesday is that Bush cannot see his enemy. There is no
foreign battlefield to fight on, no obvious capital city to bomb.

And America's dilemma is harder because it cannot afford to repeat the fiasco of
its last strike against terror mastermind Osama bin Laden.

After his bombers struck at US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, the US unleashed
59 cruise missiles at suspected terror targets in Sudan and Afghanistan.

The retaliation failed. The only victims were 150 civilians in Sudan - where the
Americans blew up the wrong building - and a barren hillside full of sheep in
Afghanistan.

Bush will have to choose his targets carefully. He must balance the size of a
response America needs to restore pride, against making a dangerous situation
even worse.

A clue to the instincts of the White House was given during the election
campaign by his Security Adviser, Condoleeza Rice.

Referring to the Gulf War, she said that there was no point in going up against
somebody like Saddam Hussein unless you were prepared to finish the job.

President Bush's instincts will be to go all the way.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: TINSEL TOWN IS REELING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 115 words


ONE of the unlikely victims of the atrocities is Hollywood.

Several films are now in jeopardy because of the similarities their plots bear
to the events.

Arnie Schwarzenegger's Collateral Damage features a bomb in a skyscraper. It was
due for release in the US next month but that has been thrown into doubt.

Trailers for a new Spiderman film have also been withdrawn.

Scenes from it feature a helicopter trapped in a giant web strung between the
towers of the World Trade Centre.

Action movie Swordfish has been withdrawn from UK cinemas as it shows blasts
rocking LA.

And Disney have delayed the Tim Allen film Big Trouble. The plot involves a bomb
on a plane.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: POUNDS 150BN BILL FOR THE DEVASTATION;
  ATTACKS COULD SPARK RECESSION

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 328 words


THE terrorist attacks on America have cost pounds 150billion - and counting.

British business is braced for its share of massive global insurance claims.

And the cost of two days' lost trade as Wall Street shut down will badly damage
the UK stock exchange.

Now finance experts fear the atrocities could push us into recession.

Yesterday, Martin Hayward, of the Henley Centre research group, warned that the
damage to our travel industry, insurance companies and consumer confidence may
push the UK economy over the edge.

And with recession looming, the terrorist outrages could be the last nail in the
coffin of the world economy. Hayward said: "There were pictures yesterday of
supermarkets in the States being cleared - panic has really hit there and a
siege mentality has developed.

"Although the UK is not at that stage, confidence has been badly damaged. The
economy is not in recession yet but this may be the straw that broke the camel's
back.

"We only have to look at the link between our stock exchange and Wall Street to
understand that we are not some kind of separate entity. This could cost our
economy billions of pounds."

Hayward said even a five per cent fall in consumer spending can cause a
recession. He added: "The basic fact is, if you are happy and smiling, you are
more likely to spend money.

"It sounds bizarre that what I might spend in the High Street on a Saturday
morning is affected by a terrorist attack in New York.

"But all you need to do is look at the travel industry. That suffered straight
away yesterday because people are going to be less happy to get on
aeroplanes."Americans have already shown how they react. The BSE issue kept them
out of Britain a few years ago - so an incident like this is bound to stop them
from flying."

The insurance industry is also facing meltdown. The International Underwriting
Association said the impact of the atrocities would be felt around the world.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: I THANK ALMIGHTY ALLAH AND BOW BEFORE HIM;
  WARNING OF THOUSANDSPREPARED TO DIE IN HOLY WAR

BYLINE: Ian Dow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 714 words


THE man the world suspects of masterminding the US atrocities yesterday
congratulated the bombers on their deadly attacks.

And he thanked Almighty Allah and bowed before him when he heard the news.

But No 1 suspect Osama bin Laden denied he was responsible and claimed he had no
information or knowledge about the attack ahead of time.

At the same time, he warned that thousands of Moslems were prepared to die in a
jihad, or holy war.

In the past, he has written poems glorying in suicide bomb attacks on US
targets.

The fanatical Saudi dissident is holed up in Afghanistan, shielded by the
country's fundamental Islamic rulers, the Taliban.

His gloating over America's agony was relayed through an aide to a trusted
Palestinian journalist.

Bin Laden called the devastation "a punishment from Allah".

The United States had invited Allah's wrath because it is trying to control the
entire world with force, he said.

He said: "There are thousands of Moslems who have vowed for jihad and martyrdom.
They have experience to fight with all sorts of weapons."

Bin Laden is a prime suspect in the bombing of two US embassies in East Africa
in August 1998 that killed 224, including 12 US citizens.

He has never admitted responsibility but also congratulated those bombers.

Washington already wanted to put him on trial for those attacks but the Taliban
have steadfastly refused to hand him over, despite tough UN sanctions.

They hail him as an honoured guest and a hero of Islam.

He sits at the centre of a web of shadowy and secretive coalitions and factions
dedicated to a war against the West, especially the US.

He is often pictured with the obligatory AK 47 gun.

He comes from Saudi Arabia and has a personal fortune reported to be more than
pounds 200 million.

Bin Laden first achieved prominence in Afghanistan during an uprising against
the invading Soviet Union. It was led by Afghan Islamic rebels, heavily
bankrolled by the United States. He is said to have received a considerable
amount of cash from the CIA during the 10-year Afghan battle.

In 1989, when the fighting ended with Moscow's retreat, he returned home to
Saudi Arabia.

There, he clashed with the monarchy over inviting American troops into Saudi
Arabia, the site of two of Islam's holiest places, Mecca and Medina.

It set bin Laden on the road to becoming Public Enemy No 1.

In 1990, the US deployed its troops there for the Gulf War.

Bin Laden rallied disgruntled Saudi veterans of the Afghan uprising and openly
accused King Fahd of selling the holy sites to America.

Hounded by Saudi intelligence who arrested him, bin Laden quit Saudi in 1992 for
Sudan, where hardline Islamist Hasan Turabi was in power.

There, bin Laden's Al-Qaida organisation took shape, embracing a hardline Islam
from north African countries and the Gulf states.

Since then, a whole string of terrorist attacks against US targets have occurred
at regular intervals.

These included the attack on the World Trade Centre in 1993 when a bomb killed
six and injured 1000.

Bin Laden has never claimed responsibility for any attacks but he and his allies
have been accused of playing a role in most of them.

He operates several training camps in Afghanistan and has urged young Moslems
worldwide to wage a holy war against the United States.

There are training camps in every province of Afghanistan, the Taliban have
admitted. Those camps are training militant Moslems from Chechnya, Uzbekistan,
Pakistan, China and most Arab countries.

Bin Laden has even written poems about terror attacks against the US.

At the wedding of his son in February bin Laden praised last year's suicide
bombing of the USS Cole.

Last spring, bin Laden instructed hard-line Islamic activists attending a Moslem
convention in neighboring Pakistan to prepare the next generation for the jihad
as well.

In 1996, Sudan bowed to relentless pressure from the United States and asked bin
Laden to leave.

He moved to Afghanistan with 180 followers and three wives.

Earlier, the FBI put a pounds 3million bounty on his head.

The US State Department have called bin Laden one of the most significant
sponsors of Islamic extremist activities in the world today.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: US MOBILISES UK-BASED PLANES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 138 words


SPECULATION that the United States might be preparing to launch a retaliatory
strike mounted yesterday as three giant refuelling tankers took off from
America's biggest UK air base.

The KC-135 Stratotankers, each capable of carrying 40 tons of aviation fuel,
roared off the runway in rapid succession at around 10.30am at the United States
Air Force base in Mildenhall, Suffolk.

The coloured tankers - 136ft long with a 130ft wing span - enable US attack
fighters and bombers to fly long-distance missions with mid-air refuelling.

The aircraft from Mildenhall, which have a range of 1500 miles, were used to
refuel planes during the Gulf War and the US bombing raid on Libya.

But Sgt Theresa McCullough, a USAF spokeswoman at the base, insisted the tankers
were only involved in a routine training exercise.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: NOSTRA DAMNED US;
 IN THE CITY OF YORK THERE WILL BE A GREAT COLLAPSE, TWO TWIN BROTHERS TORN
APART BY CHAOS. WHILE THE FORTRESS FALLS THE GREAT LEADER WILL SUCCUMB, THIRD
BIG WAR WILL BEGIN WHEN THE BIG CITY IS BURNING

BYLINE: Gary Ralston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 530 words


THE world-wide web was buzzing yesterday with claims that the tragedy in the US
was foretold by Nostradamus.

Office workers e-mailed two chilling prophecies around the world and scores of
Internet websites also carried the alleged visions of the 16th-century French
seer.

The first read: "In the year of the new century and nine months. From the sky
will come a great King of Terror. The sky will burn at 45 degrees. Fire
approaches the great new city."

The second read: "In the city of York, there will be a great collapse. Two twin
brothers torn apart by chaos. While the fortress falls, the great leader will
succumb. Third big war will begin when the big city is burning."

However, one of the world's leading experts on Nostradamus dismissed the
suggestions the French visionary gave a chilling glimpse of the apocalypse.

Peter Lemesurier, who has written six books on Nostradamus, said: "The first
verse is a complete non-starter. His words have been twisted and badly
-translated.

"Nostradamus never wrote about the new century and the ninth month, but 1999 and
the seventh month. He did not write about the King of Terror, but the Host King.

"As for the second prophecy, it's a total invention. It was never written by
Nostradamus. It's a complete nonsense, the figment of someone's imagination."

Lemesurier said the closest the soothsayer came to predicting the terrorist
attack on New York was a vague reference in his prophecy 6: 97.

It reads: "At five and 40 degrees the sky will burn. Fire will approach the
great new city. Vehemently scattered flame will jump up. When they try
conclusions with the northerners."

But the author pointed out: "New York sits on a 40 degree parallel - 45 degrees
is 300 miles away. There are towns in France, Italy and Spain with names that
literally mean 'new city' - such as Villeneuve in south-west France - that sit
exactly on a 45 degree parallel.

"I don't think he predicted the dreadful events in the United States at all."

Nostradamus was born in 1503 in the south of France and studied astronomy and
astrology, but did not begin writing his prophecies until the age of 52.

Supporters claim he has foretold major world events from the birth of Napoleonic
empire, to the rise of Hitler to the nuclear attack on Hiroshima.

But Lemesurier claimed: "Nostradamus was a clever businessman, a PR man who knew
on which side his bread was buttered. He left his language as vague as possible
to cover every eventuality.

"People have turned to him at this time to put meaning into a terrible act no
-one really understands."

Lemesurier estimates that only five per cent of Nostradamus's 6338 four-line
predictions, known as quatrains, have come true. He said: "Nostradamus did not
clearly predict most of the major events for which he is credited. He could be
credited with prophecising the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Empire
generally, but not specifically.

"For me, his most impressive prediction referred to the rise and fall of the
Soviet Empire, which he predicted would take 74 years - the date of the October
Revolution in 1917 to the fall of Communism in 1991."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: FACE OF TERROR PILOT;
 FBI NAME FANATIC AS KEY MAN BEHIND MASS MURDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 405 words


A RINGLEADER of the World Trade Centre atrocity was trained as a pilot in the US
and boasted a poster of terrorist kingpin Osama bin Laden in his car window.

The FBI have named Mohamed Atta as one of the fanatics who attacked the US.

They have revealed prime suspect Atta, 33, learned to fly in 1999 at the pounds
14,000-a-year Hoffmann Aviation School and the renowned Emby-Riddle Aeronautical
University, both in Florida.

Now one former classmate claims he made a formal complaint about the poster of
bin Laden, who declared war on the US several years ago.

The student said: "I was driving up for a parade behind his maroon Oldsmobile
and was shocked to see bin Laden's picture.

"I served with the RAF allied forces over Kosovo and they hammered into us that
we should always be suspicious of anything unusual.

"I remember the English officer telling us, 'You have to protect yourself. You
Americans need to be more careful regarding terrorists'."

The revelation came after the FBI swooped on three targets in their hunt for 12
key suspects.

Director Robert Meuller said his agents' main goal was to identify the hijackers
and their accomplices, in or outside the US.

They believe there were four separate cells of three to six trained pilots on
each of the four hijacked planes.

Atta's brother Marwan - who like him had a United Arab Emirates passport - is
thought to have flown with him. Several men were taken into custody in Florida
and six bag-loads of information were removed from his flying schools last
night.

Hoffmann worker Charlie Voss, who put the brothers up in his house while they
trained, was also questioned.

Hire cars Atta had left at Boston airport - one containing an Arabic flying
manual and the Koran - were also removed

A further three suspects were taken into custody off an Amtrak train after it
was ordered to stop in Providence, Maine, en route from Boston to Washington DC.

One other man was taken into custody yesterday as the FBI raided a Boston hotel.

Over 20 SWAT officers armed with machine guns used fibre-optic scopes to check
inside rooms at the Westin Hotel.

They said the man and tapped mobile phone calls could offer "important material
information" to the attacks.

Attorney-General John Ashcroft said last night: "The Department of Justice is
undertaking perhaps the most massive and intensive investigation ever
conducted."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: LOCKERBIE FAMILY'S ESCAPE IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 220 words


A BROTHER and sister who lived through the Lockerbie disaster escaped terrorism
again in New York.

Geoffrey and Victoria McQueen were in the States for their cousin's wedding.

They were staying with relatives in Staten Island and on Tuesday, they had
planned to visit the World Trade Centre.

But before they left, they saw the disaster on TV.

Victoria, 26, immediately phoned home to say she and Geoffrey, 31, were safe.

Their mum, Marjory, said: "Victoria phoned me about half an hour after I heard
about the attack. It was a great relief to hear she and her brother were all
right.

"Victoria told me it was all very scary. She said, 'They missed me again,' but I
think she was just putting a brave face on it.

"She said there were lots of military helicopters flying around, just like
Lockerbie after the air disaster. It brought it all back to her."

Geoffrey, who is about to start a journalism course, and Victoria, a conference
organiser, were about to go to Manhattan when they heard about the attack.

On the night of the Lockerbie disaster - December 21, 1988 - they were at home
with their mum and dad Ken, a local GP.

They were just a few hundred yards from the spot where the doomed Pan Am jumbo's
fuel-filled wings killed 11 locals, bringing the total death toll to 270.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: CONTACT PLEA FOR WORRIED SCOTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 185 words


FOREIGN OFFICE HELPLINE 0207 008 0000

SCOTTISH families who have not heard from relatives in New York since Tuesday's
attacks were yesterday told to contact the Foreign Office in London immediately.

The plea came from the British Consul General in New York, Tom Harris.

It is understood there are still 15 Britons missing in New York, although Mr
Harris refused to reveal if any of them were from Scotland. He told the Record:
"We are fielding calls from distressed families in the UK and Scotland and
putting people in touch where it has been possible to do so."

British Consulate staff are working around the clock after the carnage. They
have been finding shelter for British citizens in the city and kept regular
contact with the hospitals and emergency services.

Mr Harris said: "We have no confirmed deaths but as and when we get news of
casualties we will pass on the information to the emergency centre in London to
inform the next of kin."

Among the unsung heroes were Coach USA/Stagecoach drivers who braved the chaos
to ferry around rescue teams and take people to safety.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FAMILY'S ESCAPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 89 words


GEOFFREY & VICTORIA'S STORY

A BROTHER and sister who lived through the horror of the Lockerbie bombing
narrowly escaped being caught up in the New York attacks.

Geoffrey McQueen, 31, and sister Victoria, 26, who are on holiday on Staten
Island, planned to visit the World Trade Centre on Tuesday. They found out about
the attacks just before they were due to leave.

Mum Marjory, said: "Victoria phoned me and said, 'They missed me again'."

The family live just yards from where Pan Am Flight 103 exploded in 1988.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: I CHEATED DEATH BY ONE HOUR

BYLINE: Bob Dow Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 159 words


ALLAN'S STORY

SCOTS businessman Allan MacLeod cheated death in the World Trade Centre carnage
by just one hour.

The Edinburgh-based sales director was due to hold a meeting in the doomed
building shortly after the first jet exploded into it.

He watched in horror from a nearby tower block as the centre was engulfed in
smoke and flames.

Terrified Allan then had to fight his way through the panic in the Manhattan
streets to get to safety.

As he recovered yesterday, Allan said: "Those first few hours were just pure
terror. If this was a film you would not believe it - this was a living
nightmare."

The 35-year-old had spent the entire previous day working in the WTC in a series
of business meetings with American colleagues.

Allan, who works for Edinburgh fund managers Martin Currie, said fear was
everywhere on the street.

"When you heard something you kept wondering if another plane was coming down,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

JET-LAG SAVED US;
 HOLIDAY COUPLE MISS TERROR ATTACK AFTER OVER-SLEEPING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 360 words


HUGH & JOANNA'S STORY

A SCOTTISH couple who should have been in the area of the Twin Towers missed the
devastation by minutes because of jet-lag.

Hugh Jarvis, 25, and girlfriend Joanna, 23, were due in the Financial District
that morning to collect a rental car.

However, the pair over-slept after their flight from Scotland on Monday and when
they woke up the horror was already unfolding.

Instead of being caught up in the atrocity, they watched from their hotel room
in Brooklyn as the tragedy unfolded across the river.They immediately tried to
phone their families at home to let them know they had avoided the carnage.

But communication problems made the inter-national calls from New York
impossible, and it took hours before they could contact their families.The
couple, from Edinburgh, told relatives they had planned to visit the World Trade
Centre during their two-week holiday and were relieved they had missed the
devastation.

Yesterday, Hugh's sister-in-law Viv Calgaro spoke of her relief at hearing the
couple were safe.

She said: "It was so utterly horrific and unbelievable watching everything
unfold on the television.

"We hadn't heard from Hugh and Joanna until late on Tuesday night, so obviously
we were extremely concerned for their safety.

"Thankfully, they somehow managed to contact friends in Cleveland because some
of the internal US phonelines were operating.

"It was only the inter-national lines that were down, which meant he couldn't
phone home.

"Until we heard that everything was okay, you automatically think that something
is wrong."

Viv, 42, added: "They only missed everything because they didn't pick up the car
in Manhattan, so they were really lucky.

"We are just so relieved they are both well."

Hugh, a second-year student at Napier Universty in Edinburgh, and his partner of
six months, Joanna, had been planning their trip since Easter.

The pair planned to stay in New York and visit the tourist attractions before
moving on to stay with friends in Cleveland, Ohio.

Yesterday they were stranded in Brooklyn, unable to cross the East River into
Manhattan.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK AMERICA: WE WILL GIVE THEM A WAR SAYS POWELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 110 words


SECRETARY of State Colin Powell told Americans yesterday: "We are at war. The
people who did this declared war.

"It's a war not just against the United States, it's a war against
civilisation."

Powell said the administration was "far from selecting any particular military
targets" for retaliation against the attacks on New York and Washington.

He said: "I would not remove any of the options available to the president, but
we have to build the case first.

"Americans have made the judgment - and they want a comprehensive response. They
want us to act as if we are at war and we're going to do that - diplomatically
and militarily."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: WASHINGTON BUSH ANGER AT PENTAGON

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 209 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush said he was "sad, angry and overwhelmed" last night when
he visited the blackened and gutted Pentagon.

He revealed: "I am overwhelmed by the devastation," as he stood among the
debris, with smoke and dust still heavy in the air a day after the attack.

Meanwhile, the grim search for bodies went on. US Defence Secretary Donald
Rumsfled shed some hope by revealing the initial death toll of 800 was too high
- 200 workers are now thought to have been killed.

The building was partially reopened yesterday to allow the rescue work, despite
the fire on one section of roof still burning.

Several thousand staff also returned, eager to show they were unbowed by
Tuesday's terrorist strike.

Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said: "The priority today is to take care
of the injured, to take care of the dead and to take care of their families."

Once unstable rubble has been cleared, four search-and- rescue teams will be
able to move in to hunt for missing Pentagon workers - and the hijacked jet's
black box recorder.

Fire chief Mike Tamillow said: "It's like a game of pick up sticks. If you pull
out the wrong one they could all come crashing down. That's exactly what we're
trying to prevent."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: WASHINGTON: GRIM SEARCH AT PENTAGON

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 254 words


RESCUERS were battling desperately yesterday to search for missing Pentagon
workers.

But the US Defence Secretary last night offered a glimmer of hope when he said
that early estimates of the number of people killed were too high.

Donald Rumsfeld said around 200 workers were thought to have perished - the
original toll was put at 800.

As the risky search for those still unaccounted for began, the building was
partially reopened and several thousand staff returned to work.

Pentagon officials said that it was a matter of pride that the US was seen to be
unbowed by the terrorist strike.

Smoke from the blackened concrete building was still drifting over Washington.
The pall rose from a roof fire which continued to burn more than 24 hours after
a hijacked airliner slammed into a corner of the building on Tuesday.

Pentagon spokesman Victoria Clarke said: "The priority today is to take care of
the injured, to take care of the dead and to take care of their families."

Rescue teams were preparing to use a large wrecking ball on the collapsed
section of the huge complex.

Once unstable rubble has been cleared, four search and rescue teams will be able
to move in.

Fire Chief Mike Tamillow said: "It's like a game of pick up sticks.

"If you pull out the wrong one they could all come crashing down. That's exactly
what we're trying to prevent."

The hijacked American Airlines jetliner's blackbox recorder, containing vital
data, was still thought to be buried in the rubble.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SHOCKING IMAGES OF AN EVIL ACT THAT SHOOK THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 151 words


THESE are images which will be ingrained in the memories of everyone who sees
them for the rest of their lives.

As a video camera was being used to record a street scene of firemen at work in
a New York street, heads turned at the sound of a jet flying unusually low.

Moments later there were horrified shouts as the plane smashed into the north
tower of the World Trade Centre.

Soon afterwards the evil spectacle was repeated at the south tower.

In those brief moments thousands of lives were doomed to end in shocking pain
and terror. They were events that shook the world and changed it forever.

IMPACT No1

Witnesses gasp as the first plane crashes into a tower

EXPLOSION

Smoke and flames billow out as the airliner explodes

IMPACT No2

The second plane nears its destination on its deadly mission

DEATH PALL

A cloud of smoke rises above the doomed building

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BOSTON CLUES TO ARABS

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 251 words


THE battle to identify the hijackers continued as the full horror of the attack
began to sink in.

Police seized a hire car at Logan Airport in Boston containing manuals in Arabic
on how to fly passenger jets.

Officers were led to the car by a traveller who got into an argument with the
men in it as they parked.

Boston newspapers said police had identified five Arabs as possible suspects.

One was a trained pilot and two were brothers whose passports were traced to the
United Arab Emirates.

Police believe the brothers boarded United Airlines 175, the second jet to hit
the World Trade Centre.

At least two of the five men were said to have flown into Boston from Portland,
Maine, on Tuesday. They had earlier entered the US through Canada.

One suspect's luggage did not reach his connecting flight out of the city.

It held a video on flying airliners, a device for calculating aircraft fuel
consumption and a copy of the Koran.

Six bags of evidence were taken from the airport for forensic tests.

Police and the FBI believe Osama bin Laden's terror group has "entrenched cells"
in Boston. Two men who lived in the city have been linked to other plots by the
Saudi-born fanatic.

Police were also probing claims that three Arab men tried to charter a corporate
jet at Norwood Airport in Massachusetts on Monday.

Three other men were being questioned after being stopped in a van in New
Jersey. They were initially held in connection with the terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK WASHINGTON: HEROES OF FLIGHT 93;
 HIJACK DAD PHONES WIFE WE'LL DIE FIGHTING, HE SAYS THREE TACKLE TERRORISTS
PLANE MISSES ITS TARGET

BYLINE: Jan Disley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 890 words


THREE hero passengers may have saved the White House by forcing their plane to
crash before it got to Washington.

United Airlines Flight 93 went down in a Pennsylvania field instead of going on
to the US capital.

It's believed it was heading for the President's mansion or his country retreat
at Camp David.

And it's thought the terrorists on board were attacked by ordinary travellers
who knew they were doomed and wanted to die fighting.

Dad-of-three Tom Burnett rang his wife Deena from the plane just before it
crashed, killing all 45 people on board.

He told her: "We're all gonna die but three of us are gonna do something. I love
you honey."

Businessman Tom, 38, of San Ramon, California, also told Deena someone had been
stabbed. Then the line went dead.

Moments later, the Boeing 757 hit the ground at a steep angle about 80 miles
south-east of Pittsburgh.

US authorities have not said whether UA93 could have been downed by passengers
trying to overpower the terrorists.

But one experienced airline pilot said: "My guess is that somebody decided to
fight back. What kind of political statement are you trying to make by blowing
up farmland?"

Secret Service officials had alerted the White House that the hijackers of UA93
may have been heading for Camp David. They also feared the White House could be
a target.

As a result, they advised President Bush not to return directly to Washington
from a trip to Florida.

He was diverted to military bases, first in Louisiana and then in Nebraska.

Flight 93 left Newark, New Jersey, bound for San Francisco. But as it approached
Cleveland, it turned sharply left and headed back towards Pennsylvania.

Cleveland Mayor Michael White said air traffic controllers heard screaming on a
plane.

One caller, locked in a toilet, repeatedly told emergency operators: "We're
being hijacked!"

Operator Glenn Cramer said: "He heard an explosion and saw white smoke coming
from the plane. We lost contact."

Other passengers were told the terrorists had bombs.

Mark Bingham, 31, phoned his mum Alice just before dawn in her native San
Francisco.

He told her: "We've been taken over. There are three men that say they've got a
bomb."

Alice wept: "He said, 'I want you to know that I love you very much, in case I
don't see you again.

"Mark told me he was calling from the airphone of the airplane.

"He repeated that he loved me. Then he became distracted, as if someone was
speaking to him.

"He said something to the effect that it was true. Then the phone went dead."

Alice said her only consolation was that her son, a well-built PR executive, may
have somehow helped thwart the terrorists.

CeeCee Lyles, a stewardess on UA93, rang her policeman husband Lorne at home in
Fort Myers, Florida.

Lorne heard her crying and passengers screaming in the background. Young mum
CeeCee told him, "We've been hijacked," then the connection was cut.

CeeCee's aunt Maria Schneider told reporters: "She called Lorne and let him know
how much she loved him and the boys."

FBI agents and forensic experts continued to pick through tiny scraps of
wreckage at the crash site yesterday.

Neither the cockpit voice recorder nor the flight data recorder had been found
and it was expected to be days before the dead could be identified.

More poignant calls to loved-ones were made from other flights.

Businessman Peter Hanson phoned his father from the United Airlines 175, the
second plane to plunge into the World Trade Centre.

Peter, travelling with his wife and two-year-old daughter, managed to reveal
that a stewardess had been stabbed. He was then cut off.

His mum Eunice said: "They went down together. The family stayed together in
death. That's the only consolation I have."

A stewardess on UA175 managed to ring the emergency services from the back of
the plane. She said her fellow stewards had been stabbed, the cockpit had been
taken over and they were going down in New York.

CNN TV pundit Barbara Olson called her husband and said the hijackers on her
flight were using "box-cutters and knives".

Barbara, 45, had not planned to be on board American Airlines 77, which hit the
Pentagon. But she'd missed an earlier plane and wanted to get home to be with US
Solicitor General Ted Olson on his birthday.

She rang Ted twice from a toilet and told him the hijackers had herded the
passengers and crew to the back of the plane.

Barbara told Ted to call the FBI and asked him what she should do. The call
ended seconds before the jet crashed.

Air traffic controllers heard hijackers talking to the pilots of AA11, the first
plane to hit the World Trade Centre.

One controller said: "One of the pilots keyed their mike so the conversation
between the pilot and the person in the cockpit could be heard.

"The person in the cockpit was speaking in English. He was saying something
like, 'Don't do anything foolish. You're not going to get hurt.'

"Someone in the cockpit was also heard telling the pilot, 'We have more planes,
we have other planes'."

The controller said: "The guys who handled that flight were traumatised. You
have a special relationship with everyone, every plane you work.

"The controllers heard what was happening in the cockpit and then they lost
contact."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: RELATIVES RELYING ON TEXTS AND E-MAILS

BYLINE: Amy Vickers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 208 words


TEXT-MESSAGING and e-mails became a communication lifeline yesterday as people
desperately tried to find out if loved ones had survived.

Phone networks had gone down just seconds after the atrocities making it
impossible for survivors to call relatives to tell them they were safe.

The chilling sounds of unanswered mobile phones from the rubble were heard by
rescue workers.

Networks across America folded on Tuesday with a sudden surge of more than 20
times the normal level of traffic, making voice calls impossible.

Thousands of World Trade Centre workers were unable to call out of the buildings
- their office switchboards swamped and their mobile networks choked by millions
of calls. The internet also came close to collapse in the aftermath of the
attack.

Traffic levels between Europe and the US peaked at more than 50 times the normal
level in the hours after the attacks.

Web monitoring firm Keynote Systems reported internet availability in the UK
dropped by half.

Dozens of big name sites failed under the weight of demand.

US networks CNN.com and MSNBC.com spent much of Tuesday inaccessible to users.

And the FBI's website crashed as people across the globe searched for the latest
information.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: PHONE YOUR LOVED ONES.. YOU'RE GOING TO DIE;
  PASSENGERS FORCED TO MAKE CALLS AT KNIFEPOINT

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 950 words


PASSENGERS on the hijacked jets were forced to tell loved-ones: "We're going to
die."

With knives at their throats, terrified victims made mobile phone calls to
families across the USA.

The harrowing messages were sent from the two jets which hit the World Trade
Centre and from the plane that struck the Pentagon.

It was a callous bid by the killers to torment their victims and maximise
America's terror.

The gangs also murdered stewardesses in cold blood to get control of the planes.

And they did it all with knives made from plastic and razor blades, leaving the
world asking how a gang with such weapons could have staged the world's worst
terror attack.

Experts believe the terrorists took the knives aboard in pieces, hidden in hand
luggage and toilet bags.

Airport staff X-raying their bags would have seen nothing unusual.

There were three terrorists on each of the four planes. It is believed they put
their weapons together in their seats or in toilets on the jets.

They then used the blades to kill the stewardesses, dragging the terrified women
to the backs of the aircraft and knifing them repeatedly.

Crews are trained to tell hijackers the cockpit door is locked and they don't
have a key. But that tactic proved useless against such cruelty.

The pilots opened their doors in a bid to save the hostesses and the terrorists
seized the controls.

Some experts believe the pilots would also have been murdered before the jets,
with 266 people on board, reached their targets.

Michael Barr, director of aviation safety programmes at the University of
Southern California, said: "You had to get rid of the crew because they would
not fly into a building.

"The pilot is dead anyway. He is dead if he hits the World Trade Centre or
doesn't. He is going to fly into the ocean to minimise the death.

"Whoever took the controls had to change course. He had to know how to navigate
and maintain altitude."

Other analysts insisted the terrorists were expert fliers. One pilot noted that
the fanatic steering the second plane to hit the World Trade Centre performed a
difficult banking manoeuvre just before the crash.

The airman also said the Pentagon was an extremely hard target to hit. He
explained: "One degree off and he overshoots it or undershoots it."

Pilots said it was no coincidence that all the hijacked planes were Boeing 757s
or 767s, which can be flown without special training.

All four planes were also full of fuel, perfect for causing a deadly fireball.

The hijackers of two of the jets are believed to have turned off "transponders",
cockpit devices which send data like the plane's altitude to air traffic
control. It was another piece of evidence that the Arabs were experts.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft confirmed that the first jet to hit the World
Trade Centre, American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston, was hijacked by
terrorists with knives.

Terrorism expert Mike Yardley said it made sense for the killers to use such
weapons. He added: "It would have reduced their security risks.

"Remember, they are trying to pull this off four times. If they had risked
firearms and one person had been seized, the whole operation could have been
compromised."

Yardley said US security staff would probably not have confiscated a small
pocket knife even if a passenger had been found with one.

Yet, such a weapon was all that was needed to take control of an aircraft.

Some US papers reported that fighters were scrambled as soon as news of the
hijackings emerged. But the warplanes were barely off the runway before the
terrorists hit their targets.

Investigators hope the jets' cockpit voice recorders will tell them more about
the hijackers' methods. The black boxes will have taped conversations for at
least 30 minutes before the crashes.

Security was in the spotlight yesterday at Logan Airport in Boston, where two of
the hijacked jets took off.

The airport has a poor record and bosses were fined more than pounds 100,000 in
1999 for 136 violations over two years.

Undercover agents were able to smuggle guns and even pipe bombs on to flights.

And a teenage boy managed to get through a fence and on to a British Airways
flight to London. He was not caught until he landed in the UK.

Despite those incidents, authorities at Logan insisted it was just as secure as
other US airports. The two other hijacked planes took off from Dulles in
Washington and Newark near New York.

Politicians called for tougher airport security across the USA.

Senator John Kerry said: "It's not just Logan. If you have four hijackings in a
day, you have a national problem."

Congressman John Mica, chairman of the House of Representatives' aviation sub
-committee, added: "We've seen that a determined terrorist isn't going to be
stopped by a metal detector and a couple of quick questions about who packed his
luggage."

The body representing all the world's airlines, The International Air Transport
Association, has told its members to step up security. Communications director
William Gaillard said: "Dealing with suicidal terrorists is a new challenge.

"I don't think anyone had considered this as a scenario for anything other than
a Hollywood movie."

Gaillard said US airlines had not focused on the threat of hijacking because no
planes had been seized there in 15 years.

He added: "In a place like the United States, where 700 million people fly every
year, flying has become a bit like taking the bus."

Some Americans are calling for armed "sky marshals" to be posted on every
passenger plane. Marshals were used in the past to deter hijackings to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: VICTIMS CAME FROM ALL WALKS OF LIFE

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261 words


THE terrorism that claimed so many lives killed people from all sections of
society. All of the 266 crew and passengers on the flights died.

Award-winning TV writer and producer David Angell, who created the sitcoms
Cheers and Frasier, was among them.

Angell, who was with his wife Lynn on the first plane which crashed into the
Twin Towers, won 24 Emmys in his career as a TV producer.

Other victims included the widow of Psycho actor Anthony Perkins, actress and
photographer Berry Berenson.

Barbara Olson, 45, a conservative TV political commentator and the wife of US
Solicitor-General Theodore Olson, also died.

During the hijack terror, she twice called her husband from the aircraft and
described details of the hijacking.

Garnet Bailey, the director of scouting for the Los Angeles Kings ice hockey
team, were also killed, along with amateur scout Mark Bavis.

Another victim was Al Marchand, who retired as a local lawman in Alamogordo, New
Mexico, and began a new career as a United Airways flight attendant.

Peter Hanson of Massachusetts was killed along with his wife, Susan, and young
daughter, Christine, aboard the second plane that crashed into the towers.

The Rev Bonnie Bardot, of Easton, Connecticut, where Hanson grew up, said: "He
called his parents' home and in that way they were so together in that moment."

About 600 people attended a service yesterday in Greenland, New Hampshire, for
Tom McGuinness, co-pilot of the American Airlines flight which crashed into the
north tower of World Trade Centre.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: FOUR HELD AFTER FBI SWOOPS ON TRAIN

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 310 words


THE FBI swooped on an intercity train last night and held three men suspected of
being involved in the US terrorism atrocity.

The Washington DC-bound train was searched and passengers were ordered off after
operators Amtrak were ordered to stop in Providence, Maine.

State Governor Angus King confirmed officers had been searching for suspects
from Boston and witnesses claimed one of those held had a long, dark beard.

At least one other man was taken into custody yesterday as the FBI raided a
Boston hotel and various Florida addresses looking for 12 suspects.

Over 20 swat team officers armed with machine guns used fibre-optic equipment to
search under doors at the Westin Hotel in up-market Back Bay in Boston before
bringing one man out.

They moved in after picking up information from tapped mobile phone calls and
said the man held could offer "important material information" to the attacks.

Several men were also taken into custody in Florida and six bag-loads of
information were removed from flying schools there.

Agents admitted Mohamed Atta, 33, their prime suspect in leading the hijack
gangs, was trained to fly in the US.

Atta is believed to have links with Osama bin Laden, the Afghan-based terrorist
who has declared war on the US.

Yet he studied at the pounds 14,000-a-year Hoffmann Aviation School and the
renowned Emby-Riddle Aeronautical University, both in Florida.

FBI agents believe there were up to five pilot-trained hijackers on each of the
four planes and that one of Atta's co-conspirators in the suicide disaster was
his brother Marwan.

Yesterday they questioned Hoffmann worker Charlie Voss, who put the brothers up
in his house while they trained.

They also took away a hire car left by Atta at Boston airport which contained a
flying manual in Arabic and a copy of the Koran.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SEVEN ARRESTED AFTER FBI SWOOP

BYLINE: Magnus Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 298 words


THE FBI last night confirmed they were holding several men in connection with
the US terrorist attacks.

The arrests came after three swoops earlier in the day.

A heavily armed team stormed the Westin Hotel in Boston, near the airport from
where the two planes which destroyed the World Trade Centre had been hijacked.

Two dozen officers wore bulletproof vests arrested on man after used fibre
-optic equipment to search under hotel room doors on the 16th floor. Information
linking him to Tuesday's massacres was also found.

Earlier, several other were arrested after agents moved on a house in Florida as
five suspects - two brothers from the United Arab Emirates - were identified.

The FBI - who have already had 700 tip-offs on a special website - interviewed
Florida couple Charlie and Drew Voss about the men, who stayed at their house
for a week last July while they were took flight training.

The couple said they Mohamaed Atta and another man called Marwan as a favour to
their employers, Huffman Aviation. Agents last night issued an alert for a red
1989 Pontiac registered to Atta.

The two brothers are suspected of being aboard United Airlines flight 175, which
crashed into the World Trade Centre.

Officials also confirmed a car hired by one of the hijackers was confiscated at
Boston's Logan International Airport.

Inside was found a flight manual in Arabic and a copy of the Koran, the Moslem
bible.

And last night another suspect was found on an intercity train in Providence,
Rhode Island.

Authorities also have intelligence linking the terrorists to a band of bin Laden
sympathisers in Canada.

Some, of Algerian origin, are suspected of planning an unsuccessful terrorist
attack on US soil during the Millennium celebrations.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK: MIRACLE OF NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 46 words


PULLED FROM THE TOMB: A fireman screams in agony after being rescued from the
rubble of the World Trade Centre towers yesterday. He told rescuers he was on
the 83rd floor and he rolled himself into a ball, rolling down floor by floor as
the building gave way PICTURE: AP

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 13, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Westfield awaits news of executive

BYLINE: Selina Mills

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 300 words


Westfield America, the owner of the World Trade Center shopping mall, confirmed
this morning that one of its executives based at the New York complex was still
missing.

The nine other staff based at the same office have all been accounted for.

In an official statement, the company said: "The thoughts of all at Westfield
are with their missing colleague and his family, and the many thousands of
victims and their families who have been affected by these events."

The statement added: "The loss of the World Trade Center is not expected to have
a material impact on the distribution of Westfield America Trust."

Westfield America, subsidiary of Australian shopping centre group Westfield,
signed an agreement in July 2001 with the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey to lease the retail component of the World Trade Centre for 99 years. The
group is responsible for the management, leasing and development of the retail
sector of the centre.

Westfield's acquisition formed part of a bigger joint purchase with New York
property firm Silverstein Properties of a 99 year lease from the Port Authority
on the complex's twin towers, shopping complex and two of the smaller buildings
for $3US.2bn. Westfield is thought to have planned to add between 13,935 sq m
(150,000 sq ft) and 23,225 sq m (250,000 sq ft) to the retail centre. There were
75 stores and restaurants in the centre, which was one of the highest-earning in
America with sales of more than $900US per sq ft.

The bid for the lease was a joint venture but Silverstein holds the office
element on a separate lease.

Silverstein, a private company, already owns some 743,200 sq m (8m sq ft) of
mainly New York real estate, including 7 WTC, a 48-storey tower built
subsequently on a site across the street from the main complex.

EGi News 13/09/01






LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 13, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Many more buildings in danger of collapse

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 145 words


US newswires are reporting that dozens of badly-damaged buildings spread over 10
blocks in every direction from the devastated World Trade Center in New York are
in danger of collapsing.

According to the city's Fire Service, the nine-story 5 World Trade Center
building , the Millennium Hilton hotel, and up to 12 buildings immediately
surrounding the WTC complex - one of which is 20 storeys high - are thought to
pose the most serious threat.

A spokesman for the city council has warned that the scene in Lower Manhattan is
much worse than it appears. The final collapse of the WTC towers sent huge
chunks of debris crashing down on hundreds of buildings in the area.

The damaged buildings, along with the remains of World Trade Center towers that
could also fall at any time, means that rescue workers must proceed slowly in
their search for more survivors.

EGi News 13/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 13, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Only one WTC tower was insured

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 313 words


According to reports in the British press today, only one of the World Trade
Center's (WTC) twin towers was insured. An article in today's Guardian says that
it was felt that the likelihood of both WTC towers collapsing was so remote that
cover was not taken out on both buildings.

It is thought that the Port Authority of New York, which built the WTC in the
early 1970s, will receive US$1.5bn following the leasing of the complex's towers
and shopping mall to Westfield and Silverstein earlier this year.

The figure barely matches the US$1.2bn cost of construction in the early 1970s,
and is much less than the recent valuation which assessed the WTC to be worth
US$5bn.

However, President George W Bush's description of the attacks on New York and
Washington DC as "acts of war" has thrown open the question of insurer's
liability for the destruction of the WTC.

The issue will probably have to go to court to be resolved but if the
president's definition stands then at least one company with a major stake in
the WTC faces ruin. A clause in Silverstein's insurance contract for the WTC
covers acts of sabotage but not war.

Silverstein's partner in the deal, Westfield, has said that it would face losses
due to the attacks but said its insurance policy covered terrorism.

The news comes as financial experts begin to estimate the cost of the terrorist
attacks. Analysts are saying that insurance companies will face claims of around
US$15bn, although some have placed the figure closer to US$30bn.

Damage to the World Trade Center is being forecast by leading City banks at
around US$4bn, with this figure expected to rise when the costs to neighbouring
offices and buildings is included. Insurers of the aircraft involved in events
on Tuesday face a US$1bn bill, with US$3bn allowed to cover claims over loss of
business, and US$2bn to cover claims for loss of life.

EGi News 13/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 13, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: WTC Hilton suffers "unquantified" damage

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 203 words


Hotels group Millennium & Copthorne today said it had managed to evacuate staff
and guests from its luxury downturn hotel just before the World Trade Center
towers in New York collapsed on Tuesday.

But the group admitted that the hotel was seriously damaged in the attack.

The group, based in Horley, Surrey, owns four hotels in New York including the
Millennium Hilton, situated 200 hundred yards away from where the World Trade
Center stood.

Chief executive John Wilson said the hotel had been evacuated prior to the
collapse of the towers on Tuesday, adding: "We are thankful that as far as we
are aware no staff or guests were injured in this terrible tragedy."

Wilson said the hotel had, however, sustained "unquantified damage" and would be
closed for the foreseeable future.

The luxury Millenium Hilton, which is managed by US firm Hilton, has more than
50 storeys, 561 rooms and a swimming pool on the fifth floor.

A Hilton spokeswoman said details about the current state of the hotel were
sketchy as the area had been sealed off following the terrorist attacks, but it
was believed the building was still standing.

He added: "The long-term implications of Tuesdays events are still being
assessed."

EGi News 13/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 13, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: WTC companies start to confirm survivor numbers

BYLINE: Selina Mills

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 328 words


Companies with offices in the World Trade Centre (WTC) in New York have started
to release details of how many staff survived the terrorist attack on Tuesday.

Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) said today all 800 of its staff in an adjacent
building to the WTC's towers were all safe, although a senior banker, who was
thought to be having breakfast in a restaurant at the top of tower WTC 1, was
still missing.

Another 180 people, thought to be mainly British citizens, attending a
conference in WTC 1 are also unaccounted for.

Ian Marcus, senior property analyst at CSFB said; "A sense of camaraderie has
emerged in the usually competitive financial sector, and we are all concerned
for our colleagues, and friends who have been involved in this disaster."

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said 3500 staff worked in the WTC complex in asset
management and financial services, and that "the majority of them have been
accounted for".

A spokesman said: "2500 staff were in tower WTC 2, but they were below where the
plane hit, and had begun evacuating. We are still waiting to hear news of the
rest."

Marsh In, an insurance and consulting company said 700 of its 1700 employers
were still missing.

Cantor Fitzgerald, a leading treasury bond brokerage, has only accounted 200 of
its 1000 employers, but a spokesman said tracking everybody was becoming very
difficult.

Other financial groups, including Banc of America, Thomson Financial, and Lehman
Brothers said the majority of their staff were safe. All declined to give
figures.

Yesterday, Regus announced that five staff at its World Trade Center in New York
had died while several members of Lambert Smith Hampton's US affiliate Julien J
Studley, which had offices on the 86th floor of the first tower to collapse, are
still unaccounted for.

Earlier on today, Westfield America, the owner of the World Trade Center
shopping mall, confirmed that one of its executives based at the New York
complex was still missing.

EGi News 13/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 13, 2001

FBI believes team behind attacks could be up to 50 strong;
Terror War on US: Suspects Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 974 words


A TEAM of up to 50 terrorists may have been involved in the attacks on New York
and Washington, it emerged today. More than a dozen hijackers of Middle Eastern
descent are believed to have led the assault.

But investigators now believe they had extensive support. About 40 of the men
have been identified, including those killed in the suicide attacks, and another
10 are being pursued by the FBI.

At least two of the hijackers were on the Immigration and Naturalization Service
"watch list," but it is still unclear whether the individuals entered the United
States illegally or whether they entered before their names were placed on the
list.

As the biggest manhunt in American history gathered pace and investigators began
making arrests, it emerged that many of the suspects have links to the terrorist
mastermind Osama bin Laden.

Two, who trained as pilots in Florida have already been named.

They are Mohamed Atta, 33, and Marwan Alshehhi, 23, both of whom travelled on
United flight 175 from Boston, the second plane to smash into the World Trade
Center.

A suspect who travelled on American Airlines Flight 11, the first to hit the
Center's North Tower has also been identified. He is Satan Suqami, a Saudi
national.

Investigators also want to know more about Ali Muhammed al-Darmaki, who attended
Embry Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, though he never completed
his training because of bad grades. Another aviation student, who like
al-Darmaki was originally from the Middle East, did not arrive for classes on
Tuesday and hasn't been seen since.

The massive internal investigation involving 4,000 FBI agents, 3,000 support
personnel and 400 scientific staff has stretched from the Canadian border, where
officials suspect some of the hijackers entered the country, to Florida, where
some of the participants are now known to have learned how to fly commercial
jetliners before the attacks. Locations in Massachusetts have also been searched
for evidence.

Authorities detained at least a half dozen people in Massachusetts and Florida
on unrelated local warrants and immigration charges and were questioning them
about their possible links to the hijackers.

Three people were arrested in Boston after being linked to a credit card used to
purchase tickets for the hijackers. Agents have spread out across the country in
an effort to learn everything possible about the suspects and to prevent their
associates from vanishing.

But the inquiry is also an international one. Officials in Mexico say they have
been asked to look for six suspects, all of whom are of Middle Eastern
appearance. Three have Pakistani passports.

The investigation has also crossed the Atlantic after addresses in Hamburg were
raided overnight by a German SWAT team which searched a residence where Atta
once lived. Justice Department officials now believe the four planes were
hijacked by between three and six people in each case, using knives and box
cutters, and in some cases making bomb threats. They believe multiple cells of
terrorist groups participated and that the hijackers had possible ties to
countries that included Saudi Arabia and Egypt.

FBI Director Robert Mueller said: "We're attempting to recreate the travels of
each of the hijackers on the planes - either the hijackers themselves or their
associates. For some of the suspected accomplices, we have information as to
involvement with individual terrorist groups."

One theory is that the atrocities may have been the work of several terrorist
groups co-operating.

Senator Charles Grassley, a senior Republican briefed by law officials said:
"Most of it today points to bin Laden but the speculation at the end of the road
is that he and his network were very much involved with Hezbollah, Fatah and
other" terrorist organisations." Dan Miller, another congressman who flew with
President Bush on Air Force One on Tuesday said he was told then that the White
House is "95 percent confident" Osama bin Laden was behind the attacks.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said numerous promising leads were being followed
up. "The Department of Justice has undertaken perhaps the most massive and
intensive investigation ever conducted in this country." He said investigators
are conducting interviews and reviewing airline passenger lists, rental car
records and pay phone records.

But the strongest lead so far involves the two who trained as pilots in Florida.
Rudy Dekkers, of the company Huffman Aviation - a flight school at Venice
Municipal Airport on Florida's west coast - said Atta and Alshehhi attended the
school from July 2000 to October or November 2000 when they obtained their
pilot's licenses. He said the two apparently went on to get further flight
training after they left his school, which trained pilots only for small planes.
Dekkers said the school took passport details at the time the men arrived and
one of the men was from Afghanistan, but he did not know the nationality of the
other.

An Arabic flight training manual and a copy of the Koran were discovered in a
rented car at Boston's Logan Airport, believed to have been hired by the two
men. FBI officers searched two houses used by the men in the Vero Beach area of
Florida and seized computer equipment. One man, believed to be an acquaintance
was detained. Details about the behaviour of the men as they planned their part
in the outrage began to emerge today. Florida businessman Charlie Voss told how
he allowed them to stay in his home for a week but kicked them out because they
were rude.

The barman at a local restaurant also revealed how a man, believed to be Atta,
became drunk last Friday and argued about his bill. Tony Amos said one of the
men said his name was Mohamed and that he was a pilot for American Airlines.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SUSPECT MOHAMED ATTA, SAID TO HAVE ATTENDED FLIGHT TRAINING SCHOOLS IN
FLORIDA, AND ABOVE, A MAN IS LED AWAY AFTER A TRAIN WAS STOPPED IN RHODE ISLAND

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 13, 2001

British armada could join counter-attack;
Terror War on US: Taskforce Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Robert Fox

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 490 words


A LARGE British taskforce of warships, planes and up to 20,000 troops involved
in an exercise in the Gulf could be switched to anti-terrorist operations,
following the US atrocity.

Exercise Saif Sareea 2 is the biggest deployment of Royal Navy ships since the
Falklands campaign just under 20 years ago.

Altogether, 24 surface ships are involved along with 3 Commando Brigade and the
4th Armoured Brigade complete with Challenger 2 tanks, plus a quantity of RAF
Harrier GR7 fighter-bombers which are expected in Oman at the weekend.

The naval force is led by the carrier HMS Illustrious and the helicopter support
ship HMS Ocean, which is due to make passage of the Suez Canal today.

Altogether, some 80,000 service personnel are likely to be involved, including
reservists and the forces of Oman and its allies. The Government decided not to
cancel the exercise in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the US, although
sailing times of the capital ships are believed to have been altered.

"The exercise will go ahead," a Defence Ministry source confirmed, "but our
forces can easily be switched to other tasks in the area, should it be required.
This will prove how flexible our naval forces can be in emergencies."

The force, which will include two nuclear submarines, could be used to insert
special force units, and to send reinforcements to Kuwait and the northern Gulf
region.

America has already ordered the carriers USS Enterprise and Carl Vinson to take
up station with their escorts in the Indian Ocean. But it has been stressed that
this is merely a precaution as President Bush and his team assess what measures
to take to strike at the suspected terrorists and their supporters.

The flurry of military activity in the Gulf comes as opinion appears to be
hardening in Nato that the mastermind behind the attacks is the wealthy Saudi
Islamic fanatic Osama bin Laden, currently residing in the remoter parts of
south-east Afghanistan.

A senior official working for Chancellor Gerhard Schrader of Germany said that
the intelligence services of the US, Britain, France, Germany and Israel now
believe that bin Laden was behind the attacks. "The way it was carried out, the
choice of targets, the military approach, and the presumably large financial
resources indicate that we should look for the perpetrators round Osama bin
Laden," said Frank-Walter Steinmuller.

"I expect that the United States will not leave these attacks unanswered."

Nato Secretary General Lord Robertson said that the alliance would respond to a
request for help from the US under Article 5 of the alliance. This states that
an attack on the territory of one member of Nato should be considered as an
attack on all.

Previously an exception had been made in the case of acts of terrorism, now this
has been put aside. It is likely to be the first time that Article 5 has been
invoked in Nato's 51-year history.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 13, 2001

Sharon orders new wave of attacks on Palestinians;
Terror War on US: Middle East Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Sam Kiley

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 439 words


ISRAEL launched its biggest attack on Palestine in a year last night, knowing it
will not be condemned by the international community in the aftermath of the
terrorist strikes on New York and Washington.

A 12-tank armoured column and three bulldozers went into Jericho and attacks
were launched on other West Bank towns and villages.

The moves came as America called for a truce between the two sides and struggled
to put together a global coalition against terrorism.

Seven Palestinians were killed, one of them a suicide bomber, during heavy
fighting in Jenin which Israel regards as a "terrorist nest".

Nine people had died there the day before as Israel went on the offensive
against the northern town which they say is a haven for suicide bombers.

The villages of Hares and Salfit, both in an area which Israel wants to annex,
also came under attack after an Israeli woman settler was shot dead in nearby
Qalkilya.

The assault on Jericho, which has been one of the quieter West Bank towns since
the Palestinian uprising began a year ago, involved an attack on a police
training centre - possibly in revenge for the killing of two Israelis driving up
the Jordan valley last Sunday.

"There is fierce resistance to the Israelis. The tanks are moving toward
Palestinian headquarters, where all the Palestinian security offices are
located," Palestinian cabinet minister Saeb Erekat, a Jericho resident, said
today.

Mr Erekat, a peace negotiator, accused Israel of launching the offensive while
attention was focused on the attacks in the US.

In Washington, Secretary of State Colin Powell said he had urged Israeli and
Palestinian leaders to hold truce talks even in the midst of the crisis over
Tuesday's devastating attacks on New York and Washington. He said he spoke by
telephone to Palestinian President Yassir Arafat, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel
Sharon and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres.

"I encouraged all sides to do everything they can ... in the very near future to
meet and not have protracted discussions about where to meet," he said.

Mr Peres told Israel Radio he hoped the Palestinian Authority would take note of
the attacks in the United States and crack down on militants behind a wave of
suicide bombings in Israel.

But in the Middle East the Palestinians see most of their armed groups as
"freedom fighters" not "terrorists".

Palestinian militant groups have denied any involvement in the attacks on the US
which caused Israel to close its borders for 24 hours. From last night flights
from countries with tight airport security were allowed to land.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: AN ISRAELI TANK ON THE EDGE OF THE PALESTINIAN-RULED CITY OF JENIN IN
THE WEST BANK. OTHER TANKS ENTERED JERICHO

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 13, 2001

Horror like US terrorist attacks can spark post-traumatic stress;When every day
is a living nightmare;DR DREENA KELLY

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 788 words


IT'S almost impossible not to be stunned by the events that have unfolded in New
York and Washington.

We are all shocked at what has happened. As a doctor, I can't help but wonder
what effect this will have on us as the witnesses to such atrocities.

What we have been viewing on our TVs is essentially a traumatic event, one that
has repercussions for us all. It is possible that people watching these scenes
could suffer from some degree of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

There have been cases where people watching TV recreations of the Holocaust have
suffered from the condition even though they did not endure the atrocities at
first hand.

We may feel that PTSD (also known as Gulf War Syndrome) is something that
happens to people who are involved in war. It is a very real condition and has
affected hundreds of military personnel and their families.

But non-military situations leading to PTSD have also occurred.

A prime example of this concerns those who witnessed the massacre of the
children of Dunblane in 1996 and subsequently suffered the syndrome.

AS a doctor I have worked with innocent victims of malicious physical attacks in
Glasgow. They, too, have become victims of PTSD.

A recent report in the British Medical Journal suggested that the condition's
prevalence in the general population is between 1% and 7.8%. When you consider
that diabetes affects 10%, that gives you an idea of how many people it affects.

Post-traumatic stress disorder is a term given to the onset of a range of
symptoms following a psychologically distressing event which is outside the
usual range of human experience.

It is typically, some form of disaster or the witnessing of violent and multiple
death. It may also be the reaction to some form of abuse or torture.

Not everyone experiences PTSD following a traumatic event and there's no time
limit as to when the symptoms may arise as this may depend on other triggers.

However, a sufferer of PTSD can be recognised by emotional and physical
reactions such as a reluctance to plan for the future, inability to sleep,
irritability and aggression, poor concentration, and feelings of anxiety and
panic.

There may also be recurring thoughts and pictures of the incident, feelings of
intense distress at symbolic reminders of the event, and flashbacks or
nightmares. The victim may carry out excessive activity in order to avoid
thinking about the trauma, and may try to avoid situations that trigger memories
of it.

Other signals to look out for include emotional detachment and numbness, and
difficulty in expressing affection.

We know as doctors that patients are helped by being encouraged to express the
distress caused by the trauma. Whether this happens with a professional or with
supportive friends and family does not matter. What is important is that it is
brought out into the open.

Bottling up the distress or drowning it out in a wash of alcohol or drugs leads
to more severe problems.

Your GP can refer someone suffering from PTSD to an in-house counsellor or local
service offering help in behavioural therapy - this may be a psychologist or
psychiatric nurse with specialised skills.

Some of the therapy involves re-living the event, bringing to the fore all the
pain associated with it. Re-living these experiences may have to happen over and
over again until the victim and the counsellor have found alternative ways to
address the residual anger, fear or distress.

In some circumstances the GP may consider offering the victim some help in the
form of anti-depressant drug therapy.

There are various self-help groups, professional organisations and general
services, which can be resourced to help with PTSD, including the Traumatic
Stress Service, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London SE5 8AF;
phone: 020 7703 5411.

MY grandchild has been diagnosed as having a mild form of the condition
epidermolysis bullosa.

Can you put me in touch with a support group and tell me how can I make a
contribution to research into the condition?

this is an inherited condition, called EB for short. It causes the skin and
other internal linings to blister or tear easily. It causes a characteristic
peeling of the skin around the face, and child sufferers are called 'butterfly'
children. It can be a terrible and traumatic condition for some children.

There is no cure at present. You can find out more about the condition and make
a donation (every (pounds) 25 pays for one hour of medical research) by
contacting DEBRA - the Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Research Association -
on 01344-771961. Messages can be left for a Scottish support worker on 0131-536
1845.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: EMERGENCY: paramedics help an injured man after the blast

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 2001

Attack on America: Security: Terror controls tightened as cities fear assault:
European and Asian capitals on alert

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins, Jeevan Vasagar, Rory Carroll in Rome and John Hooper in
Berlin

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 701 words


Security at the world's major cities and airports was on high alert yesterday as
anti-terrorist experts launched urgent reviews of their controls and considered
whether the hijackers who targeted the US with such devastating effect could
have struck elsewhere with the same ease.

The commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir John Stevens, reacted swiftly
in the aftermath of the atrocities, drafting an extra 1,000 officers on to the
streets of the capital to provide protection for high-profile potential targets,
including the American embassy.

The City of London police cancelled leave for many staff and liaised with
American banks and financial institutions based in the square mile over security
arrangements.

"London is second only to New York as a world financial centre, so obviously
there is concern that we might be a target," said a City police spokesman.
"We're offering extra patrols to any firm that wants them."

Though the so-called "ring of steel" around the City, which includes CCTV
coverage, has deterred Irish republican terrorists from striking in the heart of
London, the audacity and ferocity of the attacks in the US, and Britain's close
relationship to America, have caused a rethink of counter-terrorist strategies.

Senior officers from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch yesterday had an
emergency meeting with colleagues from the City force to review arrangements.
The Met's deputy commissioner, Ian Blair, the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone,
and the minister for London, Nick Raynsford, were briefed on the measures that
have been taken.

The air exclusion zone over London continued and extra armed units were deployed
in the departure and arrival halls of Gatwick and Heathrow. Passengers were
warned that they would be arrested if they were caught with knives that looked
like "offensive weapons".

Scotland Yard said it will offer help to the state department and the FBI in the
hunt for the suicide bombers.

The commissioner was on a flight to New York on Tuesday to meet senior FBI
officers when the World Trade Centre was attacked and his plane was turned
round.

After returning to London, he stressed there was no intelligence to suggest
Britain was a target, but said he was taking "all necessary precautions to
ensure that something similar did not happen in this country".

One indication of the heightened tension came early yesterday when Downing
Street was evacuated because a suspect package had been found inside No 10. The
alert was called off within minutes.

Tension was also evident elsewhere in the world as governments mobilised
soldiers or police to bolster security at potential targets.

Bomb warnings in Kuala Lumpur led to thousands of workers and shoppers being
evacuated from the world's tallest buildings, the 1,483ft-tall Petronas Twin
Towers. Later, the 24-storey IBM building was also evacuated following another
threat.

The Malaysian government has detained without trial several Islamic extremists,
some of them said to be involved with a little-known group accused of attempting
to install an Islamic state.

The Japanese prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, went on television to calm the
country and outline his defence strategy: stabilise Japanese financial markets,
step up military patrols and send an emergency rescue team to help the US dig
out from the rubble.

Checkpoints were set up outside the Citibank Tower and Asian-Pacific Financial
Tower in Hong Kong.

The CN Tower in Toronto, Canada, was shut. Several US embassies in the Middle
East decided to close indefinitely.

In Rome, police patrolled outside buildings with US links including branches of
McDonald's, Planet Hollywood and the Hard Rock Cafe, and the country's aviation
authority ordered all 39 national airports to be on alert for "anomalous
behaviour".

Naples, home of the US Sixth Fleet, was especially tense as it is due to host a
Nato summit.

The foreign ministry in Berlin was evacuated following a bomb scare and Germans
were advised to leave Afghanistan. But institutions in Frankfurt, Germany's
financial capital, ignored the advice of the police to close down the city's
skyscrapers.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 13, 2001

World bankers try to reassure jittery markets:European bourses rebound in grim
aftermath of terrorist attacks on US

BYLINE: Ian Mcconnell Deputy Business Editor

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 792 words


EUROPEAN stock markets recovered some of Tuesday's swingeing losses yesterday,
as world bankers battled to restore calm following the appalling

terrorist attacks on the US. New York financial markets are not expected to open
until tomorrow at the earliest.

Sir Eddie George, governor of the Bank of England, signalled central banks'
willingness to make whatever interest rate cuts were necessary if the US economy
found itself in trouble.

There are fears the attacks will shatter US consumer confidence and drag America
into recession.

The FTSE-100 index in London, which plunged 287.7 points on Tuesday, limped back
by gaining 136.1 to 4882.1 points. It had been down 94 points early on.

However, it was a most fragile calm in financial markets yesterday given the
uncertainty over how the US would react to the terrorist attacks, what financial
markets in New York would do when they reopened, and what the Federal Reserve
would do with interest rates.

Dealings in US shares were suspended throughout Europe.

Sir Eddie said co-ordinated interest rate cuts by the Group of Seven major
industrialised nations were "extremely unlikely" because, both before and after
Tuesday's attacks, each of the major economies was in a different position.

But he added: ''Clearly if it became apparent that the US was weaker than we
expected it to be, then that would be a factor which would have a dampening
effect on all of us and there would be more of an inclination to move to
counteract that."

Sir Eddie also said that short-term shocks to the global economy, from the
terrorist attacks which destroyed the World Trade Centre towers in New York and
caused severe damage to the Pentagon in Washington, could pass fairly quickly.

He was "moderately optimistic" on that point.

The UK stock market extended its gains yesterday afternoon and other European
stock markets moved to firmer closes, as the White House said it believed "the
perpetrators (of the terrorist attacks) have executed their plan and therefore
the risks are significantly reduced".

George W Bush, US president, called the terrorist attacks "acts of war" but
promised a "patient" and "focused" response.

Central banks around the world pumped tens of billions of pounds of funds into a
stretched financial system to ensure banks did not run out of cash.

Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank, said there would be no
recession, and the International Monetary Fund said it saw "limited impact" on
the international economy.

But Pedro Solbes, European Union Monetary Affairs Commissioner, said:
"Yesterday's events will have a clear incidence at least on consumption in the
US. Today, we are more

pessimistic than a week back." Expectations heightened that there could be
further sizeable interest rate cuts in the US and elsewhere to help restore
confidence and shore up economies.

Tom Vosa, UK economist at National Australia Bank, predicted the US Federal
Reserve could even cut American interest rates by a further full point if things
in financial markets got "really bad". He believed the Fed could move
immediately with a half-point cut if US equity markets and the dollar plunged
when markets reopened in New York.

Otherwise, he believed, it would wait to cut rates until its next scheduled
meeting on

October 2. He predicted US

economic output would now fall in the third quarter.

Vosa believed UK interest rates could fall by a further half-point in total, but
did not expect the Bank of England's rate-

setting Monetary Policy Committee to move before its next scheduled meeting on
October 3 and 4.

World financial markets had started yesterday in extremely jittery fashion.

In Japan, the Nikkei average tumbled 6.6% to fall below 10,000 points for the
first time in 17 years. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong finished 8.9% lower -
its biggest one-day drop since the Asian financial crisis.

But the pan-European Eurotop 300 index recovered quickly from an initial 2%
-plus loss and and closed 2% higher. Germany's DAX index was up 1.4%.

The UK's advance was led by defensive stocks, with pharmaceuticals giant
GlaxoSmithKline up nearly 11%.

Harvey Pitt, chairman of the US Securities and Exchange Commission regulator,
said it was the "hope and expectation" that US financial markets would resume
operations tomorrow.

Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, was said yesterday to be
heading back to the US from Switzerland. The dollar stabilised yesterday in thin
trading and moved modestly higher against the pound.

The oil price, which surged on Tuesday, slipped back.Brent crude futures lost $
1.04 a barrel to $ 28.02, just 50 cents above the close on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERROR IN AMERICA: LETTER - THIS ATTACK WAS EASY

BYLINE: Vyv Hope-scott

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 151 words


Sir: A consensus seems to have rapidly emerged that whoever did this must have
had enormous resources at their disposal. At the risk of appearing naive, I'd
beg to differ. Each plane required one competent person to fly the plane, with
enough knowledge of the controls on each plane to point the thing. But he didn't
need to know how to take off or land.

Also, they'd need a means of incapacitating everyone on the plane, perhaps a
couple of men with guns. Finally, they'd need access to airline timetables and a
calculator to ensure that everything happened more or less simultaneously.

A major logistical feat undoubtedly, but the only really difficult bit is
getting the weapons on board the plane, which has been done many times in the
past, even on higher-security international flights. The main resource needed is
enough suicidal fanatics.

VYV HOPE-SCOTT

Twickenham, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERROR IN AMERICA: LETTER - THIS ATTACK WAS EASY

BYLINE: Hamish Cunningham

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 121 words


Sir: Everyone on the news is saying that the attacks could not have been
prevented, except by some cloak-and-dagger feat of the "intelligence" agencies.
This is clearly not true. Even having locking doors to the flight decks would
probably have foiled the attempt, and applying international standards of
passenger checking to internal US flights might also.

The reason for not doing this has been cost and/or inconvenience to travellers,
and the loss of profit that that implies. Ironically, profit, in the shape of
oil, is also what has led the US and its allies to brutalise much of the Middle
East to such a degree that suicide bombers have become commonplace.

HAMISH CUNNINGHAM

University of Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERROR IN AMERICA: LETTER - THIS ATTACK WAS EASY

BYLINE: Merritt Horton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words


Sir: I find it amazing how many reporters are claiming that American airport
security is lax. I am an American who has flown to most cities in the States and
I have always had to pass through metal detectors and had to put my bags through
x-ray machines. The one time I took Eurostar, I walked on to the train in London
without any baggage checks.

MERRITT HORTON

West Byfleet, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERROR IN AMERICA: LETTER - THIS ATTACK WAS EASY

BYLINE: Robert W Dee

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 89 words


Sir: The idea that an airliner could be flown into a city centre has probably
occurred to most of us when considering terrorist threats. Maybe we didn't think
of using several at once. The military threat analysts and scenario planners
must have been through the exercise many times in the UK and USA. What was the
outcome? Was it decided that the damage would be affordable compared with the
costs and unacceptability of preventive measures? What do they think now?

ROBERT W DEE

Tockington, South Gloucestershire

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERROR IN AMERICA: ECONOMICS - ATTACK'S EFFECT ON CONFIDENCE COULD PUSH ECONOMY
OVER THE EDGE

BYLINE: Philip Thornton Stock markets worldwide have dropped sharply Smoke
billows from the; World Trade Center as it collapses after being hit by two
airplanes; September 11, 2001 in New York City. Peter C. Brandt/Getty Images

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 824 words


IS A GLOBAL recession now inevitable? This was the question economists at banks
around the world struggled to answer in the wake of Tuesday's terrorist
outrages. The attack on the heart of the global capitalist system will without
doubt deal a heavy blow to a global economy that already looked on the brink of
downturn.

Among many, the sense of gloom and foreboding was growing yesterday. "It is hard
to see now that the global economy will avoid a recession," said Stephen Lewis,
chief economist at Monument Derivatives, a London brokerage.

This view was not universal, however, with some experts - especially those
working in New York - insisting that the American economy would prove to be
resilient.

New York's stock exchanges remained closed yesterday, leaving shares across the
rest of the world to fluctuate in highly volatile trading. There were sharp
falls in the Far East, where the Japanese market fell to 17-year lows.

As analysts waited to see how the US financial markets would react, some
attempted to find their bearings by considering the effects of previous shocks
to the world economy.

Some compared it with the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, which caused a 5 per
cent slump on Wall Street. Others pointed to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in
1990 or the near-collapse of the US financial system in the wake of the 1998
Russian crisis.

Most believe the key threats are a collapse in consumer confidence leading to a
slump in demand; a surge in the oil price that would bring industry to a halt; a
stock market crash; and an outbreak of panic sending consumers rushing to close
bank accounts.

Other variables are the scale of any US retaliation and the response of the
world's leading central banks. One senior global economist, who did not want to
be named, said: "It is worth looking back to 1990. In the month of the Iraqi
invasion consumer confidence collapsed and never recovered, marking the start of
a bad recession."

Mark Cliffe, global economist at ING Barings, said the decision by the oil
cartel Opec to guarantee supplies had made a repeat of the post- Gulf War
recession less likely.

But the impact of Tuesday's attacks would go beyond just loss of life and
property. "The timing could hardly be worse given that fears of US and global
recession were already rife," he said. "Business, consumer and financial market
confidence will be hit, depressing global activity."

Forecasts for world growth have already been slashed. The International Monetary
Fund has already cut its forecast for growth this year - to 2.8 from 3.2 per
cent - and may do so again when it publishes official forecasts in a fortnight's
time.

Michael Derks, the chief international strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, said the US economy would be hit by a slump in tourism and risked
falls in both consumer confidence and the stock market. "As the US led the world
into the slowdown, it was expected to pull it out at the other end," he said.
"At best this will be postponed."

John Llewellyn, the global chief economist for Lehman Brothers, said forecasts
of a recovery had been based on the resilience of American consumers, which now
looked in doubt. "The net effect will likely be negative," he said. "The US will
likely end up in recession and the global economy will perform worse than in the
early 1990s slowdown."

The CBI, the UK employers' group, said it was too early to say with certainty
that there would be a long-term impact on the world economy. Digby Jones, the
group's director-general, said: "Clearly there will be short-term disruption to
financial markets and to commerce within the US. But it is premature to say that
the attacks in themselves will necessarily lead to a significant further
weakening of the world economy."

Hopes of avoiding a recession rested on a cut in interest rates by the Federal
Reserve, the US central bank. Carl Weinberg, the chief economist at High
Frequency Economics in New York, said: "I have confidence that the system will
be strong enough and that the folks in charge will be wise enough to see us all
through this storm."

He believed US business, workers and officials would continue to work and behave
as normal, adding: "We are at our desks. I refuse to be terrorised."

But bankers in the City of London said that traders were watching rather than
participating. David Harbage, fund manager at Barclays Stockbrokers, said:
"Everyone is still shell shocked. It is uncertain where the markets are going.

"And, so very close to human tragedy, investors and financiers are not in their
normal hard-nosed mode and watched rather than drove the market."

Mike Lenhoff, a strategist at Gerrard, said: "I think people are waiting until
we get the lead back from the States."

Philip Shaw, chief economist at the City stockbroker Investec, said that he
thought the US could slide could into technical recession this year.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

GOLF: RYDER CUP IN DOUBT AFTER TERRORIST ATTACKS;
 FROM EUROPEAN FOOTBALL TO THIS MONTH'S BIENNIAL TRANSATLANTIC GOLF MATCH,
INTERNATIONAL SPORT FACES DISRUPTION IN AFTERMATH OF ATROCITIES IN THE US

BYLINE: Ronald Atkin In Miami And Chris Maume The American flag flies at half
mast at Doncaster racecourse yesterday Allsport

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1041 words


JESPER PARNEVIK said he feared for his life as the two hijacked planes crashed
into the World Trade Centre on Tuesday less than a mile from where he was
staying. The Swede, a wild card for the Ryder Cup, was in Manhattan for a
meeting with the golf clothing designer Johan Lindeberg in the Plaza Hotel when
the first aircraft struck.

"The first hit we didn't hear because of the thick walls in the hotel," he said.
"But then we heard from reception what had happened. Because the Plaza is a very
well-known building we thought they might go for us so we had to get out of
there."

Leaving all his belongings, Parnevik ran from the lobby just as the second plane
hit.

"It was absolutely terrible," he said. "We were just running and waiting for the
next hit. Of course you are afraid. I was thinking about my family and what
might happen next." Parnevik headed north towards Central Park, where he and
Lindeberg sheltered with crowds in the shadow of low buildings for seven hours
before returning through thick smoke to the hotel.

The decision on whether the Ryder Cup, due to be played 28-30 September, will go
ahead remains difficult. Some members of the American team want it to be
postponed but the former European Ryder Cup captain Mark James said it would be
"very difficult" to reschedule.

James, chairman of European Tours' tour committee, said: "My feeling would be
that, if it did not go ahead this time, we would just wait until 2003 and carry
on from there."

Sport across the world was hit by the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in the
United States, with this week's remaining Champions' League and Uefa Cup matches
postponed. All domestic league and cup football in England and Scotland is still
scheduled to go ahead, however.

Uefa Cup games involving British sides have been rescheduled for next Thursday
(see panel, right), while American golfers are questioning whether it is right
for the Ryder Cup to be played at the Belfry in a fortnight's time.

In the Champions' League, Manchester United's game in Athens against Olympiakos
and Celtic v Rosenborg Trondheim in Glasgow, which were due to be played last
night, are expected to take place on 10 October.

There was criticism of Uefa, European football's ruling body, for not calling
off the games earlier but the United chief executive Peter Kenyon said: "In the
context of a football game and the scale of what happened, cancellation is
irrelevant."

Kim Milton Nielsen, the referee for United's game, said: "A lot of people have
died - so football is nothing. Football is small where more than 10,000 people
have been killed."

Uefa officials said it had been impossible to stop Tuesday's matches without
security problems, but the Leeds manager David O'Leary said he thought Tuesday's
matches should have been postponed until yesterday. Leeds, who were flying to
Portugal for tonight's scheduled Uefa Cup tie against Maritimo, were in mid-air
when the decision was announced. Their aircraft returned to Leeds.

Administrators were also looking further into the future. While the organising
committee for the 2002 Winter OIympics in Salt Lake said they will be reviewing
their security measures, South Korea said they plan to ban flights above their
10 stadiums during the World Cup next year.

Britain's Davis Cup preparations were among the many sporting plans to be
disrupted. Tim Henman was unable to join the rest of the British squad in
training at the Turnberry Isle resort 15 miles north of Miami before they travel
to Ecuador for next week's crucial World Group qualifying play-off. With Miami
airport closed to all traffic, Henman's flight from London was diverted to
Bermuda, where he spent the night awaiting the lifting of the ban on all flights
into America.

Britain's captain Rodger Taylor, said there was no point worrying about the
Henman delay: "Tim is an experienced traveller and will know how to deal with
what has happened to his plans. If something like this comes along, it is taken
out of your hands."

The British team are due to fly tomorrow from Miami direct to Guayaquil,
Ecuador, where the tie is being staged. The flight is with American Airlines, a
company which lost two planes in the assault on New York and Washington. "But
our plans will remain the same until we are told differently," said Taylor. "Any
possible decision to postpone this and other Davis Cup ties next week would be
up to the International Tennis Federation."

Formula One officials plan on going ahead with this season's three remaining
grands prix - in Italy on Sunday, the United States on 30 September and Japan
two weeks later, though in a carefully-worded statement, the governing body FIA
left themselves the possibility of either cancelling the races or rescheduling
them.

In Britain, the first day of the St Leger meeting at Doncaster went ahead as
scheduled yesterday, with the clerk of the course, John Sanderson, defending the
decision to let racing go ahead. "It's not up to us to call off this race
meeting," Sanderson said. "That would have to be a decision for the British
Horseracing Board and they have said nothing. We are shocked by events in
America and have enormous sympathy for the victims but terrorists cannot be
allowed to bring everything to a halt."

Flags at the racecourse flew at half mast and minute's silence was observed
before the first race, in which jockeys wore black armbands.

In the US, baseball was cancelled for the second day yesterday - aside from work
stoppages, the first time since D-Day in 1944 that a whole day of regular
-season play was wiped out.

The US Postal Services cycling team, whose leader Lance Armstrong won the Tour
de France for the third time in July, said they will continue in the Tour of
Spain (where they are racing without the Texan). "We are not planning to abandon
the race," their team director Johan Bruyneel said. "We won't solve anything by
doing that and it will not change the terrible situation."

In boxing, the world middleweight title fight between Felix Trinidad and Bernard
Hopkins, an 18,000 sell-out scheduled for Saturday, was postponed because the
venue, Madison Square Garden, may be needed as a makeshift mortuary.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 13, 2001

Bin Laden 'condones' US attacks;
 Terror in the skies

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 299 words


TERROR mastermind Osama bin Laden has congratulated the people who carried out
the deadly terrorist strikes in the US, but denied that he was involved, a
Palestinian journalist said.

"Osama bin Laden thanked Almighty Allah and bowed before him when he heard this
news, " Jamal Ismail, Abu Dhabi Television's bureau chief in Islamabad, said,
quoting a close aide of bin Laden.

Mr Ismail said the aide, whom he would not identify by name, called him early
yesterday on a satellite telephone from a secret hide-out in Afghanistan.

Bin Laden praised those who carried out the attacks in Washington and New York,
he said, quoting the aide.

"But he had no information or knowledge about the attack" beforehand, Mr Ismail
said.

The journalist has long-standing ties with bin Laden and has secured rare
interviews with him several times over the last few years.

Bin Laden is a key suspect in the bombing of two US embassies in East Africa in
August 1998 which killed 224 people, including 12 US citizens.

Washington wants bin Laden to be tried for the bombing, but Afghanistan's ruling
Taliban militia has refused to hand him over, despite tough UN sanctions against
the Taliban.

The Taliban calls bin Laden its guest and a hero of Islam.

The aide said bin Laden described the devastation in the US as "a punishment
from Allah", Mr Ismail said. The US had invited Allah's wrath because it was
trying to control the entire world by force, Mr Ismail said, quoting the aide.

"There are thousands of Muslims who have vowed for jihad (or a holy war) and
martyrdom, " according to bin Laden's aide.

"They have experience to fight with all sorts of weapons, " he said.

The aide also denied reports of bin Laden's deteriorating health, according to
Mr Ismail.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 13, 2001

Attacks 'will hurt economy';
 Terror in the skies

BYLINE: By Gary McDonald Business Editor

SECTION:  Pg. 15

LENGTH: 384 words


THE economic damage to Northern Ireland by the terrorist atrocity in the US "is
likely to be considerable", the acting head of the Industrial Development Board
warned last night.

And Leslie Ross's comments coincided with a foreboding from the CBI that
confidence in the Northern Ireland economy had plunged to an all-time low.

"There is bound to be a considerable negative impact, though it would be
improper at this time to focus on figures while the US is in mourning after this
most devastating act of destruction, " Mr Ross said.

Trading exchanges with America - which remains Northern Ireland's largest global
business partner - stand close to GBP 1 billion.

They have been growing year on year, helped by a number of high-profile trade
missions and initiatives, including a major roadshow in the razed World Trade
Centre three years ago headed by IDB chairman Alan Gillespie and then NI
Secretary of State Mo Mowlam.

In the last six months firsttime trade visits into Northern Ireland from
potential inward investors have dipped by 30 per cent, which suggests fewer
projects and investments will be announced in the next financial year.

In the wake of the global downturn in the high-tech and telecoms sectors, the
IDB has already reduced its resources in Asia-Pacific, where the promise of jobs
has virtually diminished.

"We've been working closely with our existing stock of companies, but are not
expanding at the same rate, " Mr Ross added.

In total the UK exported GBP 17.9 billion worth of goods to America last year,
while imports were worth GBP 19.15 billion.

The CBI business confidence survey - for which data was collected before the
attacks on America - shows that general confidence in the NI economy is still
falling, plummeting to its lowest level since the survey was started in 1986.

Companies' confidence in their own businesses has also fallen, with
manufacturers saying they are more pessimistic than they have been for three
years.

Deirdre Stewart assistant director of CBI Northern Ireland said: "These very
negative trends are due to a combination of factors, including the impact of
foot-and-mouth, and it is undoubtedly also linked to the continuing lack of
political stability and apprehension about the future of the assembly."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE PAST: Mo Mowlam and the IDB's Dr Alan Gillespie at the WTC

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 13, 2001

Passengers stopped third target attack;
 Terror in the skies

BYLINE: By Billy Foley and Frank McNamara

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words


PASSENGERS on United Airline flight 93 may have fought to the death with
hi-jackers in a bid to avoid a second direct hit on Washington and the White
House.

It emerged last night that passenger Thomas Burnett in a phone call from the
doomed flight told his wife, Deena: "I know we're all going to die - there's
three of us who are going to do something about it, " Then, Burnett told his
wife, "I love you, honey" and the call ended, said the family's priest in San
Francisco .

She later said: "I know in my heart he went down fighting, he was ready to do
something."

The flight, with 45 passengers and crew on board, later crashed in a field in
Pittsburgh .

America was at a near state of war last night with up to 5,000 people feared
dead and a massive security operation under way to track down the killers.

At midnight there was concern in New York that a fourth building in the World
Trade Center (WTC) complex was set to collapse and hamper rescue attempts
further. A partial collapse of One Liberty Plaza was later confirmed.

Up to 2,000 emergency workers were evacuated from the area of the 54-storey WTC
5 building which was also in danger of collapse.

New York mayor Rudolph Giuliana said the final death toll in each of the two
World Trade Centers would amount to a "few thousand" in each.

There were fears of hundreds of Irish and British people among the dead.

The New York fire chief Pete Ganci perished and first deputy commander of the
fire department William Feehan - who is believed to have had Irish connections -
also died.

In a new development, US attorney general John Ashcroft said there was "credible
evidence" that the White House and the Air Force One were targeted by the
terrorists and the pilots were trained in the US.

Mr Ashcroft said passenger mainfests from the flights, rental car records,
videotapes at airports; and public telephones were being seized.

Police were searching for two men they believe were involved in the twin terror
attacks. One, Mohamed Atta, and the other, known only as Marwan, have been named
by the FBI.

A car, suspected of being used by the terrorists, was impounded at Boston's
Logan airport. It was reported that a Koran and a flight instruction manual in
Arabic were found in the vehicle.

A second car at Daytona Beach, California was seized. It was reported to contain
information connected to one of the suspects, Osama bin Laden.

FBI agents in Florida took a number of people into custody but did not arrest
them.

Military jets were patrolling the skies above New York and Washington and a US
navy aircraft carrier was moored in New York harbour.

Irishman Ronnie Clifford counted himself lucky when he escaped from the World
Trade Center, only to discover that his sister Ruth Clifford McCourt (45) and
her daughter Juliana, four, were on board the second jet to strike the towers.

Last night there were 41 confirmed dead in New York, with more than 260 police
and fire officers missing.

Thousands were thought to be buried under the rubble following the trade
centre's collapse.

A total of 266 passengers and crew aboard the four hi-jacked commercial airlines
were killed.

Up to 800 were reported dead in the Pentagon; 80 bodies had been recovered last
night.

Rescue teams in New York continued to search for two people who had made contact
with them. Six firefighters and two police officers were pulled alive from the
rubble of the trade towers early yesterday.

On Tuesday night two police officers were rescued.

President George W Bush, who visited the scene of destruction at the Pentagon,
described the attacks as an "act of war".

The UK, the Republic and the European Union all announced national days of
mourning for tomorrow. Taoiseach Bertie Ahern asked all schools, government
departments, offices, sporting and entertainment events to close for the day as
a mark of respect for the dead.

In Europe, Nato announced that an attack on the US was an attack on the entire
federation.

This was a historic invoking of Article Five of the treaty.

US officials last night announced that flights diverted immediately following
the tragedy on Tuesday would be allow to fly to their intended destination but
all other air travel remained forbidden.

Last night it was announced New York stock exchange would resume on Monday.

Reports also claimed Israeli tanks had moved into Jericho.

Nine Palestinians were killed earlier in the day on the West Bank.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STARS AND STRIPES: Firemen unfurl an American flag at the Pentagon
before George Bush arrives SUSPECT: Mohammed Atta

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

BIN LADEN ARRESTED;
 TERROR ATTACK SUSPECT HELD IN AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 396 words


OSAMA bin Laden, suspected mastermind of the attacks on America, is under house
arrest.

The terrorist leader and America's most wanted fugitive is being held in
Kandahar in the south west of Afghanistan.

Today a spokesman for the Taliban embassy in Pakistan confirmed the reports,
initially made in Pakistani newspapers, and told United Press International: "We
have placed him under control after the attacks." American investigators have
yet to officially name bin Laden as the prime suspect but sources close to the
hunt for the hijackers' accomplices and backers have described his involvement
as "all but 100% certain".

The extremist Afghan Taliban regime, which is not recognised by any Western
countries and has only three embassies worldwide, had earlier said it had
"severed" communications between bin Laden and the outside world.

The confirmation that bin Laden is under house arrest came as Pakistan, one of
the countries to have diplomatic relations with the Taliban, prepared to send
senior military officials to Kandahar for talks with the regime's spiritual
leader, Mullah Omar.

The officials were expected to tell Omar he should expel bin Laden from
Afghanistan, a move which would make his arrest or killing by America easier.

Pakistan's senior diplomats in Kabul, the Afghan capital, had delivered the same
message to leaders there but were told that only Mullah Omar was able to make
such a decision, the Los Angeles Times reported.

Pakistan had officially described the talks in the capital as "inconclusive".

But the Los Angeles Times reported diplomatic observers were sceptical about the
Taliban's moves and were aimed at avoiding criticism and possible reprisals for
harbouring bin Laden since 1996, when he fled Sudan after US Cruise missile
attacks on the country.

Diplomatic sources told the newspaper only a complete and unconditional
surrender of bin Laden and his band of aides would satisfy the United States,
where he is already wanted for his alleged part in bombing American embassies in
Kenya and Tanzania.

But the FBI's mostwanted suspect has reportedly denied his involvement in the
attacks, despite also reportedly praising the people who carried out the
hijackings.

The chairman of the Afghan Defence Council, Mullah Sami Al Haq, claims the Saudi
millionaire would not kill innocent people.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER HOUSE ARREST: Osama Bin Laden

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

FIFTY TERRORISTS PLANNED ATTACKS

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 336 words


OFFICIALS hunting the terrorists responsible for the horrific attacks on New
York and Washington believe up to 50 people were involved, it was reported
today.

Agents in the US have identified around 40 infiltrators who had a hand in the
attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, 10 of those are thought to
be at large, and the remainder either died in the attacks or are "accounted
for", the Los Angeles Times claimed.

The report came as it emerged suicide notes written by the terrorists to their
parents had been found at addresses across the East coast.

With US government officials increasingly pointing the finger at terrorist
mastermind Osama bin Laden, more than a dozen of the men who hijacked the four
planes have been identified.

Around 4,000 FBI agents worked to track down the men, with the massive
investigation stretching from the Canadian border, where they suspect some of
the hijackers entered the country, to Florida, where some of the participants
are believed to have learned how to fly commercial jets before the attacks.

In total 27 terrorists are thought to have been trained to fly, it said.

As the investigation continued officials announced they have detained at least
six people across the country on unrelated charges.

The FBI made clear none had been arrested on suspicion of the attack.

Addresses in Massachusetts, New Jersey and Florida were searched and the FBI
issued photos of two suspects who had stayed in Venice, Florida - Mohamed Atta
and Marwan Alshehhi - who had studied at Huffman Aviation School.

One man, believed to be an acquaintance of the two men, was detained.

Two houses searched in the Vero Beach area had been occupied by another two
suspects, brothers who had said they were Saudi pilots on a 15-month pilot's
course at the Flight International school in the state, CNN reported.

Three men were detained by state police after an intercity train from Boston was
stopped and searched in Providence, Rhode Island.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                          September 13, 2001 Thursday

LGA CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK ON UNITED STATES

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 179  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Local Government Association joins governments all over the world
in condemning the appalling terrorist attacks...


The Local Government Association joins governments all over the world in
condemning the appalling terrorist attacks on the United States of America.The
LGA urges its member authorities in England and Wales to issue joint statements,
with local community leaders of all political, ethnic and religious backgrounds,
expressing the horror felt by their constituents at such acts of
terrorism.Jeremy Beecham, chair of the LGA said: `As community leaders, local
authorities have a key role to play in ensuring that the reaction to Tuesday's
atrocities is not manipulated by extremist political organisations to promote
negative racial or religious stereotypes. Local authorities, along with local
media, have a responsibility to foster positive community relations across
racial and religious divides.`In the aftermath of Tuesday's events, it is
important to communicate effectively to all communities the widespread
condemnation of indiscriminate terrorist atrocities and to employ those common
human feelings in strengthening community relations in multi-cultural Britain
today.'

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 13, 2001

Terror attack on US receives worldwide condemnation;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 257 words


NATIONS around the world, including US enemies Libya and Iran, condemned the
terror attacks on the US yesterday.

China beefed up security around US diplomatic buildings and said that "China is
utterly opposed to terrorist activities."

US Ambassador Clark Randt expressed thanks to Chinese President Jiang Zemin for
his sympathy and support and to Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan.

Iranian President Mohammad Khatami condemned what he called the "terrorist"
attacks on Iran's arch-foe and offered "deep sympathy" to the US nation.

"Terrorism is condemned and the international community should take effective
measures to eradicate it, " he said.

Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, regarded as a pariah by Washington, also offered
condolences at the "horrific attacks."

Pakistan, the main international backer of the Taliban in Afghanistan, joined in
the condemnation.

Egypt, Israel and European leaders from Britain to Russia broke off normal
business for crisis meetings.

Russian President Vladimir Putin and British Prime Minister Tony Blair called
for a co-ordinated international response.

Mr Putin told US President George W Bush that "barbarous terrorist acts aimed
against wholly innocent people cause us anger and indignation."

United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan said that the attacks had
traumatised the world, but he urged cool and reasoned judgment.

Iraq said that the US deserved Tuesday's attacks in New York and Washington as
the fruits "of its crimes against humanity."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 13, 2001

British unions express condolences and fears;
 US terror attacks leave untold numbers dead or missing

BYLINE: by ROGER BAGLEY

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 402 words


SHOCKED British trade unionists expressed condolences and solidarity as fears
grew yesterday that thousands of workers had perished in the catastrophic New
York fires and collapse of the World Trade Centre.

Over 250 firefighters are believed to have died and fears mounted over the fate
of thousands of workers in the banking and finance industry, who worked in the
destroyed twin towers.

Firefighters' union FBU general secretary Andy Gilchrist was up for most of
Tuesday night trying to find information from the United States on the fate of
the emergency crews, in the wake of the devastating terrorist attack.

He said: "Words just cannot describe what has happened and what I feel.

"My thoughts go out to the families of those incredibly brave firefighters, who
obviously headed straight for the World Trade building to try to rescue people."

Mr Gilchrist added that he was considering travelling to New York, when flights
resume, to meet officials from the US firefighters' unions.

Banking union UNIFI admitted that there was growing concern about a number of
staff from London banks, who would have been working in offices in the World
Trade Centre.

A spokesman said: "Our hearts go out to our fellow banking and finance workers
in the US and the families of those who have died".

He added that the union was ready to provide any support and help that its US
colleagues requested.

Scottish TUC general secretary Bill Speirs expressed the sympathy of Scottish
trade unionsists to "our brothers and sisters" in the US trade union
organisation AFLCIO.

"We are thinking today of all those working men and women, who have died
horrendously in this utterly unjustifiable atrocity, " he said.

Rail union RMT anxiously awaited information last night on the fate of rail
workers and passengers at the busy rail station underneath the twin towers.

London Mayor Ken Livingstone said that one of the most terrible features of the
attack was that many of the dead were public servants of the police, fire
brigade and ambulance service, who had arrived on the scene to help victims, but
had themselves become victims of the collapse.

Pilots' union BALPA general secretary Christopher Darke said that his members
felt deep pain over the tragedy.

"Innocent lives have been lost - the lives of passengers, the public and of
course pilots and their crews, " he declared.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

GRAPHIC: ABOVE AND BEYOND THE CALL OF DUTY: Firefighters hosing down
still-smouldering rubble early yesterday in the ruins of the World Trade Centre,
whose collapse claimed the lives of so many of their colleagues.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                               September 13, 2001

David Bowie speaks of his disbelief over 'the horrors' of the New York terrorist
attacks; Bowie Tells Of 'horrible Silence' In Nyc

LENGTH: 416 words

SUMMARY: The NYC resident says a "numbness and horrible silence" has fallen over
the city...



http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,10615,00.html has
spoken of his disbelief over "the horrors" of the terrorist attacks in NEW YORK,
where he currently lives, and of the "numbness and horrible silence" that has
fallen over the city.

In a statement on his official website, posted in the hours following the
destruction of the World Trade Center as a realisation of the enormity of what
had happened dawned,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,10615,00.html , also
spoke of his "hope beyond hope" that survivors could be found.

"Like all of you, nothing has prepared me for the horrors of the last
twenty-four hours," he said. "Like you, I never thought I would see anything
like this in my lifetime. Our world will never be the same. The streets are
empty downtown except for the few who live there, trance-like, going about their
day to day lives, walking their dogs, going to work, or just walking. At some
ghostly unseen signal everyone turns his or her heads, crane their necks,
looking to the patch of sky where, twenty-four hours ago, the mountainous peaks
of those two towers stood. The sunrise was seen earlier today. No obstruction.

"The likelihood of survivors is paltry. Two friends of mine offered to give
blood yesterday only to be told that it was not necessary, as there weren't
going to be enough survivors to warrant it. A doctor, on his way to one of the
makeshift morgues, suggested the victims would number many thousands. The
emergency services are listening for the ring of cell phones or cries from the
acres of rubble. When buildings of this size collapse, the cinder blocks
sometimes form small pockets of space in the crush. It is possible some may
survive this way...

"Small mercies for me. My family and friends are safe. At this moment in time I
have no personal knowledge that acquaintances or friends may have been killed.
My heart goes out to those of you who do have family or friends missing. I hope
beyond hope they are found.

"Life here will continue. New Yorkers are a resilient and fast thinking people.
In this way they really do resemble my own Londoners. They came together quickly
in massive community support and silent determination. There has been no
over-panicking. Over the next few days that calm may surely turn to anger. But
today, there is just numbness, a horrible silence." -
http:/www.davidbowie.com/freebowie2/news/index.html to read the statement in
full.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

ARCHBISHOP TELLS OF ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 201 words


THE Archbishop of Wales - who was 200 yards away from the World Trade Centre
terrorist plane crashes - has described the aftermath of the devastating attack.

Archbishop Rowan Williams said:

"At the time of the first attack on the WTC, I was preparing for a morning
seminar with local clergy in a building some 200 yards away.

"We were evacuated shortly afterwards, as the building was filling rapidly with
smoke, but had to wait in the basement until the street was apparently a little
safer. Outside there was a gale of choking dust and debris and the sky was
blotted out.

"As we reached the end of the street, we were told of the risk that the second
tower would collapse and some of us took shelter in a Portakabin, along with a
number of small children from the day centre in the basement of the building
where we'd been. The second shock followed soon, but buses were commandeered by
police to move us further away and by 11.30am we were back in the middle of
Manhattan.

"It was a terrifying morning for all - especially the children who were with us.
My heart goes out to those who still don't know what's happened to those they
love and to all who are injured or bereaved."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

Strike force prepares attack on terrorists

BYLINE: Michael Binyon

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 544 words


AS THE United States prepares a strike force to carry out President Bush's
promise to hunt down its terrorist enemies, American troops around the world
were put on full alert yesterday for a possible operation against the man
suspected of masterminding the attacks on New York.

Osama bin Laden, the Saudi terrorist, is hiding in the mountains of Afghanistan,
but America is now analysing every reconnaissance photograph, intelligence
report and witness statements that might pinpoint his location. President Bush
has left no doubt that America will respond to this "act of war". He said no
distinction would be made between the terrorists and those who harboured them.

Congressional leaders promised to support "whatever it takes" to prove that
Americans would not be intimidated. But the Pentagon gave no hint yesterday of
what forces would be used, where they would strike, or what preparations were
under way.

The target will almost certainly be bin Laden's training camps in Afghanistan,
thought to be located near the city of Kandahar. Satellite observation can
identify some of them, but it is impossible to be sure where bin Laden will be
as he moves about every night, does not decide until the last hour where he will
sleep and tells almost no one of his movements in advance.

President Clinton ordered a Cruise missile attack against bin Laden's bases in
Afghanistan in 1998, but the bombing had little impact on his ability to launch
further terrorist operations. American intelligence has been tracking the
elusive terrorist leader and is thought to have drawn up contingency plans to
send commandos in to attack him. However, the operation would certainly cost
many lives and there are no guarantees of success.

America will use elite forces for an operation that must be as devastating as it
is precise. The most secure jumping-off point would be the US military base in
Diego Garcia, the British archipelago in the Indian Ocean, which played a
crucial role during the Gulf War. The base is manned with B-52 heavy bombers.
Secure, fully manned and within striking distance of Afghanistan, it would be
the logical base from which aircraft could operate.

Another option is Incirlik, the large Nato base in southern Turkey, which for
the past nine years has co-ordinated US air patrols over Iraq.

America could also assemble a strike force in the Indian Ocean, from which
missiles could be trained on targets.

There are also some American forces still in Saudi Arabia, but in the present
heightened state of alert Washington would be unwilling to trust security in any
host Muslim country.

General Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, said in a television interview
yesterday that Washington was not about to launch a military operation and that
he did not yet know who was behind the attacks, but this was almost certainly a
cover to give added surprise to whatever operation is planned. Strict secrecy
has been imposed across all US troop movements, bases and military operations.

General Powell said that, sooner or later, the United States would take action
against those held responsible. "They want us to act as if we are at war and
we're going to do that -diplomatically and militarily," he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 13, 2001

Face of terror attack suspect

BYLINE: David Weaver

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 1284 words


'Nato will take such action

as it deems necessary, including armed force'

POLICE in America were last night hunting two men who they believe were involved
in the terrorist attacks which have devastated a nation and horrified the
Western world.

Mohamed Atta, and another man known only as Marwan were named by the FBI in a
bulletin sent to law enforcement agencies across America and circulated
throughout the world.

A Florida driving licence photograph of Atta was released last night.

Officials said he came to Florida a year ago to attend flight training school.

The FBI named the suspects as its officers stormed two Boston hotels and
executed search warrants in Florida in a desperate search for the men and anyone
else who may be associated with the worst terrorist strike in history.

The multiple raids led to no arrest, the FBI said last night, though a number of
people were questioned by authorities.

The FBI believe the suspects, who stayed at an address in Florida in 2000, may
have helped orchestrate the murderous attacks which are believed to have killed
thousands of people in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

And hundreds of Britons who worked in the now-decimated World Trade Centre are
expected to be among the victims, a Downing Street spokesman said last night.

That grim news came as Nato declared its full military support to the United
States if it turned out that the multiple terrorist strikes were directed from
abroad.

In that case, Nato Secretary-General Lord Robertson said, America could invoke
Nato's one-for-all and all-for-one principle and count on the support of its
allies to mount a military operation.

The notion of an attack against one ally being considered an attack against all
dates back to the alliance's founding in 1949, but has never been invoked.

Although intended to be applied in case of a Cold War attack, Lord Robertson
said the solidarity principle "is no less valid" today.

"The parties will take such action as it deems necessary, including armed
force," Lord Robertson told a news conference in Brussels. "An attack on one is
an attack on all."

The decision bolsters Washington's efforts to garner the broadest possible
support in its battle against terrorism.

It also obliges America's allies to provide support for any military operation,
from opening up air space and providing intelligence and logistical support to
actual troops and equipment.

The full extent of the terrorists' deadly plot was further exposed last night as
a Washington spokesman revealed that strong evidence showed that both the White
House and Air Force One were intended targets.

"We had specific credible information that both were intended terrorist targets,
and that the plane that hit the Pentagon may have been headed for the White
House," said Sean McCormack, spokesman for President George W Bush's National
Security Council.

The White House confirmed reports that the executive mansion and presidential
jet had both been threatened.

This would help to explain why Mr Bush did not immediately return to Washington
from Florida on Tuesday and take charge of crisis operations run from the
Situation Room in the White House basement.

Elsewhere, US Secretary of State General Colin Powell said: "It's a war not just
against the United States, it's a war against civilisation." But despite
mounting speculation that terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden was behind the
bloodiest terrorist atrocity in history, there was no identifiable enemy target
for America's wrath.

Mr Powell, who led allied troops in the Gulf conflict, spoke as rescuers fought
a battle of their own in the rubble of lower Manhattan to save the lives of
those still buried alive after the destruction of the 110 -storey twin towers of
the World Trade Centre. And the full scale of the human tragedy that struck
America slowly emerged, with details of frantic mobile phone calls from doomed
airline passengers and tales of families torn apart by the outrage.

President Bush vowed to "bring to justice" the masterminds behind the suicide
airliner attacks.

The President said the full resources of US intelligence and law enforcement
agencies would be directed at the hunt for the killers.

"The pictures of airplanes flying into buildings, fires burning, huge structures
collapsing have filled us with disbelief, terrible sadness and a quiet,
unyielding anger," Bush said in his Oval Office address.

Thousands had died in the attacks, he said.

"We will make no distinction between the terrorists who committed these acts and
those who harbour them," Bush said without elaboration.

Meanwhile, after speaking to foreign ministers and prime ministers worldwide,
including Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, Gen Powell said: "We are building a
strong coalition to go after these perpetrators but more broadly to go after
terrorism wherever it is found in the world."

America would go after terrorism "root and branch" and attack both it and its
"sources", he added.

Gen Powell had earlier said of the American people: "We are at war and they want
a comprehensive response.

"They want us to act as if we are at war and we're going to do that -
diplomatically and militarily."

The day after the attacks, the US was gripped by mounting anger and disbelief at
the scale of atrocity wrought upon its shores. Millions around the world watched
endless re-runs of new video footage showing the final seconds of the two
airliners which plunged into the trade centre's towers.

Investigations by the FBI suggest that five Arab men, one a trained pilot, were
involved in the attacks after an Arabic flight training manual and a copy of the
Koran were discovered in a rented car at Boston's Logan Airport.

The FBI now believes that at least some of the hijackers travelled from Canada
to Boston before boarding a jetliner that crashed into the World Trade Centre.

Authorities were developing intelligence linking the suspected attackers to a
band of bin Laden sympathisers in Canada, some of Algerian origin, who are
suspected of planning an unsuccessful terrorist attack on US soil during the
millennium celebrations. The FBI has received more than 700 tips from a special
website seeking information on the attacks.

Meanwhile, FBI agents executed search warrants in Florida and interviewed a
couple who housed Mohamed Atta and Marwan for one week in July 2000.

And elsewhere three men were detained for questioning by state police, after an
inter-city train from Boston was stopped and searched in Providence, Rhode
Island.

In Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman said "hundreds" of
Britons were now expected to have died in the attacks.

"It is difficult to predict with any certainty but what is becoming clear is
that the death toll of British citizens is likely to run into the hundreds," the
spokesman said.

"The Foreign and Commonwealth Office are putting all resources into the bureau.
"They also discussed precautionary security measures agreed last night, and they
will continue."

The development raises fears that the total number of UK casualties could far
outstrip the 33 Britons killed in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing or any of the IRA
atrocities.

Establishing the exact death toll could take weeks. The four airliners alone had
266 people aboard and there were no survivors.

Officials put the number of dead and wounded at the Pentagon at about 100 or
more.

"The number of casualties will be more than most of us can bear," said Rudolph
Giuliani, Mayor of New York.

HUNTED: Trainee pilot Mohamed Atta RAID:Hundreds of people jam the street in
front of the Westin Hotel, Boston, where the FBI carried out a search yesterday

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

SHOCK TURNS INTO ANGER AS AMERICA MOURNS ITS DEAD - NEW YORK PREPARES FOR
MASSIVE DEATH TOLL AS BODIES ARE FOUND;
 WAR ZONE: AS GEORGE BUSH VOWS VENGEANCE FOR WORST TERRORIST ATTACK IN HISTORY
RESCUERS BATTLE THROUGH SMOULDERING STONE AND STEEL IN SEARCH OF SURVIVORS

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1220 words


SHOCK was last night turning to anger on the devastated streets of New York as
the city began to realise the awful magnitude of the terrorist attack on the
World Trade Centre.

As bodies began to be moved from the rubble which was once the twin towers and a
warship arrived in the city's harbour, New Yorkers began to ask what would come
now.

The death toll was still uncountable, the smoke still billowed from the wreckage
and the grief began to feel palpable.

Thousands of people had done what they could, volunteering to help and queuing
to give blood.

Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, whose fire commissioner was among those killed, said,
"This city is the greatest city in the world, has the greatest people and a
bunch of cowardly people cannot change that."

He said the official death toll was so far just 41 but everywhere people knew it
would soon mount to a number too high for anyone in this city of grief to bear.

Few people went to work, schools were closed and the whole south of the usually
bustling Manhattan island was sealed off.

Where people once looked at the shining silver and glass twin towers, there was
a cloud of smoke and ash which parted for seconds at a time to reveal precisely
nothing.

The absence of the towers shocked those who had been unable to see the impact on
Tuesday as the dust cloud enveloped the city, but yesterday, under clear blue
skies, the hole ripped in the heart of the city was clear.

A gaping wound in the ground was being reflected by a gaping wound in thousands
of homes where fathers, mothers, sons and daughters had not come home and never
will.

Across the city, people gathered to pray in churches, synagogues, temples and
mosques, while diners and cafes were packed with people still huddling around
televisions, eager for news.

In the harbour, usually a place for pleasure cruises, an aircraft carrier laden
with navy jets arrived to offer fresh reassurance to the city, and the air above
was silent but for the roar of fighters and military helicopters.

Hospitals were still on standby, waiting for casualties who never came, but
dealing too with the rescuers and the relatives of the casualties.

At St Vincent's, the hospital closest to the carnage, firefighters were treated
for cuts to their hands after tearing at the debris to reach their 200 trapped
colleagues.

At other hospitals, exhausted paramedics were being given rest breaks, food and
water before making the awful journey back to the remains of the World Trade
Centre, where convoys of emergency vehicles waited and waited.

Stripped of its iconic twin towers, the city had lost citizens - but not its
belief.

Speaking for all, Mayor Giuliani said, "We will rebuild. We will recover,
stronger than ever."

In the uncannily quiet city, there was no traffic and few people on the streets.
Flags flew at half-mast, candles burned in churches and people stopped to talk.

Gone was the bustle and attitude of a city where the self reigned supreme and
fear had been banished from the streets with the mayor's crime crackdown.

"Normally you just pass and go about your daily work, but now you stop to say
how are you, " said one woman.

The talk was of friends, relatives and neighbours and whether they were safe -
and of anger that the innocent had come under attack.

"We have to do something. We have to show these people what they have done, "
said one man, reading a newspaper filled with the same images of horror as those
around the world.

In New York, however, the pictures were of the familiar twisted into the
unimaginable.

One woman waiting to give blood said, "This was just evil. Pure evil.

"We have to kill the people who did it. What else can we do?"

It was a question that echoed across the whole city.

Rescuers the only visitors LIKE a scene from the film Independence Day, National
Guard troops with assault rifles patrolled the silent streets in full camouflage
and police and rescuers from everywhere in the north-east had poured in to help
the embattled police department.

At barricades and on street corners police who usually pound the streets of
small-town New York State, guard parks and prosecute chequebook fraudsters stood
sideby-side with dust-caked local officers who had yet to rest since the
attacks.

They were the only visitors to New York, the city which tourists normally come
to look at in awe but which last night was a spectacle of horror rather than
wonder.

Timetable HERE is the timetable of events following the terrorist attacks in New
York and Washington (all times BST):

Tuesday 1345 An American Airlines Boeing 767, hijacked shortly after taking off
from Boston for Los Angeles, flown into one of the twin towers of the World
Trade Centre.

1403 The second of the landmark towers was hit 18 minutes later by a United
Airlines Boeing 767, also hijacked after it took off from Boston en route to Los
Angeles.

1443 A third plane, an American Airlines Boeing 777, was hijacked after taking
off from Washington Dulles airport for Los Angeles and flown into the west wing
of the Pentagon.

1450 All airports across the US shut down.

1507 The south tower of the World Trade Centre tower collapses.

1512 UK Prime Minister Tony Blair describes the attacks in the US as "the most
terrible shocking event".

1525 Car bomb explodes outside the State Department in Washington.

1527 The north tower of the World Trade Centre collapses.

1530 Reports emerge of a Boeing 757 crashing near Somerset County Airport 80
miles southeast of Pittsburgh.

1635 The Queen expresses her "growing disbelief and total shock".

1800 President Bush warns, "Make no mistake. The US will hunt down and punish
those responsible for this cowardly act."

1900 Tony Blair announces that Government and military buildings in Britain have
been placed on high alert and security at British military bases around the
world have been stepped up. Flights over central London are banned.

2225 Another World Trade Centre building - the 47-storey Building 7 - collapses.

Wednesday 0730 Scotland Yard puts 1,000 extra police officers on the streets of
London.

0800 Tony Blair begins crisis talks at No 10.

0950 Uefa postpones this week's Champions League and Uefa Cup ties as a mark of
respect.

1000 The Foreign Office says it has received 2,000 calls to its emergency
telephone line from people worried about relatives in the US.

1100 Terror suspect Osama bin Laden congratulates the people who carried out the
US strikes but denies responsibility, Abu Dhabi television reports.

1200 Tony Blair announces he is to recall Parliament this Friday. He tells a
press conference he fears that "significant numbers" of the casualties will be
British.

1230 Tony Blair holds 20-minute telephone talks with President Bush.

1250 Six firefighters and a policeman are pulled from the rubble of the World
Trade Centre.

1300 The Queen orders an unprecedented two-minute silence outside Buckingham
Palace tomorrow and a special Changing of the Guard ceremony. The Irish premier
Bertie Ahern announces it is to hold a national day of mourning.

1340 New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani says there are 41 known dead - believed to
be only a tiny fraction of the final death toll.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESCUE EFFORT: Workers gather to continue work at the site of the
attack on the World Trade Centre. A large piece of the facade fallen from one of
the twin towers is in the background PATRIOTIC: Firefighters raise the Stars and
Stripes amid the rubble in New York

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

PLANNED TO PERFECTION, BUT WHY WAS THE TERRORIST ATTACK SO EASY? - DANGER OF THE
US SETTING ITS SIGHTS TOO HIGH;
 IN-FLIGHT HORROR: FOUR TEAMS OF ARMED HIJACKERS WALKED UNCHECKED ONTO SEPARATE
PLANES AND FORCED PASSENGERS TO PHONE THEIR FAMILIES AND TELL THEM THEY WERE
ABOUT TO DIE

BYLINE: Ian Hunt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 408 words


THE UNITED States is promising a campaign against world terrorism but it is a
war it cannot win.

Efforts to hunt down and deliver swift retribution against the culprits are
likely to prove futile in removing the long-term threat posed by the world's
most feared terrorists.

Should the number one suspect, Osama bin Laden, emerge as the culprit, the US
will come under pressure to mount devastating retaliatory strikes against him.

But Bin Laden's Al-Qa'eda organisation is believed to have a wide international
base in various Islamic communities throughout the world.

Should bin Laden be assassinated, the organisation would have little trouble
finding a new martyr to take his place.

Dr Peter Jackson, an expert in intelligence and security issues, said, "In the
short term the US might succeed if it were to take some kind of massive military
retaliation - even in removing the Taliban. But in the long term it could do
more harm than good.

"The key doesn't lie with taking bin Laden from the equation. In the long term a
political situation needs to be found to ease tensions in the Middle East and
isolate extremists."

But the question is whether isolating the fundamentalists will put a stop to
their terrorist activities.

Such is the scale of the problem that last year saw the first international
conference on suicide terrorism, bringing together intelligence, police,
military and security experts to discuss ways of preventing it.

Sean Boyne, a terrorism correspondent for Jane's, publisher of defence and
security information, said, "It is very hard to defend against suicide bombers.
They do not march to the same drum as the rest of us.

"I fear that as long as Israel exists there will be fundamentalists prepared to
carry out suicide attacks - they simply won't accept any settlement."

America is under pressure to identify the culprits of Tuesday's attack and exact
revenge against them.

But in delivering swift retribution for the loss of lives in New York and
Washington, President Bush runs a risk of turning destroyer himself.

"The danger is he could act prematurely, a missile could go astray, destroy an
apartment block and kill innocent civilians, " said Mr Boyne.

"It is going to take time and patience to defeat international terrorism. To see
the attacks on America as a massive intelligence failure would be wrong as
no-one expected what happened, " said Dr Jackson.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: United States under attack MAKING SURE: A jet airliner aims itself at a
tower of the World Trade Center while its twin tower pours smoke from the first
hit SHEER FEAR: Workers trapped in the World Trade Centre look out of windows
and face a desperate choice

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 13, 2001

SAS set to help U.S. track down terrorists;
 West-based units will play crucial expert role in the response to terror
attacks on America

BYLINE: David Humphrey

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 303 words


BRITISH military experts are poised to help America track down the terrorists
responsible for the bombings, with West-based units taking the lead.

The Hereford-based SAS, with an unparalleled knowledge of covert operations,
will be in the forefront of a UK contribution.

The regiment has experts in Middle Eastern terrorism, including:

Arabic-speaking soldiers who will have spent months behind the lines in Iraq and
elsewhere in the region;

Men with knowledge of counter-terrorism and in particular the weapons used by
Osama bin Laden, the chief suspect for the bombings;

Troops schooled in the latest political thinking that fuels the Arab fanatics;

Veterans of the Gulf conflict with first-hand experience of Arab warfare
techniques.

In the past 48 hours the SAS will have already shared up-tothe-minute
information with its U.S. counterparts.

And in the light of Tony Blair's firm pledge of support, it is possible the SAS
already has troops in the Middle East ready to play an active role.

Also in the West, the Poolebased Special Boat Service - the SAS's maritime
brothers - will also have men on standby.

Meanwhile, the Royal Corps of Signals' HQ at Blandford in Dorset has highly
-qualified intelligence and communications experts who will be of crucial help
to the U.S. forces.

They man the listening posts in Cyprus.

The RAF's major input will probably be provided by the transport base at
Lyneham, near Swindon. And its base at Brize Norton, on Oxfordshire's border
with Gloucestershire, can also be expected to play a big role.

The USAF's standby base at Fairford in Gloucestershire will be in the front
line.

Military scientists at Porton Down, the MoD's chemical and germ warfare defence
base near Salisbury, will also be available to give expert aid.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 14, 2001

Europe falls silent to mourn the victims of the terror attacks in massive show
of support;
 Terror in America

SECTION: News, Pg.6/ 7

LENGTH: 421 words


OFFICES, shops and factories across Britain fell silent for three minutes at
11am today as the nation mourned the victims of the US terrorist attacks.

Tourist attractions also marked the Europe-wide three minute silence, while some
organisations were flying the American flag at half-mast outside their offices.

Staff in stores were told not to process any transactions and to cease activity
for the full three minutes.

All sides of industry united behind the unprecedented gesture of support for
those caught up in the outrage.

Digby Jones, director general of the CBI, said: "There will be many who will
still be worrying about missing colleagues, relatives and friends. Everyone
involved in business will see a three minute silence as an entirely appropriate
response to the tragedy." TUC general secretary John Monks said: "The
three-minute silence gives everyone a chance to show their respect for the
victims and their families, to salute the bravery and sacrifices of the
emergency services and to express their opposition to the tactics of terror."
Bill Moyes, director general of the British Retail Consortium, said: "None of us
can be immune to the pain and emotions aroused by the horrific events in
America." The Food and Drink Federation said it had asked manufacturers
throughout the country to observe the silence.

The British Airways London Eye was among the attractions stopping for three
minutes at 11am, while Camelot said it would suppress the National Lottery
system so no one can buy a lottery ticket during that time.

Organisations such as the National Trust were flying Union flags at half-mast,
while other organisations including the GMB were flying American flags outside
their offices.

The Royal Family and their staff were to observe the silence.

The gates of Buckingham Palace and other royal palaces were being closed so that
no one could enter or leave.

Every court in England and Wales was taking part.

Pubs, which normally open at 11am, have been asked by the Brewers and Licensed
Retailers Association to delay opening their doors until 11.05am.

All major UK airports were also participating, along with black cabs and other
forms of public transport.

London's buses were remaining at bus stops for the duration of the three minutes
or pulling over where and when safe to do so.

London Underground staff were announcing the threeminute silence over train and
platform PA systems- although Tube trains were not stopped for safety reasons.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 14, 2001

Words from the pulpit;
 Seven's vicar, Rev Jonathan Skinner, reflects on the aftermath of the dreadful
American terrorist attack

BYLINE: Rev Jonathan Skinner

SECTION: News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 483 words


IT WAS with numbed disbelief that we witnessed the horrific and tragic events of
Tuesday unfold.

The nightmare scenario of the planes hitting the trade towers was worse than
even the most devilish imagination of Hollywood could concoct.

But when one, and then the second of the buildings collapsed, taking with it
ambulance and fire-fighter crews, we had entered the realm of apocalyptic
nightmare.

It was said that 50,000 people worked in the two towers, and whatever the final
death toll, it is clear that more people died than all the Americans lost in the
Gulf War, and probably more than the combined total of all the Allied Forces.

George W. Bush has vowed that the US will hunt down the terrorists who launched
these attacks on America and bring them to justice.

Mr Bush told the National Security Council, which oversees defence and foreign
policy: "We will find these people and they will suffer the consequences."

When addressing the nation from the Oval Office of the White House, he said:

"We will bring them to justice and there will be no distinction between the
terrorists who committed these acts and those who harboured them."

What is said here is absolutely right - those who planned and resourced these
atrocities must be brought to justice.

The world community must act against such murderous acts, and as it finally
brought to trial those responsible for the Lockerbie bombing and now is
prosecuting Milosevic for war crimes, so it must work to uncover these latest
perpetrators of violence and bring them to face punishment for their crimes.

However, there is a danger here, and that is that we might see a knee-jerk
response. This would be understandable because of the enormity of the crime, but
nevertheless inexcusable.

We must remember that revenge is not the same as justice, and because you have
been wronged, it does not mean that you are right.

It is vital that the US and her allies not only defend freedom, but also
exercise true justice.

True justice must entail finding the real criminals, amassing sufficient
condemning evidence and administering a fair punishment. It must avoid
penalising the innocent of whatever ethnic, ideological or religious background.

But there is another reason why there needs to be care.

An ill-advised counter-attack, which kills civilians, will only escalate the
crisis and engender such hatred that a new army of suicide bombers will be
propelled into action.

Meanwhile, as we live in the shadow of all this carnage, perhaps it would be
helpful to reflect on the words of the 23rd Psalm read by President Bush in the
wake of this disaster:

Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no
evil, For you are with me; Your rod and your staff they comfort me.

May that be true for all who have been affected by this unprecedented disaster.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES: OUTRAGE AS US IS SLATED ON BBC SHOW

BYLINE: Cara Page And Judith Duffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 327 words


ANGRY Scots viewers flooded the BBC with complaints last night after watching a
debate on the US crisis.

They said they were horrified by cruel comments made by the "anti-American"
audience on BBC1's Question Time with David Dimbleby.

Viewers claim former US ambassador for London, Phil Lader, was close to tears
after a barrage of insults.

Self-employed importer David Ferguson, 55, of Hamilton, said: "The audience were
predominantly Moslem and kept saying that America had to realise how much the
world hated them.

"That is not how the British public feel about this. If anyone in the US got
that programme, I don't know what they would think about the feeling here.

"I thought it was totally disgusting at a time like this.

"The former ambassador was close to tears at the end after what he had to take.

"When I phoned the BBC to complain, I couldn't get through because the lines
were so busy."

George Murphy, of Newton Mearns, said: "It was absolutely dreadful - everyone
was against the Americans. The ex-American ambassador who was on looked really
quite shaken.

"He wasn't allowed to state his case and people weren't allowed to speak up for
the Americans."

A viewer from East Kilbride added: "I don't usually phone to complain but I was
disgusted by what I saw.

"What the audience were saying was it was basically the Americans' own fault.

"I have been trying to get through to the BBC to complain for half an hour - I
feel like demanding my licence fee back.

"No one was allowed to speak in defence of the American people but the
ambassador from America remained so reasoned.

"There are so many Americans over here and I feel so embarrassed that they could
have seen that programme."

Another viewer, from Cathcart, Glasgow, who didn't want to give her name, said:
"I was really incensed. If it didn't cost money, I would have smashed the TV.

"The whole audience was really anti-American."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: AND THE FIREPOWER AT HIS DISPOSAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24, 25

LENGTH: 398 words


PRESIDENT Bush can call upon the latest American military hardware - led by his
stealth bombers.

The B-2 Stealth Bombers, currently based in Missouri, would be used to fire
air-launched Tomahawk missiles on targets.

Bush would also be expected to deploy his elite Special Forces units if any kind
of land attack on Afghanistan is planned.

The 75th Ranger regiment, comprises three battalions, each with 600 highly
trained soldiers. In any land attack, they would be flown to the targets in
Chinook and Blackhawk helicopters.

But after the Russian experience in Afghanistan in the 80s, a land-based attack
would almost certainly be one of the last resorts.

THE USA has 18 ships in the Mediterranean as part of the 6th fleet, carrying
some 6357 personnel.

They are led by the guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg.

Other ships in the fleet include the guided missile destroyers Gonzalez, Stout
and Thorn, the frigate USS Nichos and the attack submarines Jacksonville and
Philadelphia.

They are backed by Tomahawk missiles and thousands of Special Forces troops.

THE Nimitz-class nuclear carrier USS Carl Vinson is already in the Indian ocean.

The escort includes two guided missile cruisers, a missile frigate, two missile
destroyers and a submarine.

Armed with Tomahawk missiles, plus 85 planes, including the latest Tomcats and
Hornets, there are more than 5000 marines and Navy SEAL special forces on board.

AMERICA remains a powerful force in the Gulf region, maintaining a heavy
presence since the days of the Gulf War a decade ago.

At the moment, the nuclear carrier USS Enterprise leads the 5th fleet of 14
ships.

On board are 8220 highly trained troops, ready to be deployed at a moment's
notice.

The battle group includes the guided missile cruiser USS Philippine Sea, along
with four guided-missile destroyers and the attack submarine USS Providence.

The ships are backed up by a powerful force of missiles and aircraft.

They have Tomahawk cruise missiles with a 1000 mile range that can reach as far
away as Afghanistan - still perhaps the likeliest target for American
aggression.

On board the Gulf ships are 10,000 plus marines, along with navy SEAL special
forces.

THERE are F15 and F16 fighter aircraft based in Turkey and Saudi Arabia, plus
refuelling tankers to maintain the no-fly zone over Iraq's skies.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES TARGET THE TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 713 words


The prime supect in the attacks moves between bunkers built into remote Afghan
mountains

He is protected by heavily-armed bodyguards always

Battle-hardened veterans with anti-aircraft missiles guard bin Laden's bases

He lives frugally, sharing same simple meals as his men

He has a library

Access to satellite phones and internet

The entrances are huge slabs of rock

Osama bin Laden is thought to have several bases across Afghanistan

Kandahar

He has a large home with concrete walls, barbed wire and fencing. Overlooking
the airport is a base on the edge of the desert protected by a minefield. He is
thought to have other bases in Oruzgan mountains north of Kandahar.

Jalalabad

He lived here until the US cruise missile raids in 1998.

Central Mountains

He also has terrorist training camps, including Al Farouq, Khost and Zhawar

SYRIA

PRESIDENT Bashar came to power a year ago and promised reform. But already, he
is showing signs of antagonism towards the West.

During the Gulf War, Syria supported the West. But Bashar has now strengthened
ties to Iraq.

320,000

4600

661

LEBANON

FOR years, it was home to the deadliest terrorists in the Middle East.

While the Lebanon is now trying to shake off that image, events could drag it
back into conflict.

55,100

315

7

ISRAEL

THE most powerul country in the Middle East and America's biggest backer.

Continually on a war footing, thanks to the conflict with Palestinians, Israel
was also a target during the Gulf War. Intelligence and planning is unrivalled.

175,000

4300

611

PALESTINIANS

SCENES of celebration on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip shocked America this
week.

PLO Leader Yasser Arafat looked stunned as he spoke of his horror about the
terrorist outrage.

He knows the attack on the USA could seriously damage the Palestinian cause.

US will almost certainly be much less likely to intervene on their behalf as
violence in Israel continues.

35,000

JORDAN

ANOTHER country in conflict. King Abdullah, the new monarch, has military ties
to the West but could be vulnerable in times of crisis.

A large Palestinian population is angry with the Israel situation and could put
pressure on the king.

104,000

1217

109

EGYPT

STRONG military and economic ties to the West but troubled by Islamic
fundamentalists in recent years.

President Mubarak has cracked down but many radicals have close ties to Osama
bin Laden. Some were linked to terrorist outrages abroad.

450,000

3700

710

IRAQ

IF PRESIDENT Saddam Hussein is found to have any involvement, a new Gulf War
could begin.

And this time, he would almost certainly be removed from power. Iraq was the
only country in the world which applauded the attacks on America.

429,000

2700

UNKNOWN

SAUDI ARABIA

AMERICA'S major Arab ally and the world's largest repository of oil supplies.
Bush will expect full support in the hunt for bin Laden, a Saudi citizen, who
still has strong ties to the kingdom. But relations have been strained recently.

162,500

315

417

AFGHANISTAN

HOST to prime suspect Osama bin Laden and the most likely target for American
retaliation.

After 20 years of war, the country has been left with few assets - but it
remains a difficult place to attack, as the Soviets found to their cost back in
the 1980s.

400,000

1000

25

PAKISTAN

A COUNTRY divided, giving support to the Taliban in Afghanistan, but with strong
ties to America and Britain. The loyalty of dictator General Musharraff could be
strained.

520,000

2120

410

IRAN

AN old enemy of the USA but the reformist government has recently tried to
rebuild ties with the West.

Supports anti-Israeli and anti-US groups such as Hezbollah, but loathes Iraq and
the Taliban.

540,000

1400

307

THE GULF

The Gulf States may find themselves in a very vulnerable position if bombing
begins in the Middle East.

They rely heavily on Western military backing, but many of their subjects are
increasingly hostile to America because of their stance on Israel.

On top that, there are thousands of Western workers, earning high salaries and
enjoying good lifestyles there.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: PRESIDENT HUNTS FOR SUSPECTS - WITH HIS FORCES ON
FULL ALERT;
 WAR ON THE US

BYLINE: Keith Mcleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 409 words


THE world is holding its breath as President George W Bush decides the American
response to the atrocities.

The USA has formidable sea and land power available for deployment in the Middle
East, with the most likely target being Afghanistan.

The fundamentalist Taliban regime harbours the number one suspect, Saudi
dissident Osama bin Laden.

Bush has already warned "no distinction will be made" between terrorists and
governments who harbour them.

The USS 5th fleet Battle Group is already in the Gulf, led by the nuclear
aircraft carrier, the USS Enterprise.

Its strength includes 14 vessels Tomahawk Cruise Missile destroyers, F14 Tomcat
fighters and 10,000 marines and special forces.

The 6th fleet is deployed in the Mediterranean and the US has formidable sea
power in the Indian Ocean.

There also land-based missile and fighter jet sites in the Gulf and the USA can
call on B-2 Stealth bombers which are invisible to radar.

The failure of the Soviet war in Afghanistan in the 1980s will act as a warning
against a land invasion.

But with the military hardware it has at its disposal, America is capable of
striking Afghanistan with awesome air power and at a cost of few US casualties.

The US will also be scrutinising any involvement from Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein, who has a "history" with the US - and President Bush's father.

Libyan dictator Colonel Gaddafi, who the Americans have bombed before, is a less
likely target. Although implicated in the Lockerbie outrage, Gaddafi has been
quiet recently.

Iran and Sudan are both in the grip of strong Islamic fundamentalist forces and
could be targeted by US military leaders, if any evidence is uncovered.

Syria and Jordan both backed the US-led coalition in the Gulf War and are
potential allies, along with Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

Egypt, despite widespread anti-West sentiments among its people, is another
potential ally, though would have to tread a very fine line if the USA launched
strikes in the Middle East.

The Lebanon is home to the most hardline Arab groups and the Palestinians are
also sworn enemies of the West. Any US action there would have immediate
implications on Israeli security.

Pakistan's role could be crucial. It has strained relations with India and
supports the Afghan Taliban leaders, but has historical ties with the US and UK.

Action in Afghanistan could give more fuel to their fundamentalists.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE BEST OF THE BEST;
 NEW YORKERS CHEER THE FIRE CREWS WHO PAID A HEAVY PRICE: THE HEROES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18, 19

LENGTH: 643 words


NEW Yorkers turned out yesterday to cheer the hero firefighters who are battling
on as they mourn hundreds of their comrades.

Crowds lined the highways, cleared to allow the emergency services into the
stricken downtown area, holding placards and flags and loudly applauding as the
vehicles raced by.

Whole battalions of firefighters - including the city's fire chief Pete Ganci,
many senior officers and a service chaplain - were wiped out in the collapse of
the World Trade Centre.

A total of 360 fire- fighters and police are missing, presumed killed.

But those left behind refuse to give up hope for their colleagues or for the
other victims as they scrabble in the debris and dust, watching and listening
for even the faintest trace of life.

Many of them are ending up in hospital themselves as they rip their hands to
shreds pulling at the rubble.

And danger still looms above them from buildings weakened by the tremendous
impact of the twin towers' collapse.

Yesterday, Fire Commissioner Thomas von Essen cried as he spoke of how "dozens
and dozens of people were in the stairwells of both buildings when the towers
collapsed".

Sifting through the debris, firefighter Kevin Svenning said: "They've destroyed
the heart and soul of the department."

Lieutenant Tom Beirne wept as he told how he lost six members of his company. He
added: "Three of my brothers-in-law are in there. I'm retiring. This is
unimaginable."

One of the missing, Captain Timothy Stackpole, had returned to work despite
suffering horrific burns in a 1998 fire in which he nearly died.

His wife, Tara, tried to get home to wait for the call that would tell her he
was all right. Then the journey in the chaos and confusion took her right past
the scene of the 1998 fire.

Tara said: "As I drove, I could see the twin towers collapse in the distance.

"I got a terrible feeling in my gut. It took me two hours to get home, and I
knew the irony of fate had struck when the detour took me past 2530 Atlantic
Ave."

Her Irish-born husband could have retired on a medical pension but he fought
back to fitness from his 30 per cent burns and returned to duty.

Tara said: "People didn't understand why Timmy wanted to go back on the job.

"It was just him. It was what he loved. He lived to help people. He'd give you
his heart on a plate.

"So I have unbearable sadness but no bitterness. No anger. Timmy lived for
forgiveness.

"When he got hurt in '98, he should have died. It was a miracle that he didn't.

"I believe it was part of God's plan that he'd have three more years to touch
people's lives."

Father Mychal Judge, a Franciscan priest and Fire Department chaplain, was
killed as he gave the last rites to a firefighter who died when a woman falling
from one of the towers struck him.

A large piece of rubble from one of the towers fell directly on to the priest.

One fire service captain, identified only as Fred, went missing when he crawled
under a Manhattan subway train to save a man whose legs were severed.

A colleague said: "His son, Fred junior, just became a fireman and he was down
there searching. He saw the twisted metal and he said there are pockets. They
are keeping strong and keeping up hope."

Fire chief Ray Downey, who assisted in the rescue effort after the Oklahoma City
bombing and other disasters, could not be found, despite the efforts of his son,
Captain Ray Downey.

When a New York firefighter dies, he is normally given a funeral which is a
pageant of tears and tradition, kilts and bagpipes and slowly rolling fire
engines carrying the coffin.

But the biggest tragedy ever to hit the fire department will make that
impossible.

A department spokesman said: "We will probably just bury them one by one as they
are found and later have one big memorial service."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: CITY MAYOR'S THANKS TO BRIT NURSE WENDY FOR WORK WITH
WOUNDED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18, 19

LENGTH: 486 words


A BRITISH nurse was yesterday hailed as one of the heroes of the World Trade
Centre atrocity.

Wendy Green has been working around the clock to tend the wounded who have been
dragged from the rubble.

But modest Wendy insisted: "I'm no hero. I have a job to do and that is what I
get paid for. I chose to do this line of work."

She has also been personally thanked by New York's Mayor Rudi Guiliani for her
efforts.

Wendy said: "I was a nurse at the Harrod's bombing and was also at the San
Francisco earthquake in 1989. I am able to stay calm because I have been through
it all before.

"I was working at the Westminster Hospital when the Harrod's bomb went off and
the casualties came flooding in.

"My experience has helped me keep calm and and steady. But this is definitely on
the largest scale ever."

Wendy, 40, who comes from Skegness in Lincolnshire, had only been in Manhattan
for nine months.

The nurse, who has 20 years experience in emergency departments said: "This act
of terrorism in New York is far bigger than anything I have been in before.

"What has been amazing is that New Yorkers have pulled together in a brilliant
way."

Mayor Rudi Giuliani has personally thanked Wendy for her work in St Vincent's
Hospital near the scene of the devastation.

She said: "The Mayor was fantastic. He has been in personally to see us and the
patients.

"It is still very much a search-and- rescue effort. No one is giving up. We have
every type of trauma coming in from broken bones to crushed limbs and obviously
many people are dead.

"We are anticipating more and more casualties as the week goes on and they start
to clear the rubble."

Wendy lived in California before moving to New York.

She added: "I have only been in New York since December. It is a baptism of
fire.

"It is such a very sad thing. But spirits are high among the doctors and nurses.
It is only after everything has calmed down that we will all feel the
exhaustion."

Between the gruelling 12-hour shifts at the hospital, she has managed to snatch
a few hours sleep at her nearby home.

And in the aftermath of the disaster, she managed to make a phone call to her
family to reassure them she was alive and well.

She explained: "I called my parents in Birmingham and told them I'm OK.

"It was my day off when the terrorists struck and I saw the news.

"I decided to walk down to see if I could help at the scene but then decided to
come to work instead at St Vincent's Hospital.

"I've been through some tough times but I'm hanging in there."

Australia's Olympic swimming champion Ian Thorpe was on his way to the World
Trade Centre at the time of the attack when he realised he had forgotten his
camera.

The teenager could have been on the observation deck of the centre as the planes
smashed into the towers if he hadn't turned back to get the camera from his
hotel.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: HERO CAPTAIN'S COCKPIT GAMBLE;
 HE TRIED TO ALERT AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS TO JET HIJACK

BYLINE: Andy Lines In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 710 words


THE pilot of the first plane to crash into the World Trade Centre made frantic
warning signals to alert air traffic controllers of the hijackers' nightmare
plan.

Captain John Ogonowski stayed at the helm of American Airlines flight 11 much of
the way from Boston to New York after terrorists slashed passengers and crew and
took over.

And it has emerged that air traffic controllers taped a series of secret radio
transmissions which the pilot sent as he flew to his death along with 91 other
passengers and crew.

Captain Ogonowski triggered a "push-to-talk button" on the aircraft's "wheel" -
a feature that enables pilots to have their hands on the controls while
communicating.

A controller said: "The button was being pushed intermittently most of the way
to New York. He wanted us to know something was wrong. When he pushed the button
and the terrorist spoke, we knew. There was this voice that was clearly
threatening the pilot."

As news of the cockpit tape emerged yesterday, it was revealed that the damage
caused by Tuesday's attacks was so immense that it could be seen from space.

Satellites 400 miles above the earth have taken shocking pictures showing plumes
of smoke above the crash scenes in New York and Washington - yet more evidence
of this week's appalling attacks.

Last night, federal law enforcement officials were examining the tape of Captain
Ogonowski's transmissions. It was taken for examination minutes after flight 11
crashed to provide key clues about the hijackers. It may become even more
important if the plane's black box is damaged or never found.

The air traffic controller dealing with the first flight to hit the World Trade
Centre was working from a concrete bunker in Nashua, New Hampshire - one of 20
centres that handle long-distance traffic.

His first inkling that something was wrong came around 8.20am - 20 minutes after
the flight had taken off for Boston bound for Los Angeles.

He gave permission to climb from 29,000 feet to 31,000 feet, but nothing
happened.

The controller tried to contact flight 11 on two frequencies with no response.
Controllers then noticed something more worrying. The flight's transponder had
stopped working - it was no longer sending a radar pulse. It is thought a
hijacker may have done this deliberately to prevent the pilot from notifying the
ground of the hijack.

ACONTROLLER said: "The plane turned south towards New York and then they heard
the transmission with the terrorist in the background. The voice upset the
controller because he knew right then that he was working a hijack."

As well as the heavily-accented voice of the hijacker, the pilot's voice was
also audible - but exactly what was happening was confused.

Another controller at the Nashua centre said: "The person in the cockpit was
speaking in English. He was saying something like: 'Don't do anything foolish.
You're not going to get hurt'."

In another ominous statement by the hijacker, he said: "We have more planes. We
have other planes."

In the final 17 minutes of the flight the plane was heading for New York.

Transmissions continued for 10 minutes before a flight attendant made a frantic
call saying several passengers had been stabbed.

The military responded by dispatching two F-15 jets, as is the case in all
hijacks, but controllers lost sight of flight 11 on their radar screens.

A few minutes later, the Nashua controllers heard reports that a plane had
crashed into a building. It was the World Trade Centre's north tower.

The last minutes of flight 11 have taken a huge emotional toll on the
controllers in the Nashua facility.

One said: "The guys who handled that flight were traumatised. You have a special
relationship with everyone on every plane you work. They heard what was
happening in the cockpit, then they lost contact."

As well as the shocking pictures taken of the mass devastation taken by The
Space Imaging's Ikonos satellite, astronauts working on the International Space
Station were also able to see the destruction.

Station commander Frank Culbertson said: "We could see New York City and the
smoke from the fires. Our prayers and thoughts go out to all the people who have
lost loved-ones."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: PARADISE FOR KILLERS AND CASH FOR THEIR FAMILIES

BYLINE: Charlie Gall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 331 words


THE suicide bombers behind Tuesday's terrorist atrocity probably believed their
actions would be rewarded in heaven.

And the crazed hijackers may have been smiling as they sacrificed themselves.

The kamikaze pilots owe their origin to an ancient cult of Islamic political
killers - called the Assassins or Hashashins because of their use of drugs
before attacks.

The medieval sect members would knife officials of ruling dynasties in the face
of certain death at the hands of their bodyguards.

And today there is no shortage of young men ready to sacrifice their lives for
the honour and financial reward it brings their families.

But now they are driven by religion - like the Moslem belief that martyrs
receive the favours of 72 virgins in heaven - and politics rather than drugs.

Palestinians working for Hamas or Islamic Jihad, two Moslem organisations who
use suicide bombers, claim their supporters are queuing up for martyrdom.

Many are motivated by revenge following the death of a family member or friend.

But others are attracted by the money and honour it guarantees their families.

Suicide bombers join the ranks of Palestinian martyrs, their pictures put on
public display. Sweets are handed out in the streets on news of their successful
missions.

Their families are reputed to receive pounds 7000 from the Iraqi government and
support from other sources.

Suicide operations caught the Arab imagination in 1983 when Lebanese Shi'ite
Moslem guerrillas trained by Iran blew up 241 American servicemen and 58 French
paratroops in a two-pronged attack in Beirut.

Although Islam condemns suicide as the path to hell, some scholars claim bombers
are martyrs engaged in a legitimate holy war, or Jihad.

And the bomber's victims, until three days ago usually Israeli, are de
-humanised as some kind of justification for the crimes against them.

One Islamic source said: "Suicide bombers are our Apache helicopter gunships."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK WASHINGTON: BATTLING TO THE END;
 MEN KNEW THEY WERE TO DIE WHEN THEY TOOK ON TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Steve Mccomish

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14, 15

LENGTH: 1071 words


THE last phone call from Tom Burnett will be seared into his grieving wife
Deena's mind for the rest of her life.

"I'm on the airplane, the airplane that's been hijacked, they've already knifed
a guy. They're saying they have a bomb. Please call the authorities.

"If they're going to run this into the ground, we're going to have to do
something.'

He never called back. Armed with butter knives from the in-flight breakfasts,
Tom and at least two other passengers tackled the three terrorists.

Experts believe their decision prevented the hijackers from smashing United
Flight 93 into either the White House, presidential retreat Camp David, or Air
Force One - the President's jet.

Instead, it crashed into a field in Pennsylvania - killing all on board but
hurting no one on the ground.

The three passengers, all more than 6ft tall, knew that other hijacked planes
had already crashed into the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Amid scenes of unimaginable terror, they hatched their plan to prevent them
crashing the plane into its target.

One passenger told a relative: "The men voted to attack the terrorists."

The story of how the group of passengers decided to fight back emerged from the
accounts their loved ones gave of final mobile phone calls from the doomed jet.

Jeremy Glick, 31, called his wife Lyzbeth. She patched the call in to an
emergency dispatcher who told him about the attacks on the twin towers.

Internet worker Jeremy, a muscular 6ft4in sportsman, told his wife that he and
three or four other passengers planned to take a vote about how to proceed.

He joked about taking on the hijackers with the butter knives from the in
-flight breakfast.

Jeremy said the plane had been taken over by three men wearing red headbands.

He said they looked and were speaking Arabic, were armed with knives and had a
large red box, which they said contained a bomb.

Lyzbeth, 31, who gave birth to the couple's daughter Emerson 12 weeks ago, said:
"He sounded sad and scared, but calm at the same time.

"He said people weren't too panicked. They had moved everybody to the back of
the plane.

"The three men were in the cockpit, but he didn't see the pilots and they made
no contact with the passengers, so my feeling is they must have killed them.

"He was a man who would not let things happen. He was a hero for what he did,
but he was a hero for me because he told me not to be sad and to take care of
our daughter. And he said that whatever happened, he would be okay with any
choices I make.

"He said, 'I love you, stay on the line,' but I couldn't. I gave the phone to my
Dad."

His uncle Tom Crowley said: "Jeremy and the people around him found out about
the flights into the World Trade Centre and decided that if it was their fate to
die, they should fight.

"At some point Jeremy simply put the phone down and went to see what he could
do.

"After several minutes describing the scene to police he and several other
passengers decided there was nothing to lose by rushing the hijackers."

The plane had left Newark, New Jersey, at about 8am for San Francisco.

But it banked sharply as it approached Cleveland and headed back over
Pennsylvania, losing altitude and flying erratically. Horrified air traffic
controllers listened in as the drama unfolded inside the plane's cockpit.

They heard someone in the cockpit shout: "Get out of here."

Sounds of a struggle could then be heard with someone again shouting: "Get out
of here."

Next came a chilling voice in broken English: "There is a bomb on board. This is
the captain speaking. Remain in your seat. There is a bomb on board. Stay quiet.
We are meeting with their demands. We are returning to the airport."

Terrified passengers used their phones to call loved ones - and learned of the
attack on the World Trade Centre.

Tom Burnett, 38, made four calls to his wife Deena.

After the first, she did as he asked and contacted the FBI who were patched into
the subsequent three calls.

Mum-of-three Deena said her husband told her he was: "Getting ready to do
something."

She said: "I told him in the second call about the World Trade Centre and he was
very curious about that and started asking questions. He wanted any information
I had to help him. By the third call, I could tell that he was formulating a
plan and trying to figure out what to do next.

"You could tell that he was gathering information and trying to put the puzzle
together.

"He was not giving up. His adrenaline was going. And you could just tell that he
had every intention of solving the problem and coming home."

She said that in his final phone call her husband told her that he and some
other passengers had decided to make a move.

"I told him to please sit down and not draw attention to himself and he said,
'No'. He said, 'No'."

She is sure her husband had something to do with the fact that no one on the
ground was hurt by Flight 93.

Deena said: "We may never know exactly how many helped him or exactly what they
did, but I have no doubt that airplane was bound for some landmark.

"Whatever Tom did and whatever the guys who helped him did they saved many more
lives. I'm so proud of him and so grateful."

Another passenger was business executive Mark Bingham, 31, a 6ft5in former rugby
player. He called his mother Alice Hoglan from the flight.

She said: "He said, 'Three guys have taken over the plane and they say they have
a bomb.'"

The passengers were hailed as heroes after the plane slammed nose-first into a
field about 80 miles southeast of Pittsburgh at 10am - an hour after the World
Trade Centre crashes and about 20 minutes after the Pentagon attack.

Hundreds of investigators have since been combing the scene, hoping to recover
vital clues.

Democrat Representative for the area, John P Murtha, said: "This wasn't the
target. The target was Washington DC. Somebody made a heroic effort to keep the
plane from hitting a populated area.

"I would conclude there was a struggle, and a heroic individual decided they
were going to die anyway and, 'Let's bring the plane down here'."

TOM BURNETT'S CALL

They've knifed a guy. If they're going to run this into the ground we're going
to have to do something

VICTIM'S WIFE

Whatever the guys who helped him did, they have saved many more lives. I'm so
proud of him

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THE WORLD IS WEEPING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 202 words


The planet was united in a wave of grief yesterday as the full horror of the
attacks on America began to sink in. Mourning people of every race and religion
said prayers and held vigils. Flags also flew at half mast in respect of the
innocent victims murdered at the hands of the evil hijackers in Tuesday's
outrage

GLASGOW

A woman grieves in the congregation at a special Mass celebrated at St Andrew's
Cathedral

FRANKFURT

Mourners lay a symbolic carpet of flowers at the opera house as a memorial to
the victims

NEW YORK

A shrine to three of the firefighters presumed dead in the aftermath

NEW DELHI

Angry Sikhs burn an effigy of Osama bin Laden near the Pakistan High Commission,
calling for his extradition

MICHIGAN

Moslem Samar Srour, 23, attends a candlelight vigil at the Islamic Institute in
Dearborn, to remember the innocents murdered in the atrocities

LONDON

A mourner weeps as she holds up the Stars and Stripes at the ceremony at
Buckingham Palace

MOSCOW

The Russian Presidential Standard and national flag, right, fly at half-mast
over the Kremlin

LONDON

Camilla Parker Bowles and Ambassador William Farish mourn outside the American
Embassy

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES: SCOT IS KILLED IN AIR CRASH FIREBALL

BYLINE: Simon Houston Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 313 words


A SCOTS business executive was killed when the American Airlines Boeing 757
crashed into the Pentagon.

Dad-of-one Ian Gray was one of 58 passengers on board Flight 77 from Dulles
Inter-national Airport in Washington, bound for LA.

Ian, 55, was vice-president of McBee Associates, a large American consulting
firm on health care finance.

He left Scotland for the USA in 1968 and had been with the firm for the last 20
years.

Yesterday, his wife Ana Raley - a hospital chief executive in Washington -
revealed how she feared her husband was on board one of the ill-fated jetliners
as she watched the outrage unfold on TV.

And within an hour, American Airlines confirmed the awful truth - that her
husband of eight years had been killed in the crash.

She said: "This is horrible. He was in perfect health. We have been the happiest
couple in the world."

A memorial service was held in the auditorium of Washington's Great Southeastern
Community Hospital on Wednesday and Ana is now planning her husband's funeral.

Speaking through tears, she said: "I'm going to have a bagpiper and all the
things he liked."

Ian, whose first marriage ended in divorce, leaves behind a daughter in
Baltimore.

Ana added that she hopes her own son, a Navy fighter pilot serving in Japan, can
come home to the States to be with her.

However his unit remains in a state of high alert following the attacks in New
York and Washington.

Last night, a spokesman for McBee Associates said: "This has been a terrible
tragedy for everyone.

"Ian was with the company for the last 20 years and was instrumental in McBee's
development in that time.

"He was very proud to be able to tell people he was a Scot. He was extremely
proud of his homeland.

"Ian will be sorely missed by all who knew him and our thoughts are with his
family at this dreadful time."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: I'M IN TOWER, A PLANE'S HIT.. I WANTED TO SAY I LOVE
YOU;
 WAR ON THE US

BYLINE: Jan Disley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 886 words


TRAGIC Melissa Hughes knew she was going to die - but her final thoughts were
for the man she loved.

As the World Trade Centre exploded in a giant fireball she left a poignant
message for her husband on his answering machine.

Her voice shaking with emotion, Melissa said: "Sean it's me. I just wanted to
tell you I love you.

"I'm stuck in this building in New York. A plane hit the building or a bomb went
off we don't know, but there's lots of smoke and I just wanted to you to know
that I love you. Bye bye."

The blonde American, who was in her twenties, was trapped on the upper floors
and has not been seen since the attack.

Distraught husband Sean said later he was desperately trying to get to New York
to see the devastation for himself.

But the harrowing message from Melissa was just one of many desperate phone
calls made from the doomed twin towers.

As families of those caught up in the outrage - including many Britons - waited
for news of their loved ones, terrifying details of last-minute phone calls from
those trapped emerged.

Chris Mills spoke to his girlfriend on the 104th floor of the north tower,
moments before it collapsed.

He said he could hear pandemonium in the background as he said a few last words
to Danielle Kousoulis by mobile phone.

He said: " She was with other people - I don't how many. They were scared. They
didn't know what to do.

"We spoke for a little while. - I wish I could remember more of that
conversation."

Chris got to within five blocks of the World Trade Centre when he saw the south
tower collapse.

"Everybody sat there for a second or so in disbelief. After that second of shock
wore off it was run for your life. There was a wall of dust."

After making it to safety he phoned Danielle again, just 12 minutes before the
north tower came down.

"We shared some moments about each other. I said: 'Get out, just get out of
there. Do whatever you can do."

Mr Mills desperately tried to contact emergency workers and FBI agents to tell
them that people were trapped in the building.

"Then I saw the second tower go down, and I haven't spoken to her since."

Bond broker Matthew Picerno rang his wife Patrica at their home in suburban New
Jersey.

He asked his wife to tell him what had happened.

He said: "What's going on? There's smoke outside our window ... turn on the
news."

Patricia switched on the TV and ran back to tell him about the plane crash and
he was gone. She never spoke to him again.

Stockbroker Frank Naples was on the 105th floor at work.

He called his wife Heidi on his mobile as soon as the crash happened, saying he
had been trapped.

Brother-in-law Ismet Denirovic said: "Heidi tried to calm him down. She said
'Get out. Do everything that you can to get out."

Her husband vowed to do his best but ended the call by saying "If I don't see
you, I want you to know that I love you very much."

Meanwhile, a top British executive is facing an agonising wait for news of her
fiance.

Rosalind Bergemann's father Tony, 53, escaped from the carnage but her fiance
Glenn Webber is still missing feared dead.

Glenn, 35, an e-commerce consultant, was working on the 82nd floor of the north
tower when it was hit.

Rosalind was at work in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, for travel giants Thomas
Cook when she received a phone call from a colleague in Boston telling her about
the drama in New York.

When she switched on the television she was horrified to see the jet hit the
80th floor of the North Tower - because she knew her fiance would have been
working at his desk just two floors above.

Now she is living through the hell of a long silence with no news from Glenn.

Rosalind said: "The worst part was probably when the TV reports showed people
jumping from the buildings.

"I feared one of them could be Glenn or my dad.

"All I want now is to hear something so that I know whether Glenn is alive. The
waiting is terrible."

And the parents of British publisher Sarah Redheffer spoke of their fears
yesterday as their daughter was listed missing.

Sarah, 35, and six of her colleagues from London-based publishers Risk Waters
are still missing following the attack.

Yesterday her father Reverend David Prothero and his wife Susan spoke of their
fears.

Mr Prothero, minister at Bathwick St Mary's Church in Bath, said: "We are
conscious we are not the only family going through this suffering and along with
many others are clinging on to hope for news.

"We are grateful for the support and prayers of many people and hope they will
continue to pray for others caught up in this terrible tragedy."

But in one glimmer of good news, a Scots woman yesterday told how her mother
-in-law fled from the trade centre's 67th floor.

Jacki Harris, 30, and her husband Gabriel, 31, endured an agonising wait to see
if Gabriel's mother, Marilyn Enderby, was one of those who survived.

Yesterday Jacki Harris, 30, originally from Johnstone, Renfrewshire, endured an
agonising wait to see if husband Gabriel's mother, Marilyn Enderby, had
survived.

But Mrs Enderby, who also survived the trade centre bombing, said: "I got to the
nearest stairwell and started going down. People were really well behaved.
Nobody lost their temper."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: GIULIANI PROVES HIMSELF A TRUE LEADER

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 342 words


NEW York's mayor Rudy Giuliani has emerged as a true statesman as his city has
endured the darkest days in its history.

Giuliani has been a picture of calm authority while critics have rounded on
President George Bush for his apparent dithering.

On the day of the disaster emergency workers were staggered when he insisted on
getting so close to the rescue operations that he had to be ushered away for his
own safety.

One firefighter said: "The situation was still very confused and potentially
dangerous but the mayor was there in the thick of things.

"He didn't want to leave but eventually he was led away covered in dust.

"He's been leading from the front the whole time."

The following day the mayor was back - wearing a surgical mask to keep out the
ash.

Everywhere he has gone he has impressed New Yorkers by speaking frankly and
compassionately about the thousands of people that are probably entombed in the
rubble.

A typical example came on Wednesday when he was asked about the possibility of
finding them all.

He said: "The terrible reality of this is we may never be able to recover
everyone, but we are going to try."

The can-do-will-do approach has struck a chord with the residents of the city -
who are now taking enormous pride and comfort from the rescue efforts.

Jerry Hauer, head of the Office of Emergency Management said: "I've been in the
disaster business for a long time, and frankly, there are very few elected
officials as good as him.

"He is extremely, focused, in terms of knowing what needs to be done and in
setting the right tone."

Italian-American Giuliani comes from a family with a tradition of serving the
city and the law - four of his uncles were policemen and his childhood heroes
were firemen.

And he made his name as a ruthless prosecutor. He made his name in several
high-profile cases prosecuting Mafia bosses.

But his eight-year reign as mayor of the city he loves will come to an end later
this year when he is not allowed to stand for a third term.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES: ROLL OF TRAGEDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 813 words


ROBERT NORTON

JACKIE NORTON

Robert, of Lubec, Maine,was on his way from Boston to attend his son's wedding
in Santa BarbaraJackie was with her husband on Flight 11, the first to crash
into the trade centre

NATALIE LASDEN

JOHN WENCKUS

PETER HASHEM

LAURIE NEIRA

Was among the passengers on American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston to Los
Angeles John came from Torrance, California. He was among those who died on
board Flight 11Peter, of Tewksbury, Massachusetts, was killed when jet smashed
into the first tower Mother Laurie. Yet another Flight 11 victim

ANNA WILLIAMS

Anna, of Stoneham, Massachusetts, was looking forward to Los Angeles trip when
her flight was hijacked

KEN WALDIE

Ken, of Methuen, Massachusetts, died when Flight 11 crashed into the World Trade
Centre

CHARLES JONES

Charles , 48, was a successful program manager at BAE Systems in Hudson, New
Hampshire

MILDRED NAIMAN

SONIA PUOPOLO

JAMES ROUX

Mildred, of Andover, Massachusetts, was going to Los Angeles on Flight 11 Sonia
Puopolo, of Massachusetts, was a former ballet dancer. Among those who died on
Flight 11James, of Portland, Maine, was a lawyer travelling with American
Airlines to Los Angeles John was captain of doomed Flight 11

JOHN OGONOWSKI

JEAN ROGER

JANE ORTH

Jean, of Longmeadow, Massachusetts was a stewardess on Captain Ogonowski's
flightJane, 49, of Haverhill, Massachusetts, was on the flight which smashed
into the World Trade Centre

TARA CREAMER

Tara, of Worcester, Massachusetts, is reported by her family to have been on
Flight 11. She was just 30

PETER GAY 54-year-old from Massachusetts was vice president of defence firm's
plant. Killed in New York

DANIEL C LEWIN

Co-founder of Akamai Technologies of Massachusetts. The 31-year-old was killed
at Trade Centre

AMY JARRETT

28-year-old United Airlines flight attendant of Rhode Island died in the second
plane to crash at WTC

LESLIE WHITTINGTON

Professor of public policy at Georgetown University, aged 45. Was with her
family on their way to Australia

BARBARA EDWARDS

The school teacher, 58, worked at Palo Verde High in Las Vegas. She died on
Pentagon crash plane

SUZANNE CALLEY

Suzanne, of San Martin, California, worked at Cisco Systems in San Jose. Was
also on Flight 77

RON GILLIGAN

Merseysider at his desk on the 103rd floor of the trade centre. He was 43 and
married to Liz, 40, with three children - Ashley, 16, Ainsley, eight, and
Dherran, six. First moved to the US in 1981

SARA LOW

Arkansas stewardess on one of the American Airlines planes that smashed into the
twin towers

JULIANA McCOURT

Four-year-old was killed with her mum Ruth in the second plane crash. On way to
a shopping trip

RUTH McCOURT

45-year-old mother of Juliana. Her brother was survivor who fled the WTC as
Ruth's plane crashed into it

WILSON FLAGG

Retired US Navy Admiral Wilson, nicknamed "Buddy", died when jet he was on hit
the Pentagon

DARLENE FLAGG

Died alongside her husband, retired serviceman Wilson. The coupled lived in
Corona, California

C. BURLINGAME

Charles was at the controls of Flight 77. He would have been 52 on Wednesday

C. CARSTANJEN

The 33-year-old passenger died when his Flight 175 smashed into the Trade Centre

VICTOR SARACINI

LISA FROST

Skipper Victor was the pilot of the second plane that crashed into the World
Trade CentreLisa, of Rancho Santa Margarita, California, was on her way from
Boston to LA

BERRY BERENSON

G. DE BARRERA

TIMOTHY WARD

Actress and photographer Berry was the widow of Psycho actor Anthony
PerkinsGloria was originally from San Salvador. The family-loving woman was on
Flight 175

NIGEL THOMPSON

Tim, of San Diego, died when his jet smashed into the World Trade CentreBritish
broker, 33, of Sheffield, was in trade centre talking to his twin brother on the
phone. Line went deadJASON DAHLJason was the captain of United Airlines Flight
93 from Newark that crashed in Pennsylvania

ROBERT SPEISMAN

Exec. vice president of jewellery firm Lazare Kaplan, Robert, 47, of Irvington,
NY, was on the Pentagon plane

JUDE LARSON

SIMON PERKINS

MYRA RODRIGUEZ

A Los Angeles resident, Jude was on the United Airlines flight that was crashed
into the twin towersA vice president of Salomon Smith Barney in New York,
Simon's family live in Plymouth, DevonA secretary, 39-year-old Myra was at work
in the World Trade Centre when it was hit

STEPHEN HOFFMAN

JACK ERIN

A worker in the Twin Towers, Stephen was on the 104th floor at the time of the
attackThe 52-year-old worked for an insurance firm based in the World Trade
Centre

ANDREW STERN

A 41-year-old broker, Andrew was at work in the Twin Towers

PEDRO GRAHAM

The 35-year old, a broker, was working in his office in the World Trade Centre

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: MINISTER OF DEATH;
 JOWELL TO OVERSEE RETURN OF 500 BODIES

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 895 words


TONY Blair yesterday appointed a minister of death, with orders to bring back
Britain's estimated 500 dead.

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell has been given an emergency role to organise the
return of the bodies to the UK.

The death toll is now certain to rank the attack as the worst terrorist atrocity
against British citizens.

Fourteen thousand calls have already poured into the Foreign Office from Britons
worried about their loved ones.

Jowell's grim task will include helping families organise funerals and planning
flights to the US for bereaved families to bring their loved ones home to
Britain.

Blair made the appointment during a sombre meeting of the Cabinet in Downing
Street yesterday.

The Prime Minister said the "tragedy would touch every community" in Britain.

Before the meeting, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said he feared the British
death toll would be at least as high as 500 - and could already be confirmed at
at least 100.

He revealed: "I understand that the number of confirmed British deaths is now
approaching 100.

"The total number of British deaths is unlikely to be less than the middle 100s
and may be higher."

As Straw spoke, the fiancee of missing Scots banker Derek Sword told how he
phoned her twice in the midst of the tragedy.

Dundee-born Derek, 29, told Maureen Sullivan he was safe after the first plane
hit the north tower.

Then he called back to say he was getting out of the burning south tower, where
he worked on the 89th floor for finance firm Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.

Pharmacist Maureen, 30, got engaged to Derek only 10 days ago.

She said: "I call his cellphone every hour, just, you know ...

"I call all the time but it just forwards me to a voicemail. It doesn't ring.
When I can't stand sitting around any more I go out hanging flyers everywhere
with his photo and details.

"We are constantly calling hospitals. It's just a case of hoping."

In Dundee, Derek's mum Irene said: "It is so, so difficult for us. We feel
helpless.

"His fiancee has told us there are hundreds of unidentified people in hospitals
and we are praying that our son is among them.

"Until we hear otherwise, we will go on believing he is OK. For Derek's sake, we
will not give up. But this is just the most harrowing thing."

Three other missing Britons were named unofficially as publishing executives
Sarah Redheffer, 35, and Simon Turner, and Redheffer's boss Michelle Duberry.

They were hosting a conference for 150 people on the 106th floor of the second
tower. Sarah was married to New Yorker Eric, 33. Her parents, vicar David and
wife Susan live in Bath.

Eric said last night: "If you go to a church, light a candle for us."

Stockbroker Nigel Thompson, 33, from Sheffield, was among 1000 employees at
Cantor Fitzgerald on the 105th floor. The company have yet to name anyone there
as a survivor.

As families began to realise they may never see their loved ones again, they
desperately tried to find ways of making contact with the lost and missing.

Some toured hospitals, some went on TV holding up pictures.

Others put printed leaflets on cars and walls in devastated areas of Manhattan,
asking the public for help and leaving numbers to phone if there had been any
sightings.

They were simple messages - sent more in hope than expectation. But hope is all
these bewildered people have left.

As friends scrambled through emergency rooms and shelters checking lists for his
name, Sandra O'Connor kept an image of her husband locked in her soul.

She said: "He's shy - shy until you get to know him. He plays bagpipes and eats
big steaks."

Tiffany Fosmire called Fox 5 News and said she was looking for her friend Wendy.

In a choking voice, she said: "She's 5ft 4 tall and when she smiles, she has a
small gap between her two front teeth on the top."

Her words were buried in sobs before she added: "We just want everyone to know
that we love her."

Irish-American friends of Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams are feared to be among
the dead.

They include a priest and a man who once organised a lunch at the World Trade
Centre to raise money for Sinn Fein.

Adams said: "I'm told by friends in New York that there is little hope of
finding him alive. Others we met that day are almost certainly part of the
casualty list."

Yesterday, Blair told the Cabinet it was now vital to begin planning for the
massive logistical operation of bringing home the dead and helping bereaved
families to cope.

The meeting followed a session of the Government Civil Contingencies Committee,
which agreed that the Treasury would also foot the bill for any British citizens
injured in America without medical insurance.

Transport Secretary Stephen Byers revealed security would remain tight at
airports.

Byers told ministers that Britain had moved "to the highest alert in terms of
personal searches" at airports.

The Foreign Office has set up a special 24-hour crisis unit, partially manned by
Scotland Yard staff.

A spokeswoman said: "The whole operation has been running pretty efficiently
under the circumstances.

"It is very difficult for the US authorities to establish the full details of
the casualties.

"But thanks to their efforts, we are putting together a database of Britons
accounted for and unaccounted for."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BANKER DOOMED BY ORDER TO STAY - CLAIM

BYLINE: Brian Mccartney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 325 words


BANKER Derek Sword may have died because he obeyed an order to stay in his
office, his boss claimed last night.

Tom Michaud said Derek, 29, of Broughty Ferry, Dundee, had phoned him from the
south tower just after the first jet hit the north tower.

In the background, he heard a tannoy telling everyone to stay where they were.

He now fears Derek and others took the advice and lost their lives.

Mr Michaud said: "I spoke to Derek and his colleagues but there was a lot of
confusion.

"People in the tower were not sure what had happened. They were at the wrong
angle to see that a plane had crashed into the other tower."

Mr Michaud said they had still not given up hope of finding Derek, a former
Scots tennis international.

He said: "We are now speaking to everyone trying to get reports on what happened
to Derek, whether he stayed where he was or started to come down. We are still
wishing for the best."

Derek's name yesterday appeared in the missing column on the website of his
employers Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.

Their premises were on the 89th floor of the 110-storey building.

Derek made three phone calls after the initial air strike.

His fiancee, Maureen Sullivan, to whom he got engaged 10 days ago at Skibo
Castle in Sutherland, said yesterday: "He called me and said his building was on
fire but he was okay and he was being evacuated.

"The last thing he said to me was, 'See you soon'."

Maureen has been in constant touch with Derek's family.

His mother, Irene, said: "This is something you never ever imagine that you
would have to go through.

"The waiting just about destroys you, but you have to be positive and that is
what we are all trying to do."

David Gordon, a long-time family friend and Derek's former tennis coach, said he
was "a wonderful person".

Mr Gordon, from Dundee, said: "He was a great guy and he'd just got engaged. He
had everything in front of him."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THE WORDS WE WILL NEVER FORGET ABOUT THE DAY WE NEVER
WANTED TO SEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 502 words


We're all gonna die, but three of us are going to do something. I love you
honey.

Father-of-three Tom Burnett, left, in call to wife Deena from the jet which
crashed near Pittsburgh.

I have no doubt that airplane was bound for some landmark and that whatever Tom
did and whatever the guys who helped him did, they saved many more lives. And
I'm so proud of him and so grateful. Deena Burnett on reports her husband and
others fought their knife-wielding hijackers.

All I want to say is they went down together. They stayed together in death.
That's my only consolation.

Eunice Hanson, whose son Peter, his wife and their two-year-old daughter died
when their jet crashed into the World Trade Centre.

We have more planes, we have other planes. Gloating words of hijackers overheard
by air traffic controllers.

I took the bus into work this morning and it was a beautiful summer day. I
looked at the Manhattan skyline and thought there's no more beautiful place in
the world and now it's gone.

Manhattan worker Andy Thornley, 43.

You cannot imagine what it felt like to have to watch those events on television
and not know whether your son was dead or alive. I called everybody I could
think of, apart from the President himself, but the lines were always busy.
Frank McCormick, from Walton, Merseyside on the wait before learning son Terence
was safe.

People didn't think that the buildings were going to fall down. Those people and
all the firemen going up - well, they're all dead. Mike Wilson who fled his 51st
floor office while others remained behind.

The terrorist act is the action of some American group. I have nothing to do
with it. Osama bin Laden.

We shared some moments about each other. At that point she didn't know that the
other building had collapsed. She didn't want to know, I didn't tell her.
American Chris Mills on the last time he spoke to girlfriend Danielle Kousoulis
who was trapped on the 104th floor.

Bin Laden thanked almighty Allah and bowed before him when he heard the news.

Abu Dhabi-based journalist Jamal Ismail's report of the prime suspect's
reaction.

America has lost in the attacks in one day as announced till this moment double
the number of what we have lost of martyrs during the aggression against our
country in 1991 which took 45 days

Iraqi Babel newspaper, owned by Saddam Hussein's son Uday.

This battle will take time and resolve. But make no mistake about it - we will
win President George Bush.

I'm proud to be American and I hate Arabs and I always have. Colin Zaremba, 19,
speaking during _ a protest march on a mosque in southwest Chicago.

The terrible reality of this is we may never be able to recover everyone, but we
are going to try.

Mayor Giuliani, right, after revealing 3700 people are missing from the World
Trade Centre.

I feel like going to war again. No mercy. We have to come together like 1941 - -
go after them.

New Yorker Felix Novelli, living in Nashville, Tennessee.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WE HAVE JUST SEEN THE FIRST WAR OF THE 21ST CENTURY;
 BUSH VOWS THAT US WILL LEAD THE WORLD TO VICTORY OVER TERRORISM

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair And Iain Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 813 words


AN EMOTIONAL President Bush yesterday vowed America would lead the world to
victory over terrorism.

With tears welling up in his eyes and trembling with anger, he said: "We have
just seen the first war of the 21st century."

And he added: "My resolve is steady and strong about winning this war that has
been declared on America.

"It's a new kind of war. This government will adjust and this government will
call other governments to join us."

Bush later added: "Now that war has been declared on us, we will lead the world
to victory. Victory."

He said he had consulted a broad range of foreign leaders and had found
universal support for the United States

He expected there would be backing for whatever retaliation he ordered.

America appeared to be preparing for swift action.

Congress has agreed that a military response must be made and has approved a $
20billion budget for Bush to use.

The President is considering sending special forces into action to avenge the
deaths of the thousands of innocent victims of Tuesday's outrages.

A senior aide said the options under consideration by Bush would go beyond the
low-risk, unmanned cruise missile strikes that have been deployed in past anti
-terrorist operations.

Among them are bombings from manned aircraft and the deployment of special
troops on the ground.

Bush announced plans to visit New York and see for himself the site of the World
Trade Centre twin towers that were destroyed .

He said: "I weep and mourn with America. There is a quiet anger in America."

He also pointedly said that the United States had been in diplomatic contact
with Pakistan.

He said they wanted to give the government there an opportunity to co-operate.

Pakistan has close ties with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, which harbours
the chief suspect Osama bin Laden.

Tony Blair remained cautious yesterday over committing Britain to military
action against those behind the suicide attackers.

He has been at the forefront of world leaders in giving strong support to
America in the wake of the tragedy.

But Downing Street was careful to strike a balance between backing Bush and
committing to military action.

The 19 allies in NATO have agreed by resolution that the attack against America
should be considered an attack on them all.

But the Prime Minister's spokesman at Downing Street said the NATO agreement was
not a "blank cheque" for America to do whatever it wished.

He said: "There will need to be consultation within the North Atlantic Council
and it will be for governments and prime ministers to decide.

"The questions that follow from that for us can obviously be discussed at the
appropriate time. What is very, very important from the last 24 hours is that we
have seen the international community coming together.

"The European Union, NATO, the United Nations Security Council resolution and
the international community stands full square behind the US and shares its
horror at what has happened."

Evidence was growing steadily yesterday that the culprits were linked to
fundamentalist Islamic groups, leading to demands for strikes against rogue
states such as Afghanistan and Iraq.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister confirmed that the Cabinet yesterday
discussed military matters, but refused to divulge the details.

He added: "It will be for the American administration to decide on the
appropriate action against those responsible."

While Blair won't automatically join in any action Bush proposes, Downing Street
emphasised that Britain remained fully behind the US in condemning the attacks.

A spokesman said: "The Prime Minister very strongly reiterated the view that
this was a democratic world issue. He said that this atrocity had been carried
out in the US and against the US but it was also against the whole of the
civilised and democratic world."

Blair continued to play a leading role in responding to the crisis, talking to
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern and his Swedish and Spanish counterparts in a
bid to continue building the international consensus for actions against
terrorism.

Russia also made history by adding its voice to the NATO anger in a joint
statement pledging to work with the allies in battling international
terrorism.In America, there were numerous reports yesterday of vigilante attacks
on Moslems and people of Middle-Eastern origin.

Blair cautioned against any such action in Britain and he appealed to the
British public not to stigmatise the Moslem community here.

His spokesman said: "This was something that was said several times during
Cabinet.

"This is terrorism against the world and that includes the Moslem faith.

"As the Prime Minister said yesterday, these acts go against the proper
teachings of the Moslem faith. It is important to realise that."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: RECORD VIEW;
 JUSTICE, NOT VENGEANCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 474 words


GEORGE Bush had to fight back the tears as he told his fellow Americans they are
involved in "the first war of the 21st century".

Red-eyed and with his voice cracking, he admitted: "I weep and mourn with
America."

There is nothing wrong with that. He would be less than human if he did not weep
at the senseless carnage in New York and Washington and mourn the horrific waste
of innocent lives.

As the voice of America, the man has to voice the fury and outrage of a nation
that has been violated.

But as President and, for good or ill, leader of the world's most powerful
nation, he must not give in to his emotions.

The Oval Office of the White House has been described as the loneliest place on
earth. He has his advisers and secretaries of state but the buck stops with the
man at the desk.

Bush is under immense pressure from a furious and frustrated nation clamouring
for retaliation. He has to hold the balance between the hawks and doves in his
cabinet.

The US public overwhelmingly supports immediate action against anyone connected
with the carnage. Polls show more than two-thirds want retaliation, even if it
means innocent people are killed.

Around the US, Arab Americans and Moslems have been attacked, threatened and
harassed in an ugly backlash.

In this country, Tony Blair was quick to point out British Moslems have joined
in the condemnation of the terrorist bloodbath.

And First Minister Henry McLeish has spoken of our unity with Scots Moslems who
are appalled by the zealots whose bloodstained exploits are an obscene insult to
the religion of Islam.

Bush's options include missile attacks, sending in forces to snatch Osama bin
Laden and wipe out his training camps, or longer-term measures to make
terrorists world outlaws and bring them to justice.

Air strikes are crude and risk the killing of innocent civilians, including
children, known in the cold-blooded jargon of warfare as "collateral damage".
That would make the US no better than the terrorists they are hunting.

That kind of action by Bill Clinton in 1998 fuelled the blind hatred of the US
and the epithet of the "Great Satan" used by fanatics to justify this week's
atrocities.

Bush should listen to his most impressive adviser, Colin Powell, who says one
strike will not win the war against the 21st-century evil and it will be a
long-term conflict.

Britain's role could be crucial and Tony Blair has the chance to prove himself a
world statesman. He has promised to "stand shoulder to shoulder" with America,
but he should also counsel against giving in to emotion, however understandable.

There must be no rush to judgment and no launching of indiscriminate attacks.

George Bush, the man, may weep. But the world expects the President to seek
cool, clear-eyed justice - not blind vengeance.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: POWELL POINTS FINGER OF BLAME AT BIN LADEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 166 words


UNITED States Secretary of State Colin Powell has identified Osama bin Laden as
a prime suspect in the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon.

Powell became the first senior Bush administration official to say on the record
that bin Laden is suspected of engineering the attacks. He said: "We are looking
at those terrorist organisations who have the kind of capacity that would have
been necessary to conduct the kind of attack that we saw."

Saying the administration had not yet publicly identified the organisation it
believed responsible, Powell added: "When you look at the list of candidates,
one resides in the region." And he confirmed he was referring to bin Laden, the
exiled Saudi dissident who runs a terrorist network from Afghanistan.

Powell said he would be in contact with President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan,
a neighbour of Afghanistan, to seek "a specific list of things that we think
would be useful for them to work on with us".

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THE FBI IS CLOSING IN;
 GERMAN COPS HOLD WOMAN AND BABY IN US TERROR PROBE

BYLINE: Allan Hall In Hamburg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 999 words


THE young mother of a six-month old baby is thought to hold the key to who was
behind the US atrocity.

She was taken into custody by police in Hamburg, Germany, as she arrived at a
flat where a number of Arabs - including terror hijack killers Mohamed Atta, 33,
and Marwan Alshehhi, 23, - lived earlier this year.

The raids followed a tip-off from the FBI shortly before midnight on Wednesday.

Agents in the US have identified 40 of the people they think are responsible for
the atrocities.

Ten of those are thought to be at large. The others either died in the attacks
or have been "accounted for", by the intelligence services.

Officers were searching the Hamburg flat, 54 Marienstrasse, when the woman - a
friend of Atta - turned up at the door. They took her into custody.

Last night they were questioning her, hoping to find more information about 10
members of the terror gang thought to be still at large.

They have also interviewed staff at the nearby Hamburg Technical University -
where Atta and Alshehi studied eletrical engineering - which could have helped
them in making bombs.

A college spokesman said: "They were diligent in their studies."

The pair had no grants and drew no benefits but told other students they were
from rich families in the United Arab Emirates

The apartment has been empty since February or March and was renovated recently,
making the search for evidence more difficult.

Police said that the flat looked like it "had been swept by an army of cleaning
ladies."

The German authorities said the two dead terrorists had lived "quiet lives" in
Hamburg for two years before leaving in March to prepare for the terror outrage.

Neighbours said that they always dressed in Arabic clothes, wore beards and
woollen knitted hats.

Burkhardt Schroeder, their neighbour on the second floor, said: "I thought they
were some Koran study group or something. They certainly dressed the part.

"They were cordial and polite and their German was certainly passable. There
wasn't anything about their manner that was either offensive or gave me cause to
think that I had terrorists living on my doorstep."

Another neighbour Yusuf Salim said: "We shopped at the same halal meat shop and
Middle Eastern grocery store. We nodded to each other but we only shared a
religion in common. I am from Lebanon and not as orthodox as these guys. "

Police swooped on eight flats in Hamburg. In one of them, they picked up a man
who worked at Hamburg Airport.

Police refused to reveal his identity or profession but said his job at the
airport was "interesting".

Police said they found an Egyptian passport in their searches and were also
looking for a Morroccan man whom they would not name.

In the Harburg area of the city, authorities raided another apartment in
Martin-Leuschnerstrasse, which had been used by around eight people of Arab
appearance over the past two years.

The lair of the suicide pilot pair was perfect in its anonymity.

It stands on the second floor of a run-down building housing 100 German and
foreign families - most of them Turkish.

At any one time it was used by between five and eight "Arabic looking people,"
according to police and neighbours, and never attracted unwanted police
attention.

A check at the local Harburg police revealed that Atta and Alshehhi lived as
law-abiding citizens.

They registered themselves with police, as all residents of Germany are required
to do and were allowed into the country on student visas.

One electrical engineering student a year above them, Kurt Henning, said: "They
were able to master intricate passages from text books on electrical engineering
apparently without effort.

"But they were never seen at events off campus, never seen in the student bars
or hangouts.

"They didn't drink alcohol. They were different in that respect - that and the
way they dressed. They looked like they had just stepped off a plane from the
Middle East."

Kay Nehm, Germany's chief prosecutor, confirmed that the suspects in the America
bombings lived in Hamburg since the beginning of the year and were believed to
have joined a group with "fanatical Islamic beliefs".

He said their goals were co-operation with terror-networks in other lands
planning to destroy "symbolically important buildings in a spectacular fashion."

German police say that prime suspect Osama Bin Laden supports a network of
allies and safe houses in Germany's richest city.

Reinhard Wagner, head of the Hamburg Fedreral Office for the Protection of the
Constitution, said: "We know he has links here. Friends, supporters, safe houses
- this is how his logistical system works."

The woman taken into custody doesn't speak German but is understood to have been
a close friend of the duo.

Her six month old child was with her but Hamburg police spokesman Richard Fallak
insisted: "She is in our custody but not under arrest. She had contact with
these people."

FBI agents from the bureau's office in Budapest, Hungary, are understood to be
en route to Hamburg to quiz the woman in custody.

In the US, around 4000 FBI agents are trying to track down the rest of the
suspects.

The massive investigation stretches from the Canadian border, where they believe
some of the hijackers entered the country, to Florida, where some of the
participants are believed to have learned how to fly commercial jets before the
attacks.

Investigators are understood to have uncovered credit card receipts, showing
that some of the terrorists paid for training in the US.

In total, 27 terrorists are thought to have been trained to fly.

According to the authorities, at least one hijacker on each of the four planes
in Tuesday's terrorist attacks was trained at a US flight school.

As the investigation continued, pursuing "thousands of leads", officials also
announced they have detained at least six people across the country on unrelated
charges.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES FEDS IN PILOT SWOOP;
 AGENTS ARREST BOGUS AIRCREW AT JFK

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1973 words


TEN people were arrested at two New York airports last night, some carrying fake
ID and pilot documents.

The FBI believes they may have been trying to carry out further terrorist
attacks on the USA.

Unconfirmed reports say the suspects may have been armed with knives - just like
the fanatics who flew hijacked jet airliners into the World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon on Tuesday.

Five of the suspects were arrested at JFK Airport after boarding a United flight
for LA. FBI sources say one of them was just 17.

Another five were arrested at La Guardia Airport after trying to board another
flight with fake documents. All of the people detained at the two airports are
in some way connected to the horrific terrorist attacks carried out on Tuesday,
FBI sources say.

One theory is that they were trying to escape the massive manhunt for anyone
connected to the attacks.

But far more horrifying is the FBI theory that they were trying to board the
planes in the same way they think the 18 hijackers did on Tuesday and were
attempting to continue the attacks.

A total of 10 suspects were detained at the two airports. Both were shut down
last night, as well as New York's third airport, Newark, just hours after they
had reopened for internal flights.

New York Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik confirmed that 10 people - some of
them Arab nationals - had been detained.

Last night, they were being questioned by the FBI and the Joint Terrorist Task
Force.

FBI agents moved in to grab the suspects at JFK Airport, which was on full alert
with beefed- up security patrolling among tense passengers.

A Justice Department spokesman said that those detained had "met the profile" of
those suspected to have been involved in some way in Tuesday's mass murders.

In a further security measure yesterday, Vice President Dick Cheney was moved to
Camp David.

JFK, La Guardia and Newark were closed because federal agents feared that "a
small number" of people they wanted to quiz in connection with the explosions
would fly out.

A man was also arrested yesterday at Heathrow under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act. Anti- terrorist detectives were quizzing the man, in his 40s, last night
but refused to confirm any link to the outrages in the US.

And in a series of raids in Hamburg, prompted by the FBI investigation, a worker
at the city's airport was taken into custody.

The man was reported to be carrying a US passport and two doctored French
passports, which showed that he had made multiple stops throughout Europe.

In further dramatic scenes yesterday, the Capitol was ordered to be evacuated in
the middle of a Senate vote in a bomb scare after a sniffer dog picked up a
scent.

The scare proved to be unfounded, but jittery authorities ordered the Lincoln
Memorial and Jefferson Memorial to be closed again, just hours after reopening.

Meanwhile, the young mother of a six-month-old baby is thought to hold the key
to who was behind the US atrocity.

She was taken into custody by police in Hamburg, Germany, as she arrived at a
flat where a number of Arabs - including terror hijack killers Mohamed Atta, 33,
and Marwan Alshehhi, 23 - lived earlier this year.

Agents in the US have identified 40 of the people they think are responsible for
the atrocities.

Ten of those are thought to be at large. The others either died in the attacks
or have been "accounted for" by the intelligence services.

German police were searching the Hamburg flat, 54 Marienstrasse, when the woman
- a friend of Atta - turned up at the door. They hope she can give them more
information about the terror gang.

They have also interviewed staff at the nearby Hamburg Technical University,
where Atta and Alshehhi studied electrical engineering - which could have helped
them in making bombs.

A college spokesman said: "They were diligent in their studies."

The pair had no grants and drew no benefits but told other students they were
from rich families in the United Arab Emirates

The apartment has been empty since February or March and was renovated recently,
making the search for evidence more difficult.

Police said that the flat looked like it "had been swept by an army of cleaning
ladies".

Authorities said the two terrorists had lived quietly in Hamburg for two years
before leaving in March. Neighbours said they wore distinctive Arab costume.

Burkhardt Schroeder, their neighbour on the 2nd floor, said: "I thought they
were some Koran study group or something. They were cordial and polite. There
wasn't anything about their manner that gave me cause to think that I had
terrorists living on my doorstep."

Police swooped on eight flats in Hamburg after an FBI tip-off just before
midnight on Wednesday.

They said they found an Egyptian passport in their searches and were also
looking for a Moroccan man.

The lair of the suicide pilot pair was perfect in its anonymity, in a run-down
building housing 100 German and foreign families.

At any one time it was used by between five and eight "Arabic looking people",
according to neighbours, and never attracted unwanted police attention.

One electrical engineering student a year above them, Kurt Henning, said: "They
were never seen at events off campus, never seen in the student bars or
hangouts. They didn't drink alcohol. They were different in that respect - that
and the way they dressed. They looked like they had just stepped off a plane
from the Middle East."

Kay Nehm, Germany's chief prosecutor, confirmed that the suspects in the America
bombings had lived in Hamburg since the beginning of the year and were believed
to have joined a group with "fanatical Islamic beliefs".

He said their goals were to co-operate with terror networks in other lands
planning to destroy "symbolically important buildings in a spectacular fashion".

German police say that prime suspect, Osama bin Laden, supports a network of
allies and safe houses in Germany's richest city.

FBI agents from the bureau's office in Budapest, Hungary, are to quiz the young
mother detained in Hamburg yesterday .started cheering. We all started shouting,
'USA, USA.'

Reports said the firefighters were saved by an anti-theft system in the 4x4.
Rescuers zeroed in on its signal.

The firefighters had been trapped for four hours after getting into trouble
during the rescue effort.

Police officer Mike Sheehan said the men had been able to make radio contact
when they realised they were close to being saved.

Jack Ginty, of the New York fire- fighters' union, said: "This is the best news
we've had. It gives us a reason to go on looking for survivors.

"We will be here until we get our last brother out."

Eleven firefighters and three police have now been rescued after being trapped
by Tuesday's terrorist strike.

But their comrades were confronted with horror after horror yesterday as they
looked for more survivors amid 450,000 tons of rubble.

The worst carnage was found in an area known as The Pit, a 30ft deep hole at the
centre of the site.

Asked what he had discovered there, firefighter Brian Gavin said: "Legs, arms,
torsos, feet, hands."

The body of a suspected hijacker and a stewardess were found last night in the
cockpit of one of the planes in the wreckage. The stewardess's hands were bound
with wire.

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said he had a list of 4763 missing people from the
World Trade Centre attacks.

He said: "It could turn out we recover fewer than that, it could be more."

The New York total includes the people on the two airliners used to destroy the
towers. There were also 190 feared dead at the Pentagon, among them a three-star
general.

And 45 people were killed aboard the hijacked jet that crashed in Pennsylvania.
The airliner's black box flight data recorder was found last night, giving new
hope to investigators trying to work out what its target had been.

The combined total from Tuesday's atrocities is more than double the death toll
at Pearl Harbor, where 2390 were killed in 1941.

At 3pm UK time yesterday, 94 bodies had been taken from the World Trade Centre.
Fewer than 30 of them had been identified.

Giuliani said New York had 30,000 body bags available, to hold the dead and
pieces of the dead.

Hours after he spoke, all rescuers had to be evacuated from the site amid fears
the nearby American Express/ Merrill Lynch tower was about to collapse.

The top floors of the 53-storey One Liberty Plaza office block also began
buckling.

Surgeon Todd Wilder, working at the scene, said: "There was a steady stream of
body bags coming out all night. That, and lots and lots of body parts."

At least 202 firefighters, possibly as many as 350, were missing.

Also lost was John P O'Neill, head of security for the World Trade Centre, who
devoted much of his life to fighting fanatics including Osama bin Laden.

Mr O'Neill was a former FBI expert on terrorism. He led the investigations into
bin Laden's bombing of the USS Cole last year and US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania in 1998.

Three finance companies with offices in the complex had nearly 1400 workers
unaccounted for.

In The Pit, rescuers passed up bucket after bucket full of human body parts.

Brian Gavin had lost nine of his closest colleagues in the outrage. Each time he
carefully recovered a body part, he wondered if it had belonged to a friend.

Lieutenant Vincent Boura spent hour after hour in The Pit. To get in and out, he
had to scale a 30ft rope.

At the end of his day, Vincent said: "I'm going home to kiss my daughter. She's
just starting to say 'Daddy'.

"Unfortunately, a lot of kids are not going to be able to say 'Daddy' any more.

"I didn't see anyone in there. I haven't seen any survivors, nothing.

"Everything's in tiny little pieces. It's pulverised."

Around The Pit, dozens of doctors stood with no survivors to treat. Teams of
social workers had no one to counsel.

The people being found were far beyond help. Firefighter Gavin said: "We pulled
out bodies - well, not really bodies, pieces of bodies.

"We hand 'em down, hand 'em down, hand 'em down.

"Some of them are bare-chested. Their clothes are ripped off. Thank God I
haven't seen any children - others in my unit have seen children's feet."

At the bottom of The Pit, almost undamaged, was the huge TV transmitter that had
stood on top of the towers.

Fire Captain Matt Nelson said: "It went straight down 110 storeys. It's standing
straight up like a dart." Around The Pit, huge girders and boulders of broken
concrete littered the streets. Wrecked cars were piled three or four high.

On one dust-covered vehicle, someone had scrawled: "Remember the Dead."

The victims were taken to a makeshift morgue in a wrecked Brooks Brothers
menswear shop. Body parts arrived a limb at a time.

Many more were scorched beyond recognition. Gold wedding rings glistened on
blackened hands.

Businessmen were found still clutching their briefcases. One had his mobile
phone burned into his palm.

The Fire Department's own chaplain, Father Mychal Judge, was found after being
hit by debris. Another fireman was killed when someone jumped from the towers
and landed on him.

The search for survivors went on for as long as it was relatively safe.

Robots probed air pockets in search of life and tiny cameras were placed on
poles to look into the wreckage.

Conditions were so awful that even dogs were affected. As he worked in the
rubble with his alsatian, Garo, State Trooper James Vaughn said: "There's so
much scent it overwhelms him.

"He's smelling flesh in the air. It's just coming out of the cracks. It's
everywhere."

The south of Manhattan remained closed to all but the emergency services.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES: BIG FIRMS GO HAYWIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 101 words


THE world's economic landscape has been changed as dramatically as the New York
skyline.

The airline industry has lost pounds 7million this week alone, and the value of
BA has effectively been halved.

Hotels and tourist resorts will also be hammered as shocked Americans stay home.

The overall trauma could haunt insurance companies for years, a City expert
warned yesterday.

But Scotland's biggest insurance company, CGNU, said yesterday it had only
"minimal" exposure.

The Perth-based company will face a bill of pounds 35million. Analysts say that
is a "drop in the ocean".

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES: SILENCE TO SHOW WORLD'S RESPECT

BYLINE: Cara Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 218 words


At 11am today, Britain will observe a sombre silence in memory of the victims of
the terrorist atrocities.

The unprecedented display of mourning will last three minutes.

It is part of an international show of respect.

Offices, homes and factories will fall silent.

All sides of industry yesterday united in support of the international plan.

TUC general secretary John Monks commented: "The three-minute silence gives
everyone a chance to show their respect for the victims and their families, to
salute the bravery and sacrifices of the emergency services and to express their
opposition to the tactics of terror."

Digby Jones, director general of the Confederation of British Industry, said
many people were still worried about missing colleagues, friends and relatives.

He added: "Everyone involved in business will see a three-minute silence as an
entirely appropriate response to the tragedy."

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell, who has been given the task of overseeing
support for British families who have lost loved ones, said the silence would
provide "a very important focus for immediate grief".

She said she would be looking at further ways to provide "an opportunity for
people to express the grief that they very naturally feel over the forthcoming
weeks."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES: THREE DIE AS ISRAEL LAUNCHES TANK RAID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 484 words


ISRAELI tanks yesterday rolled into Palestinian towns in the West Bank, igniting
gun battles that left three people dead and 21 injured.

Palestinian leaders accused Israel of stepping up incursions into their
territory as the world turned its eyes toward the terror attacks in the United
States.

Battles raged between Israeli tanks and Palestinian gunmen in Jenin and Jericho
in raids the Israelis said were intended to "root out terror". Despite the
bloodshed, efforts were made to bring Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat together for truce talks.

Arafat's adviser, Nabil Aburdeneh, expected that a date and venue for a meeting
would be fixed soon.

He said Peres must come to the table with "a full mandate from Prime Minister
Ariel Sharon".

US Secretary of State Colin Powell and European leaders were also pushing for
the meeting yesterday.

Despite the turmoil in the United States, Powell called Arafat, Sharon and Peres
on Wednesday urging them to get together and called Arafat again yesterday.

However, Sharon has made it clear he will not enter peace negotiations while the
violence continues.

Meanwhile, Palestinian Minister Abed Rabbo accused Israel of "hiding behind the
dust and tragedy in New York and Washington, DC, to commit these crimes against
our innocent civilians and cities in the West Bank".

And as the world's attention focused on Osama bin Laden, blamed for the US
attacks, Sharon compared him to Arafat.

Speaking on Israeli radio, Sharon said: "Everyone has his own bin Laden.

"Arafat is our bin Laden."

Israel, meanwhile, reopened its air space after banning incoming foreign flights
in the wake of the terror attacks in the United States.

The Israeli incursions into Jenin and Jericho began in the early hours of
yesterday morning and the forces pulled out several hours later, in line with
previous Israeli invasions.

In Jenin, Israeli forces destroyed the rest of a police compound they attacked
the day before and then withdrew.

Palestinians said the tanks shelled houses and fired machine guns, killing three
people - a man and woman in a house and a gunman. They added that nine other
people were wounded during the Jenin raid.

In the desert oasis of Jericho, flares lit up the night sky as tanks rolled into
town.

Residents said several farm greenhouses were destroyed during the attack and at
least one house was damaged by tank fire.

The local hospital reported that 12 people were wounded.

The attack came a day after an overnight raid in Jenin and two nearby villages
that killed seven Palestinians, among them three suspected Islamic militants and
an 11-year-old girl.

A fourth activist died yesterday after being wounded in the attack.

In nearly a year of fighting, 626 people have been killed on the Palestinian
side and 173 on the Israeli side.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: WORLD'S BUSINESS IS LEFT IN TURMOIL

BYLINE: Clinton Manning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 671 words


THE world's economic landscape has been changed as dramatically as the New York
skyline by the disaster.

It will scar thousands of businesses worldwide , including the airline industry,
which has lost pounds 7million this week alone, according to experts.

The value of British Airways has effectively been halved in the wake of the
tragedy, and hotels and tourist destinations will also be hammered as
shellshocked Americans stay at home.

The trauma could haunt insurance companies for years, a City expert warned
yesterday.

Experts also warned it would take months to make a sensible estimate of the true
cost and settling the claims could go on for years.

Lloyd's of London, the world's biggest insurance market, yesterday admitted that
its liabilities were "substantial".

But Scotland's biggest insurance company, CGNU, yesterday said it had only
"minimal" exposure.

The Perth-based company will face a bill of about pounds 35 million. Analysts
say that is a "drop in the ocean" compared to the total damage estimate of at
least pounds 30billion.

But at Lloyd's, one broker said: "There are a lot of people in there who are
afraid - not just in terms of safety but also in terms of the future of the
insurance business."

Lloyd's chairman Sax Riley insisted it was far too soon to tot up the final bill
but they had substantial involvement in insuring both airlines involved in the
disaster.

He said: "The tragic events in the US this week have generated the most complex
set of insurance liabilities and interdependence the industry has ever seen."

The most obvious bill is for the destruction of the twin towers, built in the
early 1970s at a cost of pounds 700million. The rebuilding cost will be
substantially higher and it has already emerged only one of them was insured.

The value of other buildings, aircraft, buses and cars destroyed will also be
comparatively easy to calculate.

Beyond that, it becomes much more complicated.

Until the death toll is finally calculated, it will be impossible to estimate
the amount due to be paid in life insurance.

The cost of medical treatment for the injured could also run into tens of
millions.

Then there is the cost of lost business for the high-powered firms based in the
towers.

The daily combined profits of the banks and legal firms based there will look
like a telephone number. The fact that some of America's best business brains
perished will only escalate the bill.

And, further down the line, insurers could face stress claims from victims,
their families and emergency services staff traumatised by what they had to deal
with.

The impact on the airline industry was equally obvious and damaging.

The International Air Transport Association warned of record losses of pounds
7billion this week. That would be worse than 1992 when IATA members lost a total
of pounds 5billion in the wake of the Gulf War.

Shares in British Airways slumped to a 10-year low amid the gloom yesterday,
while Air France and Alitalia also halved in value.

And the disaster claimed its first business collapse yesterday, with Midway
Airlines of North Carolina going bust with the loss of 1700 jobs.

The firm was already in some financial difficulty but it was finished off by the
atrocity, which has led to a third of the world's 12,000 commercial airlines
being grounded.

IATA called an emergency meeting of its security committee, likely to be held in
Montreal next week.

Meanwhile, London's Square Mile remained subdued.The volume of business being
done by most traders was a fraction of normal levels.

"The market wants its leader, Wall Street, back," one investment bank trader
said.

"There are still a lot of people who don't want to trade. They are coping with
the devastation of losing friends and colleagues."

Many investment banks which had offices in the Twin Towers used internet sites
to express corporate grief and keep staff worldwide updated on the grim search
for survivors.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: VICTIM CASH PLEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 50 words


THE families of victims will benefit from an immediate gathering of mercy funds.

Both UK and US governments have said cash will be made available to help
compensate the bereaved.

Scotland's First Minister Henry McLeish also promised to fund funeral costs for
Scots victims of the disaster.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK WASHINGTON: BUSH VISITS SURVIVORS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 94 words


PRESIDENT Bush yesterday visited injured Pentagon staff and the medical staff
treating them.

He told 11 victims at Washington Hospital Centre, nine of them critically ill,
the country was praying for them.

And he praised the doctors and nurses working to save them.

Bush, clearly shaken, held hands with wife Laura as he said: "There's a
wonderful spirit on the floor we went to."

He added that those who could talk had described how they escaped the inferno
that erupted when the hijacked jet hit at the heart of the US military machine.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE GREAT 91-FLOOR ESCAPE;
 SCOT VANESSA FLEES TRADE CENTRE SAFELY

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1272 words


ART student Vanessa Lawrence left her World Trade Centre studio for just a few
minutes - and saved her life.

The 26-year-old Scot told yesterday how she fled for her life over dead bodies
and debris from the doomed north tower.

But if she had not decided to leave her 91st floor studio to make a phone call
from the lobby, she would have had no chance.

The studio was on the side of the building where American Airlines Flight 11
from Boston to Los Angeles slammed into the tower just a few floors below.

Yesterday, Vanessa spoke emotionally of her escape from death.

She said: "If I had made the phone call earlier, when I intended to, I would
have been in my studio when the plane hit and I would be dead."

Her mother, Veronica, who feared for her daughter's life when she saw the scenes
of the disaster unfolding on the TV, said: "She must have had a guardian angel."

Vanessa took more than 50 minutes to scramble through scenes of carnage down the
stairs, and got out of the building just minutes before the south tower
collapsed, showering her in rubble and dust.

She was forced to ignore screams for help from offices on floors she ran past in
her bid to escape the inferno as fires broke out all around her.

Vanessa said: "I had gone to the studio about 6am to paint the sunrise and I was
going to phone my friend.

"But I didn't want to wake her up so I waited until just before 9am.

"I've no phone in the studio so I took the lift down to the ground floor lobby
and after the short call, I took it back up to the 91st."

But as she stepped out of the lift, the plane struck the opposite side of the
building.

She said: "As I came out the lift, there was this horrendous bang and the whole
building shuddered. I couldn't believe what had happened and I had no idea what
it was.

"I think people thought it was a bomb or something.

"A few of us just made for the emergency doors and started running down the
stairs as fast as we could. The stairs were very slippy because the sprinklers
had come on and sprayed everything with water.

"Everybody was really calm but as we got further and further down there was a
lot more people around and everyone was just in a rush to get out.

"On the 20th floor, we were met by the firemen coming up.

"They were absolutely exhausted because they had run up all those flights of
stairs trying to get people out. They were smiling and trying to reassure us.

"I suppose now they are dead because they just kept going up."

Vanessa said she heard the blast of the second jet hitting the other tower as
she ran downstairs.

She added: "As we got to the ground floor, we just ran for the main doors out of
the building.

"As I ran outside, the second tower collapsed and it was pitch black."You
couldn't see a thing because of the thick dust, which was everywhere but I could
see bodies on the ground and lots of debris. I just kept running and running for
my life.

"People must have thought I was an alien because I was covered head to toe in
white dust.

"I remember people taking my picture and trying to ask me questions but I
couldn't stop.

" I was just in a daze. It was not until I was well up the street that I started
to find out what had happened.

"We all had to go and register at a hospital.I suppose that's because they
wanted to know who was alive and who was dead. I cannot believe how lucky I am -
I just had a cut on my foot."

Vanessa, from near Ayr, who has travelled the world as a promising artist, had
only had use of the studio for two months before disaster struck.

She shared the small room, ideal for its stunning views across the city, with
two others who had decided not to go in that morning.

Vanessa, who has been in New York for the past three years on a sponsorship, was
due to give up the studio next month.

At home in Scotland, mother Veronica last night said she couldn't believe her
daughter had escaped such carnage.

She said: "I believe in fate and Vanessa had a guardian angel sitting on her
shoulder that day. There is no other explanation how she can survive such a
terrible disaster.

"I heard a newsflash on the radio saying that a plane had hit the World Trade
Centre. I phoned Vanessa at home and when it went on to her answerphone I knew
she would have been painting at the tower.

"The next three and a half hours were the worst of my life. A total nightmare.

"All I could do was watch the tower collapse into the ground, not knowing if my
daughter was in there or dead or alive.

"It was a very emotional time when she rang me briefly to say that she had
escaped.

To think she got off the 91st floor of that building is just a miracle. It is
definitely fate. If she had phoned her friend when she had planned, then she
would have been sitting in her studio when the aircraft came in.

"I will always remember the moment when I heard her voice on the phone. That is
something that will never go away.

"I have been to her studio at the World Trade Centre before and I cannot believe
that all that has gone."

Vanessa is well known in Ayrshire for her showjumping skills.

Both she, her older sister Claire and their mother have competed throughout the
country.

A close friend said "They are a lovely family and everyone who knows them cannot
believe how lucky Vanessa has been to escape."

Vanessa's former classmate from Wellington School in Ayr, supermodel Kirsty
Hume, has told her family she is safe after one of the hijacked jets screeched
by the window of her New York apartment, close to the Trade Centre towers.

She leapt from her bed to see the huge fireball which engulfed the north tower.

Kirsty, 25, and husband Donovan Leitch, 33, were racing to get dressed when the
hijackers slammed the second jet into the south tower. Last night, a family
member said: "We had a trying couple of hours before we found out she was all
right.

She called us later that evening to say she was in New York and had seen it but
she was all right. She seemed pretty shocked."

Kirsty and her husband, who normally live in Los Angeles, were in town for New
York Fashion Week and are now stranded on the east coast.

The family member added: "She is in a disaster area and would be nice for her to
get home.

"But the most important thing for us is that Kirsty is safe and we are happy."

An Englishman who survived the attack has told how he made a similar escape to
Vanessa. Paul Neal, 40, from Sussex, left his desk on the 91st floor moments
after the plane hit.

He called his employers, the American Bureau of Shipping in Newark, New Jersey,
to tell them what happened before he beginning his escape.

He told his family in a phone call that there were already bodies in the
stairwells which he had to clamber over to make his way down.

The descent took more than an hour and after sheltering in a basement subway
Paul and the group he was with again had to run for their lives when they heard
the rumble of the structure collapsing.

He eventually reached safety and managed to phone and e-mail his mother Brenda,
72, to tell her he had survived.

Paul had been working in New York since April, assisting the city's port
authority in planning a rail link between JFK Airport and central New York.

Meanwhile, Trade Centre worker Nicky Tsoros, from Liverpool, was thanking his
wife Paula's lateness for saving his life.

He was delayed in getting to work because Paula took too long in the shower, and
was just about to get into the lift to go to his office on the 81st floor when
the jet struck.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FIVE ALIVE;
 AMAZING RESCUE OF FIREMEN TRAPPED TWO DAYS IN A TRUCK UNDER TON OF RUBBLE

BYLINE: Andy Lines In Manhattan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 7

LENGTH: 1138 words


FIVE firefighters were found alive at the World Trade Centre last night.

It was a boost for rescuers on a day when FIVE THOUSAND people were listed as
dead or missing. US Secretary of State Colin Powell confirmed Osama Bin Laden as
prime suspect for the atrocity.

The firefighters had been trapped under rubble in their 4x4 for more than 50
hours.

When colleagues dug out the vehicle and opened the door, two men stepped out.

The others were inside. Three of them were able to walk away from the scene.

The vehicle was in an underground car park 10 storeys below the entrance to the
centre.

One rescuer said: "We could hear them talking. Everybody started cheering.

"One of the guys shouted, 'If you can hear, bang twice.' The men did."

Jack Ginty of the New York firefighters' union said: "This is the best news
we've had in three days. It gives us a reason to go on looking for survivors.

"We will be here until we get our last brother out."

But soon after he spoke, all rescuers had to be evacuated from the site amid
fears the nearby American Express/ Merrill Lynch tower was about to collapse.

Eleven firefighters and three police have now been rescued after being trapped
by Tuesday's terrorist strike.

But their comrades were confronted with horror after horror yesterday as they
looked for more survivors amid 450,000 tons of rubble.

The worst carnage was found in an area known as The Pit, a 30ft deep hole at the
centre of the site.

Asked what he had discovered there, firefighter Brian Gavin said: "Legs, arms,
torsos, feet, hands."

The body of a suspected hijacker and a stewardess were found last night in the
cockpit of one of the planes in the wreckage. The stewardess's hands were bound
with wire.

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said he had a list of 4763 missing people from the
World Trade Centre attacks.

He said: "It could turn out we recover fewer than that, it could be more."

The New York total includes the people on the two airliners used to destroy the
towers.

There are also 190 feared dead at the Pentagon and 45 people were killed aboard
the hijacked jet that crashed in Pennsylvania.

The combined total is more than double the death toll at Pearl Harbour, where
2390 were killed in 1941.

At 3pm UK time yesterday, 94 bodies had been taken from the World Trade Centre
and less than 30 identified.

Giuliani said New York had 30,000 body bags available, to hold the dead and
pieces of the dead.

Surgeon Todd Wilder, working at the scene, said: "There was a steady stream of
body bags coming out all night. That, and lots and lots of body parts."

At least 202 firefighters, possibly as many as 350, were missing. Fire chief
Pete Ganci and his two deputies have been confirmed as killed.

Also lost was John P O'Neill, head of security for the World Trade Centre, who
devoted much of his life to fighting fanatics including bin Laden.

Mr O'Neill was a former FBI expert on terrorism. He led the investigations into
bin Laden's bombing of the USS Cole and US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Three finance companies with offices in the complex had nearly 1400 workers
unaccounted for. They were named as Marsh & McLennan, Keefe Bruyette & Woods,
and Cantor Fitzgerald.

In The Pit, resucers passed up bucket after bucket full of human body parts.

Brian Gavin had lost nine of his closest colleagues in the outrage. Each time he
carefully placed a body part into a bucket, he wondered if it had belonged to a
friend.

Lieutenant Vincent Boura spent hour after hour in The Pit. To get in and out, he
had to scale a 30ft rope.

At the end of his day, Vincent said: "I'm going home to kiss my daughter. She's
just starting to say 'Daddy'.

"Unfortunately, a lot of kids are not going to be able to say 'Daddy' any more.

"I didn't see anyone in there. I haven't seen any survivors, nothing.

"Everything's in tiny little pieces. It's pulverised."

Around The Pit, dozens of doctors stood with no survivors to treat. Teams of
social workers had no one to counsel.

The people being found were far beyond help. Brian Gavin said: "We pulled out
bodies - well, not really bodies, pieces of bodies.

"We hand 'em down, hand 'em down, hand 'em down.

"Some of them are bare-chested. Their clothes are ripped off. Thank God I
haven't seen any children - others in my unit have seen children's feet."

As he searched, Brian, 33, thought of his two-month-old baby girl at home.

He said: "I'd like to cry. To tell you the truth, I wanted to cry. But I have to
keep going."

Comrade Matt Cody crawled through tunnels in the wreckage and found the body of
a pregnant woman.

A colleague found a seat from the cockpit of one of the planes.

At the bottom of The Pit, almost undamaged, was the huge TV transmitter that had
stood on top of the towers.

Fire Captain Matt Nelson said: "It went straight down 110 storeys. It's standing
straight up like a dart."

Around The Pit, huge girders and boulders of broken concrete littered the
streets.

Wrecked cars were piled three or four high on top each other.

On one dust-covered vehicle, someone had scrawled: "Remember the Dead."

Those victims were taken to a makeshift morgue in a wrecked Brooks Brothers
menswear shop.

Many of them were scorched beyond recognition. Gold wedding rings glistened on
blackened hands.

Businessmen were found still clutching their briefcases. One had his mobile
phone burned into his palm.

The Fire Department's own chaplain, Father Mychal Judge, was found dead under a
fire engine after being hit by debris. Another fireman was killed when someone
jumped from the towers and landed on him.

The search for survivors went on for as long as it was relatively safe.

Progress was terribly slow. Cranes and heavy machinery could only be used with
extreme care, for fear of dislodging wreckage and harming anyone trapped.

Searchers with pickaxes worked slowly too. Sometimes fires flared when they dug
into the debris.

Robots probed air pockets in search of life and tiny cameras were placed on
poles to look into the wreckage.

Conditions were so awful that even search dogs were affected. As he worked in
the rubble with his Alsatian, Garo, State Trooper James Vaughn said: "There's so
much scent it kind of overwhelms him.

"He's smelling flesh in the air. It's just coming out of the cracks. It's
everywhere."

The south of Manhattan remained closed to all but the emergency services.

At a news conference yesterday, Powell became the first government official to
name bin Laden as a main suspect.

Bin Laden is thought to be hiding in Afghanistan. Powell said he would press
Pakistan, an ally of the Afghan Taliban regime, for more information on the
terror kingpin's movements.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK WHAT DID WE SEE IN THERE? LEGS, ARMS, TORSOS, HANDS

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words


RESCUERS worked on in the pit of death that was once the World Trade Centre
yesterday as officials said America's toll could reach 5000.

Firefighters wept as they recovered buckets full of body parts from a 30- foot
hole in the middle of the disaster site.

Asked what he had seen in the place workers call The Pit, one, Brian Gavin,
said: "Legs, arms, torsos, feet, hands."

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said he had a list of 4763 missing people from the
World Trade Centre attacks.

He said: "It could turn out we recover fewer than that, it could be more."

Giuliani said New York had 30,000 body bags available, to hold the dead and
pieces of the dead.

The combined toll from Tuesday's atrocities in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania is equivalent to Pearl Harbour, the Titanic started cheering. We
all started shouting, 'USA, USA.'

Reports said the firefighters were saved by an anti-theft system in the 4x4.
Rescuers zeroed in on its signal.

The firefighters had been trapped for four hours after getting into trouble
during the rescue effort.

Police officer Mike Sheehan said the men had been able to make radio contact
when they realised they were close to being saved.

Jack Ginty, of the New York fire- fighters' union, said: "This is the best news
we've had. It gives us a reason to go on looking for survivors.

"We will be here until we get our last brother out."

Eleven firefighters and three police have now been rescued after being trapped
by Tuesday's terrorist strike.

But their comrades were confronted with horror after horror yesterday as they
looked for more survivors amid 450,000 tons of rubble.

The worst carnage was found in an area known as The Pit, a 30ft deep hole at the
centre of the site.

Asked what he had discovered there, firefighter Brian Gavin said: "Legs, arms,
torsos, feet, hands."

The body of a suspected hijacker and a stewardess were found last night in the
cockpit of one of the planes in the wreckage. The stewardess's hands were bound
with wire.

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said he had a list of 4763 missing people from the
World Trade Centre attacks.

He said: "It could turn out we recover fewer than that, it could be more."

The New York total includes the people on the two airliners used to destroy the
towers. There were also 190 feared dead at the Pentagon, among them a three-star
general.

And 45 people were killed aboard the hijacked jet that crashed in Pennsylvania.
The airliner's black box flight data recorder was found last night, giving new
hope to investigators trying to work out what its target had been.

The combined total from Tuesday's atrocities is more than double the death toll
at Pearl Harbor, where 2390 were killed in 1941.

At 3pm UK time yesterday, 94 bodies had been taken from the World Trade Centre.
Fewer than 30 of them had been identified.

Giuliani said New York had 30,000 body bags available, to hold the dead and
pieces of the dead.

Hours after he spoke, all rescuers had to be evacuated from the site amid fears
the nearby American Express/ Merrill Lynch tower was about to collapse.

The top floors of the 53-storey One Liberty Plaza office block also began
buckling.

Surgeon Todd Wilder, working at the scene, said: "There was a steady stream of
body bags coming out all night. That, and lots and lots of body parts."

At least 202 firefighters, possibly as many as 350, were missing.

Also lost was John P O'Neill, head of security for the World Trade Centre, who
devoted much of his life to fighting fanatics including Osama bin Laden.

Mr O'Neill was a former FBI expert on terrorism. He led the investigations into
bin Laden's bombing of the USS Cole last year and US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania in 1998.

Three finance companies with offices in the complex had nearly 1400 workers
unaccounted for.

In The Pit, rescuers passed up bucket after bucket full of human body parts.

Brian Gavin had lost nine of his closest colleagues in the outrage. Each time he
carefully recovered a body part, he wondered if it had belonged to a friend.

Lieutenant Vincent Boura spent hour after hour in The Pit. To get in and out, he
had to scale a 30ft rope.

At the end of his day, Vincent said: "I'm going home to kiss my daughter. She's
just starting to say 'Daddy'.

"Unfortunately, a lot of kids are not going to be able to say 'Daddy' any more.

"I didn't see anyone in there. I haven't seen any survivors, nothing.

"Everything's in tiny little pieces. It's pulverised."

Around The Pit, dozens of doctors stood with no survivors to treat. Teams of
social workers had no one to counsel.

The people being found were far beyond help. Firefighter Gavin said: "We pulled
out bodies - well, not really bodies, pieces of bodies.

"We hand 'em down, hand 'em down, hand 'em down.

"Some of them are bare-chested. Their clothes are ripped off. Thank God I
haven't seen any children - others in my unit have seen children's feet."

At the bottom of The Pit, almost undamaged, was the huge TV transmitter that had
stood on top of the towers.

Fire Captain Matt Nelson said: "It went straight down 110 storeys. It's standing
straight up like a dart." Around The Pit, huge girders and boulders of broken
concrete littered the streets. Wrecked cars were piled three or four high.

On one dust-covered vehicle, someone had scrawled: "Remember the Dead."

The victims were taken to a makeshift morgue in a wrecked Brooks Brothers
menswear shop. Body parts arrived a limb at a time.

Many more were scorched beyond recognition. Gold wedding rings glistened on
blackened hands.

Businessmen were found still clutching their briefcases. One had his mobile
phone burned into his palm.

The Fire Department's own chaplain, Father Mychal Judge, was found after being
hit by debris. Another fireman was killed when someone jumped from the towers
and landed on him.

The search for survivors went on for as long as it was relatively safe.

Robots probed air pockets in search of life and tiny cameras were placed on
poles to look into the wreckage.

Conditions were so awful that even dogs were affected. As he worked in the
rubble with his alsatian, Garo, State Trooper James Vaughn said: "There's so
much scent it overwhelms him.

"He's smelling flesh in the air. It's just coming out of the cracks. It's
everywhere."

The south of Manhattan remained closed to all but the emergency services.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: UNITED STATES BOGUS PILOTS NABBED BY THE FBI;
 3AM NEWS

BYLINE: Vivienne Aitken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 76 words


FBI agents arrested 10 people at US airports last night amid fears of a repeat
of this week's terrorist atrocities.

Police chiefs said at least one of the suspects had a fake ID and pilot's
licence.

Last night, nine men and a woman - some of them Arab nationals - were being
grilled by the Joint Terrorist Task Force.

FBI sources claimed there was a connection to Tuesday's hijack attacks on the
World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK PLEASE GIVE ME HOPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 235 words


THE fiancee of a New York Trade Centre victim begs for a sign that he is alive.
Rachel Uchitel was last night among hundreds wandering the streets trying to
find their lost loved ones as the city's mayor put the death toll at 5000.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 14, 2001

Terrorist attack insurance costs could spiral to GBP 20bn;
Apocalypse America

BYLINE: Brian O'Connor;Douglas Bence

SECTION: Pg. 85

LENGTH: 312 words



INSURERS are bracing themselves for the biggest losses in the industry's
300-year history. As estimates of the total bill ran as high as $ 30bn (GBP
20bn), experts warned compensation for lives lost could be even higher than the
bills for property.

German-owned Commerzbank pointed out that, if 20,000 victims, who included many
wealthy and high-earning people, were each covered for half million dollars,
gross claims would reach $ 10bn (GBP 6.8bn).

However, the net cost to the insurance industry may be lower as the casualty
toll could be below that first feared.

Claims for work interruption or lost business could reach GBP 3.7bn, says
Commerzbank.

It reckons the World Trade Center complex has an insured value of GBP 2.2bn ($
3.2bn). With other claims, the total property bill could be over GBP 3bn.

Working out the liabilities is difficult for the tragic reason that many of the
brokers handling them worked in the towers and have perished. Experts say both
the older owner the Port Authority and new leaseholder Larry Silverstein are
likely to have taken out buildings cover.

Under the usual terms of insurance against terrorism, all property damage from
an aircraft would be claimable against the airline and its insurers.

Large reinsurers such as Munich Re and Swiss Re are likely to face the biggest
bills. Swiss Re has warned of possible claims of GBP 500m, Munich Re of up to
GBP 620m.

Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway company could lose GBP 700m. US insurer
Chubb estimates its losses at GBP 70m to GBP 140m. France's Axa estimates up to
GBP 270m. UK insurer Hiscox warned that catastrophe losses from Lloyd's
syndicate 33 would 'clearly have a material impact' on this year's trading.

Hiscox has fallen 40p in two days to 130p.

The most expensive previous disaster, Hurricane Andrew, cost $ 20bn (GBP 14bn).


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BACK ON THEIR FEET: THE STARS AND STRIPES FLIES ON THE FLOOR OF THE
CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE WHICH RESUMED LIMITED TRADING YESTERDAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK: NEW YORK PLEASE GIVE ME HOPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 40 words


THE fiancee of a New York Trade Centre victim begs for a sign that he is alive.
Rachel Uchitel was last night among hundreds wandering the streets trying to
find their lost loved ones as the city's mayor put the death toll at 5000.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 14, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: JLL allays staff fears

BYLINE: Adam Coffer

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 172 words


Jones Lang LaSalle has confirmed that its employees based in New York and at the
Pentagon are safe and unharmed.

In an internal memorandum to all Jones Lang LaSalle employees worldwide, Stuart
Scott and Chris Peacock said: "Jones Lang LaSalle is deeply saddened by the
unprecedented tragedies in America and extends its heartfelt sympathy to the
victims and families affected by this horrible series of events.

"Our dedicated people continue to focus firmly on clients who may have been
affected by these events. Like all of us, our clients have many concerns and
questions, and we continue to work diligently to keep them informed."

JLL manages more than thirty buildings in Manhattan, comprising 2.5m sq m (27m
sq ft).

Scott and Peacock added: "It will be some time before the full scope and meaning
of these tragedies will be realized. Certainly, many things will change -- how
we travel, as well as how we secure our workplaces. We at Jones Lang LaSalle
will do whatever we can to protect our people and our clients."

EGi News 14/09/01




LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 14, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: AXA set for $400m insurance bill

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 312 words


Insurance giant AXA said today the terrorist disaster in the US could cost it up
to $400m in claims.

The Paris-based group said it was too early to know how great its exposure to
the tragedy was, but estimated that once reinsurance contracts had been taken
into account it was likely to be in the range of $300m (£204.4m) to $400m
(£272.5m).

The group, which reported its interim results today, said efforts to reposition
itself to offer more products and concentrate on being a leading player in its
chosen markets had helped it overcome "turbulent" conditions.

But chief executive Henri de Castries warned that Tuesdays events had created
challenges that all insurance companies would have to work through.

Despite weaker global economies the group, whose UK brands include AXA Sun Life
and PPP Healthcare, enjoyed a strong first half with three out of its four main
lines of business recording strong double-digit earnings growth.

During the six months to the end of June the group saw net earnings, which
include operating profits but exclude one-off gains and losses, increase by 33%
to EUR1.54bn (£951.1m).

Revenues were down slightly at EUR38.96bn (£24.06bn) after the sale of its
investment bank DLJ earlier this year. On a comparable basis revenue was nearly
4% up.

AXAs life and savings arm enjoyed a strong first half with net cash earnings up
81% to EUR996m (£615.1m), boosted by the group increasing its stake in AXA Sun
Life and the US-based AXA Financial to 100%.

The groups property and casualty business also had a good six months with net
cash earnings rising by 56% to EUR451m (£278.5m).

The UK division of property and casualty saw earnings increase by EUR50m
(£30.9m) due to aggressive cost management and stricter underwriting in the
private motor business.

That reduced the divisions overall loss to EUR1m (£618,000) from EUR51m (£31.5m)
in 2000.

EGi News 14/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 14, 2001

GOLF: RYDER CUP FUTURE CLOUDED IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACKS IN US; TEAMS WEIGH UP
WHETHER TO PLAY

BYLINE: MARK FLEMING IN ST LOUIS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 581 words


THE organisers of the Ryder Cup were locked in crisis talks last night to try
and end the uncertainty over whether the Ryder Cup will take place.

Amid calls for decisive action, the Professional Golfers Associations of America
and Britain held a transAtlantic conference call to try and decide whether to
cancel the event in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the USA.

The British are still hoping the match can go ahead and have given their
American counterparts as much time as they need to decide whether to come over
to The Belfry in a fortnight or not.

The members of the US PGA are waiting for guidance from President George W. Bush
before deciding what to do. There is a mood of defiance growing among some of
the players who believe they must show the world that America will not bow to
terrorists.

But there is also much uncertainty over whether their government will have
retaliated by then, which would hugely increase the mounting security concerns.
The Europeans last night repeated their welcome to the American team.

Sandy Jones, chief executive of the British PGA, said: "We urge the match to
continue at this time. We are talking to the Americans and they are waiting for
a lead from their government.

"Our invitation remains open for the US team to come and play the match.

Everything is in position for staging the event. There are two ways of looking
at it. Either you can play the match to show that life goes on or we can cancel
it out of respect. Either way wewill be both supported and criticised in certain
quarters."

The issue has been further complicated as many of European Tour officials,
including chief executive Ken Schofield, are stranded in Canada after their
flights to the USA were diverted on Tuesday.

Players on both sides have vowed to back whatever decision is made by the
authorities.

Mark Calcavecchia is one player who initially said he thought the Ryder Cup
should be postponed or even completely cancelled but he now believes there are
valid reasons for it to take place as planned.

The veteran American said: "Things have to move on, if not you are just giving
in. If you would have asked me yesterday I would have said not to play but time
heals all wounds and maybe next week I will feel differently.

"If they decide to play it, then I will be there. But if they don't, then I will
support that decision as well."

Colin Montgomerie believes staging the cup would send out a strong message of
unity between allies.

Europe's leading player said the value of staging the event could be immense in
the light of the atrocities carried out in New York and Washington.

Montgomerie said: "We can use this to be beneficial in a way, to say this is
what the Ryder Cup should be and should have been every time we have played,
that is, uniting us through sport.

"This is what should happen and hopefully will happen. It is for our PGAs and
Tours to get together and see if it is feasible. Let's hope we can use it as a
positive message because if the Ryder Cup is cancelled or postponed, you are
only allowing these terrorists to win.

"You cannot allow these type of people to win. That is why I hope the Ryder Cup
does take place to show that we are continuing. It would have a very different
feel to it."

Security issues however could decide the matter. The American government have
promised to strike back hard at the terrorists and that could force the issue
once and for all.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 14, 2001

THE UK fell silent for three minutes at 11am today as millions of people mourned
the victims of the US terrorist attacks.

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 21 words


The Queen and Prime Minister Tony Blair took part in the unprecedented gesture,
along with bus drivers and shop assistants.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: n DEVASTATION: rescue workers at the World Trade Centre

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 2001

Attack on America: Ryder Cup could be terrorist target fears Cink: Americans
agonise over trip to Europe and US grand prix in doubt

BYLINE: David Davies, Alan Henry and Daniel Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 36

LENGTH: 794 words


One of the United States Ryder Cup team voiced fears yesterday that the event,
scheduled for the Belfry in Sutton Coldfield at the end of the month, could be a
target for terrorists.

Nevertheless, the country's governing body, the US PGA, has said it wants the
competition to go ahead.

"This would be a huge target for any of America's enemies," claimed Stewart
Cink, the young Alabaman who is due to make his Ryder Cup debut. "If someone
wanted to strike at America or freedom or capitalism, the Ryder Cup would be a
tempting target to hit."

Cink, who named his younger son Reagan, added: "I have a wife and two boys and
do not want to make them live without a husband and a father just because I want
to play in the Ryder Cup."

Several other US players have voiced reservations about the event. But Sandy
Jones, chief executive of the PGA, says he "feels strongly" that the matches,
due to be played on September 28-30, should go ahead. "I say confidently that
the Americans should come over and play," he said. "I think this is a symbolic
thing and a strong indicator to the world as to what kind of world we are going
to live in."

He added that he had spoken to Ken Schofield, the executive director of the PGA
European tour, who had re-affirmed his support for allowing the matches to go
on.

Jim Awtrey, the chief executive of the PGA of America, which administers the
competition from the US side, said he hoped the cup would be held as planned but
that a final decision would take days to formulate.

"We continue to have discussions with the US captain Curtis Strange and have
communicated to a number of players that the safety of the team and their
families is of utmost importance. It is our desire for the Ryder Cup matches to
go forward.

"We are reassessing every logistic connected with the matches - a process which
will take a number of days and which will require input from our government."

Jones is confident that the security precautions already in place would be
sufficient. "We are comfortable with what we have," he said. "We have taken all
measures necessary and after the attack on Tuesday we had them re-examined. The
report said that they were satisfactory to the highest level."

The US grand prix, another major event that might be considered in the line of
fire, is still scheduled to be raced at Indianapolis the same weekend. Ralf
Schumacher, for one, fears for his safety.

"It's a bad joke intending to race in the United States," the Williams driver
said at practice for the Italian grand prix yesterday. "I don't think it's safe
and I will, for sure, not take my family and friends."

Max Mosley, the FIA president, has said he believes that the event should go
ahead. "It is our job to get on with things at the present time and not give in
to terrorists," he said.

Most events in the US this weekend have been called off. Most in Europe will go
ahead.

All Premiership and Football League games will take place as planned, with a
minute's silence before every match and flags flown at half-mast. The rugby
league and union calendars will also be unaffected, with games preceded by a
two-minute silence.

The US major leagues have called a halt to their schedules, with baseball
deciding to extend its season so that all postponed games can be played. The US
PGA and LPGA have cancelled this week's events. But the ATP, none of whose
tennis tournaments is taking place in the US, is continuing with its schedule.

But New Zealand have called off their cricket tour of Pakistan and ordered their
A team home from a tournament in India.

The senior squad learned of the decision while they were in Singapore on their
way to Karachi. Martin Snedden, the New Zealand board's chief executive, said
the decision was taken in view of "the proximity of Pakistan to a potential
trouble spot".

The state of play

OFF

*November's inaugural Afro-Asian Games in New Delhi.

*New Zealand's cricket tour of Pakistan.

*Next week's world canoe and kayak championships in Tennessee.

*All NFL and most college football games this weekend.

IN DOUBT

*The US wants next week's Davis Cup home tie against India postponed.

*Austria's players are against travelling to Tel Aviv for their World Cup
qualifier next month.

ON

*The German 500, the first CART series race to be staged in Europe, on Saturday.

*The US grand prix in Indianapolis on September 30.

*John Bailey's WBU light-welterweight title challenge against Ricky Hatton in
Manchester on Saturday, though his cuts man and one of his trainers are stuck in
the US.

*Wednesday's postponed Champions League games rescheduled for October 10. Last
night's Uefa Cup matches to be played next Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

MONITOR: ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD: THE PRESS IN NATO COUNTRIES COMMENTS ON THE
TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES, AND PRESIDENT BUSH'S LIKELY RESPONSE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 828 words


Eleftherotypia

The unprecedented multiple terrorist attack against the United States shocked
the entire word. The global condemnation of such acts comes without hesitation,
along with the pain for the thousands of victims. The crucial question is how
the US leadership will react. It must realise that the best reaction is that of
democratisation of the world order, respect for international law, abandonment
of arbitrary behaviour or the law of the sheriff. The answer to terrorism is
always more democracy for all the peoples of the planet. (Greece)

La Tribune

The United States is no longer a sanctuary. The proof lies with yesterday's
diabolical demonstration. Politically, it changes everything. It is going to
force President Bush to react. What conclusions will he draw regarding his
country's vulnerability? The decisions he will make, the targets he will choose,
the reassessment he will make of his foreign and domestic policies, will upset
the military and diplomatic landscape of this new century. Everything will
change, including on the economic level. What will be the consequences of
President Bush's decision on global markets? If developed countries want to
rally the support they need across the planet, they will need new radical
measures to combat the radicalisation of today's world. But are they ready?
(France)

Corriere della Sera

We will never be able to forget the title chosen by the CNN for the most
terrifying tragedy of our era -- "America under attack." We will limit ourselves
to correcting it. The civilised world in its entirety was under attack. We are
all Americans. Like George W Bush, who has been put by unpredictable fate in a
position that is even more difficult than the one faced by Roosevelt after Pearl
Harbor. The net of US internal security was sensationally defeated. The only
superpower left discovers itself weak and confused in the era of internet and
multimediality created by its own technology. We are all Americans also as we
look with a broken heart and growing anger at the disgraceful street
demonstrations by Palestinians rejoicing at the images of the death of innocent
civilians. We are all Americans as we wonder about the real nature of the world
we live in - the spectral and bloody world of these tragic hours or that of the
longest era of prosperity and peace in history, that today seems to be fading
amid the dust, red with blood, of the towers of Manhattan." (Ferruccio de
Bortoli, Italy)

Zycie

This is not an attack on the United States. The attacks on the World Trade
Centre towers, the Pentagon, and other American icons are, in fact, an attack on
the whole civilised world - its standards, habits, and ethical code. (Pawel
Fafara, Poland)

Magyar Hirlap

Obviously, the shock of the moment would seem to give credence to those views
that have maintained from the beginning that there is only one possible reaction
to terrorism: to strike at it with full force. However, a state of law and order
can only judge in a way that befits law and order. But, just in the defence of
the law, it cannot have any mercy. (Hungary)

Le Soir

The world is flabbergasted, horrified and worried. It is horrified by the
appalling, inhuman, and unjustifiable violence of this attack against a big
democratic nation. Our emotion is huge, in keeping with the size of the human
catastrophe. We can only join the vast current of solidarity and of compassion
for the American people which expressed itself immediately after the attacks.
Isn't it, beyond the United States, the civilisation which we shared with it
which is now being challenged? The world is worried because it discovers that
the American giant has feet of clay. The most sophisticated anti-missile defence
projects seem derisive faced with the determination of a few terrorists. Those
who committed such a terrible crime must be hunted down and punished. With
determination, but also with calm. After yesterday's events, it is urgent to
deeply rethink the question of world security - to rethink it together, at the
level of democratic countries' alliances, and to rethink it both in political
and social terms as well as military ones. This attack on civilisation deserves
a response worthy of this civilisation. (Pierre Lefevre, Belgium)

El Pais

It is a time to call for calm and to trust the ability of the world's first
power and the allied defence system to deal with this indiscriminate attack. The
terrorist attack goes against the essence of our political civilisation and
proves the enormous contagious effect of conflicts such as that of Middle East.
The Bush administration must find the guilty parties, as Mr Bush has promised to
do, but the United States must resist the temptation to launch a counter-attack
unless it is certain about who is guilty or where the attack came from. Mr Bush
will have to prove his leadership ability so that American society regains its
self-confidence. (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

TERROR IN AMERICA: AUSTRALIA: ATTACK ON SCHOOL BUS CARRYING MUSLIM CHILDREN

BYLINE: Kathy Marks In Sydney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 271 words


A SCHOOL bus carrying Muslim children has been stoned in the Queensland capital,
Brisbane, as part of a backlash against the terrorist attacks in the United
States.

Anti-Muslim feeling was already running high in Australia after the government's
decision last month to turn away 433 mainly Afghan asylum- seekers rescued by
the Norwegian freighter MS Tampa in the Indian Ocean.

But incidents of threats and abuse have escalated sharply since the attacks in
New York and Washington this week.

The country's mosques have received abusive phone calls, while racist slurs and
swastikas were scrawled on a Lebanese church in Sydney yesterday and vandals
tried to set fire to an Orthodox church. Women wearing head scarves have been
spat at. There were also reports of Muslim women's veils being ripped off and of
a mosque in Perth being defaced with faeces.

The school bus in Queensland was pelted with bottles and stones, which damaged
the side of the vehicle. No one was injured, but the children were said to be
shaken. Police patrols have been stepped up around the school, in the Brisbane
suburb of Karawatha.

Sultan Deen, chairman of the Queensland Islamic Council, said anonymous callers
had telephoned mosques. "It is very disturbing," he said. "They are saying
things like 'you will be held responsible' and 'we'll get you'."

Yasser Soliman, chairman of the Islamic Council of Victoria, condemned the
terrorist attacks and offered prayers of support. He said the Muslim community
was appalled. "Terrorism, the killing of innocent people, is a crime against God
and against humanity," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

BAE EXECUTIVES KILLED IN US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Michael Harrison

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 334 words


BAE SYSTEMS cut its forecast yesterday for deliveries of Airbus aircraft in the
wake of the suicide plane attacks on America which, it has emerged, claimed the
lives of three senior BAE executives.

Despite the civil slowdown, BAE shares climbed 12 per cent on optimism about its
defence prospects and expectations that the company will grow earnings this year
when it warned in January of a flat 12 months.

The company said it now expected Airbus production to reach no more than 350 to
370 next year, compared with 330 this year. Last month, Airbus said it expected
production to reach 400 - a reduction on the 450 deliveries the European
manufacturer had been forecasting earlier in the year.

John Weston, BAE's chief executive, said, that the throttling back in production
was unlikely to have much impact on jobs since BAE was in the process of taking
on an extra 8,000 workers for the A380 super jumbo programme. "It is easier to
take your foot of the accelerator when you are going faster than to slam your
foot on the brake harder when you are slowing down," he added.

The three BAE executives killed in Tuesday's atrocities were all US citizens.
Bob Penniger, a programme director at BAE's mission solutions division in San
Diego was aboard the American Airlines flight which crashed into the Pentagon.
Charles Jones, a programme manager with the electronic warfare systems business
in New Hampshire was a passenger on the American Airlines flight which hit the
World Trade Centre. A third unnamed BAE executive was inside the Pentagon when
the military base was attacked.

Analysts said the group's defence arm will benefit from an increase in military
spending, especially in the US where there is growing expectation that the $
100bn (pounds 68.3m) Joint Strike Fighter programme will get the go- ahead next
month.

BAE reported a 4 per cent rise in pre-tax profits for the first half of the year
to pounds 482m and forecast stronger trading in the second six months.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                               September 14, 2001

U2 appeal to fans to make donations to Red Cross in wake of terrorist attacks in
US; U2 Urge Fans To Donate To Red Cross Disaster Fund

LENGTH: 235 words

SUMMARY: The band also extend their "sympathy and condolences" to those affected
by the atrocities...


http:/u2.nme.com have appealed to their fans to make a donation to the AMERICAN
RED CROSS to help the victims of the terrorist attacks in NEW YORK and
WASHINGTON.

The band, who are due to return to North America for more live shows in the
autumn, have posted a message on the official http:/u2.nme.com website,
http:/www.u2.com , saying any fans wanting to help can donate to the American
Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.

The posting reads: "Like everyone else we are in shock at the events of this
week in the US. We can only imagine the terrible pain of so many. The people of
the US have always been close to http:/u2.nme.com and at "http:/www.u2.com
">u2.com, along with other "http:/u2.nme.com">U2 sites, we extend our sympathy
and condolences to all those affected. If you have friends or family who have
been touched by this tragedy, we are thinking of you.

"Without in any way minimising the experiences of anyone connected with those
who have been killed and injured, we know that wherever we are in the world, we
are all in this together.

"If you are looking for an immediate and effective way of helping at this time
you can make a donation to the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.
Donations can be made via http:/www.amazon.com , which is waiving its usual
fees.

"All donated money will go to the Red Cross to help victims of this and other
tragedies."


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Pharma Marketletter

                               September 14, 2001

Drugmakers give relief after terror attack

LENGTH: 167 words


As the USA attempts to come to terms with the events of September 11, when the
World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington were hit by
hijacked planes, causing what is believed to be thousands of deaths, major
drugmakers have been swift to offer relief and financial support.

Novartis has issued a statement saying that it has donated $ 3 million to the
American Red Cross to aid in disaster relief and is also giving all available
supplies of its skin substitute Apligraf for burn victims.

Abbott Laboratories says it has made a donation of $ 2 million to support
emergency assistance for victims and families "during this national crisis,"
with the funds being distributed to the American Red Cross and AmeriCares. Chief
executive Miles White said that Abbott has been working with the affected
hospitals to deliver critical medical supplies, adding that "our customer
service centers and warehouses continue to be open around the clock for
emergency supply needs."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 Marketletter Publications Ltd.

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Retail Week

                               September 14, 2001

Giant WTC Mall demolished in terrorist attack.

BYLINE: Jo Young.

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 195 words


Along with thousands of lives, the terrorist assault on New York destroyed the
39,680 sq m Mall at the World Trade Center. The shopping centre was one of the
US's highest earning and housed approximately 80 stores.

Hundreds of shops and malls across the US were closed on Tuesday as a mark of
respect or because of security concerns, and consumers began stocking up on
food, petrol and other staples.

The biggest mall in the country, Mall of America, Minnesota, was among those
shut as fear spread about the possibility of more attacks.

In the immediate aftermath of the attack, retailers offered their support to all
those affected. Several have made stores available as Red Cross fundraising
collection points.

Drugstore chain Walgreens has begun shipping pharmaceutical supplies to New York
City. Sears turned its corporate head office into an emergency blood donation
centre to help combat the shortage of supply.

Shop, bars and restaurants in much of lower Manhattan came to a standstill
following the crashing of planes into the World Trade Center. Many of the
outlets are likely to be closed for some days as the rescue and clear-up
continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                           Copyright 2001 Retail Week

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 14, 2001

ATTACK THOSE WHO HARBOUR TERRORISTS

SECTION: DEAR SUN; LETTER; TERROR IN AMERICA

LENGTH: 89 words


    IF we direct our response only at terrorists, whose religious mania makes
them impervious to reason, it will have no effect whatsoever.

    If we do not react they will see it as weakness and strike again. If we
retaliate they will seek revenge.

    Instead we must strike at those who give them shelter and supply them with
arms, money and training facilities.

    Without these facilities the terrorists will still be evil and insane but
will lack the means to inflict much harm.

    DAVID SAWTELL Tydd St. Giles, Cambs


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 14, 2001

Messages on US terror attacks.

BYLINE: Pauline Hawkins (author email phawkins@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall


VISITORS to the thisislancashire site have been sending messages of condolence
and suport following the terrorist attacks.

Messages have been posted by people from both the UK and abroad, many passing on
their thoughts and prayers, italicthese includeitalic:

The whole of your country is in our prayers.  Ian Lyth - Rossendale, England

Please send my condolences to all who may have lost loved ones from this
despicable act.  Kathleen Cornall - Bolton, England

It is good to know there is so much empathy for us. Keep up the good work.
Pauline DiNoto - New York

Read the other messages or post your own, "http:/
/www.thisislancashire.co.uk/lancashire/usterror/us-terror-contact.html"click
here...

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

THE FACES OF SOME OF THE VICTIMS OF THE US TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Tom Carey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 153 words


WORLD TRADE CENTRE: Melissa Harrington-Hughes FLIGHT 11: Husband and wife Robert
and Jackie Norton of Lubec, Maine FLIGHT 11: Candace Lee Williams FLIGHT 11:
Anna Williams Allison from Massachusetts FLIGHT: Jude Larson of Los Angeles
FLIGHT 77: Suzanne Calley of San Martin, California FLIGHT 11: John Wenckus of
Torrance, California FLIGHT 11: James Roux from Portland, Maine FLIGHT 77:
Barbara G Edwards from Las Vegas FLIGHT 77: Kenneth and Jennifer Lewis. They
were flight attendants aboard American Airlines Flight 77 FLIGHT 77: Capt
Charles Burlingame, Minnesota FLIGHT 11: Air stewardess Sara Low, of Arkansas
FLIGHT 11: Mildred Naiman of Andover, Massachusetts FLIGHT 175: Christoffer
Carstanjen of Massachusetts FLIGHT 11: Charles Jones of Bedford, Massachusetts
FLIGHT 175: Flight attendant Alicia Titus FLIGHT 77: Retired US Navy Admiral
Budd Flagg FLIGHT 11: Actress and photographer Berry Berenson

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORLD TRADE CENTRE: Melissa Harrington-Hughes FLIGHT 11: Husband and
wife Robert and Jackie Norton of Lubec, Maine FLIGHT 11: Candace Lee; Williams
FLIGHT 11: Anna Williams Allison from Massachusetts FLIGHT: Jude; Larson of Los
Angeles FLIGHT 77: Suzanne Calley of San Martin, California; FLIGHT 11: John
Wenckus of Torrance, California FLIGHT 11: James Roux from; Portland, Maine
FLIGHT 77: Barbara G Edwards from Las Vegas FLIGHT 77:; Kenneth and Jennifer
Lewis. They were flight attendants aboard American; Airlines Flight 77 FLIGHT
77: Capt Charles Burlingame, Minnesota FLIGHT 11:; Air stewardess Sara Low, of
Arkansas FLIGHT 11: Mildred Naiman of Andover,; Massachusetts FLIGHT 175:
Christoffer Carstanjen of Massachusetts FLIGHT; 11: Charles Jones of Bedford,
Massachusetts FLIGHT 175: Flight attendant; Alicia Titus FLIGHT 77: Retired US
Navy Admiral Budd Flagg FLIGHT 11:; Actress and photographer Berry Berenson

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

AMERICA'S HORROR: TRAPPED BY THE TERROR ATTACK;
 RIVERDANCE STAR TELLS OF THE WAIT TO ESCAPE SMOKE-FILLED CITY

BYLINE: Lisa Smith TRAPPED: Gary Healy

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 317 words


BIRMINGHAM'S former world Irish dancing champion told today how he was trapped
in his New York office block as terror reigned.

Gary Healy, aged 26, had got off a subway train near the Manhattan law firm
where he now works to see the first plane hit the World Trade Centre 200 metres
away.

But in the confusion that followed Gary, who left his Kings Heath home four
years ago to star in Riverdance on Broadway, carried on to work.

It was only when the second plane struck as he reached his desk that he realised
the seriousness of the situation.

Gary, whose parents still live in Kings Heath, said: 'Planes always fly low over
Manhattan and even when the first plane crashed it did not occur to us
immediately that we were under attack. It was only when the second plane struck
that I realised something horrible was going on.

'The first we knew that it was a terrorist attack was as we crowded around the
BBC World News on the TV in our conference room.'

'When the towers around our office crashed to the ground all the lights went off
and all our computers and phones went down. Our building literally shook and the
sky outside went as black as midnight.

'At first we tried to evacuate, but then we were advised it was safer to stay
put.

'It was 21/1 hours before the smoke and dust at our windows lifted enough for us
to get out.'

Gary, who was World Irish Dancing Champion in 1998, said the ordeal had made him
think of returning home.

He said: 'My British flatmate is already booked on the next plane out of here,
but I have my exams in November and would like to stay in New York to continue
my job as an attorney.

'The first thing I did when the dust settled was ring my parents to tell them I
was okay.

'I also checked my brother and sister who had been here with me on Monday had
safely made their journey on to Boston.'

AMERICA'S

HORROR

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TONY BLAIR RISES TO THE OCCASION;
 THE MOOD WAS SOMBRE WHEN PARLIAMENT WAS RECALLED YESTERDAY TO DISCUSS TUESDAY'S
TERRORIST ATTACKS IN THE US, AS TARIQ TAHIR REPORTS

BYLINE: Tariq Tahir

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 830 words


Around 15,000 US personnel and their families live at Lakenheath. About 12,000
are based at neighbouring Mildenhall, making the two bases the biggest US
community in the UK.

In Lockerbie, where 270 died when a plane was blown out of the sky in December
1988, the town hall bell tolled to signal the start of the threeminute silence.

Afterwards Jimmy Pagan, 54, from Lockerbie, said the events in the United States
had brought back painful memories for the people of the town.

In Belfast, the US consul-general Barbara Stephenson said she hoped that the
terrible tragedy could help bring about lasting reconciliation in Northern
Ireland.

Outside Belfast City Hall, tens of thousands stood, heads bowed, in front of a
makeshift stage to observe the silence. Lord Mayor Jim Rodgers and Mrs
Stephenson were joined by Northern Ireland Minister Jane Kennedy and acting
First Minister Sir Reg Empey.

Representatives of the four main churches in Northern Ireland invited people to
commit themselves to strive for peace in a world "torn apart by fanaticism,
strife, bitterness and greed for power."

In the Irish Republic, business and commercial life came to a halt and special
church services were held.

Banks, schools, offices, shops, pubs and restaurants closed their doors as a
mark of respect for the dead.

President Mary McAleese, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and the entire Irish cabinet
attended a service at Dublin's Roman Catholic Pro Cathedral, which was filled to
capacity. A service was also held by Dublin's Jewish community at the synagogue
in Terenure.

Several hundred people gathered at the US embassy in Ballsbridge, where books of
condolence have been opened. At 11am they stood in silence and traffic stopped
as people remembered the dead.

The Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, Walton Empey, told the service at
the Pro Cathedral that the scenes of horror would remain in everyone's mind.

"There is no doubt that for millions of people throughout the world, Tuesday the
eleventh of September 2001 was a dark day, a dark day for the people of America,
a dark day for the whole civilized world and it will remain firmly embedded in
our minds until the day we die, " he said.

An 82-year-old was robbed of pounds 200 as he stopped in the street to observe
the three-minute silence, police said.

The man, who has not been named, was celebrating his birthday and was on the way
to his local pub.

As he stood observing the silence outside the George and Dragon pub in Potton,
Bedfordshire, a man took his wallet and stole the money.

A police spokesman said the man was shocked, but unhurt.

IT was a day when the full significance of Tuesday's terrible events truly came
home.

United in sorrow for the American people and now in full realisation of toll the
attack will take on Britons, MPs, the public and press stood in silence for
three minutes.

Most held their hands in front of them and bowed their heads, a couple dabbed
their eyes to wipe away the beginnings of a tear.

As Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said, the Angel of Death was floating
above the chamber, looking down on the sombre faces below.

When Tony Blair announced he was recalling Parliament it felt as if he was going
through the very necessary motions to deal with the crisis.

As he rose to speak and began to outline where Britain stood it was clear -
Parliament was recalled because, in some shape or form, the nation was at war.

The unbelievable horror of the attack and its implications came home when the
Prime Minister spoke of what lay ahead.

Had this been a run-of-the-mill foreign policy or terrorism debate, the mention
of nuclear or chemical weapons would have been dismissed as alarmist.

Now, when the Prime Minister spoke about such threats nobody doubted, given the
capability so terrifyingly demonstrated in New York, that this was a real
possibility. There was no dissent or even a shake of the head.

It was the type of set-piece event Mr Blair revels in, when his political
antennae pick up the mood of the nation, his words measured accordingly. This
was not the time for talk of vengeance but simply to reflect on the enormity of
the situation.

Instead, he spoke calmly, but with emotion not far from the surface, of the need
to bring those who perpetrated this crime to justice and for the need to give
the US our support in her hour of need.

Mr Kennedy spoke for many when he talked of his year spent in the US, one of the
happiest of his life he said, and how anybody in the chamber could have been in
the World Trade Centre on Tuesday.

Northern Ireland MPs, Unionist David Trimble and John Hume, of the SDLP, spoke
eloquently of the horror of terrorism that has been visited upon the province
and the special sorrow felt their for the US victims.

One fears it will not be the last time that Tony Blair makes a statement to the
Commons about terrorism and the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PENSIVE: Tony and Cherie Blair leaving St Paul's Cathedral after the
memorial service for those who died in the US atrocity

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: CIA FACTFILE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 112 words


THE Central Intelligence Agency has experienced many highs and lows since it was
created in 1947.

But public confidence in its covert abilities arguably hit rock bottom following
this week's terrorist attacks.

The CIA absolutely refuses to divulge how many thousands of agents they have
working for them around the globe.

But their ability to gather foreign intelligence to protect national security
has been badly exposed by this week's terrorist outrage.

With an annual expenditure of pounds 16.5billion, many Americans are now
demanding to know what the money is spent on.

The agency's current supremo George Tenet took over the post in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: CIA'S EASY LIFE;
 EX-AGENT SLATES US SECRET SERVICE

BYLINE: Gary Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 463 words


UNDERCOVER CIA men are not interested in infiltrating Osama bin Laden's
terrorist network - because it would mean a life without booze and women, says a
former agent.

Reuel Marc Gerecht said agents used to the easy life fear being sent to remote
spots like Afghanistan in case they get a stomach bug.

And he hit out at the gaping hole in America's intelligence gathering network
left because the CIA is more interested in "empire building".

Gerecht, who worked for the American secret service for nearly nine years on
covert Middle Eastern operations, revealed: "The CIA probably doesn't have a
single truly qualified Arabic-speaking officer of Middle Eastern background who
can play a believable Moslem fundamentalist, who would volunteer to spend years
of his life with s****y food and no women in the mountains of Afghanistan.

"We don't do that kind of thing."

And in a bitter attack on the CIA's capabilities, he said: "Unless one of bin
Laden's footsoldiers walks through the door of the US consulate or embassy, the
odds that a CIA counter- terrorist officer will ever see one are extremely
poor."

Gerecht, in an article for the USA's Atlantic Monthly magazine, quotes a younger
CIA case officer as saying: "Operations that include diarrhoea as a way of life
don't happen."

Myth

And he dismisses claims from both the CIA and FBI that they are "picking apart"
bin Laden's terrorist organisation "limb by limb".

Gerecht said a so-called specialist intelligence unit for the Afghan region
consisted of just three men in an office - and a TV showing CNN.

And despite millions of dollars spent targeting bin Laden's terrorist
organisation, he added: "Efforts to infiltrate it have been ineffective and
misguided.

"I would argue that America's counter- terrorism programme in the Middle East is
a myth.

"Afghanistan has become the brain centre and training ground for Islamic
terrorism to be launched against the United States.

"Yet the CIA's clandestine service still usually keeps officers there no more
than two or three years."

He reported one CIA intelligence agent as saying of his undercover role: "We're
still a group of fake businessmen who live in big houses overseas. We don't go
to mosques and pray."

And he added the CIA had enjoyed more success against Palestinian terrorists in
the Middle East .

Gerecht said: "The CIA could find common ground with Palestinian militants, who
often drink, womanise and spend time in nice hotels." Another revelation was
that until late 1999 no CIA official had visited the only force still fighting
the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, led by Ahmad Shah Mas'ud.

Gerecht added: "I don't think Osama bin Laden and his allies will be losing much
sleep around the campfire."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: INTERPOL'S NEW TEAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 81 words


INTERPOL have set up a special unit to handle information flooding in from
sources throughout the world following the terrorist attacks.

The Eleventh of September Task Force, based in Lyon, France, was announced by
Interpol chief, Ronald K Noble, on a visit to Madrid.

Noble, a US citizen, said Interpol had received information on the US attacks
from 40 countries, including Spain.

He was in Madrid for a crisis meeting with Interpol president, Jesus Espigares.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: DUBYA CALLS UP HIS CIVVIES;
 RED ALERT FOR US RESERVE TROOPS

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18, 19

LENGTH: 1141 words


FIFTY thousand reserve troops are to be drafted in to secure America from
attack.

The members of the National Guard and Reserve will support air patrols as well
as providing security in the areas hit by the terrorist strikes, government
sources said yesterday.

President Bush agreed the move, recommended by Defence Secretary Donald
Rumsfeld, at a Cabinet meeting at the White House yesterday.

It came as recruiting offices all over America were overwhelmed with young men
rushing to enlist in a wave of patriotic fervour.

Sources stressed the reserve troops would not be used to strike against the
terrorists behind the carnage in America's cities on Tuesday.

Instead, Rumsfeld wants them to back up the air patrols, help to secure the
scenes of the attacks and be on alert throughout the USA, standing in for
regular troops sent abroad.

They could also be used with the recovery efforts in the stricken cities.

The mobilisation is the largest since the Gulf War in 1991.

Rumsfeld said yesterday that combat planes were flying over the New York
-Washington air corridor to protect commercial flights.

Air National Guard reserve pilots will be used along with regular troops to man
the fighter jets, which are on 15-minute alert at 26 bases across the USA.

Bush prepared for the call-up as the Pentagon pored over options for war.

Fuel tankers were being despatched to the tiny Indian Ocean island of Diego
Garcia, 450 miles south of the Maldives, which played a huge part in the Gulf
War.

Its vital importance was proven then when it acted as a refuelling and staging
post for the waves of B-52 bombers that carpet-bombed Saddam Hussein's
Republican Guard into bloody ruin.

The military options being considered by Bush go far beyond the short-term
Cruise missile strikes of years past on Afghanistan and Sudan and the sporadic
airstrikes against sites in Iraq.

Instead, they involve the potential lengthy use of military forces on the land,
at sea and in the air.

Options include the covert insertion of elite special forces and long-range bomb
strikes from manned aircraft, said senior military and administration officials.
Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz said the retaliation would be continued
until the roots of terrorism were destroyed.

"These people try to hide. They won't be able to hide forever," he said.

"They think their harbours are safe, but they won't be safe forever.

"It's not just a matter of capturing people and holding them accountable, but
removing the sanctuaries, removing the support systems, ending states who
sponsor terrorism."

Any strikes abroad will be able to call on the awesome strength of the American
standing armed forces.

Backing from NATO - who have said the attack on America will be considered a
strike against the entire alliance - multiplies that power.

From B-2 Stealth bombers that can fly from Michigan to Afghanistan without
refuelling, to nuclear subs already lurking off the Mediterranean, the 19 member
countries are capable of the most drastic action.

The Americans have the 5th Fleet in the Gulf, which has 8220 sailors and
Marines, plus a huge fleet of warships. The 6th Fleet in the Med has 6360
sailors and Marines as well as a flotilla of ships.

There are 15,000 US troops in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, along with
around 200 tanks and 70 fighter and bomber planes.

Britain has already offered a team of military planners to the US to begin
preparations for a strike against the terrorists and the Royal Navy has a task
force of 22 ships in the Med.

The flotilla, which includes 3000 Royal Marines from 3 Commando Brigade, is
sailing for Oman for an exercise codenamed Swift Sword. Harrier and Tornado jets
are included in the battle group.

In Oman itself, the Army has 4 Armoured Brigade with 70 tanks and about 11,000
soldiers.

The Navy has the aircraft carrier Illustrious, the nuclear sub Superb, frigates
Marlborough, Monmouth and Cornwall, and destroyers Southampton, Nottingham and
Trafalgar.

A key figure in any military strike will be US Secretary of State Colin Powell.
Powell, a career soldier for 35 years, made his worldwide reputation as chairman
of the joint chiefs of staff during the Gulf War.

His conduct since the current crisis has enhanced that reputation, with his air
of icy determination contrasting with Bush's appearance of being out of his
depth.

Powell, raised in New York's tough Bronx by Jamaican parents, could even have
been president himself today - the first black man to rise to America's highest
office. But in 1995, he was persuaded by his wife Alma not to run against Bill
Clinton. Alma, after years of seeing him risk his life, feared the security
implications.

He has been the first black man to hold many distinguished posts in the US. But,
as one colleague observed, he would have made it "even if he had been purple".

Even before the present crisis, there were indications he was on his way to
being the most powerful Secretary of State since Kissinger.

The world will hope his influence is strongly felt in the White House in the
trying weeks and months to come.

US AND BRITISH FIREPOWER AVAILABLE TO BUSH

US AIRFORCE

1400 Air Force personnel, including F16,F15, EA6B, KC135, E3B/C, C12

RAF

Britain has four Jaguars and 2VC10s in the same area

BRITISH FORCES

ARMY: 2 infantry batallions, 1engineering support squadron and 1helicopter fleet

RAF: 1200 personnel, 5 Wessex helicopters

US AIRFORCE

Air Force units - F15, F16, F117, C130, KC135

US TROOPS

650 troops

RAF

Eight Tornado GRIs

US TROOPS

3000 plus armoured personnel carriers

US FLEET

Two carrier battle groups USS Carl Vincent and USS Enterprise (on the way).
Amphibious ships with thousands of Marines. Nuclear submarines

RAF

Six Tornado F3s1

RAF

1 VC10

2 Nimrods

US

Prepositioned US equipment

BRITISH FORCES IN OMAN FOR EXCERCISE

Arriving in early October -

Aircraft Carrier: HMS Illustrious

Submarines: HMS Superb, HMS Trafalgar

Amphibious ships: HMS Ocean and HMS Fearless

Destroyers: HMS Southampton, HMS Nottingham

Frigates: HMS Cornwall, HMS Monmouth, HMS Kent, HMS Marlborough

Mine counter-measure vessels: HMS Inverness, HMS Cattistock, HMS Quorn, HMS
Walney, HMS Roebuck

Support ships: Royal fleet auxiliaries - Fort Victoria, Bayleaf, Sir Tristram,
Sir Bedivere, Sir Percivale, Sir Galahad, Fort Rosalie, Fort Austin, Oakleaf,
Diligence

Aircraft: 8 sea harriers, 7 RAF harriers GR7s

Helicopters: 35 Sea Kings and Lynxes

US NAVEL FORCES

MEDITERRANEAN SEA: 18 SHIPS, 6,357 SAILORS AND MARINES, TOMAHAWK CRUISE MISSILE

ARABIAN GULF: 14 SHIPS, 8,220 SAILORS AND MARINES

INDIAN AND PACIFIC OCEAN: 42 SHIPS, 25,691 SAILORS AND MARINES

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: TERRORIST ATTACKS WERE SELF-DEFENCE SAYS BRIT -BASED
MOSLEM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18, 19

LENGTH: 379 words


AS NATO's military machine gears up for retaliation, an outspoken British -based
Islamic cleric has claimed the terrorist attacks were an act of "self defence".

Abu Hamza al-Masri insisted Osama bin Laden was not responsible.

TheEgyptian-born cleric,wholivesin westLondon,told agatheringata a mosque in
Finsbury Park: "I think America is wrong to blame the Moslem community. I think
they are taking people for a ride.

"What was done was done in self defence. If they did it for that reason then
they are justified."

Other Moslem groups have condemned the killings.

Claiming bin Laden was not responsible for the atrocities, he said the prime
suspect would not have risked such an attack for fear of retaliation.

He said: "He has given his allegiance to the head of the Afghan state. No way
would he do something silly like that.

"Everyone knows he does not have these capabilities."

The cleric was due to lead Moslems in prayer at the mosque later today - several
hours after much of the country fell silent to remember the dead.

He said honouring the three-minute silence was an "innovation" that was not part
of his faith but added: "We value every soul on the earth."

He said: "I don't think this is a declaration of war on America. If it was done
by Moslems it would be in answer to the children who have died in Iraq, Iran and
Palestine.

"If you asked how could it be in self defence in doing this in America, it is as
much as it was in self defence in Hiroshima." Several hundred people streamed
out of the mosque after the prayer had finished.

They were met by two students - Shah Jalal, 19, and Shamsul Islam, 22 - who
urged all Moslems to unite against "US imperialism".

The pair were moved away from the mosque gates by uniformed police officers but
continued to shout their message from across the road.

About 200 people who had been inside the mosque surrounded them to listen to
their speeches. Islam said: "The Moslems must unite against American
imperialists. Twenty thousand people died in America but what about the millions
of Moslems who have died at American hands elsewhere?"

He claimed British Government buildings were also valid targets, adding that
Whitehall was no different from the Pentagon.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES BBC BOSSES REFUSE TO SAY SORRY FOR 'ANTI
-AMERICAN' TV SHOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 433 words


THE BBC has refused to apologise for a special edition of Question Time which
outraged viewers.

As revealed in the Record, BBC switchboards were jammed on Thursday by
complaints about the "anti-American" audience during the live debate about
Tuesday's terrorist outrage.

Hundreds of angry viewers called to protest after watching audience members say
America had brought the tragedy on themselves.

Former US ambassador Phil Lader, who was a panelist on the show hosted by David
Dimbleby, was almost reduced to tears by the comments.

Last night, BBC bosses said they "regret any offence caused". But a spokeswoman
made it clear the statement was not an apology.

She said: "We were surprised by the strength of feeling of some of those who
took part. We did not set out to cause offence but we recognise that some
viewers were taken aback by the programme and regret any offence caused."

But she added: "Part of the BBC's job is to reflect what the British public
feels about issues. Like it or not, there are some who disagree with American's
foreign policy."

Meanwhile, an outspoken British-based Islamic cleric has claimed the terrorist
attacks were an act of "self defence".

And Abu Hamza al-Masri, pictured opposite, insisted America's No1 suspect, Osama
bin Laden, was not responsible for the terrorist atrocities.

The Egyptian-born cleric, who lives in west London, told a gathering at Finsbury
Park mosque: "I think America is wrong to blame the Moslem community.

"I think they are taking people for a ride.

"What was done was done in self defence. If they did it for that reason then
they are justified.

"If you asked how could it be in self defence in doing this in America, it is as
much as it was in self defence in Hiroshima."

But al-Masri claimed terrorist kingpin bin Laden would not have risked such an
attack for fear of retaliation.

He said: "He has given his allegiance to the head of the Afghan state.

"No way would he do something silly like that.

"Everyone knows he does not have these capabilities."

In contrast to al-Masri's bullish words, self-defence classes have started in
major Moslem areas in London as fears of revenge attacks grow.

And sympathy for Tuesday's dead has come from some unlikely places. In Iran -
long America's sworn enemy - a minute's silence was observed in Tehran as the
country's football team prepared to play Bahrain in a World Cup qualifier.

And in Jerusalem, Moslem and Christian Palestinians also turned out in force to
hold a candle-lit vigil outside the American Consulate.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: WEDDING PLANS SAVE WORKER'S LIFE

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 120 words


ONE of Howard Lutnick's staff owes her life to skipping work on Tuesday to
prepare for her wedding today.

But Jeannie Hawryluk's fiance, Josh Rosenblum, went as usual to his Cantor
trading job on the 104th floor of the World Trade Centre and he is missing.

Jeannie said she phoned him at one point - before learning the terrible news.
She said: "The phone just rang and rang."

And then her mother called with the tragic news. She said: "In an instant my
whole world collapsed. But I have hope. We just need a glimmer of hope."

Jeannie has besieged hospitals, morgues and rescue authorities for news.

She added: "I am determined to find the man I love. I am going to wear that
wedding dress."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK WASHINGTON: PENTAGON PLANE BLACK BOXES FOUND

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 126 words


THE flight recorders from the hijacked plane that crashed into the Pentagon were
found in the charred rubble yesterday.

Blackened by the intense heat, both the flight data and voice recorders - the
black boxes - are believed to have been undamaged.

Experts are analysing the data for vital clues to exactly what happened in the
cockpit of the American Airlines jet.

It may give clues to the identities of the hijackers and help the hunt for other
terrorist supporters.

It is also expected to reveal if any passengers tackled the hijackers for
control of the airliner.

Black boxes from the hijacked plane that went down in Pennsylvania were also
found. But those from the jets which hit the twin towers are still in the
rubble.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: 700 DEAD FRIENDS;
 THERE'S ONLY ONE REASON FOR CANTOR FITZGERALD TO BE IN BUSINESS NOW. WE HAVE TO
CARE FOR OUR PEOPLE'S FAMILIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 660 words


WALL STREET mogul Howard Lutnick sobbed uncontrollably yesterday as he told how
700 of his staff died.

Lutnick's brother was among the huge workforce wiped out at brokers Cantor
Fitzgerald.

Not one of the firm's employees caught up in the World Trade Centre horror
escaped.

Tears soaked Lutnick's face as he said: "700 families, 700 families, 700
families - I can't say it without crying.

"Too many people, too many names, too many people I loved."

Lutnick, Cantor Fitzgerald's chief executive, was late for work on Tuesday. He
was dropping off his son for his first day at school.

The first hijacked airliner hit just as he arrived at the centre. Cantor
Fitzgerald's offices were on the 101st, 103rd, 104th and 105th floors of the
first tower attacked.

In the chaos and terror outside the complex, Lutnick shouted at survivors to ask
which floors they had escaped from.

If someone said "101", there was hope. The highest number he heard was "91".

"I heard a sound," Lutnick wept. "It sounded like another plane hit the
building.

"It was the plane that hit tower two. It was so unbelievably loud.

"Someone screamed that another one was coming. I started running, I tried to get
ahead of the smoke.

"My brother was on the 95th floor. He called my sister just after the first
plane hit.

"He said the smoke was pouring in, he was in a corner office and he's not going
to make it out.

"He just wanted to tell her that he loved her."

Lutnick headed north after the blast and wandered the streets of Manhattan for
four hours.

In shock, he forgot to call his wife. When he did phone, she was hysterical with
relief.

He has spent the last 72 hours consoling the families of his dead workers, and
comforting the 250 who weren't in the tower at the time.

"I get to give someone else some hope, some dream, or maybe they can kiss their
kids," he said.

"It's not about my family. I can kiss my kids - other people don't get to kiss
their kids."

A hands-on boss, Lutnick knew hundreds of his staff and counted many as friends.

He tours hospitals with a list of his missing people.

He planned to shut the company down to give people time to grieve, but the
employees took a vote and told him they wanted to work.

He said: "I think it's amazing.

"People who lost all their friends - they lost the person to their left, they
lost the person to their right, and they say, 'I want to go to work'.

"They voted to open the markets, not to make money, but because they thought it
was important.

"I voted against it. I said, 'I don't want you to work. I want you to go home
and kiss your kids and hug your families'.

"They said, 'No, I can't stay home, I have to work or do something'.

"There's only one reason to be in business - we have to make our company be able
to care for 700 families - 700 families."

One of those families is grieving for Briton Martin Wortley, a dealer for Cantor
Fitzgerald on the 102nd floor.

Martin, 29, called his mum and brother on his mobile as he tried to reach the
tower's roof.

Grandmother Morva Wortley said: "He told his mother he couldn't breathe and
couldn't get downstairs because of the heat, so they were going up in the hope
of getting on the roof.

"We don't think he could have got that far. He had gone from the 102nd floor to
the 105th floor in all the heat and smoke.

"He said he was really struggling, although he was a big strong guy.

"His last words were that we should all be strong and he loved us all."

Martin was born in the UK but moved to America in 1978 and held dual
nationality. His grandparents live in Suffolk.

lHOWARD Lutnick is not the only boss grieving for a loved-one as well as for
employees.

Fred Alger, founder of the management firm that bears his name, is among 38 of
55 people missing from the company's office on the 93rd floor. Brother David,
who survived, is the company president.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ANGUISH OF HERO FIREMAN;
 BRAVE MERCY MAN SEEN IN FAMOUS SNAP SURVIVED - - BUT BROTHER IS FEARED DEAD

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 587 words


A FIREMAN famously pictured climbing the stairs of the World Trade Centre is
alive, it emerged last night.

Mike Kehoe was thought to be dead in the rubble.

Millions saw the picture of him heading towards the blaze in the north tower as
a torrent of office workers fled the other way to safety.

Last night, it was revealed that Mike escaped before the building collapsed.

But his firefighter brother is missing, feared dead among the debris.

Shocked and exhausted Mike was told to go home to Staten Island - but refused
and vowed to help the search operation.

He said: "I'm a firefighter and for me it's a job. It's not something to shrink
away from when the going gets tough. I'm here to do what I can to help and
that's what I aim to do.

"My family is precious and I know my brother would do the same for me."

More than 300 firefighters are thought to have been killed by the collapse of
the twin towers.

Mike, based at Second Street, Lower Manhattan, said he ran from the building
less than a minute before the first collapse.

He admitted: "I was damn scared going into that situation because no one knew
what was going to happen. We didn't know the building was going to collapse but
we didn't know that it wouldn't either.

"I was ordered to help connect the roll-up hoses to the hydrants inside the
building and to try to put out the fire on the 80th floor, where the first plane
hit.

"By the time we reached the 28th floor there was a huge rumble and I could feel
that there was another huge impact.

"That was when the second plane hit the other building.

"At that point we were all given a radio message to evacuate the building and
that's what we did.

"It was a miracle that I survived. If we had gone any further towards 80 we
would never have got out in time."

Mike raced to the bottom of the stairs then ran for his life as the south tower
collapsed.

He hid behind a truck and was given oxygen by a colleague as he waited for the
mountain of rubble to settle.

But after his escape he immediately rejoined the rescue operation.

A colleague said: "Mike is in the same situation as so many of us. He has some
close friends who just didn't make it.

"He hasn't been thinking about what he has lost or the danger to himself. He has
concentrated on what he can do to make things better.

"When the dust settles, the whole department will have to adjust to what has
happened and realise that some of the guys just aren't coming back.

"There are some black days ahead. Everyone knows the risks of the job but no one
could imagine anything as dire as this."

Mike's wife Edra was only seven blocks from the World Trade Centre when she
heard the first plane hit.

She ran from her office and stood among crowds of workers trying to see what had
happened.

She said: "Everyone started screaming as we saw the second plane hit. We saw the
fireball and we knew we had to get away and I headed for Michael's firehouse.

"When I got to the station I sat there for hours and hours praying that his team
would be OK. I saw the buildings collapse and didn't believe there could be any
survivors."

She added: "Finally my cell phone rang and I heard his voice.

"He said, 'We all made it out.' He said he loved me and that he would be home
soon. All the men from his team survived although others were not so lucky and
we are praying that survivors will be found.

"I'm looking forward to having him home again. I can't describe my feelings

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FILM STAR JOINS THE RESCUERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 180 words


RESERVOIR Dogs star and former fireman Steve Buscemi donned his old uniform to
join in the search through the rubble at the World Trade Centre.

The actor, who was born in Brooklyn and became a fireman just before studying
acting, went back to his old unit, Company 55.

He put on a uniform and joined firefighters at the scene searching for any
survivors.

He also joined in the horrific task of digging among the rubble and removing
bodies and debris.

A spokesman for Buscemi said: "It was important to Steve to help out. It was
something he wanted to do.

"He's not doing it for the publicity at all, he has remained friends with
everyone in the company and wanted to join them in the rescue effort.

"I don't know how long he will be doing this but it is just like Steve to put
aside his own safety to help out."

Buscemi, who has starred in such films as Armageddon, Con Air and Fargo,
rejoined his former colleagues in the engine company to help their rescue
efforts.

The Manhattan-based team are one of dozens in New York in the huge operation.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ANGUISH OF HERO FIREMAN;
 BRAVE MERCY MAN SEEN IN FAMOUS SNAP SURVIVED - - BUT BROTHER IS FEARED DEAD

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 600 words


A FIREMAN famously pictured climbing the stairs of the World Trade Centre is
alive, it emerged last night.

But Mike Kehoe's joy at his escape before the buildings collapsed was shortlived
as it was revealed that his fireman brother is missing feared dead among the
debris.

Shocked and exhausted Mike - firefighter 12898 - was told to go home to Staten
Island but refused and vowed to help the search operation.

He said: "I'm a firefighter and for me it's a job. It's not something to shrink
away from when the going gets tough. I'm here to do what I can to help and
that's what I aim to do.

"My family is precious and I know my brother would do the same for me."

Mike, 33, based at Second Street, Lower Manhattan, was on duty with Engine 28
when the first of two hijacked airliners ploughed into the north tower.

He said: "We could see one of the towers was smoking but at that stage we still
weren't sure why.

"We went inside the lobby of the tower. It was already a mess with the elevators
and glass blown out. We found the stairwell and started making our way up the
building.

"There were tons of people coming down but they were pretty calm. At that stage
I was frightened. Our job was to get up to the floor where the plane hit to
reach people there - that's what we were determined to do.

"As we were going up, people kept saying 'Good luck', 'Lots of luck' and things
like that."

It was then that tourist John Labriola took Mike's picture, which appeared in
hundreds of newspapers around the world yesterday, a symbol of the selfless
bravery of New York's fire department.

As Mike reached the 28th floor amid growing panic, a second airliner ploughed
into the adjoining south tower.

Mike said: "The building shook. You could feel it even though it was the other
tower.

"Over the radio our chief said 'Everybody evacuate, everybody evacuate the
building now'. We all turned around immediately. It was frightening. I ran down
the stairs with everyone else. It must have taken me under three minutes to get
down."

Mike's company decided to get out. Six Ladder 11 firefighters behind him - Mike
Quilty, Rich Kelly, Matt Rogan, Edward Day, Mike Cammarata and John Heffernan -
decided to stay put.

Mike said: "They didn't move and they didn't make it. They thought it was safer
in the lobby. My buddy said 'Run!' and we ran. Then, 30 seconds later, the
second building suddenly came down. Another 30 seconds and I would have been
dead. As I was running, I turned to look. I tried to outrun the smoke and
debris. I remember thinking it was like a cartoon.

"I suddenly realised I couldn't outrun it so I got behind a truck. I didn't have
a mask. But I shared a colleague's oxygen mask although I inhaled a ton of s**t
in the air.

"We got buried in some of the rubble. I couldn't see anything. There was a
muffled silence.

"You know what it's like when it snows and the snow muffles the noise? It was
like that."

Mike thought his wife Edra, 31, was dead. She works for a radiographer and often
made deliveries to the World Trade Centre.

In turn Edra thought her husband was dead. She rushed to his fire station and
waited.

She said: " I sat there for hours praying that his team would be OK, saw the
buildings collapse and didn't believe there could be any survivors. Finally my
mobile rang and I heard his voice."

Thirty minutes later they were in each other's arms.

Mike said: "I didn't know she was alive. She didn't know I was alive. I called
the station and she was here. You can't describe our feelings of relief."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BURIED TREASURE;
 POUNDS 75M IN GOLD UNDER RUBBLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 355 words


MORE than 12 tons of gold worth around pounds 75million is buried under the
tangle of twisted girders and rubble of the World Trade Centre's twin towers.

And the massive haul of treasure is out of the reach of any looters or even the
banks in an underground warehouse beneath the mountains of debris.

The bars were held on behalf of the Comex metals trading division of the New
York Mercantile Exchange.

There was no one at the exchange to comment yesterday as the market remained
closed for business.

But Jonathan Potts, who runs an official Comex warehouse for silver bullion in
Wilmington, Delaware, said there was little risk of a robbery.

Mr Potts said: "It's probably safer than it's ever been.

"It's probably buried under 107 storeys of rubble."

The gold was held in a vault for delivery against futures contracts traded at
the Comex.

According to Comex data, there were around 3800 bars of bullion stored in the
centre before the two hijacked aircraft demolished the Manhattan landmarks and
symbols of New York's financial might.

The bars, each weighing 100 ounces, were held in a locked vault at the offices
of ScotiaMocatta, the metals and bullion trading division of Canada's Bank of
Nova Scotia.

Larry Scott, global President of ScotiaMocatta in Toronto, said: "All the
depository staff are safe and well.

"Our operations are obviously not normal but we have no concerns at this time,
either security or financial.

"Everything is not normal but everything's OK."

One dealer at a precious metals trading firm in New York said: "The bars of
bullion are still there.

"Obviously, they are going to be able to dig them out - unless they have melted
and disappeared."

Experts said the quantity buried under the rubble of America's worst-ever
terrorist atrocity amounts to just two per cent of the 600-ton-a-day global
market in gold bullion.

Mr Scott said: "This is a futures market. The big movements of physical metal
take place at the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve.

"The gold held at the World Trade Centre is trivial next to the rest of the
market."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE SURLY DRUNKEN PILOT WHO BECAME A KAMIKAZE
TERRORIST MURDERER

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 1295 words


MADMAN Mohamed Atta learned just enough at flying school to smash a hijacked
airliner into a tower full of innocent people.

The sullen, cold-eyed fanatic took a keen interest in how to steer but skipped
lessons on taking off and landing.

Then, just before the hijackings, he made a mockery of his claims to be a devout
Moslem by getting drunk on double vodkas and spitting foul-mouthed abuse at a
waitress.

In a rage after a row over his bill, Atta pulled out a wad of $ 50 and $ 100
bills and started throwing money on the table at a bar near Miami, Florida.

He had been drinking Screwdrivers - double Russian vodkas with orange juice.

Atta shouted: "You think I can't pay my bill? I'm a pilot for American Airlines.
I can pay my f****** bill."

Four days later, Atta and four henchmen seized American Airlines Flight 11 and
flew it into the World Trade Centre.

The night before the outrage, three other men spewed hate at the USA in another
Florida bar.

John Kap, boss of the Pink Pony lap- dancing club in Daytona Beach, said: "They
were talking about what a bad place America is. They said, 'Wait until tomorrow.
America is going to see bloodshed.'"

Investigators see Atta as a key to how that bloodshed was caused. He is thought
to have had links to all the other hijackers.

As the FBI scoured the world for his surviving accomplices, details emerged of
how Atta and fellow hijacker Marwan Alshehhi toured flying schools in Florida.

Henry George, who runs a flight simulator centre, said: "They just wanted to
move around in mid-air, not take off or land. I thought it was really odd.

"I can see now what I was allowing them to do. It's a terrible thing to live
with."

Atta and Alshehhi told Henry they were Egyptians who wanted to fly airliners
back home. They paid $ 1500 for six hours in a Boeing 727 simulator.

The hijackers also enrolled at two Florida flight schools, where instructors
remembered Atta as surly and unfriendly.

Miriam Smith, owner of Palm Beach Flight School, said: "This guy was very
sullen. I like to be friendly with my regular customers but he would never say
anything.

"He almost always brought a friend to fly with him. I think he was training them
as co-pilots."

Atta and Alshehhi also trained for five months last year at Huffman Aviation, a
school based in Venice, Florida.

Briton Richard Nyren was a student there at the time. He recalled: "They were
outsiders. They didn't mix with the rest of us."

School owner Rudi Dekkers said the pair claimed to be Afghans and paid pounds
10,000 each up front for lessons.

He added: "They were strange birds. They spoke quite good English but they were
by themselves, not hanging out with the other students."

The terrorists qualified to fly single-engined and multi-engined planes at
Huffman. Atta and others then apparently improved their skills at an airfield
near the town of Lantana.

When they visited Henry George's simulator centre, they were already licensed to
fly private planes.

The FBI believe at least six of the hijackers trained as pilots in Florida.

Atta spent much of his time there in a rented flat in Coral Springs.

But he and Alshehhi also lodged for a week with Venice woman Drucilla Voss,
before she kicked them out over their "arrogance".

Mrs Voss said the pair were polite to her husband but rude to her. She added: "I
did not like their attitude. Their personality was nothing to care for.

"They were very arrogant and made smart remarks. They are the only ones we have
ever had to ask to leave."

Atta was first spotted in Florida in 1997 when he trained at Embry Riddle
Aeronautical University. One student complained about a poster of Osama bin
Laden in the window of Atta's car.

He returned to Embry Riddle last year before moving on to other flying schools.

Alshehhi and Atta were also part of a suspected terrorist cell in Hamburg,
Germany. They studied electronics at the city's Technical University.

Atta flitted between America and Germany, moving often to avoid detection.

He always had money and told students he had rich parents at home in the United
Arab Emirates. Officials in the Emirates claim Atta's passport was false and
suspect he may have come from North Africa.

German officials believe three of the Hamburg group were involved in the
hijackings. Federal chief prosecutor Kay Nehm said: "There is a suspicion that,
since the beginning of this year, a group has been founded in Hamburg.

"Its aim was to carry out serious crimes, together with other fundamentalist
groups abroad, to attack the United States in a spectacular way through the
destruction of symbolic buildings."

The flat where the group lived still has Atta's name on the doorbell. Police
raided it on Wednesday night.

Officers detained one man and were looking for another. Seven other Hamburg
addresses were searched.

The swoops in Germany were part of a worldwide operation to net anyone with
possible links to Tuesday's atrocities.

At least 10 Middle Eastern people were held at New York airports on Thursday but
all were freed without charge.

Another man initially linked to the plot was released in Boston, where two of
the hijacked jets took off.

Officials can't rule out the possibility that some of the plotters are still at
large in the US, planning more attacks. One said: "Our information suggests we
haven't seen the end of this threat."

The FBI has sent airlines a list of 52 people wanted for questioning. And
thousands of agents are searching at home and abroad for suspects with recent
flight training or ties to the hijackers or their backers.

Passenger lists from other flights on Tuesday are being checked for people who
fit this profile.

Agents were also looking for a Moslem cleric quizzed previously over links to
bin Laden's bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Moataz Al-Hallak is said to have told people about Tuesday's attacks before they
happened. He left the north-eastern USA for Texas the day before the hijackings.

Al-Hallak appeared before a grand jury in the embassy bombings case but was
never charged.

Several people quizzed over the plot are now being held as illegal immigrants.

In Minnesota, it was claimed the FBI knew before Tuesday of at least one Arab
man trying to learn to fly an airliner.

Officials had no reason to charge him at the time and began the process of
deporting him. He has been detained and questioned since Tuesday but is refusing
to co-operate with the FBI.

An officer from the bureau was on his way to the tiny Azores islands to
interview two Iranians held a week ago after they tried to get to Canada with
fake passports.

And the Mexican government is looking for at least nine people they believe may
have helped in the attacks.

As the hunt for the plotters went on, crash investigators recovered the two
black box flight recorders from the airliner which hit the Pentagon.

Both devices were passed to the FBI, who were already studying the flight data
recorder from the United Airlines jet which came down in Pennsylvania before it
could hit the White House or Camp David.

Time magazine reported in a special edition that US intelligence had an
"inkling" in June that a huge attack on the country was being planned.

But there was not enough detail to do anything about the information.

The magazine also reveals more of the panic on the day of the attacks.

Officials at the Pentagon apparently told relatives not to drink tap water. They
feared reservoirs had been poisoned.

And reporters on Air Force One, the President's plane, were warned not to use
mobile phones in case they gave away the jet's position to the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: HIJACKERS FROM SAUDI AND YEMEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 233 words


A MIDDLE East expert yesterday said that the kamikaze terrorists came from
southern tribes in Saudi Arabia which have close links with Yemen.

The FBI yesterday released the names used by the 18 men they believe hijacked
the four planes used in Tuesday's attack.

Terrorism expert Peter Bergen said: "You are seeing that probably half the
people on the list are Saudi and one-third are Yemeni.

"Bin Laden veterans returning to Saudi from Afghanistan have been talking about
some big action in the next couple of weeks, my sources have told me. It was
originally thought it was going to be in Saudi but clearly this was it."

Bin Laden's father was Yemeni and his followers are thought to have attacked the
USS Cole in the country recently, leaving dozens of sailors dead.

Walid Al Shehri and Waleed Alsheri are brothers, thought to be from Saudi Arabia
and members of a clan which fought in Afghanistan during the 1980s.

KILLERS' NAMES

American Airlines Flight 11

Walid Al Shehri, Wail Alsheri aka Waleed Alsheri, Mohamed Atta,

Aabdul Alomari, Satam Sugami

United Airlines Flight 175

Marwan Alshehhi, Fayez Ahmed, Mohald Alshehri, Hamza Al Ghamdi, Ahmed Al Ghamdi

American Airlines Flight 77

Khalid Almihdhar, Majed Moqued,

Nawaf Al Hazmi, Salem Al Hazmi

United Airlines Flight 93

Ahmed Al Haznawi, Ahmed Alnami,

Ziad Jarrah, Saeed Alghamdi

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: TRAGEDY IS USED BY SICK CONMEN

BYLINE: Harry Arnold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 278 words


SICK conmen and thieves are taking advantage of the carnage in America to make
money.

There are fears that bogus fundraisers could call British homes claiming to be
collecting for the rescue effort.

And an OAP was mugged in the street during yesterday's three-minute silence.

The 82-year-old was robbed of pounds 200 as he stood, head bowed, at 11am.

He was unhurt but left shocked by the attack, which happened outside The George
and Dragon pub in Potton, Bedfordshire. To add to the victim's distress,
yesterday was also his birthday.

A police spokesman condemned the attack as "thoughtless and distressing". He
added: "This was a despicable crime carried out on an elderly man simply trying
to pay his respects."

Meanwhile, Red Cross Chief executive Sir Nicholas Young said that heartless
cheats could be using the charity's name to swindle money in the UK.

He said: "The American Red Cross, who have worked so tirelessly to support
victims of this awful tragedy, have not launched an appeal and have no plans to
do so.

"The British Red Cross Society is in exactly the same position. Donors should
ensure that they use only bona fide channels."

The official humanitarian effort to help victims of the US terrorist attack is
being led by the Red Cross and the Salvation Army.

Donations can be made direct to the Red Cross. Alternatively, call the Salvation
Army on 0800 028 7744 or write to: American Support Appeal, The Salvation Army,
Freepost KE3466, London SE1 6BP.Donations to The Red Cross can be made by
calling 0207 201 5038 or by post addressed to American Emergency, British Red
Cross, Freepost London SW1X 7BR.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: DOMINO EFFECT RISK TO MORE BUILDINGS;
 WAR ON THE US

BYLINE: Harry Arnold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 343 words


MANY more of Manhattan's skyscrapers could fall to a "domino effect," experts
warned yesterday.

The terrorist attack sent a million tons of rubble crashing to the ground.

Leading structural engineer Dr John Roberts said: "The shock wave was equivalent
to an earthquake - there is no other way to describe it."

The 53-storey American Express Merrill Lynch tower has already been evacuated
after the top floors began to buckle.

Engineers believe it may have to be demolished and other towers may suffer the
same fate.

A six-mile exclusion zone has been set up around the site of the disaster but
most of the badly damaged buildings are within a mile of the collapsed towers.

Dr Roberts, former president of Britain's Institute of Structural Engineers,
said: "Apart from the two towers, a building immediately alongside which was 48
storeys high - as big as Canary Wharf in London - also collapsed.

"And now the American Express building is at risk."The only logical explanation
is that the impact load which came down to the ground weakened the foundations
and or superstructure of adjoining buildings.

"It is as though they were at the heart of an earthquake. Many more buildings
will have to be looked at because of the severity of the shock wave."

Dr Roberts said the high-quality rock which made Manhattan so suitable for
erecting such tall buildings might have contributed to the damage.

He said: "Very rigid ground will send out a higher value shock wave. It's now
likely there will be quite severe damage in surrounding buildings."

Another leading British structural engineer, Robert McKittrick, says the whole
future of high-rise buildings might be in doubt.

He said: "E-mails have been flying around between my colleagues today and we may
well be looking at the implications of the design of high-rise buildings in
future.

"The whole world may have to think differently. Maybe we've got to stop having
high buildings.

"I cannot believe that the proposals for more high towers in London will
happen."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: PRESIDENT AT GROUND ZERO;
 EXHAUSTED RESCUE TEAMS CHEER BUSH AS HE VISITS SITE OF NEW YORK ATROCITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 803 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush finally arrived in New York yesterday to rally exhausted
rescue workers.

He took a helicopter tour of the devastated site of the World Trade Centre
before meeting emergency workers still digging in a desperate bid to find
survivors.

His helicopter, Marine One, was flanked by fighter jets as he surveyed the
wreckage from the skies.

He was accompanied by New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and New York Governor
George Pataki.

The presidential party landed in lower Manhattan, on the waterfront, before
being whisked off in a car surrounded by tight security.

The casually-dressed Bush was determined to inspect the destruction first-hand
even though security advisers had warned against the visit. His arrived three
days after the atrocities.

The long presidential motorcade comprising dozens of cars snaked through
Manhattan towards the disaster zone which emergency services have dubbed "Ground
Zero" - the military name for the obliterated land area beneath nuclear weapons
which detonate in mid-air.

Bush emerged grim-faced from his car to shake hands with rescue workers in the
slippery wet debris.

He gave a thumbs-up to fire- fighters who were clearing rubble from the smoking
remains of the north tower.

Then he mounted a pile of rubble holding a loudhailer to make a short speech.

Bush said: "As we mourn our loss, I would like you all to know that America
today is on bended knee in prayer for the people who lost their lives here, to
the workers who worked here, for the families who mourn.

"The nation stands with the good people of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
as we mourn the loss of thousands of our citizens."

One of the workers interrupted: "We can't hear you."

Bush replied: "Well I can hear you. The whole world can hear you. And the people
who knocked down these buildings will hear all of us soon."

The group of rescue workers broke into chants of "USA! USA! USA!" and "Don't let
them get away!"

The president continued: "The nation shares its love. Thank you for your hard
work.

"Thank you for making the nation proud and may God bless America."

He received a thunderous reception as he told the rescue workers that the world
was watching their brave efforts.

As he climbed down from the wreckage, the crowd of hundreds, many wearing hard
-hats, cheered and applauded.

He was passed a small stars-and-stripes flag which he waved before continuing
his emotional tour.

Bush said that he had been reluctant to come sooner because he was concerned he
might get in the way of the rescue effort.

But Mayor Giuliani had assured the him that his visit would be an important
morale-booster.

Bush's arrival, though, was after that of former president Bill Clinton.

Arriving from a long-haul trip to Australia, he went to Manhattan at the first
opportunity and was mobbed by people who have been looking for a leader as their
world caved in.

He shook countless hands. Children and adults hugged him and some of the 2500
people queuing at a police station to report loved ones missing opened their
hearts to him.

Clinton, who now lives in New York State, said: "We need not to show fear, and
not to give in to these people. We need to prove them wrong by how we respond to
this."

His wife, former First Lady Hillary Clinton - now a New York senator - later
accompanied Bush's party in surveying the carnage.

The mountain of ash and debris Bush had seen on TV pictures had been turned into
a huge mud bath by a thunderstorm early yesterday.

Sodden, exhausted rescuers still desperately searched for survivors.

But Mayor Giuliani said emergency teams would keep searching until all hope had
gone.

He said: "There's still a strong hope we'll be able to find people, recover
people and save them."

But time is running out. No survivors were found in the previous 24 hours,
despite continual searches.

Tens of thousands of residents in lower Manhattan remained homeless yesterday.
The six-square mile area around the World Trade Centre has been sealed off and
turned into a giant crime scene.

Engineers are now keeping a close eye on skyscrapers in Manhattan's financial
district amid fears they could fall to a "domino effect".

Structural engineer Dr John Roberts said: "It is as though they were at the
heart of an earthquake."

As the number of missing people rose to 4700, a Scottish forensic expert warned
that identifying some victims could take years.

Professor Peter Vanezis, of the Centre for International Forensic Assistance at
Glasgow University, said some may never be identified.DEFIANT STAND: Bush waves
the American flag after climbing on top of a mound of rubble. He spoke to
rescuers through a megaphone during his tour of New York yesterday

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: STILL BURNING IN THE RAIN;
 SMOKE CONTINUES TO FILTER OUT OF RUBBLE SITE ONCE THE FINANCIAL HEART OF NEW
YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 835 words


TORRENTIAL rain turned the mountain of ash and debris at the World Trade Centre
into a massive mud bath yesterday.

Rescuers still desperately searching for survivors found their task even harder
as they struggled against the downpour.

And through the rain and thunder, smoke from the devastated twin towers
continued to seep out from the rubble.

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said emergency teams would keep searching until all
hope was gone.

He said: "There's no question they're hampered by the rain.

"But there's still a strong hope we'll be able to find people, recover people
and save them."

Rescue teams have been digging through tons of rubble since Tuesday's attacks.
But time is running out for anyone trapped underneath.

Rescue volunteer Richard Coppo said the weather was adding to the misery.

He said: "The rain made the footing a little more dangerous. We thought that
maybe the rain would settle the dust and make things better, but actually it
stirred it up."

Yesterday's storm followed a disappointing 24 hours for emergency teams. No
survivors were found, despite round-the-clock searches.

But the long, hard slog to clear the rubble was broken by moments of high drama.

Sodden volunteers, running on adrenaline and faith, were evacuated from a
damaged office tower across from the World Trade Centre when the top 10 stories
appeared unsteady.

Search teams sprinted away, but the building remained intact.

At another spot, a chain of about 100 workers froze in their track when a shout
went up: "Quiet, quiet".

Wheezing workers lowered their buckets and turned to the area where a search dog
was indicating it had heard something.

Seconds passed. A minute went by. Then, those at the front of the line picked up
their buckets, turned their faces, and went back to work.

Confusing reports and other terrorist alerts led to scares throughout the city,
with evacuations at Grand Central Terminal, the Port Authority Bus Terminal and
CNN's offices. None came to anything.

Tens of thousands of residents in lower Manhattan remained homeless yesterday.

The five-square mile area around the World Trade Centre has been sealed off and
has been turned into a giant crime scene.

Some residents were allowed to retrieve a few belongings before being hustled
out again.

And while emergency crews searched for survivors among the tons of rubble,
desperate relatives continued to scour the city for their missing loved ones.

Notices with pictures and details of the missing thousands have been posted all
over Manhattan.

More than 2500 people stood in line outside one police station waiting to
complete missing-persons reports.

Others stood on the street, trying to persuade reporters to print or broadcast
the names and photographs of relatives.

One of them was Caroline Burbank, 29, whose fiance Geoff Campbell was at a
conference in the World Trade Centre when it was hit.

Caroline said in the days before the terrorist attacks, she and Geoff had been
planning to fly to the Caribbean to get married.

She said: "When he gets out, that's the first thing we'll do."

Many tales of heroism and bravery have emerged since the attacks. But the
tragedy has also brought out the worst in some people.

Mayor Giuliani said yesterday his police officers were investigating reports
that telemarketing swindlers had been phoning people at random, asking for
donations for bereaved families.

As the number of missing people rose to 4700, an expert in Glasgow warned that
identifying some victims could take years.

Professor Peter Vanezis also said some might never be identified.

Prof Vanezis, who is assembling a team of scientific experts to help if needed,
compared the scale of the disaster to the wartime London blitz.

The professor, who has worked at war crime scenes in Kosovo, said as well as
identifying the victims in America, investigators would aim to work out what
part they played in the tragedy and how they died.

He said: "From our point of view, working in the mortuary, we have to assume
that people in an aeroplane have been traumatised in a physical way, other than
by the crash itself.

"We would need to be looking, for example, to see if they had stab wounds,
gunshot wounds.

"We would need to identify the people who were the terrorists, who were the key
players on the particular aeroplane."

He added: "I would suggest that in some cases it could be years before some of
them are properly identified, if indeed ever."

Prof Vanezis is director of the Centre for International Forensic Assistance at
Glasgow University.

It was was set up in July to create a pool of experts who could be dispatched at
short notice to disaster scenes.

He said: "Admittedly, nobody was expecting anything like this to happen.

"Like everybody else, we have been totally shocked by what has happened and we
are doing our best to pool people together to see if we can be of assistance."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BUSH'S TEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 325 words


GEORGE W Bush and four former presidents led a sombre memorial service yesterday
for the victims of the World Trade Centre atrocity.

Mourners at the National Cathedral in Washington sang God Bless America and
listened as the Right Reverend Jane Holmes Dixon, the city's Episcopal bishop,
told them: "All people of faith want to say to this nation and to the world that
love is stronger than hate."

Bush was joined by former Presidents Bill Clinton, George Bush, Jimmy Carter and
Gerald Ford, along with members of Congress.

A Moslem cleric was among the religious leaders who spoke.

Yesterday was proclaimed a national day of prayer and remembrance across
America, as Bush urged community groups and places of worship nationwide to hold
noontime memorial services, ring bells and set aside time for candlelit vigils.

He also encouraged employers to let workers off to attend.

Bush said: "All our hearts have been seared by the sudden and senseless taking
of innocent lives. We pray for healing and for the strength to serve and
encourage one another in hope and faith."

At a morning service in Connecticut, Governor John Rowland spoke of a Roman
Catholic priest friend, the Rev Francis Grogan, who died on United Airlines
Flight 175 from Boston to Los Angeles which crashed into the World Trade Centre.

He said: "If Grogan were still here, he would ask us to be persuaded by our
better natures.

"With the heart of our nation bursting with sadness, we must ask God for the
courage to carry on."

Members of the Islamic Centre of Long Island, stunned by many revenge assaults
on Moslems across America, also held a service for victims yesterday.

They will also collect donations for the American Red Cross.

Arshad Majid, a member of the centre, said: "We're hurting, too, and we're also
Americans.

"There were Moslem lives lost in that building, as well. We're all human and we
need to get together."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: I THOUGHT WIFE WAS DEAD WHEN PLANE HIT .. THEN SHE
RAN INTO MY ARMS;
 THE SURVIVORS

BYLINE: Grace Mclean And Judith Duffy Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words


A SCOT last night told how he found his wife amid the rubble of the World Trade
Centre.

Frantic Stephen Joyce wept with relief as his beloved Clarissa stumbled from the
dust cloud and into his arms.

He said: "I thought I'd lost her. It was the worst day of my life. I will never
forget it."

Stephen, 37, ran to the WTC after a call from Clarissa telling him a bomb had
hit the tower. By the time he ran the quarter of a mile to the towers the second
plane had hit.

Stephen watched helplessly behind police lines as workers threw themselves from
windows and terrified New Yorkers ran for their lives.

As his thoughts were consumed with the fate of his wife, she suddenly appeared,
covered in dust and debris.

Stephen, from Motherwell, phoned his mother, Ann, 56, who said: "Clarissa was in
the basement when the plane hit .

"He told a policeman his wife was in the building but the officer said he
couldn't go any further. Then Clarissa just appeared and they were reunited.

"He's traumatised. He saw bodies falling and people running everywhere. He knows
they are lucky to be alive."

Stephen, an architect, and Clarissa, 30, met in Glasgow when she was studying
anthropology at the city's university.

They moved to New York last November and have a home in Brooklyn.

George Sleigh, another British-born architect who worked on the 91st floor of
the North Tower, yesterday told how he saw the people in the jet's cockpit.

George, 63,was at his desk in the North tower when he heard the whining engine
of the American Airlines Boeing 767 heading towards the building.

After the impact floors above his office, George hid under his desk from the
debris raining down.

After what seemed like an eternity George made for the exit and fled down a fire
escape, eventually making it to safety.

He said: "I was at my desk in the morning looking forward to a normal day when I
heard this loud noise

"I looked out of the window and just a few feet away was this huge jet plane.

"The wheels of the plane were down and I could see the people in the cockpit.

"I thought to myself, 'Man, this guy is low in the air' but I still thought he
was going to clear us.

"Then it smashed into the tower a few floors above me. I just couldn't believe
it.

"Even now it seems insane that anyone would do that, even a crazed terrorist.

"When I close my eyes and picture that airliner coming towards me and the people
in the cockpit it is like a dream."

Gateshead-born George, a father-of-three, emigrated to Canada in 1962 and moved
to America four years later. For the last 15 years he has worked in the twin
towers of World Trade Centre for the American Bureau of Shipping.

Yesterday, rescue attempts at the pile of rubble which was once the world famous
trade centre were hampered by heavy rain.

Rescuers racing against the clock to find survivors were losing their footing as
rain lashed down.

And the foul weather stirred up dust clouds making the rescue operation even
more difficult.

Since Tuesday's terror attacks, hopes of finding survivors in the wreckage are
dwindling.

There are 184 confirmed dead and 4763 on the missing list, but it is feared that
figure could increase dramatically as more bodies are uncovered.

Two young Scots holidaymakers last night told how they cheated death - when they
got on the wrong train.

Euan Keith, 25, and girlfriend Lesley Chrichton should've been at the towers.

But instead of catching a subway which would have taken them straight to the
centre of the tragedy, they jumped on a train heading in the opposite direction.

Euan's mother Catherine, of Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, said: "When I heard from
him I just cried.

"But I won't rest until I can hold him in my arms.

"My husband and I are one of the lucky families. My heart goes out to all the
people who have lost loved one's."

Catherine said Euan and Lesley, from Blantyre, made an "uncharacteristic"
mistake.

But even when Euan called home to say he was safe, Catherine could not be sure
it was him on the answer machine because he sounds like his older brother.

She said: "He left a message saying, 'Trying to contact you, but you're
obviously not there'.

"But we didn't know if it was from Euan or his brother Scott until he called us
later that night."

Tyrone Davis, 23, from Solihull, who was late for work after oversleeping and
missing his bus, said: "I am one of the luckiest people alive."

But for every miracle, every incredible story of survival, there were dozens of
stories of tragedy and death.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FEARS FOR SCOTS STILL MISSING UNDER THE RUBBLE OF
TWIN TOWERS;
 THE VICTIMS

BYLINE: Donna Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1010 words


AT least three Scots are still missing, feared dead, in the rubble of the World
Trade Centre.

A total of five possible victims were originally reported to Scots police
forces.

But yesterday, Strathclyde Police, who are co-ordinating the operation
throughout the country, said two had been found alive and well.

They would not release details of those still missing, but confirmed banker
Derek Sword, 29, of Broughty Ferry, near Dundee, was one of them.

The total number of Scots caught up in the atrocities which stunned the world
could rise still further, as others might not have been reported to police.

Others could have been at the Pentagon or on board one of the hijacked jets
crashed by the terrorists.

One expat Scot, Washington-based businessman Ian Gray, 55, has already been
confirmed among the dead on board the flight that struck the Pentagon.

Strathclyde Assistant Chief Constable Ricky Gray admitted family liaison
officers were bracing themselves for the fact that they will probably have to
break bad news.

He said: "It has been a great relief for everyone involved that we have managed
to trace two of the missing people alive and well so far.

"We cannot even make a guess yet at how many Scots are lost in this."

Yesterday, Prime Minister Tony Blair summed up the possibility that haunts us
all when he said: "I fear that there will be many a community in our country
where heart-broken families are grieving the loss of a loved one". It is still
feared the number of British dead will reach several hundred.

A grandmother in the Western Isles is waiting anxiously for news of her son,
missing since Tuesday.

Computer consultant Gavin Cushny, 48, is thought to have been working in his
104th floor office in the north tower, the first one hit.

His fiancee, Susan Brady, has been desperately trying to get information for his
mother, Sybil Eales-White, 78, who lives at South Dell on Lewis.

Gavin, who has worked in New York for more than 20 years, was due to fly back to
Stornoway next month and the couple were to be married at picturesque St
Moluag's Temple, at nearby Eoropie.

Mrs Eales-White, widow of Episcopalian minister Donald Eales-White, said there
was still a glimmer of hope so long as the body of her son had still to be
found.

The mother-of-three said: "Despite everything that has happened, I have not
given up hope. Gavin could still be lying injured in a hospital and may not have
been identified yet.

"Susan has filled in a form with details of Gavin and has been going round the
emergency services and hospitals in case anyone had seen him.

"But there have been no developments to report. It's just a case of waiting to
hear whatever news will come to us."

A death announcement in a local newspaper in Sussex mourned one victim, Robert
Eaton, a 37-year-old merchant banker.

He is thought to have been at his desk on the 105th floor of the north tower
when it was struck. Yesterday, his heartbroken parents Doug and Laura attended
the memorial service for victims at St Paul's.

Laura said: "It's terrible to think of him and all those people desperately
trying to get out.

"I can't believe I will never see him again. We keep seeing those horrific
scenes on the television and it doesn't seem real."

Martin Wortley, 29, a commodity dealer from Suffolk, is also still missing. In
his last call to his mother, he told her he was making his way up to the roof.

Andrew Bailey,29, who worked for an insurance broker on the 93rd floor of the
north tower, is also feared dead.

His sister, Christine, from Solihull, near Birmingham, heard the news of the
disaster on TV while on holiday in Majorca.

Peter Butterworth, a 48-year-old insurance assessor from Speke, Liverpool, is
also among the missing.

The Moray-based brother of computer expert Christopher Newton-Carter told
yesterday how they were talking on the phone at the moment the south tower was
hit.

Christopher, 52, was reassuring brother Mark that he was all right after the
first impact.

Mark, 50, who runs the Findhorn Bay Caravan Park, near Forres, said: "As we
spoke the second plane hit the building. He said, 'The building is swaying. I am
getting out of here.' That was the last thing he said to me."

Financial trader Richard Cudina, 46, whose family are originally from Dorset,
had been working at the top of the north tower at the time of the attack.

His brother Christopher, 39, looked on in horror from his office block across
the Hudson River as the Boeing 767 slammed into the 99th floor.

Richard had only recently moved to the World Trade Centre from an office on Wall
Street.

Christopher said: "At first, I could not believe what was happening when the
first plane struck.

"Then, after the initial tower was hit, I picked up my binoculars and saw the
second plane go into the building.

"I knew my brother was working for Cantor Fitzgerald which had floors from 100
up to 105 and the first plane hit about the 99th floor.

"Nobody has heard from anybody who was working for Cantor and I'm afraid we must
fear the worst."

The husband of 35-year-old Sarah Redheffer, a publishing executive who had
organised a conference on the 106th floor of the World Trade Centre, was trying
to fly to America last night to help in the rescue effort.

American Eric, 33, who married Sarah, from Bath, in 1998, was due to fly to
Washington from Heathrow.

He said: "Priorities will be to check the hospitals and to try to co-ordinate
efforts not only for Sarah but also for other colleagues of hers.

"We want to help in any way, shape or form. We want to help the rescuers. Help
anyone. I don't care if it's a matter of pouring coffee for someone or bringing
them food, if it's helping. That's what it's supposed to be about, people
helping people."

E-commerce consultant Glenn Webber, 35, was working on the 82nd floor of the
north tower, just above where the first jet hit.

Glenn, from Peterborough, has not been seen since the crash.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WAR ON THE US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 127 words


While America bore the brunt of Tuesday's attack,

victims came from all corners of the globe

BRITAIN MISSING 100

DEAD 100-500

IRELAND MISSING 100

DEAD 2

GERMANY MISSING 10

DEAD 4

AUSTRIA MISSING 170

DEAD -

CHINA MISSING 5

DEAD 4

SOUTH KOREA MISSING 18

DEAD 1

JAPAN MISSING 20

DEAD 2

TAIWAN MISSING 9

DEAD -

PHILIPPINES MISSING 7

DEAD -

AUSTRALIA MISSING 90

DEAD 9

BANGLADESH MISSING -

DEAD 50

LEBANON MISSING 2

DEAD 2

ZIMBABWE MISSING 6

DEAD -

SOUTH AFRICA MISSING 2

DEAD 1

ITALY MISSING 18

DEAD -

COLOMBIA MISSING 520

DEAD 1

MEXICO MISSING 12

DEAD 1

PORTUGAL MISSING 20

DEAD 3

SWITZERLAND MISSING 200

DEAD 1

CANADA MISSING 50

DEAD 2

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SILENT SCOTS;
 PEOPLE FROM ALL WALKS OF LIFE JOIN TRIBUTE TO SHOW SUPPORT AND SYMPATHY

BYLINE: Annie Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3, 4, 5

LENGTH: 1958 words


SCOTLAND came to a standstill yesterday as hundreds of millions around the world
united in a touching tribute to the victims of terror in America.

The Queen could not hold back the tears as she and Prime Minister Tony Blair led
Britain's biggest show of grief since the death of Princess Diana.

At the stroke of 11am, a hush fell over usually bustling streets for the three
-minute silence of remembrance.

And the sombre scenes of mourning were repeated across Europe and dozens of
countries around the world.

People stood motionless and silent in a poignant gesture of solidarity with the
suffering of the friends and families of those who lost loved ones.

Scots from all walks of life, and from the Highlands and Islands to the Borders,
joined in to show support and sympathy.

More than most, the people of Lockerbie felt the true senselessness and pain
after the haunting images of suffering in America of the last few days.

In the Borders town where 270 died when Pan Am flight 103 was blown from the
sky, the town hall bell tolled the start of the poignant tribute.

Two police officers stood at Lockerbie's war memorial, bowing their heads in
quiet contemplation.

And the town was again linked in grief as it had been 13 years ago to the people
of America.

In the High Street people walked out of shops on to the streets to observe the
silence.

Under a bright blue sky they stood on the pavement, heads bowed and many with
their eyes closed.

Later, Jimmy Pagan, 54, from Lockerbie, said that the spectre of the 1988
tragedy had revisited the town.

He said: "I watched the events of this week on television and it brings memories
back to Lockerbie.

"We are all just so sorry about what has happened."

In Glasgow, 4000 people gathered in the city's George Square for an inter -faith
service.

Huge black drapes hung around the square, and flags were lowered to half-mast on
nearby buildings.

American Airlines crew members stranded in the city by the air traffic
restrictions held aloft their national flag.

The US Consul-General Liane Dorsey said: "These acts of terrorism were against
humanity, against all of humanity and against the essence of humanity."

In Edinburgh, the capital's normally vibrant Princes Street fell quiet.

Buses came to a halt and drivers stood in sombre silence on the pavements.

Motorists driving up the famous street pulled over at the stroke of 11am.

Outside the shops, crowds of people stood silent, some huddled in small groups.
Parents hugged their children as they stopped for three minutes lost in thought.

At Edinburgh Castle, workmen dismantling scaffolding built for last month's
Military Tattoo draped an American flag in honour of the dead.

About 200 tourists, most of them Americans, gathered around the flag.

One man began singing the American national anthem and was quickly joined by
many of his compatriots.

Afterwards, tourists paid tribute to the support they have received from Scots
since the carnage on Tuesday.

Betty Oshiro, of California, said: "This was very touching and we can't believe
the way everyone has stood beside us this week. I would like to thank them."

For the second time this week, the Scottish Parliament fell silent.

Around 100 delegates at a race relations conference joined MSPs for the tribute
to those who died in the attacks.

Earlier this week, MSPs stood for one minute's silence during a special session
of the Parliament.

Speaking before yesterday's tribute, deputy Presiding Officer George Reid said:
"Let us remember those who died and show solidarity with those who lost
relatives and friends.

"And let us reflect upon a world that is terribly changed."

Even Scotland's busiest motorway came to a halt for the three-minute silence.
Lorries and cars pulled on to the hard-shoulder

GLASGOW FOR LOST COLLEAGUES: Firefighters outside Central Station

LOCKERBIE POIGNANT: Cops observe the silence in a town hit by tragedy

ABERDEEN CITY'S TRIBUTE: A hush over the busy Union Street

INVERNESS MARK OF RESPECT: A traffic warden bows his head

PERTH REMEMBERING: Shoppers all fell silent as the clock struck 11

EDINBURGH PAYING RESPECT: The Scottish Parliament falls silent

EDINBURGH CONDOLENCES: Braveheart Adam Watters signs the book

GLASGOW IN GEORGE SQUARE: Mufti Habib ur Rehman, of the city mosque

LEUCHARS LOST IN THOUGHT: A pilot at the Fife base pays tribute

GLASGOW FLYING THE FLAG: American Airlines staff paid tribute to their fallen
colleagues as they marched through Glasgow's George Square yesterday, proudly
holding a Stars and Stripes of the Edinburgh to Glasgow M8 at Harthill and
switched off their engines as a mark of respect.

And in Aberdeen, stores and offices closed their doors so that workers could
take part in the tribute.

On the busy mile-long Union Street, thousands of shoppers stood motionless.

The city's Lord Provost Margaret Smith later led a special service at the Kirk
of St Nicholas.

If anyone in the UK can begin to understand what America is suffering, it is the
people of Northern Ireland

And in their thousands, they paid their own very personal tributes.

In Omagh, devastated three years ago by a bomb which claimed 31 innocent lives,
they stood silently in the streets sympathising as only they could with the
people of America.

An act of mourning was led by the US Consul General, Barbara Stephenson, who
spoke of the eloquent messages of sympathy she had received.

One message said: "Your pain will be our pain, your grief, our grief."

In London, the Queen was at Buckingham Palace, where the gates were closed so
that no one could enter or leave during the period of mourning.

Other members of the royal family and their staff observed the silence, while
Tony Blair and new Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith stood with other MPs in the
Commons, which was in emergency session today to discuss the crisis.

But MPs held up their debate at the sound of nearby Big Ben chiming 11am.

Later, the Archbishop of Canterbury addressed a service attended by the Queen
and political leaders.

Dr George Carey's message to the people of America was: "Our hearts go out to
you - you are all firmly in our prayers."

Elsewhere in Britain, factories and offices stopped work, no sales were made in
shops, court cases were halted and pubs delayed opening.

Announcements were made at stations, airports, on trains, in schools and in city
centres across the nation. Fighter pilots stood to attention before a replica of
the Statue of Liberty at the biggest US air base in Europe, at RAF Lakenheath in
Suffolk.

Servicemen and women were joined by base fire fighters before the lowered flags
of the United States and the RAF and all planes were grounded.

The silence was heralded by The Last Post and a lone Scottish piper ended it by
playing Amazing Grace.

At Heathrow Airport, one of the hundreds of passengers queuing for the first
flight back to America spoke for many when he said: "Until now I did not know
how close we were to the British people. I cannot thank them enough for their
condolences and this magnificent gesture."

In Ireland, most offices, businesses and pubs closed for the day and at St
Mary's Catholic Cathedral in Dublin, plaintive harps and violins were played.

Irish President Mary McAleese led a joint Catholic and Protestant service in
prayers for world leaders to show wisdom "so that justice and mercy may prevail
".

Across Europe, busy streets were stilled and traffic lights turned to red

In Belgium - at the Brussels nerve-centre of the NATO alliance - solemn workers
attended ceremonies and the European Commission stopped work.

EU President Romano Prodi said: "In the darkest days of European history,
America stood close by us and today we stand close to America."

And the political leaders of the 15 EU states issued a statement saying: "These
terrible terrorist acts were also directed against us all, against open,
democratic, multicultural and tolerant societies."

But dozens of EU bureaucrats were too scared to leave their offices to join 6000
colleagues who poured on to the streets under tight security.

One clerk said: "Some people wouldn't leave their desks. They were frightened
there might be a bomb."

In France, the bells of Notre Dame rang out over Paris and then fell silent.

President Jacques Chirac stood to attention in front of a military guard at the
Elysee Palace and the Paris underground service stopped.

Pope John Paul joined in commemorating the victims at his private chapel in his
summer residence at Castelgandolfo, south of Rome in Italy.

A Vatican spokesman said: "He retreated into silent prayer for the victims of
the terror attacks that struck the United States last Tuesday and to implore
comfort for the injured and for reconciliation and peace in the world."

Italian TV showed footage of the attacks accompanied by sombre music.

Underneath, a caption read: "These barbaric acts constitute not only an attack
on the USA but on the value of freedom for everyone."

Practice sessions for tomorrow's Italian Formula One Grand Prix were halted as
drivers and mechanics gathered in the pit lanes and stood silent.

McLaren is contributing to a pounds 6million fund for children orphaned in the
outrage.

Cabbies in Finland pulled to the side of the road and sat with their heads
bowed.

In Iceland, fishermen stood in silence at the normally hectic Reykjavik
docks.Train drivers in Germany stepped from their cabs while the Frankfurt stock
exchange halted and buses stopped running in Berlin.

In Spain, stalked too by the evil of terrorism, thousands in villages and towns
across the country massed quietly in front of public buildings.

Some chose to be outside the sealed- off American embassy in Madrid, while
British tourists stood along the beaches of the Costas.

In Hungary, firemen tied black ribbons on their vehicles to show solidarity with
the brave New York firefighters.

Even as far away as South Korea, ordinary people joined in the mourning.

In the capital, Seoul, people flocked to the American Embassy with children and
their parents clutching flowers.

Without words being said some of the tearful children just knelt and prayed.

In Singapore flowers and gifts were put on the pavement outside the heavily
-fortified US Embassy

The US Embassy in India was overwhelmed by calls and opened an electronic
condolence book on its website.

But one of the few exceptions to the show of sympathy was Serbia.

The country which was bombed by US and NATO forces to stop ethnic cleansing,
called no period of mourning.

PAKISTAN PRAYERS FOR THE DEAD: Moslems in Peshwar, Pakistan, just 28 miles from
the Afghan border, pay their respects

SWEDEN ROOF TOP RESPECT: Chimney sweep Anders Haak, pauses to reflect at 11am
yesterday in Kristanstad, Sweden

RUSSIA DEEP IN THOUGHT: A Moscow man crosses himself as he prays for victims of
the terrorist attack yesterday

LONDON SHOWING THEIR RESPECT: The three minute silence is observed by a huge
crowd of people gathered near St Paul's Cathedral in London at 11am yesterday

US NATIONAL ANTHEM

O' say can you see by the dawn's early light,

What so proudly we hail'd at the twilight's last gleaming.

Whose broad stripes and bright stars thro' the perilous fight,

O'er the ramparts we watch'd, were so gallantly streaming.

And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air,

Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there.

O' say does that star spangled-banner yet wave,

O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave?

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: OUEEN WEEPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 688 words


DAY OF PRAYER: 800 million in silent mourning for the dead from the US, Britain,
Ireland, Germany, Austria, China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines,
Australia, Bangladesh, Lebanon, Zimbabwe, Italy, South Africa, Colombia, Mexico,
Portugal, Switzerland and Canada.
  The Queen wipes away a tear as she leaves yesterday's memorial service at St
Paul's Cathedral for victims of Tuesday's terrorist atrocities in America. She
led millions of mourners across Britain and Europe in an unprecedented three
-minute silence

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

Seven pilots were among 19 hijackers Ben Fenton and Toby Helm report on the net
tightening across America and Europe on those behind Tuesday's terror attacks

BYLINE: By BEN FENTON AND TOBY HELM

SECTION: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 745 words

NINETEEN men, including seven trained pilots, were named by the FBI yesterday as
being responsible for hijacking the four American airliners to destroy the two
World Trade Centre towers and damage the Pentagon.

To prevent the trail of 100 people they want to question about the attacks from
going cold, the FBI circulated their names to airlines and the operators of
railway lines and marine passenger vessels.

Hopes that a voice data recorder recovered from the Pentagon attack would reveal
clues came to nothing.

Robert Mueller, the FBI director, said that no data had been found on the
cockpit recorder, suggesting that it had been damaged.

Investigators are yet to say whether a flight data recorder found in the
wreckage of the plane that crashed near Pittsburgh has provided new leads.

John Ashcroft, the Attorney General, said: "It's pretty clear that there were
probably others involved in these endeavours and it is in our interest to track
those individuals down."

FBI sources said they believed that terrorist teams might still be at large in
America, trying to carry out attacks similar to those perpetrated on Tuesday.

Television reports quoted anonymous bureau officials as saying that they had no
reason to believe that they had caught all the terrorists involved in what could
be an even wider conspiracy of violence. Evidence emerged that the terrorist
operation that killed thousands in New York and Washington had been planned for
at least five years and that for six months the hijackers had been investigating
Logan airport in Boston, where two of the planes took off.

At least five of the hijackers had been travelling under Saudi documents or came
from Saudi Arabia to gain entry to America and flight training schools in
Florida. Saudi citizens are not required to get FBI clearance to obtain flight
training in America.

The 19 hijackers were Marwan Al Shehhi, Fayez Ahmed, Mohald Al Shehri, Hamza
Alghamdi and Ahmed Al Ghamdi on United Airlines Flight 175 which destroyed the
World Trade Centre; Waleed M Al Shehri, Wail Al Shehri, Mohamed Atta, Abdulaziz
Alomari and Satam Al Suqami on American Airlines Flight 11, which also destroyed
the World Trade Centre; Khalid Al-Midhar, Majed Moqed, Nawaq Alhamzi, Salem
Alhamzi and Hani Hanjour on American Airlines Flight 77, which crashed on the
Pentagon; and Ahmed Alhaznawi, Ahmed Alnami, Ziad Jarrahi and Saeed Alghamdi on
United Airlines Flight 93 which crashed in Pennsylvania.

Of the 19 names, at least two thirds had surnames associated with the south-west
corner of Saudi Arabia or Yemen, which is where the bin Laden family originates.
America remained on its highest state of alert, with fighter aircraft still
circling the skies over seven of its major cities and FBI agents on duty at all
major airports.

The secret service, responsible for the security of America's senior leaders,
kept Vice President Dick Cheney away from President Bush, a precaution usually
taken only in time of war.

He was at the presidential retreat of Camp David as the president attended a
prayer service in Washington, 70 miles away.

Police in Belgium and Holland arrested six Islamic extremists as forces across
Europe, helped by FBI units on European duty, combed the Continent in the hunt
for terrorists.

In Germany, police and teams of FBI officers were concentrating on Hamburg,
where three hijackers in Tuesday's suicide attacks were running a cell dedicated
to the "spectacular destruction" of key American buildings.

Mohamed Atta, 33, from the United Arab Emirates, who took the controls of the
first plane that hit the World Trade Centre, was part of that cell.

An Iranian being held in prison in Hanover warned the White House last week that
a terror attack big enough to threaten the world order would be launched on
America within days, the German federal prosecutor's office said. The man, who
was awaiting deportation, made 14 calls to the American authorities in the days
immediately before the attack. He specified that the attack would be launched
this week, but he was not taken seriously by the FBI because his warnings were
considered too vague.

In Brussels, police arrested two Islamic extremists and seized weapons including
machine pistols. Dutch police said they had arrested four Muslim radicals on
Thursday in Rotterdam.

America continued to be edgy. Reports that 12 armed men, some with flight
certificates, had been arrested in New York proved to be untrue.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

Where do we go from here? The world is a changed place after the terrorist
attack on America. Flights might shortly return to 'normal', but none of us will
travel as easily or as lightly as we used to.

BYLINE: By Carole Cadwalladr

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 1657 words

This is not the story we had planned to run on the front of the travel section
today. That was to have been an article about travelling in India. Inside, we
had a guide to the churches of New York and a competition in which we asked:
where in the world would you most like to go?

In the wake of Tuesday's disaster, there are more pressing questions. Would you
feel safe at the moment going anywhere? Would you board a flight to Los Angeles
tomorrow? Would you go on a Nile cruise next week? Or an Istanbul city break?
What about in two weeks' time? Or next month?

On Wednesday, Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, described terrorism as
"the dark side of globalisation". And air travel has become the very image of
that. Passenger jets, our means of travelling the world, of fulfilling our
dreams of escape, were, in a moment, turned into weapons of mass destruction.

Anybody who has ever flown on El Al, the Israeli national carrier, knows how
much scope there is for most other airlines in the world to improve their
security. Book a flight to Tel Aviv on El Al and there will be a file on you
before you even arrive at the terminal: all passengers are screened to ensure
they have no criminal record. You'll be questioned by security guards; your
companions may be asked personal questions about you.

Armed guards patrol check-in; cargo is placed in decompression chambers before
take-off (explosives sensitive to atmospheric pressure have been used to blow up
at least 10 aircraft); cockpit doors are locked as soon as the pilot has
boarded; and the final line of defence is an undercover armed guard who
accompanies every single flight.

Fly El Al from Tel Aviv and you must turn up at least two-and-a-half hours in
advance to allow for additional security checks. These are designed to make you
feel safer, yet the presence of guards with sub-machineguns, the questions asked
by the grim-faced security men and the atmosphere of intense seriousness all can
have the opposite effect.

"Did you visit any friends there?" asked the security officer, when I told him I
had been to Gaza City. He asked me about another person in my group, and then
tried again: "So, which friends did you visit there?" And then a third time:
"Can I see the presents your friends gave you?"

It's an easy enough trick to spot: ask the same question repeatedly but each
time in a different way. It's also enough to rattle you.

And, in the aftermath of Tuesday's events, it's likely to rattle you more. "You
cannot underestimate the visual impact of what happened," says Robert Bor,
professor of aviation psychology at London Guildhall University. "It arouses
very strong emotions in people. And if you have to spend longer at airports and
if security is intensified, it will agitate people. The sight of men with
machineguns will reawaken these fears."

Professor Bor treats people who are afraid of flying. This week he has already
seen pilots and cabin crew who have been badly shaken by the hijacking and
murder of their colleagues. "It is fair to say that the experience of air travel
will change from here onwards," he says. "It [the attack] must affect how people
see air travel generally . . . There is no pure assurance you can give that this
will not happen again."

On Wednesday the Government issued a directive ordering airlines to introduce a
second security check for all passengers at the departure gate. This was enough
to delay flights for up to half an hour. Not a problem in itself, but for
airlines such as EasyJet, Go, Buzz and Ryanair it has huge ramifications. Their
low-cost base and consequently low-cost prices depend upon turning around their
planes quickly. The half-hour delays of Wednesday morning accumulated to become
seven-hour delays by Wednesday evening.

Already, Midway Airlines, a US carrier, has filed for bankruptcy and laid off
1,700 employees. Aviation is facing the biggest financial crisis of its history.
The economic downturn in America had already led to problems, but it is
inevitable now that fewer people will fly, that airlines will go bust, that, as
Professor Bor puts it, "people will withdraw to the safety of home". The British
tourist industry, still feeling the effects of foot and mouth, is about to be
clobbered again.

Where in the world would you most like to go? It makes more sense at the moment
to turn that question around: where in the world would you most like not to go?
Kabul? Islamabad? But what about Marrakesh? What about Amman?

On the website of the guidebook publisher Lonely Planet, there is a bulletin
board, the

Thorn Tree, on which backpackers can post questions seeking advice and offering
tips. And already questions prompted by Tuesday's disaster are piling in:

"My wife and I are planning on travelling to Syria, Jordan and Egypt within the
next four weeks . . . Given the tragedy in the US and the current tension
building in the world, would we be taking an unnecessary risk by continuing with
our travel plans?"

"I have plans to travel to Egypt next Saturday. However, since the attack on
Tuesday I don't know how safe it will be . . . Does anybody know anything about
it? - Thanks! Sarah."

"Do you think Turkey is a safe place to be right now?"

"Does anybody know what the situation is in Amman?"

On Tuesday night, the Foreign Office issued a global warning to British
travellers and prospective travellers: "Following the terrorist attacks in the
US there may be heightened tension and disruption worldwide . . . There may be
demonstrations and violence, particularly in Muslim countries." But what of its
advice on specific destinations? It has changed it in only one case: Pakistan.
It is advising against all but essential travel to the country.

There is an absence of specific information, and in the vacuum people are
continuing to travel and to make plans. Tom Griffiths, founder of gapyear.com,
for example, remains confident that of the 200,000 young people on gap years,
those about to embark on round-the-world trips will not be put off. "It's a
month after the exam results and a lot of people will be about to set off.
People will realise that it's a major atrocity. But they will not want to
postpone their trips. Remember that they have been saving up and looking forward
to these trips for a very long time."

Across the travel industry, there is a consistent approach to government advice.
Until the Foreign Office advises Britons against travel to a particular country,
tour operators will continue to offer trips there, and airlines will continue to
fly there; should you wish to cancel, you will not get your money back.

But the Foreign Office's advice has always been, and still is, based on
political considerations. It cannot advise against travel to a country until
something happens there. This is diplomacy. It is not necessarily in travellers'
best interests. Control Risks, a London-based security consultancy that advises
multinational companies, has no such qualms and has measured countries against a
scale of risk.

That scale, says Josh Mandel, the company's Middle East analyst, is "based on
the probability that the US is going to take retaliatory action in the next few
days".

Countries are classified in one of three levels, Level One being the most
dangerous. Level One countries, which Control Risks advises people to leave
immediately, are: Afghanistan, Pakistan and Yemen. These are not places that
many holidaymakers are likely to reach in any case. But that is not true of some
of the countries in Level Two. These are places that are likely to see some form
of reaction to US military action, which have a "poor security environment", a
history of Islamic extremism, or are home to groups known to be associated with
Osama bin Laden, the US government's prime suspect. Egypt is a Level Two
country. So are Israel, Syria and Iran. And Level Three countries? These are
states with large Muslim populations where anti-American demonstrations could
take place; they include Kenya, Malaysia, Turkey, Indonesia and Morocco.

In Britain, we have always tended to mock the Americans for their skittishness:
when they cancelled holidays in Europe during the Gulf War, we scorned them for
their cowardice. In the wake of Tuesday's attack, we seem to be continuing that
tradition. According to British Airways, bookings from British travellers appear
to be holding up, and Alan Flook of the Federation of Tour Operators, says that
holidaymakers are continuing with their plans pretty much as usual.

To travel or not to travel is one risk evaluation, it seems, that we are being
asked to make ourselves. Nobody, no organisation, no government body, is
prepared to say that it is a dangerous time to travel to the Middle East; that
one shouldn't travel to the Middle East. So, what the hell, I'll say it: don't
go. I have written a guidebook to the Lebanon and am a fan of the whole region.
I just wouldn't go there right now.

On Thursday morning, Richard Village, a 31-year-old design consultant, cancelled
his holiday to Lebanon and Syria. "There was no information," he said. "The
Foreign Office website was down all day Wednesday. And then when I finally
accessed the advice it made no mention whatsoever of the events in New York. In
the end the only thing I had to go on was gut instinct."

There are no certainties; there are only speculation, wild guesses, gut
instincts.

This time around, nobody is going to scoff at the Americans for their lack of
moral fibre in not wanting to travel. Because this time around, many of us feel
the same way. For a while, at least, we may be happy to take our holidays a bit
nearer home; to give our custom to a domestic tourist industry still suffering
from the effects of foot and mouth.

After the week we have seen, says Professor Bor, "even people who are normally
gung-ho about travel risks will be asking themselves, 'Is my journey really
necessary?' ".

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK WASHINGTON: PENTAGON PLANE BLACK BOXES FOUND

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 125 words


THE flight recorders from the hijacked plane that crashed into the Pentagon were
found in the charred rubble yesterday.

Blackened by the intense heat, both the flight data and voice recorders - the
black boxes - are believed to have been undamaged.

Experts are analysing the data for vital clues to exactly what happened in the
cockpit of the American Airlines jet.

It may give clues to the identities of the hijackers and help the hunt for other
terrorist supporters.

It is also expected to reveal if any passengers tackled the hijackers for
control of the airliner.

Black boxes from the hijacked plane that went down in Pennsylvania were also
found. But those from the jets which hit the twin towers are still in the
rubble.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: 700 DEAD FRIENDS;
 THERE'S ONLY ONE REASON FOR CANTOR FITZGERALD TO BE IN BUSINESS NOW. WE HAVE TO
CARE FOR OUR PEOPLE'S FAMILIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 659 words


WALL STREET mogul Howard Lutnick sobbed uncontrollably yesterday as he told how
700 of his staff died.

Lutnick's brother was among the huge workforce wiped out at brokers Cantor
Fitzgerald.

Not one of the firm's employees caught up in the World Trade Centre horror
escaped.

Tears soaked Lutnick's face as he said: "700 families, 700 families, 700
families - I can't say it without crying.

"Too many people, too many names, too many people I loved."

Lutnick, Cantor Fitzgerald's chief executive, was late for work on Tuesday. He
was dropping off his son for his first day at school.

The first hijacked airliner hit just as he arrived at the centre. Cantor
Fitzgerald's offices were on the 101st, 103rd, 104th and 105th floors of the
first tower attacked.

In the chaos and terror outside the complex, Lutnick shouted at survivors to ask
which floors they had escaped from.

If someone said "101", there was hope. The highest number he heard was "91".

"I heard a sound," Lutnick wept. "It sounded like another plane hit the
building.

"It was the plane that hit tower two. It was so unbelievably loud.

"Someone screamed that another one was coming. I started running, I tried to get
ahead of the smoke.

"My brother was on the 95th floor. He called my sister just after the first
plane hit.

"He said the smoke was pouring in, he was in a corner office and he's not going
to make it out.

"He just wanted to tell her that he loved her."

Lutnick headed north after the blast and wandered the streets of Manhattan for
four hours.

In shock, he forgot to call his wife. When he did phone, she was hysterical with
relief.

He has spent the last 72 hours consoling the families of his dead workers, and
comforting the 250 who weren't in the tower at the time.

"I get to give someone else some hope, some dream, or maybe they can kiss their
kids," he said.

"It's not about my family. I can kiss my kids - other people don't get to kiss
their kids."

A hands-on boss, Lutnick knew hundreds of his staff and counted many as friends.

He tours hospitals with a list of his missing people.

He planned to shut the company down to give people time to grieve, but the
employees took a vote and told him they wanted to work.

He said: "I think it's amazing.

"People who lost all their friends - they lost the person to their left, they
lost the person to their right, and they say, 'I want to go to work'.

"They voted to open the markets, not to make money, but because they thought it
was important.

"I voted against it. I said, 'I don't want you to work. I want you to go home
and kiss your kids and hug your families'.

"They said, 'No, I can't stay home, I have to work or do something'.

"There's only one reason to be in business - we have to make our company be able
to care for 700 families - 700 families."

One of those families is grieving for Briton Martin Wortley, a dealer for Cantor
Fitzgerald on the 102nd floor.

Martin, 29, called his mum and brother on his mobile as he tried to reach the
tower's roof.

Grandmother Morva Wortley said: "He told his mother he couldn't breathe and
couldn't get downstairs because of the heat, so they were going up in the hope
of getting on the roof.

"We don't think he could have got that far. He had gone from the 102nd floor to
the 105th floor in all the heat and smoke.

"He said he was really struggling, although he was a big strong guy.

"His last words were that we should all be strong and he loved us all."

Martin was born in the UK but moved to America in 1978 and held dual
nationality. His grandparents live in Suffolk.

lHOWARD Lutnick is not the only boss grieving for a loved-one as well as for
employees.

Fred Alger, founder of the management firm that bears his name, is among 38 of
55 people missing from the company's office on the 93rd floor. Brother David,
who survived, is the company president.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: WEDDING PLANS SAVE WORKER'S LIFE

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 119 words


ONE of Howard Lutnick's staff owes her life to skipping work on Tuesday to
prepare for her wedding today.

But Jeannie Hawryluk's fiance, Josh Rosenblum, went as usual to his Cantor
trading job on the 104th floor of the World Trade Centre and he is missing.

Jeannie said she phoned him at one point - before learning the terrible news.
She said: "The phone just rang and rang."

And then her mother called with the tragic news. She said: "In an instant my
whole world collapsed. But I have hope. We just need a glimmer of hope."

Jeannie has besieged hospitals, morgues and rescue authorities for news.

She added: "I am determined to find the man I love. I am going to wear that
wedding dress."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ANGUISH OF HERO FIREMAN;
 BRAVE MERCY MAN SEEN IN FAMOUS SNAP SURVIVED - - BUT BROTHER IS FEARED DEAD

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 587 words


A FIREMAN famously pictured climbing the stairs of the World Trade Centre is
alive, it emerged last night.

Mike Kehoe was thought to be dead in the rubble.

Millions saw the picture of him heading towards the blaze in the north tower as
a torrent of office workers fled the other way to safety.

Last night, it was revealed that Mike escaped before the building collapsed.

But his firefighter brother is missing, feared dead among the debris.

Shocked and exhausted Mike was told to go home to Staten Island - but refused
and vowed to help the search operation.

He said: "I'm a firefighter and for me it's a job. It's not something to shrink
away from when the going gets tough. I'm here to do what I can to help and
that's what I aim to do.

"My family is precious and I know my brother would do the same for me."

More than 300 firefighters are thought to have been killed by the collapse of
the twin towers.

Mike, based at Second Street, Lower Manhattan, said he ran from the building
less than a minute before the first collapse.

He admitted: "I was damn scared going into that situation because no one knew
what was going to happen. We didn't know the building was going to collapse but
we didn't know that it wouldn't either.

"I was ordered to help connect the roll-up hoses to the hydrants inside the
building and to try to put out the fire on the 80th floor, where the first plane
hit.

"By the time we reached the 28th floor there was a huge rumble and I could feel
that there was another huge impact.

"That was when the second plane hit the other building.

"At that point we were all given a radio message to evacuate the building and
that's what we did.

"It was a miracle that I survived. If we had gone any further towards 80 we
would never have got out in time."

Mike raced to the bottom of the stairs then ran for his life as the south tower
collapsed.

He hid behind a truck and was given oxygen by a colleague as he waited for the
mountain of rubble to settle.

But after his escape he immediately rejoined the rescue operation.

A colleague said: "Mike is in the same situation as so many of us. He has some
close friends who just didn't make it.

"He hasn't been thinking about what he has lost or the danger to himself. He has
concentrated on what he can do to make things better.

"When the dust settles, the whole department will have to adjust to what has
happened and realise that some of the guys just aren't coming back.

"There are some black days ahead. Everyone knows the risks of the job but no one
could imagine anything as dire as this."

Mike's wife Edra was only seven blocks from the World Trade Centre when she
heard the first plane hit.

She ran from her office and stood among crowds of workers trying to see what had
happened.

She said: "Everyone started screaming as we saw the second plane hit. We saw the
fireball and we knew we had to get away and I headed for Michael's firehouse.

"When I got to the station I sat there for hours and hours praying that his team
would be OK. I saw the buildings collapse and didn't believe there could be any
survivors."

She added: "Finally my cell phone rang and I heard his voice.

"He said, 'We all made it out.' He said he loved me and that he would be home
soon. All the men from his team survived although others were not so lucky and
we are praying that survivors will be found.

"I'm looking forward to having him home again. I can't describe my feelings

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FILM STAR JOINS THE RESCUERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 180 words


RESERVOIR Dogs star and former fireman Steve Buscemi donned his old uniform to
join in the search through the rubble at the World Trade Centre.

The actor, who was born in Brooklyn and became a fireman just before studying
acting, went back to his old unit, Company 55.

He put on a uniform and joined firefighters at the scene searching for any
survivors.

He also joined in the horrific task of digging among the rubble and removing
bodies and debris.

A spokesman for Buscemi said: "It was important to Steve to help out. It was
something he wanted to do.

"He's not doing it for the publicity at all, he has remained friends with
everyone in the company and wanted to join them in the rescue effort.

"I don't know how long he will be doing this but it is just like Steve to put
aside his own safety to help out."

Buscemi, who has starred in such films as Armageddon, Con Air and Fargo,
rejoined his former colleagues in the engine company to help their rescue
efforts.

The Manhattan-based team are one of dozens in New York in the huge operation.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ANGUISH OF HERO FIREMAN;
 BRAVE MERCY MAN SEEN IN FAMOUS SNAP SURVIVED - - BUT BROTHER IS FEARED DEAD

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 600 words


A FIREMAN famously pictured climbing the stairs of the World Trade Centre is
alive, it emerged last night.

But Mike Kehoe's joy at his escape before the buildings collapsed was shortlived
as it was revealed that his fireman brother is missing feared dead among the
debris.

Shocked and exhausted Mike - firefighter 12898 - was told to go home to Staten
Island but refused and vowed to help the search operation.

He said: "I'm a firefighter and for me it's a job. It's not something to shrink
away from when the going gets tough. I'm here to do what I can to help and
that's what I aim to do.

"My family is precious and I know my brother would do the same for me."

Mike, 33, based at Second Street, Lower Manhattan, was on duty with Engine 28
when the first of two hijacked airliners ploughed into the north tower.

He said: "We could see one of the towers was smoking but at that stage we still
weren't sure why.

"We went inside the lobby of the tower. It was already a mess with the elevators
and glass blown out. We found the stairwell and started making our way up the
building.

"There were tons of people coming down but they were pretty calm. At that stage
I was frightened. Our job was to get up to the floor where the plane hit to
reach people there - that's what we were determined to do.

"As we were going up, people kept saying 'Good luck', 'Lots of luck' and things
like that."

It was then that tourist John Labriola took Mike's picture, which appeared in
hundreds of newspapers around the world yesterday, a symbol of the selfless
bravery of New York's fire department.

As Mike reached the 28th floor amid growing panic, a second airliner ploughed
into the adjoining south tower.

Mike said: "The building shook. You could feel it even though it was the other
tower.

"Over the radio our chief said 'Everybody evacuate, everybody evacuate the
building now'. We all turned around immediately. It was frightening. I ran down
the stairs with everyone else. It must have taken me under three minutes to get
down."

Mike's company decided to get out. Six Ladder 11 firefighters behind him - Mike
Quilty, Rich Kelly, Matt Rogan, Edward Day, Mike Cammarata and John Heffernan -
decided to stay put.

Mike said: "They didn't move and they didn't make it. They thought it was safer
in the lobby. My buddy said 'Run!' and we ran. Then, 30 seconds later, the
second building suddenly came down. Another 30 seconds and I would have been
dead. As I was running, I turned to look. I tried to outrun the smoke and
debris. I remember thinking it was like a cartoon.

"I suddenly realised I couldn't outrun it so I got behind a truck. I didn't have
a mask. But I shared a colleague's oxygen mask although I inhaled a ton of s**t
in the air.

"We got buried in some of the rubble. I couldn't see anything. There was a
muffled silence.

"You know what it's like when it snows and the snow muffles the noise? It was
like that."

Mike thought his wife Edra, 31, was dead. She works for a radiographer and often
made deliveries to the World Trade Centre.

In turn Edra thought her husband was dead. She rushed to his fire station and
waited.

She said: " I sat there for hours praying that his team would be OK, saw the
buildings collapse and didn't believe there could be any survivors. Finally my
mobile rang and I heard his voice."

Thirty minutes later they were in each other's arms.

Mike said: "I didn't know she was alive. She didn't know I was alive. I called
the station and she was here. You can't describe our feelings of relief."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BURIED TREASURE;
 POUNDS 75M IN GOLD UNDER RUBBLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 355 words


MORE than 12 tons of gold worth around pounds 75million is buried under the
tangle of twisted girders and rubble of the World Trade Centre's twin towers.

And the massive haul of treasure is out of the reach of any looters or even the
banks in an underground warehouse beneath the mountains of debris.

The bars were held on behalf of the Comex metals trading division of the New
York Mercantile Exchange.

There was no one at the exchange to comment yesterday as the market remained
closed for business.

But Jonathan Potts, who runs an official Comex warehouse for silver bullion in
Wilmington, Delaware, said there was little risk of a robbery.

Mr Potts said: "It's probably safer than it's ever been.

"It's probably buried under 107 storeys of rubble."

The gold was held in a vault for delivery against futures contracts traded at
the Comex.

According to Comex data, there were around 3800 bars of bullion stored in the
centre before the two hijacked aircraft demolished the Manhattan landmarks and
symbols of New York's financial might.

The bars, each weighing 100 ounces, were held in a locked vault at the offices
of ScotiaMocatta, the metals and bullion trading division of Canada's Bank of
Nova Scotia.

Larry Scott, global President of ScotiaMocatta in Toronto, said: "All the
depository staff are safe and well.

"Our operations are obviously not normal but we have no concerns at this time,
either security or financial.

"Everything is not normal but everything's OK."

One dealer at a precious metals trading firm in New York said: "The bars of
bullion are still there.

"Obviously, they are going to be able to dig them out - unless they have melted
and disappeared."

Experts said the quantity buried under the rubble of America's worst-ever
terrorist atrocity amounts to just two per cent of the 600-ton-a-day global
market in gold bullion.

Mr Scott said: "This is a futures market. The big movements of physical metal
take place at the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve.

"The gold held at the World Trade Centre is trivial next to the rest of the
market."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE SURLY DRUNKEN PILOT WHO BECAME A KAMIKAZE
TERRORIST MURDERER

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 1295 words


MADMAN Mohamed Atta learned just enough at flying school to smash a hijacked
airliner into a tower full of innocent people.

The sullen, cold-eyed fanatic took a keen interest in how to steer but skipped
lessons on taking off and landing.

Then, just before the hijackings, he made a mockery of his claims to be a devout
Moslem by getting drunk on double vodkas and spitting foul-mouthed abuse at a
waitress.

In a rage after a row over his bill, Atta pulled out a wad of $ 50 and $ 100
bills and started throwing money on the table at a bar near Miami, Florida.

He had been drinking Screwdrivers - double Russian vodkas with orange juice.

Atta shouted: "You think I can't pay my bill? I'm a pilot for American Airlines.
I can pay my f****** bill."

Four days later, Atta and four henchmen seized American Airlines Flight 11 and
flew it into the World Trade Centre.

The night before the outrage, three other men spewed hate at the USA in another
Florida bar.

John Kap, boss of the Pink Pony lap- dancing club in Daytona Beach, said: "They
were talking about what a bad place America is. They said, 'Wait until tomorrow.
America is going to see bloodshed.'"

Investigators see Atta as a key to how that bloodshed was caused. He is thought
to have had links to all the other hijackers.

As the FBI scoured the world for his surviving accomplices, details emerged of
how Atta and fellow hijacker Marwan Alshehhi toured flying schools in Florida.

Henry George, who runs a flight simulator centre, said: "They just wanted to
move around in mid-air, not take off or land. I thought it was really odd.

"I can see now what I was allowing them to do. It's a terrible thing to live
with."

Atta and Alshehhi told Henry they were Egyptians who wanted to fly airliners
back home. They paid $ 1500 for six hours in a Boeing 727 simulator.

The hijackers also enrolled at two Florida flight schools, where instructors
remembered Atta as surly and unfriendly.

Miriam Smith, owner of Palm Beach Flight School, said: "This guy was very
sullen. I like to be friendly with my regular customers but he would never say
anything.

"He almost always brought a friend to fly with him. I think he was training them
as co-pilots."

Atta and Alshehhi also trained for five months last year at Huffman Aviation, a
school based in Venice, Florida.

Briton Richard Nyren was a student there at the time. He recalled: "They were
outsiders. They didn't mix with the rest of us."

School owner Rudi Dekkers said the pair claimed to be Afghans and paid pounds
10,000 each up front for lessons.

He added: "They were strange birds. They spoke quite good English but they were
by themselves, not hanging out with the other students."

The terrorists qualified to fly single-engined and multi-engined planes at
Huffman. Atta and others then apparently improved their skills at an airfield
near the town of Lantana.

When they visited Henry George's simulator centre, they were already licensed to
fly private planes.

The FBI believe at least six of the hijackers trained as pilots in Florida.

Atta spent much of his time there in a rented flat in Coral Springs.

But he and Alshehhi also lodged for a week with Venice woman Drucilla Voss,
before she kicked them out over their "arrogance".

Mrs Voss said the pair were polite to her husband but rude to her. She added: "I
did not like their attitude. Their personality was nothing to care for.

"They were very arrogant and made smart remarks. They are the only ones we have
ever had to ask to leave."

Atta was first spotted in Florida in 1997 when he trained at Embry Riddle
Aeronautical University. One student complained about a poster of Osama bin
Laden in the window of Atta's car.

He returned to Embry Riddle last year before moving on to other flying schools.

Alshehhi and Atta were also part of a suspected terrorist cell in Hamburg,
Germany. They studied electronics at the city's Technical University.

Atta flitted between America and Germany, moving often to avoid detection.

He always had money and told students he had rich parents at home in the United
Arab Emirates. Officials in the Emirates claim Atta's passport was false and
suspect he may have come from North Africa.

German officials believe three of the Hamburg group were involved in the
hijackings. Federal chief prosecutor Kay Nehm said: "There is a suspicion that,
since the beginning of this year, a group has been founded in Hamburg.

"Its aim was to carry out serious crimes, together with other fundamentalist
groups abroad, to attack the United States in a spectacular way through the
destruction of symbolic buildings."

The flat where the group lived still has Atta's name on the doorbell. Police
raided it on Wednesday night.

Officers detained one man and were looking for another. Seven other Hamburg
addresses were searched.

The swoops in Germany were part of a worldwide operation to net anyone with
possible links to Tuesday's atrocities.

At least 10 Middle Eastern people were held at New York airports on Thursday but
all were freed without charge.

Another man initially linked to the plot was released in Boston, where two of
the hijacked jets took off.

Officials can't rule out the possibility that some of the plotters are still at
large in the US, planning more attacks. One said: "Our information suggests we
haven't seen the end of this threat."

The FBI has sent airlines a list of 52 people wanted for questioning. And
thousands of agents are searching at home and abroad for suspects with recent
flight training or ties to the hijackers or their backers.

Passenger lists from other flights on Tuesday are being checked for people who
fit this profile.

Agents were also looking for a Moslem cleric quizzed previously over links to
bin Laden's bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Moataz Al-Hallak is said to have told people about Tuesday's attacks before they
happened. He left the north-eastern USA for Texas the day before the hijackings.

Al-Hallak appeared before a grand jury in the embassy bombings case but was
never charged.

Several people quizzed over the plot are now being held as illegal immigrants.

In Minnesota, it was claimed the FBI knew before Tuesday of at least one Arab
man trying to learn to fly an airliner.

Officials had no reason to charge him at the time and began the process of
deporting him. He has been detained and questioned since Tuesday but is refusing
to co-operate with the FBI.

An officer from the bureau was on his way to the tiny Azores islands to
interview two Iranians held a week ago after they tried to get to Canada with
fake passports.

And the Mexican government is looking for at least nine people they believe may
have helped in the attacks.

As the hunt for the plotters went on, crash investigators recovered the two
black box flight recorders from the airliner which hit the Pentagon.

Both devices were passed to the FBI, who were already studying the flight data
recorder from the United Airlines jet which came down in Pennsylvania before it
could hit the White House or Camp David.

Time magazine reported in a special edition that US intelligence had an
"inkling" in June that a huge attack on the country was being planned.

But there was not enough detail to do anything about the information.

The magazine also reveals more of the panic on the day of the attacks.

Officials at the Pentagon apparently told relatives not to drink tap water. They
feared reservoirs had been poisoned.

And reporters on Air Force One, the President's plane, were warned not to use
mobile phones in case they gave away the jet's position to the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: HIJACKERS FROM SAUDI AND YEMEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 233 words


A MIDDLE East expert yesterday said that the kamikaze terrorists came from
southern tribes in Saudi Arabia which have close links with Yemen.

The FBI yesterday released the names used by the 18 men they believe hijacked
the four planes used in Tuesday's attack.

Terrorism expert Peter Bergen said: "You are seeing that probably half the
people on the list are Saudi and one-third are Yemeni.

"Bin Laden veterans returning to Saudi from Afghanistan have been talking about
some big action in the next couple of weeks, my sources have told me. It was
originally thought it was going to be in Saudi but clearly this was it."

Bin Laden's father was Yemeni and his followers are thought to have attacked the
USS Cole in the country recently, leaving dozens of sailors dead.

Walid Al Shehri and Waleed Alsheri are brothers, thought to be from Saudi Arabia
and members of a clan which fought in Afghanistan during the 1980s.

KILLERS' NAMES

American Airlines Flight 11

Walid Al Shehri, Wail Alsheri aka Waleed Alsheri, Mohamed Atta,

Aabdul Alomari, Satam Sugami

United Airlines Flight 175

Marwan Alshehhi, Fayez Ahmed, Mohald Alshehri, Hamza Al Ghamdi, Ahmed Al Ghamdi

American Airlines Flight 77

Khalid Almihdhar, Majed Moqued,

Nawaf Al Hazmi, Salem Al Hazmi

United Airlines Flight 93

Ahmed Al Haznawi, Ahmed Alnami,

Ziad Jarrah, Saeed Alghamdi

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: TRAGEDY IS USED BY SICK CONMEN

BYLINE: Harry Arnold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 277 words


SICK conmen and thieves are taking advantage of the carnage in America to make
money.

There are fears that bogus fundraisers could call British homes claiming to be
collecting for the rescue effort.

And an OAP was mugged in the street during yesterday's three-minute silence.

The 82-year-old was robbed of pounds 200 as he stood, head bowed, at 11am.

He was unhurt but left shocked by the attack, which happened outside The George
and Dragon pub in Potton, Bedfordshire. To add to the victim's distress,
yesterday was also his birthday.

A police spokesman condemned the attack as "thoughtless and distressing". He
added: "This was a despicable crime carried out on an elderly man simply trying
to pay his respects."

Meanwhile, Red Cross Chief executive Sir Nicholas Young said that heartless
cheats could be using the charity's name to swindle money in the UK.

He said: "The American Red Cross, who have worked so tirelessly to support
victims of this awful tragedy, have not launched an appeal and have no plans to
do so.

"The British Red Cross Society is in exactly the same position. Donors should
ensure that they use only bona fide channels."

The official humanitarian effort to help victims of the US terrorist attack is
being led by the Red Cross and the Salvation Army.

Donations can be made direct to the Red Cross. Alternatively, call the Salvation
Army on 0800 028 7744 or write to: American Support Appeal, The Salvation Army,
Freepost KE3466, London SE1 6BP.Donations to The Red Cross can be made by
calling 0207 201 5038 or by post addressed to American Emergency, British Red
Cross, Freepost London SW1X 7BR.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: DOMINO EFFECT RISK TO MORE BUILDINGS;
 WAR ON THE US

BYLINE: Harry Arnold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 343 words


MANY more of Manhattan's skyscrapers could fall to a "domino effect," experts
warned yesterday.

The terrorist attack sent a million tons of rubble crashing to the ground.

Leading structural engineer Dr John Roberts said: "The shock wave was equivalent
to an earthquake - there is no other way to describe it."

The 53-storey American Express Merrill Lynch tower has already been evacuated
after the top floors began to buckle.

Engineers believe it may have to be demolished and other towers may suffer the
same fate.

A six-mile exclusion zone has been set up around the site of the disaster but
most of the badly damaged buildings are within a mile of the collapsed towers.

Dr Roberts, former president of Britain's Institute of Structural Engineers,
said: "Apart from the two towers, a building immediately alongside which was 48
storeys high - as big as Canary Wharf in London - also collapsed.

"And now the American Express building is at risk."The only logical explanation
is that the impact load which came down to the ground weakened the foundations
and or superstructure of adjoining buildings.

"It is as though they were at the heart of an earthquake. Many more buildings
will have to be looked at because of the severity of the shock wave."

Dr Roberts said the high-quality rock which made Manhattan so suitable for
erecting such tall buildings might have contributed to the damage.

He said: "Very rigid ground will send out a higher value shock wave. It's now
likely there will be quite severe damage in surrounding buildings."

Another leading British structural engineer, Robert McKittrick, says the whole
future of high-rise buildings might be in doubt.

He said: "E-mails have been flying around between my colleagues today and we may
well be looking at the implications of the design of high-rise buildings in
future.

"The whole world may have to think differently. Maybe we've got to stop having
high buildings.

"I cannot believe that the proposals for more high towers in London will
happen."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: PRESIDENT AT GROUND ZERO;
 EXHAUSTED RESCUE TEAMS CHEER BUSH AS HE VISITS SITE OF NEW YORK ATROCITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 803 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush finally arrived in New York yesterday to rally exhausted
rescue workers.

He took a helicopter tour of the devastated site of the World Trade Centre
before meeting emergency workers still digging in a desperate bid to find
survivors.

His helicopter, Marine One, was flanked by fighter jets as he surveyed the
wreckage from the skies.

He was accompanied by New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and New York Governor
George Pataki.

The presidential party landed in lower Manhattan, on the waterfront, before
being whisked off in a car surrounded by tight security.

The casually-dressed Bush was determined to inspect the destruction first-hand
even though security advisers had warned against the visit. His arrived three
days after the atrocities.

The long presidential motorcade comprising dozens of cars snaked through
Manhattan towards the disaster zone which emergency services have dubbed "Ground
Zero" - the military name for the obliterated land area beneath nuclear weapons
which detonate in mid-air.

Bush emerged grim-faced from his car to shake hands with rescue workers in the
slippery wet debris.

He gave a thumbs-up to fire- fighters who were clearing rubble from the smoking
remains of the north tower.

Then he mounted a pile of rubble holding a loudhailer to make a short speech.

Bush said: "As we mourn our loss, I would like you all to know that America
today is on bended knee in prayer for the people who lost their lives here, to
the workers who worked here, for the families who mourn.

"The nation stands with the good people of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
as we mourn the loss of thousands of our citizens."

One of the workers interrupted: "We can't hear you."

Bush replied: "Well I can hear you. The whole world can hear you. And the people
who knocked down these buildings will hear all of us soon."

The group of rescue workers broke into chants of "USA! USA! USA!" and "Don't let
them get away!"

The president continued: "The nation shares its love. Thank you for your hard
work.

"Thank you for making the nation proud and may God bless America."

He received a thunderous reception as he told the rescue workers that the world
was watching their brave efforts.

As he climbed down from the wreckage, the crowd of hundreds, many wearing hard
-hats, cheered and applauded.

He was passed a small stars-and-stripes flag which he waved before continuing
his emotional tour.

Bush said that he had been reluctant to come sooner because he was concerned he
might get in the way of the rescue effort.

But Mayor Giuliani had assured the him that his visit would be an important
morale-booster.

Bush's arrival, though, was after that of former president Bill Clinton.

Arriving from a long-haul trip to Australia, he went to Manhattan at the first
opportunity and was mobbed by people who have been looking for a leader as their
world caved in.

He shook countless hands. Children and adults hugged him and some of the 2500
people queuing at a police station to report loved ones missing opened their
hearts to him.

Clinton, who now lives in New York State, said: "We need not to show fear, and
not to give in to these people. We need to prove them wrong by how we respond to
this."

His wife, former First Lady Hillary Clinton - now a New York senator - later
accompanied Bush's party in surveying the carnage.

The mountain of ash and debris Bush had seen on TV pictures had been turned into
a huge mud bath by a thunderstorm early yesterday.

Sodden, exhausted rescuers still desperately searched for survivors.

But Mayor Giuliani said emergency teams would keep searching until all hope had
gone.

He said: "There's still a strong hope we'll be able to find people, recover
people and save them."

But time is running out. No survivors were found in the previous 24 hours,
despite continual searches.

Tens of thousands of residents in lower Manhattan remained homeless yesterday.
The six-square mile area around the World Trade Centre has been sealed off and
turned into a giant crime scene.

Engineers are now keeping a close eye on skyscrapers in Manhattan's financial
district amid fears they could fall to a "domino effect".

Structural engineer Dr John Roberts said: "It is as though they were at the
heart of an earthquake."

As the number of missing people rose to 4700, a Scottish forensic expert warned
that identifying some victims could take years.

Professor Peter Vanezis, of the Centre for International Forensic Assistance at
Glasgow University, said some may never be identified.DEFIANT STAND: Bush waves
the American flag after climbing on top of a mound of rubble. He spoke to
rescuers through a megaphone during his tour of New York yesterday

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: STILL BURNING IN THE RAIN;
 SMOKE CONTINUES TO FILTER OUT OF RUBBLE SITE ONCE THE FINANCIAL HEART OF NEW
YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 835 words


TORRENTIAL rain turned the mountain of ash and debris at the World Trade Centre
into a massive mud bath yesterday.

Rescuers still desperately searching for survivors found their task even harder
as they struggled against the downpour.

And through the rain and thunder, smoke from the devastated twin towers
continued to seep out from the rubble.

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said emergency teams would keep searching until all
hope was gone.

He said: "There's no question they're hampered by the rain.

"But there's still a strong hope we'll be able to find people, recover people
and save them."

Rescue teams have been digging through tons of rubble since Tuesday's attacks.
But time is running out for anyone trapped underneath.

Rescue volunteer Richard Coppo said the weather was adding to the misery.

He said: "The rain made the footing a little more dangerous. We thought that
maybe the rain would settle the dust and make things better, but actually it
stirred it up."

Yesterday's storm followed a disappointing 24 hours for emergency teams. No
survivors were found, despite round-the-clock searches.

But the long, hard slog to clear the rubble was broken by moments of high drama.

Sodden volunteers, running on adrenaline and faith, were evacuated from a
damaged office tower across from the World Trade Centre when the top 10 stories
appeared unsteady.

Search teams sprinted away, but the building remained intact.

At another spot, a chain of about 100 workers froze in their track when a shout
went up: "Quiet, quiet".

Wheezing workers lowered their buckets and turned to the area where a search dog
was indicating it had heard something.

Seconds passed. A minute went by. Then, those at the front of the line picked up
their buckets, turned their faces, and went back to work.

Confusing reports and other terrorist alerts led to scares throughout the city,
with evacuations at Grand Central Terminal, the Port Authority Bus Terminal and
CNN's offices. None came to anything.

Tens of thousands of residents in lower Manhattan remained homeless yesterday.

The five-square mile area around the World Trade Centre has been sealed off and
has been turned into a giant crime scene.

Some residents were allowed to retrieve a few belongings before being hustled
out again.

And while emergency crews searched for survivors among the tons of rubble,
desperate relatives continued to scour the city for their missing loved ones.

Notices with pictures and details of the missing thousands have been posted all
over Manhattan.

More than 2500 people stood in line outside one police station waiting to
complete missing-persons reports.

Others stood on the street, trying to persuade reporters to print or broadcast
the names and photographs of relatives.

One of them was Caroline Burbank, 29, whose fiance Geoff Campbell was at a
conference in the World Trade Centre when it was hit.

Caroline said in the days before the terrorist attacks, she and Geoff had been
planning to fly to the Caribbean to get married.

She said: "When he gets out, that's the first thing we'll do."

Many tales of heroism and bravery have emerged since the attacks. But the
tragedy has also brought out the worst in some people.

Mayor Giuliani said yesterday his police officers were investigating reports
that telemarketing swindlers had been phoning people at random, asking for
donations for bereaved families.

As the number of missing people rose to 4700, an expert in Glasgow warned that
identifying some victims could take years.

Professor Peter Vanezis also said some might never be identified.

Prof Vanezis, who is assembling a team of scientific experts to help if needed,
compared the scale of the disaster to the wartime London blitz.

The professor, who has worked at war crime scenes in Kosovo, said as well as
identifying the victims in America, investigators would aim to work out what
part they played in the tragedy and how they died.

He said: "From our point of view, working in the mortuary, we have to assume
that people in an aeroplane have been traumatised in a physical way, other than
by the crash itself.

"We would need to be looking, for example, to see if they had stab wounds,
gunshot wounds.

"We would need to identify the people who were the terrorists, who were the key
players on the particular aeroplane."

He added: "I would suggest that in some cases it could be years before some of
them are properly identified, if indeed ever."

Prof Vanezis is director of the Centre for International Forensic Assistance at
Glasgow University.

It was was set up in July to create a pool of experts who could be dispatched at
short notice to disaster scenes.

He said: "Admittedly, nobody was expecting anything like this to happen.

"Like everybody else, we have been totally shocked by what has happened and we
are doing our best to pool people together to see if we can be of assistance."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BUSH'S TEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 324 words


GEORGE W Bush and four former presidents led a sombre memorial service yesterday
for the victims of the World Trade Centre atrocity.

Mourners at the National Cathedral in Washington sang God Bless America and
listened as the Right Reverend Jane Holmes Dixon, the city's Episcopal bishop,
told them: "All people of faith want to say to this nation and to the world that
love is stronger than hate."

Bush was joined by former Presidents Bill Clinton, George Bush, Jimmy Carter and
Gerald Ford, along with members of Congress.

A Moslem cleric was among the religious leaders who spoke.

Yesterday was proclaimed a national day of prayer and remembrance across
America, as Bush urged community groups and places of worship nationwide to hold
noontime memorial services, ring bells and set aside time for candlelit vigils.

He also encouraged employers to let workers off to attend.

Bush said: "All our hearts have been seared by the sudden and senseless taking
of innocent lives. We pray for healing and for the strength to serve and
encourage one another in hope and faith."

At a morning service in Connecticut, Governor John Rowland spoke of a Roman
Catholic priest friend, the Rev Francis Grogan, who died on United Airlines
Flight 175 from Boston to Los Angeles which crashed into the World Trade Centre.

He said: "If Grogan were still here, he would ask us to be persuaded by our
better natures.

"With the heart of our nation bursting with sadness, we must ask God for the
courage to carry on."

Members of the Islamic Centre of Long Island, stunned by many revenge assaults
on Moslems across America, also held a service for victims yesterday.

They will also collect donations for the American Red Cross.

Arshad Majid, a member of the centre, said: "We're hurting, too, and we're also
Americans.

"There were Moslem lives lost in that building, as well. We're all human and we
need to get together."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: I THOUGHT WIFE WAS DEAD WHEN PLANE HIT .. THEN SHE
RAN INTO MY ARMS;
 THE SURVIVORS

BYLINE: Grace Mclean And Judith Duffy Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words


A SCOT last night told how he found his wife amid the rubble of the World Trade
Centre.

Frantic Stephen Joyce wept with relief as his beloved Clarissa stumbled from the
dust cloud and into his arms.

He said: "I thought I'd lost her. It was the worst day of my life. I will never
forget it."

Stephen, 37, ran to the WTC after a call from Clarissa telling him a bomb had
hit the tower. By the time he ran the quarter of a mile to the towers the second
plane had hit.

Stephen watched helplessly behind police lines as workers threw themselves from
windows and terrified New Yorkers ran for their lives.

As his thoughts were consumed with the fate of his wife, she suddenly appeared,
covered in dust and debris.

Stephen, from Motherwell, phoned his mother, Ann, 56, who said: "Clarissa was in
the basement when the plane hit .

"He told a policeman his wife was in the building but the officer said he
couldn't go any further. Then Clarissa just appeared and they were reunited.

"He's traumatised. He saw bodies falling and people running everywhere. He knows
they are lucky to be alive."

Stephen, an architect, and Clarissa, 30, met in Glasgow when she was studying
anthropology at the city's university.

They moved to New York last November and have a home in Brooklyn.

George Sleigh, another British-born architect who worked on the 91st floor of
the North Tower, yesterday told how he saw the people in the jet's cockpit.

George, 63,was at his desk in the North tower when he heard the whining engine
of the American Airlines Boeing 767 heading towards the building.

After the impact floors above his office, George hid under his desk from the
debris raining down.

After what seemed like an eternity George made for the exit and fled down a fire
escape, eventually making it to safety.

He said: "I was at my desk in the morning looking forward to a normal day when I
heard this loud noise

"I looked out of the window and just a few feet away was this huge jet plane.

"The wheels of the plane were down and I could see the people in the cockpit.

"I thought to myself, 'Man, this guy is low in the air' but I still thought he
was going to clear us.

"Then it smashed into the tower a few floors above me. I just couldn't believe
it.

"Even now it seems insane that anyone would do that, even a crazed terrorist.

"When I close my eyes and picture that airliner coming towards me and the people
in the cockpit it is like a dream."

Gateshead-born George, a father-of-three, emigrated to Canada in 1962 and moved
to America four years later. For the last 15 years he has worked in the twin
towers of World Trade Centre for the American Bureau of Shipping.

Yesterday, rescue attempts at the pile of rubble which was once the world famous
trade centre were hampered by heavy rain.

Rescuers racing against the clock to find survivors were losing their footing as
rain lashed down.

And the foul weather stirred up dust clouds making the rescue operation even
more difficult.

Since Tuesday's terror attacks, hopes of finding survivors in the wreckage are
dwindling.

There are 184 confirmed dead and 4763 on the missing list, but it is feared that
figure could increase dramatically as more bodies are uncovered.

Two young Scots holidaymakers last night told how they cheated death - when they
got on the wrong train.

Euan Keith, 25, and girlfriend Lesley Chrichton should've been at the towers.

But instead of catching a subway which would have taken them straight to the
centre of the tragedy, they jumped on a train heading in the opposite direction.

Euan's mother Catherine, of Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, said: "When I heard from
him I just cried.

"But I won't rest until I can hold him in my arms.

"My husband and I are one of the lucky families. My heart goes out to all the
people who have lost loved one's."

Catherine said Euan and Lesley, from Blantyre, made an "uncharacteristic"
mistake.

But even when Euan called home to say he was safe, Catherine could not be sure
it was him on the answer machine because he sounds like his older brother.

She said: "He left a message saying, 'Trying to contact you, but you're
obviously not there'.

"But we didn't know if it was from Euan or his brother Scott until he called us
later that night."

Tyrone Davis, 23, from Solihull, who was late for work after oversleeping and
missing his bus, said: "I am one of the luckiest people alive."

But for every miracle, every incredible story of survival, there were dozens of
stories of tragedy and death.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: FEARS FOR SCOTS STILL MISSING UNDER THE RUBBLE OF
TWIN TOWERS;
 THE VICTIMS

BYLINE: Donna Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words


AT least three Scots are still missing, feared dead, in the rubble of the World
Trade Centre.

A total of five possible victims were originally reported to Scots police
forces.

But yesterday, Strathclyde Police, who are co-ordinating the operation
throughout the country, said two had been found alive and well.

They would not release details of those still missing, but confirmed banker
Derek Sword, 29, of Broughty Ferry, near Dundee, was one of them.

The total number of Scots caught up in the atrocities which stunned the world
could rise still further, as others might not have been reported to police.

Others could have been at the Pentagon or on board one of the hijacked jets
crashed by the terrorists.

One expat Scot, Washington-based businessman Ian Gray, 55, has already been
confirmed among the dead on board the flight that struck the Pentagon.

Strathclyde Assistant Chief Constable Ricky Gray admitted family liaison
officers were bracing themselves for the fact that they will probably have to
break bad news.

He said: "It has been a great relief for everyone involved that we have managed
to trace two of the missing people alive and well so far.

"We cannot even make a guess yet at how many Scots are lost in this."

Yesterday, Prime Minister Tony Blair summed up the possibility that haunts us
all when he said: "I fear that there will be many a community in our country
where heart-broken families are grieving the loss of a loved one". It is still
feared the number of British dead will reach several hundred.

A grandmother in the Western Isles is waiting anxiously for news of her son,
missing since Tuesday.

Computer consultant Gavin Cushny, 48, is thought to have been working in his
104th floor office in the north tower, the first one hit.

His fiancee, Susan Brady, has been desperately trying to get information for his
mother, Sybil Eales-White, 78, who lives at South Dell on Lewis.

Gavin, who has worked in New York for more than 20 years, was due to fly back to
Stornoway next month and the couple were to be married at picturesque St
Moluag's Temple, at nearby Eoropie.

Mrs Eales-White, widow of Episcopalian minister Donald Eales-White, said there
was still a glimmer of hope so long as the body of her son had still to be
found.

The mother-of-three said: "Despite everything that has happened, I have not
given up hope. Gavin could still be lying injured in a hospital and may not have
been identified yet.

"Susan has filled in a form with details of Gavin and has been going round the
emergency services and hospitals in case anyone had seen him.

"But there have been no developments to report. It's just a case of waiting to
hear whatever news will come to us."

A death announcement in a local newspaper in Sussex mourned one victim, Robert
Eaton, a 37-year-old merchant banker.

He is thought to have been at his desk on the 105th floor of the north tower
when it was struck. Yesterday, his heartbroken parents Doug and Laura attended
the memorial service for victims at St Paul's.

Laura said: "It's terrible to think of him and all those people desperately
trying to get out.

"I can't believe I will never see him again. We keep seeing those horrific
scenes on the television and it doesn't seem real."

Martin Wortley, 29, a commodity dealer from Suffolk, is also still missing. In
his last call to his mother, he told her he was making his way up to the roof.

Andrew Bailey,29, who worked for an insurance broker on the 93rd floor of the
north tower, is also feared dead.

His sister, Christine, from Solihull, near Birmingham, heard the news of the
disaster on TV while on holiday in Majorca.

Peter Butterworth, a 48-year-old insurance assessor from Speke, Liverpool, is
also among the missing.

The Moray-based brother of computer expert Christopher Newton-Carter told
yesterday how they were talking on the phone at the moment the south tower was
hit.

Christopher, 52, was reassuring brother Mark that he was all right after the
first impact.

Mark, 50, who runs the Findhorn Bay Caravan Park, near Forres, said: "As we
spoke the second plane hit the building. He said, 'The building is swaying. I am
getting out of here.' That was the last thing he said to me."

Financial trader Richard Cudina, 46, whose family are originally from Dorset,
had been working at the top of the north tower at the time of the attack.

His brother Christopher, 39, looked on in horror from his office block across
the Hudson River as the Boeing 767 slammed into the 99th floor.

Richard had only recently moved to the World Trade Centre from an office on Wall
Street.

Christopher said: "At first, I could not believe what was happening when the
first plane struck.

"Then, after the initial tower was hit, I picked up my binoculars and saw the
second plane go into the building.

"I knew my brother was working for Cantor Fitzgerald which had floors from 100
up to 105 and the first plane hit about the 99th floor.

"Nobody has heard from anybody who was working for Cantor and I'm afraid we must
fear the worst."

The husband of 35-year-old Sarah Redheffer, a publishing executive who had
organised a conference on the 106th floor of the World Trade Centre, was trying
to fly to America last night to help in the rescue effort.

American Eric, 33, who married Sarah, from Bath, in 1998, was due to fly to
Washington from Heathrow.

He said: "Priorities will be to check the hospitals and to try to co-ordinate
efforts not only for Sarah but also for other colleagues of hers.

"We want to help in any way, shape or form. We want to help the rescuers. Help
anyone. I don't care if it's a matter of pouring coffee for someone or bringing
them food, if it's helping. That's what it's supposed to be about, people
helping people."

E-commerce consultant Glenn Webber, 35, was working on the 82nd floor of the
north tower, just above where the first jet hit.

Glenn, from Peterborough, has not been seen since the crash.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WAR ON THE US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 127 words


While America bore the brunt of Tuesday's attack,

victims came from all corners of the globe

BRITAIN MISSING 100

DEAD 100-500

IRELAND MISSING 100

DEAD 2

GERMANY MISSING 10

DEAD 4

AUSTRIA MISSING 170

DEAD -

CHINA MISSING 5

DEAD 4

SOUTH KOREA MISSING 18

DEAD 1

JAPAN MISSING 20

DEAD 2

TAIWAN MISSING 9

DEAD -

PHILIPPINES MISSING 7

DEAD -

AUSTRALIA MISSING 90

DEAD 9

BANGLADESH MISSING -

DEAD 50

LEBANON MISSING 2

DEAD 2

ZIMBABWE MISSING 6

DEAD -

SOUTH AFRICA MISSING 2

DEAD 1

ITALY MISSING 18

DEAD -

COLOMBIA MISSING 520

DEAD 1

MEXICO MISSING 12

DEAD 1

PORTUGAL MISSING 20

DEAD 3

SWITZERLAND MISSING 200

DEAD 1

CANADA MISSING 50

DEAD 2

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SILENT SCOTS;
 PEOPLE FROM ALL WALKS OF LIFE JOIN TRIBUTE TO SHOW SUPPORT AND SYMPATHY

BYLINE: Annie Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3, 4, 5

LENGTH: 1958 words


SCOTLAND came to a standstill yesterday as hundreds of millions around the world
united in a touching tribute to the victims of terror in America.

The Queen could not hold back the tears as she and Prime Minister Tony Blair led
Britain's biggest show of grief since the death of Princess Diana.

At the stroke of 11am, a hush fell over usually bustling streets for the three
-minute silence of remembrance.

And the sombre scenes of mourning were repeated across Europe and dozens of
countries around the world.

People stood motionless and silent in a poignant gesture of solidarity with the
suffering of the friends and families of those who lost loved ones.

Scots from all walks of life, and from the Highlands and Islands to the Borders,
joined in to show support and sympathy.

More than most, the people of Lockerbie felt the true senselessness and pain
after the haunting images of suffering in America of the last few days.

In the Borders town where 270 died when Pan Am flight 103 was blown from the
sky, the town hall bell tolled the start of the poignant tribute.

Two police officers stood at Lockerbie's war memorial, bowing their heads in
quiet contemplation.

And the town was again linked in grief as it had been 13 years ago to the people
of America.

In the High Street people walked out of shops on to the streets to observe the
silence.

Under a bright blue sky they stood on the pavement, heads bowed and many with
their eyes closed.

Later, Jimmy Pagan, 54, from Lockerbie, said that the spectre of the 1988
tragedy had revisited the town.

He said: "I watched the events of this week on television and it brings memories
back to Lockerbie.

"We are all just so sorry about what has happened."

In Glasgow, 4000 people gathered in the city's George Square for an inter -faith
service.

Huge black drapes hung around the square, and flags were lowered to half-mast on
nearby buildings.

American Airlines crew members stranded in the city by the air traffic
restrictions held aloft their national flag.

The US Consul-General Liane Dorsey said: "These acts of terrorism were against
humanity, against all of humanity and against the essence of humanity."

In Edinburgh, the capital's normally vibrant Princes Street fell quiet.

Buses came to a halt and drivers stood in sombre silence on the pavements.

Motorists driving up the famous street pulled over at the stroke of 11am.

Outside the shops, crowds of people stood silent, some huddled in small groups.
Parents hugged their children as they stopped for three minutes lost in thought.

At Edinburgh Castle, workmen dismantling scaffolding built for last month's
Military Tattoo draped an American flag in honour of the dead.

About 200 tourists, most of them Americans, gathered around the flag.

One man began singing the American national anthem and was quickly joined by
many of his compatriots.

Afterwards, tourists paid tribute to the support they have received from Scots
since the carnage on Tuesday.

Betty Oshiro, of California, said: "This was very touching and we can't believe
the way everyone has stood beside us this week. I would like to thank them."

For the second time this week, the Scottish Parliament fell silent.

Around 100 delegates at a race relations conference joined MSPs for the tribute
to those who died in the attacks.

Earlier this week, MSPs stood for one minute's silence during a special session
of the Parliament.

Speaking before yesterday's tribute, deputy Presiding Officer George Reid said:
"Let us remember those who died and show solidarity with those who lost
relatives and friends.

"And let us reflect upon a world that is terribly changed."

Even Scotland's busiest motorway came to a halt for the three-minute silence.
Lorries and cars pulled on to the hard-shoulder

GLASGOW FOR LOST COLLEAGUES: Firefighters outside Central Station

LOCKERBIE POIGNANT: Cops observe the silence in a town hit by tragedy

ABERDEEN CITY'S TRIBUTE: A hush over the busy Union Street

INVERNESS MARK OF RESPECT: A traffic warden bows his head

PERTH REMEMBERING: Shoppers all fell silent as the clock struck 11

EDINBURGH PAYING RESPECT: The Scottish Parliament falls silent

EDINBURGH CONDOLENCES: Braveheart Adam Watters signs the book

GLASGOW IN GEORGE SQUARE: Mufti Habib ur Rehman, of the city mosque

LEUCHARS LOST IN THOUGHT: A pilot at the Fife base pays tribute

GLASGOW FLYING THE FLAG: American Airlines staff paid tribute to their fallen
colleagues as they marched through Glasgow's George Square yesterday, proudly
holding a Stars and Stripes of the Edinburgh to Glasgow M8 at Harthill and
switched off their engines as a mark of respect.

And in Aberdeen, stores and offices closed their doors so that workers could
take part in the tribute.

On the busy mile-long Union Street, thousands of shoppers stood motionless.

The city's Lord Provost Margaret Smith later led a special service at the Kirk
of St Nicholas.

If anyone in the UK can begin to understand what America is suffering, it is the
people of Northern Ireland

And in their thousands, they paid their own very personal tributes.

In Omagh, devastated three years ago by a bomb which claimed 31 innocent lives,
they stood silently in the streets sympathising as only they could with the
people of America.

An act of mourning was led by the US Consul General, Barbara Stephenson, who
spoke of the eloquent messages of sympathy she had received.

One message said: "Your pain will be our pain, your grief, our grief."

In London, the Queen was at Buckingham Palace, where the gates were closed so
that no one could enter or leave during the period of mourning.

Other members of the royal family and their staff observed the silence, while
Tony Blair and new Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith stood with other MPs in the
Commons, which was in emergency session today to discuss the crisis.

But MPs held up their debate at the sound of nearby Big Ben chiming 11am.

Later, the Archbishop of Canterbury addressed a service attended by the Queen
and political leaders.

Dr George Carey's message to the people of America was: "Our hearts go out to
you - you are all firmly in our prayers."

Elsewhere in Britain, factories and offices stopped work, no sales were made in
shops, court cases were halted and pubs delayed opening.

Announcements were made at stations, airports, on trains, in schools and in city
centres across the nation. Fighter pilots stood to attention before a replica of
the Statue of Liberty at the biggest US air base in Europe, at RAF Lakenheath in
Suffolk.

Servicemen and women were joined by base fire fighters before the lowered flags
of the United States and the RAF and all planes were grounded.

The silence was heralded by The Last Post and a lone Scottish piper ended it by
playing Amazing Grace.

At Heathrow Airport, one of the hundreds of passengers queuing for the first
flight back to America spoke for many when he said: "Until now I did not know
how close we were to the British people. I cannot thank them enough for their
condolences and this magnificent gesture."

In Ireland, most offices, businesses and pubs closed for the day and at St
Mary's Catholic Cathedral in Dublin, plaintive harps and violins were played.

Irish President Mary McAleese led a joint Catholic and Protestant service in
prayers for world leaders to show wisdom "so that justice and mercy may prevail
".

Across Europe, busy streets were stilled and traffic lights turned to red

In Belgium - at the Brussels nerve-centre of the NATO alliance - solemn workers
attended ceremonies and the European Commission stopped work.

EU President Romano Prodi said: "In the darkest days of European history,
America stood close by us and today we stand close to America."

And the political leaders of the 15 EU states issued a statement saying: "These
terrible terrorist acts were also directed against us all, against open,
democratic, multicultural and tolerant societies."

But dozens of EU bureaucrats were too scared to leave their offices to join 6000
colleagues who poured on to the streets under tight security.

One clerk said: "Some people wouldn't leave their desks. They were frightened
there might be a bomb."

In France, the bells of Notre Dame rang out over Paris and then fell silent.

President Jacques Chirac stood to attention in front of a military guard at the
Elysee Palace and the Paris underground service stopped.

Pope John Paul joined in commemorating the victims at his private chapel in his
summer residence at Castelgandolfo, south of Rome in Italy.

A Vatican spokesman said: "He retreated into silent prayer for the victims of
the terror attacks that struck the United States last Tuesday and to implore
comfort for the injured and for reconciliation and peace in the world."

Italian TV showed footage of the attacks accompanied by sombre music.

Underneath, a caption read: "These barbaric acts constitute not only an attack
on the USA but on the value of freedom for everyone."

Practice sessions for tomorrow's Italian Formula One Grand Prix were halted as
drivers and mechanics gathered in the pit lanes and stood silent.

McLaren is contributing to a pounds 6million fund for children orphaned in the
outrage.

Cabbies in Finland pulled to the side of the road and sat with their heads
bowed.

In Iceland, fishermen stood in silence at the normally hectic Reykjavik
docks.Train drivers in Germany stepped from their cabs while the Frankfurt stock
exchange halted and buses stopped running in Berlin.

In Spain, stalked too by the evil of terrorism, thousands in villages and towns
across the country massed quietly in front of public buildings.

Some chose to be outside the sealed- off American embassy in Madrid, while
British tourists stood along the beaches of the Costas.

In Hungary, firemen tied black ribbons on their vehicles to show solidarity with
the brave New York firefighters.

Even as far away as South Korea, ordinary people joined in the mourning.

In the capital, Seoul, people flocked to the American Embassy with children and
their parents clutching flowers.

Without words being said some of the tearful children just knelt and prayed.

In Singapore flowers and gifts were put on the pavement outside the heavily
-fortified US Embassy

The US Embassy in India was overwhelmed by calls and opened an electronic
condolence book on its website.

But one of the few exceptions to the show of sympathy was Serbia.

The country which was bombed by US and NATO forces to stop ethnic cleansing,
called no period of mourning.

PAKISTAN PRAYERS FOR THE DEAD: Moslems in Peshwar, Pakistan, just 28 miles from
the Afghan border, pay their respects

SWEDEN ROOF TOP RESPECT: Chimney sweep Anders Haak, pauses to reflect at 11am
yesterday in Kristanstad, Sweden

RUSSIA DEEP IN THOUGHT: A Moscow man crosses himself as he prays for victims of
the terrorist attack yesterday

LONDON SHOWING THEIR RESPECT: The three minute silence is observed by a huge
crowd of people gathered near St Paul's Cathedral in London at 11am yesterday

US NATIONAL ANTHEM

O' say can you see by the dawn's early light,

What so proudly we hail'd at the twilight's last gleaming.

Whose broad stripes and bright stars thro' the perilous fight,

O'er the ramparts we watch'd, were so gallantly streaming.

And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air,

Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there.

O' say does that star spangled-banner yet wave,

O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave?

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: OUEEN WEEPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 89 words


DAY OF PRAYER: 800 million in silent mourning for the dead from the US, Britain,
Ireland, Germany, Austria, China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines,
Australia, Bangladesh, Lebanon, Zimbabwe, Italy, South Africa, Colombia, Mexico,
Portugal, Switzerland and Canada.
  The Queen wipes away a tear as she leaves yesterday's memorial service at St
Paul's Cathedral for victims of Tuesday's terrorist atrocities in America. She
led millions of mourners across Britain and Europe in an unprecedented three
-minute silence

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 15, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Regus reacts quickly to office demands

BYLINE: Adam Coffer

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 189 words


Regus, which occupied the 93rd floor of one of the World Trade Center towers,
has reacted swiftly to house the wave of requirements in London.

Tim Worboys, corporate development director UK at Regus, said: "We have received
a number of approaches from both agents/brokers and customers seeking to house
clients or their staff in our centres, as it would appear some European cities
have been earmarked as suitable disaster recovery locations.

"We are deeply saddened and our own business in New York has been affected by
the tragedy. We have assembled a team and can ensure an immediate turnaround."

A number of UK developers, who chose to remain anonymous, said investment banks
left homeless by the terrorist attacks had contacted them. Enormous rents are
being offered.

One major developer, which has a number of schemes of more than 9,290 sq m
(100,000 sq ft) ready for occupation, said: "In January, we agreed a prelet to a
major blue-chip company for one of our schemes. Now one of the victims of this
horrific attack has offered to pay our new tenant a massive premium and pay us a
much higher than market-level rent."

EGi News 15/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 15, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Firms turn to disaster recovery services

BYLINE: Robert Gibson

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 152 words


The disaster recovery sector could hold the key to getting New Yorks markets
back on track, according to one leading player.

John Kersley, London-based general manager of SchlumbergerSema Global Recovery
Services, said a huge number of occupiers have been contacting disaster-recovery
space providers.

"Most of the larger financial corporates will have subscribed to services such
as ours. Several of the larger occupiers will be transferring to space in New
Jersey operated by SGRS or their own business continuity space," he added.

SGRSs Jersey City office overlooked the World Trade Center, and staff were in
horror as they watched events unfold.

"Clients contacted us before the towers fell, and subsequently we havent heard
from them. We are facing the tragedy of prepared recovery space with no staff to
occupy it."

SGRS was located at Harbour Exchange, E14, when the IRAs Docklands bomb struck.

EGi News 15/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 15, 2001

WORLD ON BRINK HOLY MEN IN AFGHANISTAN SEND OUT A SINISTER WARNING TO AMERICA;
BOMB US AND YOU FACE MORE TERROR ATTACKS, CLAIM TALIBAN LEADERS

BYLINE: BY TONY BROOKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  23

LENGTH: 468 words


TALIBAN leaders warned yesterday that they would exact revenge if Afghanistan
becomes a target for American retaliation.

As the likelihood of a massive strike by US and Allied forces against the strict
fundamentalist Islamic state increased, hundreds of holy men told the 21 million
population in mosques and over loudspeakers to be prepared.

"We will not die without Allah's will so don't be frightened, " said one.

The Taliban's chief spokesman, Abdul Hai Mutamaen, insisted that neither chief
suspect Osama Bin Laden nor Afghanistan's leaders had the capacity to carry out
the sophisticated terrorist operation against the US.

But he warned: "We will take revenge through different means if America
attacks."

This was interpreted as a threat of more suicide strikes by Islamic extremists
operating in "sleeper" cells, especially in major European countries.

Clerics echoed the sentiment throughout the country, with one saying: "America
has announced war against us for its enmity with Allah and for imposing its
corrupt idealogy."

They claim the presence of Bin Laden in their country was being used by the US
as an excuse to carry out "suppressive" actions and warned neighbouring
Pakistan, one of only three countries to recognise the Taliban, not to give the
West any military support.

US Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage has already told Pakistan he wants
permission to overfly their borders and have "military access".

He also wants the closure of their border with Afghanistan and a halting of fuel
supplies to the Taliban. "If Pakistan cooperates it would wait for the enmity of
Afghans which is more dangerous than any other thing, " said Mutamaen.

Thousands of Afghans were last night fleeing the country, fearing an imminent
blitz. With TV banned there, many had only just heard of Tuesday's devastation.

The ordinary people, unlike their leaders, are unwilling to risk the
consequences of the link with Bin Laden, who is reported to have described the
terrorist attacks as "punishment from Allah".

They are shocked and scared by what has happened and what is likely to happen. A
baker, heading from Kabul to the Pakistani border, said: "You feel death is
creeping up on you as we don't know when the attacks will take place. I am
leaving with my family. I dare not risk waiting."

Most Afghans are bewildered by recent events but, because of their faith, accept
the word of their holy leaders who have little education outside religion, can
barely read or write and know the Koran only by rote.

The captial, Kabul, has already come under fire since the hijack horror when
antiTaliban forces used helicopter gunships to blast the city's airport after an
assassination attempt, also linked to bin Laden, on their military commander.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 15, 2001

IN MOTOR RACING, GOLF AND FOOTBALL EVENTS ACROSS BRITAIN AND THE WORLD, STARS
PONDER WHETHER TO PLAY AFTER HORRORS OF TERRORIST U.S. ATTACKS; AND NOW MINDS
TURN TO SPORT

BYLINE: BY RICHARD TANNER

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 111

LENGTH: 595 words


SIR ALEX Ferguson believes football can play its part in helping to lift a world
stunned by the terrorist attacks on America. The Manchester United manager was
fully supportive of UEFA's decision to postpone Wednesday's Champions League
fixtures as a mark of respect for the victims of the outrage in New York and
Washington.

But he also thinks it is right for the Premiership programme to continue today
when supporters can put on a public display of respect as well as receive a
temporary escape from the shock, gloom and uncertainty that has shrouded the
globe since Tuesday's events.

"This is the biggest thing that has happened in my lifetime, " said Ferguson.

"We have all felt the shock of it. It has had a sort of numbing effect. Everyone
has been stunned by what happened but the great thing about football is that it
can lift people and I think it is good we have a full programme this weekend.

"Football is one of the great common denominators in the world. No sport is
played or watched by more people. It brings people and countries together and
can raise their spirits. Hopefully the product is good because it is an
important weekend.

"They are talking about as many as 500 Britons who have died. Football of course
won't help ease the pain of the families who have suffered such terrible losses
but it can help others who have been shocked by the tragedy."

Ferguson, along with his players, halted training yesterday to observe a
three-minute silence for the victims.

United star Ryan Giggs echoed the sentiments of his team-mates earlier in the
week when he admitted: "At times like this football, and sport generally,
doesn't seem to matter that much any more."

But Ferguson wants his players to help put a smile back on people's faces with a
vibrant display when they face Newcastle at St James' Park.

Manchester City manager Kevin Keegan, who felt the Worthington Cup ties on the
day of the attacks should have been postponed, is happy for football to continue
today.

Keegan said: "I felt on Tuesday the games should have been off as a mark of
respect but I don't have a problem with the programme going ahead on Saturday.
Football sometimes does a lot of good for people.

"They can forget their worries, lose themselves and let out their emotions but
we can obviously never ignore what has happened." Players will wear black
armbands today and a minute's silence will be observed before every game.

Blackburn's American goalkeeper Brad Friedel simply hopes that football can give
him a release from the horrors of the terrorist attacks on his homeland.

Friedel has been on the telephone to friends and family back home, constantly
checking that they are fine and sharing in the agony of his nation.

Friedel admits these last few days have been hard, but he said playing has in
fact been a welcome relief.

He played in Wednesday's Worthington Cup win over Oldham and he will line up in
Rovers' goal again for Sunday's match against Ipswich at Portman Road.

"It's a breath of fresh air to be able to play football. It helps to get my mind
off things, " he said.

"I've been talking to friends back there and family back there and whatever I'm
feeling, they are feeling 100 times worse.

"So it's nice to have 90 minutes away from thinking about it.

"I always want to play no matter what game it is. I want to play football and
I'm contracted to Blackburn and I love playing for Blackburn.

"Like I said, it was a real breath of fresh air for me to have 90 minutes away
from it all."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Grocer

                               September 15, 2001

Terrorist attacks prompt patriotism and panic buys

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 178 words


Sales of American flags have soared at Wal-Mart and Kmart as consumers responded
to the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington with a surge of patriotism
at the tills.

Panic buying of fuel and staples prompted price hikes at the pumps and shortages
in the grocery aisles as shoppers stocked up on bread, water, batteries and
guns.

The Senate's energy committee warned the government would come down hard on any
forecourt retailer who "tried to use this national tragedy" to boost profits.

The National Association of Convenience Stores said fuel price hikes were caused
by "misinformation and incomplete information regarding tightened fuel
supplies".

Food manufacturers and retailers have pledged their support to the relief
effort.

Anheuser-Busch is to donate $1m to the American Red Cross, plus 9,500 cans of
water to victims and rescue workers as the clear-up operation takes shape.

Heinz has contributed $100,000 along with food products.

Ahold subsidiary Stop & Shop has introduced collection boxes in its stores.




LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 William Reed Publishing Ltd.

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

THE WEEK THAT SHOOK THE WORLD: IRAQI MEN READ ABOUT TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 21 words


Iraqi men read about the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington at a news
stand in Baghdad Jassim Mohammed/AP

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 15, 2001

Terrorists 'might remain in US to plot further attacks';
 Terror in the skies

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 324 words


MEMBERS of the terror gang that brought carnage to New York and Washington may
still be at large in the United States and plotting more attacks.

As many as 10 people of Middle Eastern descent were being held in New York after
two separate groups were arrested while attempting to board airliners yesterday.

At least one of the men was caught with a fake pilot's licence and five were
identified as the same men who had tried to board a plane around the time of
Tuesday's hijackings, but were turned away and fled.

Some may have been carrying pen-knives, reported The New York Post. Others were
being held for questioning due to apparent links to the hijack plot.

At least one was using a name that had been identified by FBI investigators
tracking the terror network.

The men, apparently of Middle Eastern descent, were carrying plane tickets to
numerous other destinations when they were arrested by FBI agents. They were
trying to board TWA Flight 299 to Los Angeles.

An investigator said some of the men had taken flying lessons at one of the
schools attended by hijackers responsible for Tuesday's carnage.

The effort to detain the subjects prompted the abrupt closure of all three of
New York's airports and a handful of the detainees were removed by force from
the Los Angelesbound airliner.

Investigators had been on the lookout for at least some of those detained
because of the earlier episode on Tuesday when they fled the airport.

Investigators worked to identify terrorist collaborators who may still be in a
position to launch more attacks, while agents located black boxes from two of
the hijacked planes.

Authorities were also investigating the possibility that some terrorists
involved with Tuesday's plots were still at large.

The FBI sent the airline industry a list of 52 people wanted for questioning.
Airlines were asked to alert agents if any of the individuals were spotted.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 15, 2001

Taliban vow revenge if US launches bin Laden attack;
 Terror in the skies

BYLINE: By Frank McNamara and PA News

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 447 words


AFGHANISTAN'S Taliban rulers have warned of "revenge" if the United States
attacks the hard-line Islamic militia who harbour Osama bin Laden - the main
suspect in the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.

"If a country or group violates our country, we will not forget our revenge, "
Taliban spokesman Abdul Hai Muttmain said from the militia's headquarters in
Kandahar, in southern Afghanistan.

Speculation is mounting that Washington may take military action against the
Taliban as evidence grows that bin Laden, a Saudi millionaire, was behind the
atrocities in the US on Tuesday.

As the Taliban spoke of revenge, Pakistan military sources said the militia's
reclusive leader had been moved to a new hideout.

Mullah Mohammed Omar, who normally is believed to live in secret locations in
Kandahar, was shifted to a new hideout following a visit this week by a
Pakistani military delegation.

The US is asking Pakistan for permission to let warplanes fly through its
territory if air strikes are ordered against terrorist targets in Afghanistan, a
senior White House official said.

The US administration also wants Pakistan to close its 1,560-mile border with
its neighbour to prevent bin Laden's operatives from leaving Afghan territory.

Pakistan, which has been Taliban's closest ally, is believed to have the best
intelligence on Afghanistan and the militant militia.

The UN and many international aid organisations have withdrawn their foreign
workers from Afghanistan, fearing an attack.

Foreigners have been ordered to leave and the Taliban have stopped issuing visas
to foreigner travellers.

The militia have reinforced security around key installations in Kandahar and
its capital, Kabul, in anticipation of a US strike, the Pakistani sources said.

In Islamabad, a top Pakistani official said his government has informed the
United States that it needs more time to consider the requests.

The White House official, meanwhile, said President Bush is not expected to
retaliate for Tuesday's attacks for weeks or perhaps months because he first
wants to build a global coalition in opposition to terrorism.

Meanwhile, the Turkish military - one of the world's biggest armies with over
half a million personnel - has gone on alert and all leave has been cancelled
amid expectation that the US will retaliate against neighbouring nations.

Turkey borders Iraq, Iran and Syria and there are concerns in Turkey that Iraqi
president Saddam Hussein could emerge as a suspect in the US terror attacks.

"All units have been put on alert and leave has been called off until further
order, " a Turkish military officer said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MILITARY TARGET: Military police stand guard at one of the entrances to
the work area around the Pentagon yesterday REVENGE: Taliban ambassador to
Pakistan Abdul Salam Zaeef

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 15, 2001

Horrendous assault;
 The Communist Party of the United States of America condemns terror attacks.

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 416 words


THE terrorist attacks that killed and wounded thousands of innocent people on
September 11 are crimes that call for universal, worldwide condemnation.

At time of writing, the toll of dead and wounded is not known, but it is certain
to number in the thousands, the deadliest terrorist attack ever.

The Communist Party USA expresses outrage and profound sorrow at this horrendous
assault.

We unequivocally condemn terrorism in all its forms.

We extend heartfelt sympathy to the families of the victims, including the
thousands of office workers at both the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon and
those who died in the crashes of the four planes.

We mourn the rescue workers, hundreds of whom died in the line of duty in the
collapse of the World Trade Center buildings.

Amid the carnage and the horror, they displayed uncommon courage and self
sacrifice as they struggled to save the wounded and dying.

The people have responded generously, from ironworkers in their hardhats, who
raced to the scene to help search through the piles of rubble, to the doctors
and other medical workers who worked through the day and night, to the thousands
across the country who lined up to donate blood.

We urge that everyone who can, participates in such efforts.

This tragedy has traumatised the nation.

The people are understandably in a state of shock and anger and are coming
together to mourn, just as we united in sorrow after the bombing of the federal
building in Oklahoma City.

We must guard against a rush for military reprisals even before the perpetrators
are known and apprehended.

There are calls for more military spending, more intrusive surveillance both at
home and abroad and curtailment of democratic rights.

Innocent Arab people, both at home and abroad, and immigrants across the US face
a danger of racist and xenophobic attacks.

We call on the Bush administration and all state and local authorities to take
measures to guarantee everyone's safety.

The danger is that the cycle of violence will spiral out of control with more
death and destruction.

This moment calls for calm, not hysteria - initiatives for peace, not war -
democracy, not repression.

This crisis must be answered by a united world community of all nations and
peoples.

The goal must be multilateral political solutions that eliminate the causes of
violence and promote a just and equitable world, the best and only true memorial
to those who have died.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 15, 2001

Blair declares common crusade with US;
 Terrorist raids treated as attacks on Britain

BYLINE: by DANIEL COYSH

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair told an emergency session of the House of Commons
yesterday that he would treat this week's terrorist attacks against the US as if
they had been attacks on Britain.

Mr Blair said that the killing of "at least 100 British citizens, maybe many
more" in the attacks should be treated as if they had been killed "in the heart
of Britain itself."

He told a packed and sombre Commons in his 14-minute statement that "appropriate
action" would taken once those responsible and those who had aided them had been
identified.

The Prime Minister warned states accused of harbouring terrorists "either to
cease their protection of our enemies or be treated as an enemy themselves."

Flanked by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon, Mr
Blair stressed:

"We are talking here about a tragedy of epoch-making proportions."

He pledged that Britain would join the US in hunting down those responsible for
the "hideous and foul" attacks.

New Conservative Party leader Iain Duncan Smith, who is a strong supporter of
the planned US national missile defence system, offered the government the
Tories' full support.

"Together, we must make sure that the perpetrators are hunted down and brought
to justice, " he declared.

The Commons and the House of Lords, which also heard an emergency statement,
joined in observing a Europe-wide three-minute silence at 11am.

Labour backbencher Dennis Skinner was the only MP to risk defying the sombre
mood by contrasting the bravery of emergency workers with the behaviour of US
President George W Bush.

Mr Skinner said that there was "a world of difference" between supporting the US
people and "clinging to the coat tails of an American president whose first act
when those firefighters were standing 10 feet tall among the rubble of the World
Trade Centre was to scurry off to his bunker."

Mr Skinner's comments brought cries of "shame" from other MPs.

Before the debate, Labour MP Chris Mullin warned that a hasty military response
could spark further terrorist attacks.

He said: "It is quite right that we should show our solidarity with the US, but
we should not give the American government a blank cheque.

"There must be some limits to the degree of slaughter we are prepared to
sanction."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

GRAPHIC: ACT OF REMEMBRANCE: MPs (top) observing the three-minute silence for
the victims of the terrorist attacks in the US, in common with firefighters in
the West Midlands (right) and people from all walks of life across Britain

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

A Requiem Mass for the victims of the terrorist attacks in the United States

BYLINE: Ruth Gledhill

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 662 words


A Requiem Mass for the victims of the terrorist attacks in the United States was
held on Wednesday at St Matthew's, Westminster, a church where many Americans in
London worship. The Archbishop of Canterbury opened the service with prayers.

ALTHOUGH the official American Church is in Tottenham Court Road in the West
End, Sir George Gilbert Scott's mid-19th-century stone church just yards from
the Houses of Parliament has become a de facto centre of worship for the many
Americans who live, holiday and work in Westminster and its environs. The Church
of England in particular has close links with its sister Episcopal Church of
America. Its director of communications, Dr William Beaver, is from the United
States, as are a number of other senior clergy and lay people over here.

Just hours after the tragedy struck, many were at this Requiem Mass at St
Matthew's, one of the first of dozens of services of prayer and commemoration
already held throughout Britain this week. American worshippers included Canon
James Rosenthal, a lay canon who heads communications for the Anglican
Communion, and Canon John Peterson, Secretary-General of the Anglican
Consultative Council.

The celebrant was Dr John Kevern, Dean of Bexley Hall seminary in America, who
is in London on sabbatical. A few American tourists were also there, along with
a large number of office workers from buildings near by.

At this brief and understated Mass, so soon after the devastating events had
begun to unfold, many were still too stunned even to begin to articulate how
they felt. As we progressed through the heartbreaking familiarity of the liturgy
and the hymns, the service offered a form of conduit, or safe passage, for
emotions which had earlier threatened to overwhelm. This was the church at its
most necessary. It unlocked grief and offered release.

The church, itself gutted by fire in 1977 and restored and rededicated in 1984,
shimmers with gold leaf yet is also expressive of vulnerability, no more so than
in Guy Reid's tiny but powerful sculpture of a naked Madonna and child. At least
three of us in the congregation were expectant mums, resting service sheets on
our burgeoning stomachs. Afterwards, one articulated the near impossibility of
struggling to incorporate within her consciousness the sheer scale of the grief,
death and disaster visited on others, while simultaneously celebrating the
personal but equally powerful experience of nurturing a new life within herself.

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey, opened the Mass with prayers. "At
this time of immense sorrow and anguish, we are as one with the American people.
We pray that out of this darkness the light of Christ may shine, out of this
pain may come healing and good."

Dr Kevern did not preach but offered a few words at the start, describing his
bereavement and shock. "We want to thank the Queen, the Prime Minister and those
very many people in the United Kingdom who are praying for us and who have so
kindly expressed your sympathy.

"We offer this Mass, then, for the repose of the souls who have died, for those
who may now be dying, for the families of all who are or will be bereaved, and
for the courageous rescue and support workers. Finally, we pray that wisdom may
prevail in the councils of state, that in seeking justice we seek not revenge,
but the reconciliation of a broken world for whom Christ died."

Before Communion, Canon Rosenthal led intercessionary prayers. "We pray for the
families and friends of those dead and injured. We remember those in our world's
large cities who are alone and fearful. We pray for those who have witnessed the
tragic attacks first-hand, that they may be sustained mentally and physically in
the days ahead. We pray for all governments and leaders as difficult decisions
must be made. We pray for those of all faiths and communities, asking you to
bless all efforts that help bring peace to the world."


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: TRAP MAN'S COPTER BID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 78 words


ONE doomed stockbroker tried to charter a helicopter to save himself and his
colleagues from the towering inferno.

Robert MacLaughlin 34, called his wife from the 102nd floor after the first
crash 10 floors below.

As the flames spread, he calmly told her to charter a helicopter. But the tower
collapsed before she could find a pilot.

A friend said: "It was amazing thinking by Robert but it was too late - time was
against him and his friends."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: GOING HOME

BYLINE: Jim Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 731 words

HIGHLIGHT: HOMEWARD BOUND: Passengers at the check-in desk in Dublin Airport
find out if they are on the first flights to New York since Tuesday's atrocity;
WAITING OVER: Caroline Nelson and Cas Dempsey, left, and Fr; Sigmund Peplowski
and Fr Sam Saade


HUNDREDS of Americans stranded in Ireland for days were finally able to fly home
to their loved ones yesterday.

The first Aer Lingus trans-Atlantic flights since Tuesday's terrorist outrage in
the US took off for New York's JFK Airport, Chicago, Washington and Newark.

And desperate holidaymakers queued for hours to get one of the prized seats.

Some of the visitors still burst into tears at the mention of the carnage caused
by the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

But they had one message for the Irish people they were leaving behind: "Thank
you so much for your sympathy and understanding."

The US visitors said they could hardly believe the reaction of the Irish public
following one of the blackest days in American history.

Nurse Caroline Nelson, from New Hampshire, said: "Everyone has been so
compassionate. People were coming up to me in the street and offering their
sympathy.

"One girl my own age came up to me in Cleary's with tears in her eyes and said
how sorry she was.

"We had a rental car out for an extra day because we were stuck here but they
wouldn't take any money from us.

"The people have been absolutely wonderful and it has been very moving to
realise we are not alone. This outrage was not done against America but against
the whole world.

"It has been so good to see the solidarity of everyone in this country for our
country."

Caroline, who is in her 30s, said this was something she could only have
experienced by being over here during the crisis.

"In the States they are trying to keep life as normal as possible so when I
phoned home to say everything here was closed for a National Day of Mourning
they were amazed."

Minnesota couple Mike and Betsy Harder, both 28, came to the airport 24 hours
earlier and joined the three minutes of silence at 11am.

Betsy said: "It was a very moving experience. A woman came up to us with a
pillow and blanket because she had heard people were stranded and had nothing to
sleep on.

"She wanted to help in any way she can. Everyone has been so sympathetic and
told us they are offering us their prayers."

Her husband Mike said: "We were up at 6am this morning ringing and ringing until
we got a seat. We are on a flight to Chicago but we would have gone anywhere in
the States.

"This is a holiday we will never ever forget. We drove all around the Irish
coast and it was unbelievable. But after Tuesday everything changed."

New Jersey nurse Cas Dempsey, who was on holiday with her two brothers Ray and
Owen Burns, said the vacation probably saved the two men's lives as they worked
next to the World Trade Centre.

"We started off our vacation with a night in Ray's apartment which overlooks the
Twin Towers and I was videotaping the buildings."

The next morning they flew to Dublin for a tour of Ireland and were in Dingle
when the tragic news broke.

"After that we watched everything and saw the Twin Towers fall. Both my brothers
are missing friends who worked there and both of them could have been dead
themselves.

"Owen had a friend on the 86th floor who has not been heard of.

"My daughter is a nurse in St Barnabas' Hospital which is a main burns unit in
New York and they discharged everyone who could walk. All the staff were put on
mandatory overtime."

Two priests holidaying in Ireland, Fr Sigmund Peplowski, 48, and Fr Sam Saade,
43, said they were desperate to get back to their flocks in Patterson, New
Jersey, and upstate New York.

Fr Peplowki said: "We were due home on Thursday and our parishes are looking for
us in this time of sadness.

"I want to say the people in Ireland have been wonderful to us, very generous
and hospitable."

Attorney Theresa Marchitto, 29, from Newark, New Jersey, who was on her ninth
trip to Ireland, said: "I am sad but also comforted by what has been going on
here.

"People have come up to me and given me their support and condolences. It has
been very touching.

"It was hard being away from home but the Day of Mourning was very, very
comforting and I felt very welcome in this country."

Pensioner William Leddy, from Rhode Island, and his wife Theresa, said they
could not believe how quickly the National Day of Mourning was organised.

"It was a super thing to do and we were very touched. We could not have been
treated better."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: 'CHILDREN SHOULDN'T SEE MORE HORROR'

BYLINE: Joe Doran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 289 words


AN Irish family, who suffered a double blow in Tuesday's terrorist attacks, have
pleaded for the relatives of those killed to be allowed to bury their dead in
peace.

The impassioned plea was made by the two brothers of mother and daughter Ruth
and Juliana McCourt, who were killed when their hijacked jet smashed into south
tower of the World Trade Centre.

Mark and John Clifford were talking to Pat Kenny of the Late Late Show on Friday
night.

Mark said: "For one child to die innocently in Juliana's retribution would kill
us as a family.

"For our children to see just one child in the North of Ireland or anywhere in
the world die because some fanatic wants to get his message across, though we
don't even know the message, is just profoundly insane.

"We shouldn't show children any more horror. Enough is enough. Juliana was a
beautiful child.

"Ruth stood for colour in life, not the black and white scenario a lot of people
live with, either friend or foe."

"The President of the United States has so much power but please, please, don't
start killing innocents.

"Focus your energy to bring these people to justice. Let justice be seen to be
done but do not kill for the sake of killing."

His brother John said he didn't want to see dead kids in Afghanistan.

He added: "We must show restraint. Innocence must be preserved. What kind of
legacy have we left for our kids?

"We are the adults of this world. We make decisions.

"What about the kids of this world. What chance have they got?

"Justice must be done. People must be accountable for what they've done but
don't involve the innocent.

"Look what children have seen in the last week - the horror of what has
happened."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: FOOTBALL FALLS SILENT

BYLINE: Paul Mccarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 232 words

HIGHLIGHT: GRIEF: A floral tribute is laid before the beginning of the;
Liverpool versus Everton derby yesterday


DIGNITY finds its greatest eloquence in silence.

Yesterday, as thousands of soccer fans and their idols rightly bowed their heads
to mark the horrors of New York, silence spoke volumes.

Thoughts of rivalry were forgotten. Passion and frenzy simply empty emotions,
bereft of importance. Football meant nothing except as a canvas for our grief.

They know about mourning on Merseyside. Heysel and Hillsbrough are still raw in
a community's mind.

Yet even in the darkest days when Anfield wore a blanket of wreaths, rarely can
a minute's silence have been as impeccably observed as it was at the Everton
-Liverpool match at Goodison Park, where blue and red stood as one.

Thankfully, as the afternoon wore on, that same determined respect was shown at
the start of every Premiership game in England and in Scotland too.

Perhaps it's still too soon for sport to attempt to bring some normality back
into our lives. While they're still digging the dead from the rubble, how can
football exist except in a vacuum of its own self-importance?

But even if we're still numb at least the atrocities of New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania were marked with fitting respect.

When the Merseyside derby ended at 3-1 to Liverpool, a roar in 40,000 throats
echoed out towards the Atlantic.

Whatever pain America still has to suffer, we are with you every step of the
way.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: BOMB WARNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 81 words


DISSIDENT loyalists are set to continue their pipe bomb campaign against
Catholics across Northern Ireland.

Security forces are warning that the UFF/LVF alliance using the cover name of
the Red Hand Defenders are set to STEP UP their campaign, and that the Real IRA
may attempt a bomb 'spectacular' as the deadline for an agreement at Stormont
approaches.

Meanwhile speculation is growing that the American outrage may prompt Provos to
decommission weapons to save Stormont.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: TAXI MAN ESCAPES LOYALIST DEATH BID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 272 words


POLITICIANS were stunned last night as loyalists ignored the USA atrocity to
carry out a murder bid on a Catholic taxi driver in north Belfast.

The man was pulling up outside a house in Parkmount Terrace in the loyalist
Shore Road area when the incident happened.

Two youths emerged from nearby undergrowth and fired one shot into the taxi at
around 6am yesterday.

The car was hit but the driver, who drove off at speed from the scene, escaped
without injury.

The youths made off on foot in the direction of the Shore Road.

RUC officers whose suspicions were aroused when they spotted two youths running
along the Shore Road in the early hours of the morning made chase.

The teenagers dashed into Shore Crescent and managed to shake off cops.

In a follow-up operation police recovered a handgun.

They are treating the attack as attempted murder.

SDLP MLA Alban Maginness said: "I'm absolutely appalled that loyalist
paramilitaries have attacked a man carrying out his work as a taxi driver in
north Belfast.

"All this does is raise community tensions and there must be an end to this
loyalist campaign.

"It beggars belief that there are those here still prepared to use terrorism
after such an appalling week for the people of United States and relatives and
friends here."

Last night senior RUC officers blamed the UFF - using the cover of the Red Hand
Defenders - for the murder bid.

"It's shocking," said one detective.

"While normal people believe the world has changed after the terrorist attacks
and slaughter in America, there are those in our society who remain unmoved."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: HAS THE PAST WEEK TAUGHT US NOTHING?

BYLINE: Sinead King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 593 words

HIGHLIGHT: MADNESS GOES ON: Holy Cross pupils (left) and Derry bomb components


IT WAS as if the terrorist attacks in America didn't matter. Or that they hadn't
happened at all.

Inside insular Northern Ireland bigots on both sides of the political divide
continued their own squalid little wars regardless.

The twin towers of the World Trade Centre had been replaced, forgotten almost,
by the twin evils of hatred and bigotry.

In Derry, breakway IRA leaders must have been on another planet when they
hatched a plot to kill cops in the city.

Real IRA terrorists planted a booby trap bomb in the city, as the rest of the
world watched the American terrorist horror unfold on their television screens.

Hours later, the bomb exploded, almost killing three RUC officers.

The republican gang lured two unmarked police vehicles to the scene by setting a
car on fire.

The officers were called to Cornshell Fields, a housing development in the
Ballyarnett area and, as the second of the two vehicles passed the blazing car,
there was an explosion at the side of the road.

The officers, two men and a woman, were treated for shock after terrorists
detonated the bomb by command wire from a mound of earth near a house which was
under construction.

RUC Chief Inspector George Bryans said later: "When one considers the tragic
events in the United States, it is sad to think that there are people here with
murder in their minds and in their hearts. It is simply beyond belief.

"This was a deliberate attempt to kill police officers providing a service to
the community. This is the main road into the estate. Anybody could have been
passing when the device exploded.

"Our police vehicles were unmarked so there is no guarantee that the terrorists
would have been sure that they were attacking a police vehicle."

Mayor Mildred Garfield said yesterday that it was a "deliberate murder attempt".

She said: "It's just deplorable and I condemn it."

The Real IRA, which recently left a huge bomb under the Foyle Bridge and which
has carried out numerous bombing attempts over the past year in the Maiden City,
are believed to have been responsible for this latest murder bid.

Intelligence sources yesterday said the group was known to be particularly
strong in the North West.

Sinn Fein Foyle Assemblyman Mitchel McLaughlin said: "The people who carried out
this attack are opposed to the peace process and opposed to the Good Friday
Agreement.

"They have little or no support and operate without either a mandate or a
strategy to achieve political change."

In north Belfast it took loyalists a couple of days to wise up before calling
off their protest against Catholic kids going to school - but only for a day.

On Thursday morning however, if you were there, you'd have seen grown adults
spitting at a girl who was aged just FOUR.

It was enough to make your skin crawl.

Loyalist protesters remained silent as the Catholic children and their parents
were escorted by police in riot gear to Holy Cross school.

But one angry parent complained to a senior police officer that some children
had been spat on as they walked past.

John Murphy said: "They were allowed to stand between policemen and spit at
people. It's not right.

"It was as if nothing had happened in America."

The ordinary decent people of Northern Ireland are truly horrified by what
happened in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

They showed, in their tens of thousands during a three-minute silence on Friday,
that most of us here do actually care.

But what do Americans think of us now?

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: MOSQUE ATTACKED IN ULSTER

BYLINE: Joe Doran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 222 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGET: Belfast Muslims at their mosque


ULSTER bigots sank to a new low after a series of attacks on a Belfast mosque
this week.

Windows were smashed in the south Belfast place of worship.

The damage was discovered by local Muslims arriving at the Wellington Park
Islamic Centre on Friday for prayer.

Belfast Islamic Centre President, Jamal Iweida, said yesterday he could not rule
out the possibility that the attack was linked to Tuesday's atrocity in America.

"We have been attacked before but not on this scale," he said.

"The person who did this used three bricks to break the windows."

Jamal said the Muslim community did not believe that the assault was an
organised attack by the community.

"We have a very peaceful time with people here."

Scores of people from the local community have sent messages of support to the
Muslim community, voicing anger at the intimidation.

But Muslims now fear they will become targets after last week's attack on
America.

Jamal revealed that Muslim children have been subjected to abuse in schools
across Belfast.

"Some children have reported abuse coming from teachers in schools this week -
and that really is unacceptable.

"It's not fair to hold innocent people responsible for an attack that has
happened thousands of miles away when it has nothing to do with them," he added.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: UK TO BLITZ BIN LADEN;
 SAS TROOPS WILL LEAD ATTACK BOMBERS TO WIPE OUT BASES SOLDIERS MOVE IN FOR THE
KILL EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Neil Mcleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 705 words

HIGHLIGHT: HERO: SAS veteran Deveraux


CRACK troops of the SAS will spearhead a devastating revenge blitz to wipe out
terror Godfather Osama Bin Laden, a top military expert revealed last night.

Falklands hero Steve Deveraux described how Britain's Who Dares Wins heroes will
parachute in under cover of darkness to pinpoint the murderous fanatic's lair in
the Afghanistan wilderness - sweeping away any opposition with merciless
efficiency.

And in an exclusive interview with the Sunday People, he told how the SAS squad
- teamed with American Delta Force special troops - will then guide a massive
missile onslaught to rid the world of Bin Laden and his evil henchmen.

The former SAS trooper also spelled out how his ex-comrades will be crucial to
the success of the Allied operation to avenge last Tuesday's terrorist
atrocities in the United States.

"The attack will be swift, hard and deadly," he said. "The SAS will be used
because they are the best in the world.

"No disrespect to the US soldiers, but they could not pull this off without our
lads."

Deveraux, 42, told how:

-AMERICAN B2 Stealth Bombers and mighty B52s will first mount massive raids with
500,000lb bombs and Tomahawk missiles to obliterate radar posts and camps
harbouring Bin Laden's guerillas.

-SAS and Delta Force troops will then parachute into the harsh terrain - perhaps
free-falling for an incredible 27,000ft to avoid being spotted.

-THE tiny force - probably 200 men armed with machine-guns and grenade launchers
- will scour the mountains and foothills for Bin Laden's HQ and other key
buildings. "They will be taking no prisoners," said Deveraux.

-OUR troops will slip away after setting up laser markers to allow a huge
barrage of missiles to home in and destroy the buildings.

-A MASSIVE task force of up to 10,000 conventional soldiers could then move in
rapidly to finish off the terror leader and his followers if necessary.

"It will be like nothing we have seen before," said Deveraux.

"Bin Laden will not know what has hit him. It could all be over in 24 hours. The
Americans have been hurt badly and want revenge.

"I don't think Bin Laden will be taken alive. That would only happen if he is
turned in by his own people and that is unlikely. He will be killed outright."

Bin Laden, who has a &L&5million price on his head, is thought to have 2,000
Muslim soldiers ready to die for him.

But Deveraux, who wrote best-selling books based on his SAS exploits said: "They
will not stand much chance against this type of air strike.

"It is likely to be on a scale not seen since the Gulf War - and possibly much,
much bigger. We need to gain air superiority.

"There is no point sending in special forces if they are dropping right into a
mass firefight. It could be a massacre. The strike will probably be a mass
carpet bombing from high altitude." Deveraux explained that the SAS troops might
jump from 30,000ft but delay opening their parachutes until they are a mere
3,000ft above the ground to prevent the canopies being picked up by enemy radar.

"They will dress like the Taliban - unshaven and wearing scarves round their
heads so not to be spotted," said the expert. "They will be the eyes and ears of
the operation's commanders.

"If your target is a building, you need the SAS somewhere in the hills to guide
you in. Soldiers will move in after the SAS has paved the way. If there are any
bits of Bin Laden left they will make sure he and his followers are disposed of.

"They will not want to occupy the land for long. They will want to move in
quickly and then get out, job done."

Deveraux said: "The plans are already being discussed by US and British
intelligence.

"The US task force in the Gulf is on stand-by. Defence chiefs will want to move
as quickly as possible."

Colonel Mike Dewar, who commentated on the Gulf War, told the Sunday People that
Britain was ready to play a full part in the action if necessary.

He said: "We have a task force in the Gulf on exercise. It is the biggest
deployment of troops on exercise since the Falklands War - 25,000 armed forces,
50 planes and 30 ships."

Deveraux said: "I'd tell Bin Laden to give himself up. He has hell coming
towards him."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: FOR 5 YEARS TWIN TOWERS WERE JUST LIKE MY FRIENDS AS
I WENT TO WORK..NOW THEY MEAN ONLY DEATH AND HORROR

BYLINE: Jim Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1052 words


JUST EIGHT weeks ago I was staring up at the twin towers of the World Trade
Centre and thinking: "What a magnificent sight."

Having lived and worked in the Big Apple for five years, the massive buildings
were as familiar as old friends.

But no matter how many times you saw them, their sheer scale could not fail but
fill you with awe.

This time round I was seeing them afresh with a 35-strong group of young Irish
men and women attending a giant talent convention in New York.

The team's excitement as we sailed under the giant towers on the famous Circle
Line boat tour which goes around Manhattan was palpable.

Everyone wanted to be photographed with the massive skyscrapers behind them.

Once the tallest buildings in the world, they were the centrepiece, the very
heart of New York's world famous skyline.

Today that view has gone forever, obliterated along with so many lives.

It is almost impossible to believe that visitors to New York from now on will no
longer see the immense silver towers glistening in the sun.

The millions of tourists landing and taking off from New York's three airports
every year will never gasp in wonder at the two giant office blocks piercing the
sky.

The thousands of sightseers who take the return ferry journey from Manhattan to
Staten Island every day just to see the spectacular view of the towers from
across the water will instead be staring into a scarred and empty space.

And a once-in-a-lifetime trip to the top of the towers for one of the most
spectacular city views anywhere in the world is now just a thing of memory.

When tens of thousands of people have lost their lives in scenes of unimaginable
horror it seems almost crass to talk about the loss of a building, no matter how
spectacular.

But the World Trade Centre was much more than a set of office blocks. It was a
much loved symbol of New York City.

As well as dominating everything around them for the last 30 years, the Twin
Towers were a sign of how New Yorkers saw themselves.

They were the embodiment of American prosperity and ingenuity.

And they were a visible and unforgettable reminder that anything was possible in
the city that never sleeps. The sky really was the limit in New York City.

But that self-confidence has now been dealt a deadly blow. Just as the city's
skyline has been changed forever so has its psyche.

The city that sparked a million dreams is now gripped by a siege mentality.

As one ash-covered woman survivor on Tuesday screamed: "Why do they hate us so
much to do this to us?"

When the World Trade Centre opened in 1970 its architect Minoru Yamasaki proudly
proclaimed: "It should become a living representation of man's belief in
humanity - his belief in the cooperation of men, and through this cooperation
his ability to find greatness."

How hollow that sounds today.

After 8.45am on Tuesday, the centre became a symbol not of man's belief in
humanity but of man's inhumanity to man.

Wound

The gaping wound left by its shocking destruction will take decades to heal.

As one friend who lives on the 30th floor of a midtown apartment block said to
me yesterday: "I used to stand on my balcony and look downtown and know I could
not be in any other city in the world.

"The towers dominated everything and they were simply stunning standing out
against a clear blue sky.

"Now I look downtown and see nothing. There is just this big gap where they used
to be. It will haunt me forever.

"Every time I look there now I am going to remember the horrors of this week and
the way it used to be."

The whole world has been touched by the catastrophic events of Tuesday morning.

Right across the globe people are still battling with the same sense of
incomprehension.

How could anyone destroy one of the world's most famous buildings where 50,000
people went to work every day?

How survivors and witnesses can deal with the horrific scenes they witnessed
this week we just cannot comprehend.

The sight of people plunging to their deaths rather than being roasted alive in
the towering inferno.

The memory of men and women screaming for help when there was absolutely nothing
that could be done.

What can you say to someone who has seen dozens of his or her work friends wiped
out in a moment of murderous insanity?

Or to the shattered families left behind who lost loved ones in the worst
terrorist atrocity in history?

Many survivors will never get over the horrors they witnessed on what began as a
bright, sunny Tuesday morning.

The psychological traumas they will face seem insurmountable and many will need
counselling for years to come.

The very name of the World Trade Centre will now conjure up memories of death
and horror for ever more.

And it was all so different just a week ago. Then a trip to the 107th floor
observation deck of the number two south tower would be near the top of any
tourist's must-do list while in New York.

One of the 23 high-speed lifts would whisk you to the top in a breathtaking 58
seconds, making your ears pop several times on the way up.

At 1350ft - over a quarter of a mile high - the views were spectacular and on a
clear day you could see for 80 miles.

But for many the best time for the ascent was at night when the city of lights
was lit up like a Christmas tree.

The restaurant at the top of tower number one, aptly called Windows on the
World, had the most amazing view of any dining area on the planet.

The shopping areas and plaza at the foot of the giant towers were always
bursting with life.

In summer the square played host to open-air concerts and thousands of workers
would sit in the sun eating their lunch every day.

The Twin Towers were immortalised in countless movies, whether as a spectacular
backdrop or part of the story.

The Robert Redford thriller Three Days of the Condor used its offices, while
Godspell and The Wiz filmed on the four acre plaza.

Kurt Russell landed a plane on the top of one tower in Escape From New York
while the 1976 version of King Kong used the trade centre instead of the Empire
State in the 1933 original.

It is so tragic that for future generations these film clips are all that will
remain of New York's famous Twin Towers.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: REMINDER OF WHAT WAS LOST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 181 words

HIGHLIGHT: STOLEN AWAY: Elaine at doomed towers; SUNDAY PEOPLE, September 16,;
2001


DONEGAL beauty Elaine Mailey happily poses with New York's famous Twin Towers
behind her just a few weeks ago.

Nobody then could have imagined the carnage and horror that was to come.

Elaine was in the Big Apple with the Irish Sunday People after winning our Face
of Ireland 2001 competition.

The prize was a dream trip to New York with the Celtic Talent model agency where
she attended a giant model and talent convention.

For Elaine one of the highlights of the whole visit was a boat trip around the
island of Manhattan where she saw all the major sights like the World Trade
Centre and the Statue of Liberty.

Like the rest of the world she has spent the last few days glued to the TV
watching this week's tragedy unfold.

Last night the student from near Ballybofey said: "It's hard to believe when we
took this shot that the towers would be gone a few weeks later.

"I still can't believe it.

"I was looking at this photo again last night. It will forever remind me that
you must never take anything for granted - it can so easily be snatched away."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: BELFAST MAN IN RESCUE BID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 111 words


A NEW York paramedic, originally from Belfast, has been working desperately at
the scene in a bid to save those trapped in the rubble.

After working for a straight 14 hours, Roger Smith from the Antrim Road
reflected on what he had just been through.

He said: "I pulled a girl from the rubble with serious third degree burns all
over her body.

"To be honest, her injuries were that bad she probably would be better off
dead."

Comparing his experiences to those when he lived in Belfast, he said: "I thought
I was hardened to this type of thing being from north Belfast.

"But nothing, absolutely nothing, could have prepared me for this."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: COOKSTOWN MAN CAUGHT UP IN WTC TRAP ORDEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 186 words


COOKSTOWN man Jimmy Loughran, who was working on the 34th floor of the north
tower, found himself trapped on reaching the exit doors after Tuesday's attack.

Flying debris rained down on the exodus of workers outside the doomed World
Trade Centre leaving the tradesman and hundreds more seeking a secure path to
safety.

Jimmy, a father of three, said: "I turned and told a man beside me: 'I'm going
to try and make a run for it'.

"When I threw the door open he ran straight past me.

"A large chunk of metal crashed in front of him and he ran back inside."Faced
with a life or death decision on whether to run from the building or stay put,
Jimmy searched frantically for a clear escape route.

After spying a building 20ft away with a 15 ft overhang, the two made the
decision to run.

"I said to him: 'Let's make a run for it', and we just opened the door and ran.

"It was terrifying.

"There were other bodies covered in glass and debris. When I reached the
pedestrian bridge I never looked back or up - I just kept going.

"All that I could think about was getting out," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: IRISH PRIEST IS BURIED BY FIREFIGHTER COLLEAGUES;
 REPUBLIC JOINS USA IN MOURNING CHURCHMAN WHO DIED WHILE SAVING OTHERS

BYLINE: Dave Brown, Stephen Maguire And Lindsay Fergus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 857 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARM WORDS: Hillary Clinton; PERSONAL TRIBUTE: Bill Clinton; MUCH;
LOVED: Fr Mychal Judge; FINAL JOURNEY: Fr Mychal Judge's funeral; LAST;
FAREWELL: A tearful fireman salutes


ONLY the anguished sobs of firefighters could be heard as they carried the
coffin of Irish hero priest Mychal Judge to his final resting place in New York
last night.

Hundreds of parishioners who loved the man they are already calling a saint
lined the streets outside St Francis of Assisi in the terror-ravaged city.

Many more packed inside the church alongside well-known faces as a city said
farewell to a clergyman who gave his life in Tuesday's disaster so that one of
his beloved firefighters could receive the Last Rites.

A measure of the man was that his funeral should be led by another hero of the
city, the Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.

Former President Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary - who have done so much for
Americans in recent days - also attended the service.

"The best way to describe him was your ultimate Irishman from Brooklyn. He had a
warm, loving personality and at the wake service last night everyone who met him
said they felt like his best friend," said Fr Brian Jordan.

"His duties really began after the tragedies, after the fires had been put out.

"He continued to minister to the families and the firemen. Some of the people
who have been here talked about how he helped them through so much.

"The firemen who found him laid him on a body board and took him to St Peter's
Church, laid him in front of the altar, laid a sheet over him and put his badge
on top of the sheet.

"Some of the firemen were already coming in to pay their respects to him. They
were Mychal's family.

"His body was actually brought back to the firehouse and the guys received him
with great reverence," said the priest.

In a moving tribute, New York Senator Hillary told mourners that she and her
husband had invited Fr Judge to their house for a celebration.

She recalled that he had "lit up the room."

"Fr Judge was a lot of fun," she said, describing him as "brilliant" and "full
of life".

She told mourners: "We have to give thanks to Fr Judge who gave us so many gifts
- gifts of love and laughter.

"Although you have gone you will never be forgotten."

She added: "As we continue the work, the rescue, the recovery, rebuilding and
reconstruction, we have to remember the spirit, the life and love that Fr Mychal
left us."

And her husband, former president Bill Clinton, paid his own tribute to the
brave priest.

"Fr Judge's entire life was a rebuke to the act of violence we all witnessed at
at the World Trade Centre," he said.

Co Leitrim last night paid its last respects to one of the brave heroes of the
atrocity.

In the villages of Drumkeerin and Keshcarrigan, from where Fr Judge's parents
Michael and Mary emigrated, locals shed a tear for their adopted son.

Fr Judge, whose dad Michael died when he was just six years old, helped his
mother to make ends meet by shining shoes.

He was extremely proud of his true Irish roots and returned to Ireland
regularly.

Last night Fianna Fail TD for Leitrim, Deputy John Ellis, said: "Fr Judge's
tragic story was typical of the bravery and courage shown by people during this
terrible time."

He said the people of Leitrim were in shock and very saddened at the news of the
priest's death.

"This terrible atrocity has hit us all in one way or another.

"But when it strikes at the very place where you come from and you hear of
somebody being killed in such tragic circumstances, it is even more poignant,"
he said.

Deputy Ellis said he knew Fr Judge's extended family and, along with the people
of Leitrim, paid tribute to his bravery in putting others before him.

"Fr Judge died doing the Lord's work.

"Giving your life so that others can receive the Last Rites is the ultimate act
of bravery.

"You couldn't call it anything less than a saintly act. Fr Judge is in our
prayers tonight.

"What he did for the people of New York will not be forgotten," he said.

The parish priest of Drumkerrin, Fr Eamonn Bredin said he had been shocked by
the new of Fr Judge's death.

"Our thoughts are with his sisters at this time and our deepest sympathies go
out to them.

"What Fr Judge did was the ultimate act of humankind - giving his life so that
others could meet their maker in peace.

"May Lord have mercy on his soul," he said.

Local shopkeeper Sean Smith said he had seen pictures of Fr Judge being pulled
from the rubble, but never thought he has such close Leitrim connections.

"The memory of Fr Judge being carried through the rubble will live with me until
I die.

"It was heartwrenching.

"But a couple of days later when he was identified and we found out who he was,
the entire village was in shock.

"We are heartbroken. But we are also so proud that he gave his life in the line
of duty.

"Nobody can tell me that that man is not a saint," he said.

A spokesman for the Franciscan Order in Dublin said Fr Judge had given 40 years
of his life serving God and other people.

Among those also to send their sympathies to Fr Judge's family were Sinn Fein
President Gerry Adams, who knew the popular priest through friends in the New
York police force.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: GROWING LIST OF THE NAMES OF THOSE STILL MISSING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 280 words

HIGHLIGHT: Kieran Gorman


AS ONE missing person is found another is added to the list.

Among those feared dead is a group of construction workers from Co Donegal who
were working on the 58th floor of the south tower.

There are also reports of four Irish tourists visiting the observation deck on
one of the towers shortly before the first plane struck.

Among those definitely on the list of missing are three Irish construction
workers including Sean Canavan, 38, a cousin of Tyrone GAA star Peter Canavan.

The other two construction workers are Kieran Gorman, 35, from Lavagh, Co Sligo
and Martin Coughlan, a carpenter from Co Tipperary.

Mr Gorman made a phone call to his wife after the first plane hit the tower but
has not been heard from since.

A native of Carrowcurragh, Lavagh, County Sligo, he lived in the Woodlawn area
of the Bronx for nine years.

Mr Coughlan made a mobile call to his wife to say something terrible had
happened but has not been heard from since.

Mr Coughlan is originally from Cappawhite in Tipperary but moved to the Queens
District of New York 14 years ago. He has four daughters.

The list of the missing also includes Ann Marie McHugh,l 35 , from Tuam in Co
Galway who was working on the 89th floor of the south tower.

She was last seen rushing down to the 40th floor when the building was being
evacuated but has not been heard from since.

Ms McHugh, the daughter of well-known publicans Padraic and Margaret McHugh of
the Town Hall Tavern, was due to marry shortly.

Two other Co Donegal men on the missing list are William Deane, 35, and Damien
Meehan, both of whom work for an insurance company based on the 100th floor.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: RELATIVES URGED TO RE-CONTACT HELPLINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 80 words


THE Department of Foreign Affairs is due to send out officials to the US once
air services have been resumed.

A spokesman appealed to anybody who has made contact with them over missing
persons to call them again - even if their loved ones or relatives have been
located.

The 24 hour helplines remain open on 1800 715165: 1800 715159: 1800 401800 or
1800 385858.

A special service manned by psychologists for those suffering from trauma has
also been set up.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: FINAL TALLY OF IRISH DEATHS MAY HIT 100

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 345 words

HIGHLIGHT: PASSENGER: Juliana; The Victims; PASSENGER: Ruth


THE death list of Irish and Irish American victims killed in the World Trade
Centre atrocity could top 100, the Department of Foreign Affairs has revealed.

To date, FOUR Irish people have been confirmed dead as a result of the attack
that shook the world.

However, a Department source told Irish Sunday People last night that it may
take weeks or even months to find the final figure.

"It is an impossible task to put any kind of final figure on it.

"The reality is that we could still be tracking down people in months to come.

"New York is just such a melting pot for Irish people. God knows how many were
caught up in this terrible tragedy.

"We have four confirmed deaths and a number of people missing.

"However they are only the people we know about. The fear we have is that we
still don't have the names of many who may be missing.

"Unfortunately, this is only the beginning - there are bound to be many more
tragic stories to be told before any kind of final list of the dead can be
finalised," said the source.

The Irish embassy in the US has a list of missing persons. However they fear
that this may not yet be a complete list.

All agencies including the Department of Foreign Affairs in Ireland and the
Irish Embassy in America has appealed for anybody caught up in the attacks to
contact them.

Those confirmed dead are Cork-born mother Ruth Clifford and her four-year-old
daughter Juliana who were on the ill-fated flight that crashed into the south
tower.

Also killed on the same flight was Dublin engineer Paddy Currivan, 52, who was
en-route from Los Angeles to Boston.

A sister of the dead engineer, Ms Helen Redden said he had been one of the real
Irish success stories in America.

He would ring home to Ireland twice a week and when he came home "his case would
be filled with gifts and chocolates".

The last Irish person named on the dead list was popular priest Fr Mychal Judge
whose parents come from Leitrim.

Meanwhile the list of those missing and those feared missing continues to grow.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: 'LIKE A HORROR MOVIE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 139 words


PORTADOWN man Philip Buchanan stood in shock as the two planes slammed into the
World Trade Centre.

Along with his girlfriend, he watched in horror as the mayhem unfolded before
their eyes.

He said: "It was as if we were watching a special effects horror movie. It was
all so unreal - and yet we knew this was really happening, here and now."

Like the many thousands who will be left deeply traumatised by the events, film
-maker Gary McKendry from Ballyclare gazed in shock as people flung themselves
from the windows of the towers to escape the raging infernos.

Then worse followed, when the huge towers crumbled before his eyes, trapping
thousands of people underneath.

"You hear the word 'horror' used a lot - but this was the real thing," said
Gary.

"People could not believe what they were seeing."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: THE LIVES, HOPES AND DREAMS OF SO MANY WERE CHANGED
FOREVER BY EVIL MEN, WHOSE ONLY ACHIEVEMENT WAS DEATH AND DESTRUCTION;
 AN OPEN LETTER TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PEOPLE OF
IRELAND BY THE TAOISEACH, BERTIE AHERN.

BYLINE: Bertie Ahern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1108 words

HIGHLIGHT: FLASHPOINT: Irish UNIFIL troops in the Middle East; MONUMENT TO;
TERROR: The twin towers of the World Trade Centre in ruins


THE TERRIBLE attack on the United States on Tuesday, 11 September, 2001 was an
assault on humanity and on civilisation.

We will never forget the horrific images we witnessed as events unfolded. We
were all shocked and numbed by the terrible suffering of the victims.

The scale of what was perpetrated, the appalling damage and loss of life is
almost too terrible to contemplate.

I have, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Government, already conveyed our
sympathy to President Bush and the American people.

The people of Ireland, through their prayers and through the observation of last
Friday's Day of Mourning, eloquently expressed their sense of solidarity and
shared loss.

People all over the world are united in their feelings of sorrow and grief.

This tragedy will touch many, many nationalities and people. Already families in
Ireland feel the pain of knowing that they will not see loved ones again. And,
inevitably, many more families will bear this pain.

On my own behalf and on behalf of the Government, I would like to offer my
sincere condolences to the families and friends of all those who so tragically
lost their lives.

The emergency services, whom we depend on in times of trauma and crisis,
responded with alacrity and bravery and were themselves victims.

I know that the thoughts of their colleagues in emergency services throughout
the world - and particularly in Ireland where there are close bonds of
friendship with the services in the US - are with their families at this time.

There has been a long tradition of service by Irish Americans in the New York
Fire and Police Departments, and many lost their lives in their attempts to save
the lives of others in the wake of this tragedy.

Many more will be haunted by the horrific scenes of human suffering and
devastation which they witnessed.

We will always remember the heroism of those who responded so bravely and with
such humanity at the scene.

The people of Ireland have a close affinity with the United States and the
American people. Our relationship has its roots in history and culture.

We identify with its sense of values. We admire its openness, its respect for
freedom and democracy. Irish people are proud of their association with America
and the contribution we have made to making it the great country that it is.

In return, America has provided a home and a haven for generations of Irish
people who sought to build a better future for themselves and their families.

The United States has been a constant resource of inspiration and support, as
Ireland has navigated its sometimes difficult history.

In recent times the support of successive US administrations for the peace
process and the growth of US investment in the Irish economy have contributed in
no small way to our economic success and our growing self-confidence as a
people.

We owe a debt of gratitude to the American people and we are united with them in
our outrage at what has happened.

The perpetrators of these attacks chose their targets carefully, striking as
they did at the heart of world commerce and US security.

But in choosing the great city of New York, they also struck at a city which has
welcomed people of every race and creed in the world. A city where tolerance of
diversity is a by-word.

These attacks displayed a contempt for humanity and of human values that was
truly profound.

In the immediate aftermath of the tragedy, President McAleese eloquently
expressed the sadness and grief we all felt at this time of terrible human
tragedy.

And no doubt, as time passes, we will hear the individual stories of those who
suffered.

But there will also be stories of bravery and compassion in the midst of
despair.

The human spirit has an enormous capacity to overcome adversity and to deal with
the realities that have to be faced.

And we must face the reality of an uncertain future.

There are evil people with the capacity to inflict appalling damage to our
people and our way of life.

The lives, the hopes, the dreams, of so many people were changed forever by a
few evil men, whose only achievement was death and destruction.

Over many years the people of these islands have also had to cope with terrorist
attacks.

At this time, we remember all of the victims of such attacks and all that they
have endured.

The response of any democratic society in the face of such provocation is
difficult.

For our part, we stand with the American people at this time of sorrow and loss
and we are ready to assist them in any way we can.

IRISH ARMY TO PULL OUT OF LEBANON THE last battalion of Irish troops serving in
Lebanon are to be withdrawn in advance of any military strikes by America.

More than 600 soldiers who left Ireland in May for a six month tour are
operating in the Middle Eastern country as part of a UN-led peace-keeping
mission.

The Irish Army is scheduled to pull out of Lebanon in mid-October after 23 years
of service with the United Nations Interim Force (UNIFIL).

However, this week troops discovered that they would be sent home within 48
hours of any revenge attacks on the Middle East.

America has declared war those behind Tuesday's attacks - and chief suspect is
Osama Bin Laden, the Saudi dissident who is believed to be hiding in
Afghanistan.

A military source said: "Soldiers have been placed on a state of high alert
following this week's attacks on America.

"They have been notified that they will be withdrawn from the Lebanon within 48
hours of any strikes on the Middle East by the US.

"Any retaliation by America would place members of the Irish Army in danger and
there are fears they could be targeted in revenge attacks.

"The Lebanon is a flashpoint area and Tuesday's attacks have only served to
heighten tensions and fears."

The Irish Army first arrived in Lebanon in 1978 following the occupation of the
country by Israel.

Its role was to supervise the withdrawal of Israeli forces and restore peace in
the region.

The UN-led operation was meant to be short-term.

Major-General Colm Mangan, Army Chief of Staff, recently said: "There is a false
belief that Lebanon was a lesser form of pace keeping compared with other UN
missions of recent years.

"But we lost more personnel to hostile action in Lebanon than any other place."

In the two decades that 26,000 Irish Army members have served in Lebanon 48 have
lost their lives in conflict.

Major-General Mangan added: "The Irish Army has lost dozens of soldiers in the
unease and it is not prepared to add to that list unnecessarily."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: DONEGAL HEARTBREAK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 144 words


FEARS are growing for the safety of the son of Donegal man Mike Meehan.

The former Donegal Association President, who now lives in New York, has been
frantically searching hospitals in the area for his son Damien, who was working
on the 80th floor in one of the buildings.

Another Donegal native, Noreen McGee, who was due to retire on Friday, escaped
from the 94th floor of tower one. Due to move home to Ireland later this year,
Noreen owes her life to her decision not to return to the office when told it
was safe to do so.

Tyrone has also been badly effected by the crisis.

The Canavan family are praying for news of their son, Sean who hasn't been in
contact since Tuesday.

The cousin of Tyrone footballers, Peter and Pascal Canavan, he was on the 94th
floor of the south tower when the first jet ploughed into the other building.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: 'I THOUGHT MY FAMILY WOULD DIE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 336 words

HIGHLIGHT: GRIM SCENE: The Pentagon after Tuesday's attack


AN Irishman who works next to the Pentagon has revealed how he feared for his
family's lives.

Des Shaw, 49, from Birr, Co Offaly, heard Tuesday's massive explosion from his
office and saw the thick black smoke pouring out of the building.

He said his first thought was for his daughters Molly, 12, and Eliza, 11, who
were at school behind the Capitol building, which he feared might come under
attack.

His wife Siska, 45, also works in the Watergate building which he thought could
be hit.

The Price Waterhouse Cooper management consultant said: "Somebody had told me
about the World Trade Centre being attacked and I was logging on to the Internet
when I heard this almighty bang.

"I saw this huge plume of smoke coming out of the Pentagon right there in front
of us.

"Everyone was stunned. I thought it was a bomb and we could be next.

"But I realised they were attacking landmarks of American strength - and the
Capitol could be next. We live just a few hundred yards from it."

Within minutes the road coming out of Washington was packed with cars as a mass
evacuation of the capital began.

"Then rumours began to circulate that a car bomb had gone off at the State
department and another at the Capitol.

"I though it best if we stayed where we were.

"I am old enough to remember the 1974 Dublin bombing and I thought walking about
with car bombs going off would be madness."

As it turned out, there were no bombs and Des decided to bike his way home.

"The streets were deserted. It looked like a war zone. I just wanted to get away
from there."

He said: "There is a feeling that nothing will ever be the same again. We are on
a war footing and there will be reprisals.

"Five per cent of me thinks maybe we should just buy a house in Ireland and
move."

Des said he was aware that security on internal American flights was much more
lax than at international airports.

"We've always heard that security staff get paid less than at McDonald's," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: I AM THE LUCKIEST WOMAN IN WORLD;
 IRISH WOMAN SAYS 'IT JUST WASN'T MY TIME TO DIE'

BYLINE: Lindsay Fergus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1558 words

HIGHLIGHT: GLAD TO BE ALIVE: Cailin McGreevy with her cousin Sean McCaffrey;;
SAFE AND SOUND: Cailin and her sister Elena


AN EXTRA hour in bed saved the life of this Irish woman this week.

Belfast woman Cailin McGreevy would have been in the World Trade Centre on
Tuesday morning when the building collapsed - had she not overslept.

The 32-year-old had planned to catch a train to the famous landmark.

But a lie-in caused her to change her plans.

She said: "I was going to go to the World Trade Centre but I decided to go to a
conference in New Jersey instead, and lay on in bed.

"Because I left later I changed my route to Port Authority.

"If I had gone to the World Trade Centre I definitely would have been caught up
in it," she said.

"I know me being in New Jersey was an act of God.

"It just was not my time."

Cailin had been scheduled to attend a meeting close to the World Trade Centre on
the morning of the atrocity.

After she decided to attend the conference in New Jersey instead, the woman who
was sent in her place was caught up in the terrorist attack.

Missing

Cailin said: "I sent a staff member in my place to attend the meeting.

"The girl who went to cover me got caught up in the transport system at the
World Trade Centre - but thankfully she managed to get out.

"She was evacuated from the building but because the telephone network went down
she was on the missing list for 36 hours.

"She couldn't get back into New York so she went to friends in Long Island.

"She finally made contact on Wednesday night and was immediately removed from
the missing list.

"But three of my work colleagues remain unaccounted for.

"I am lucky, but at the same time I can't think about my own situation when so
many of my friends were in the World Trade Centre," she added.

Cailin had no knowledge of the horror she had escaped until reports came through
on the coach's radio as she headed to New Jersey.

She said: "We were just leaving the terminal when we got reports that something
had happened in New York.

"At that point we did not know that it was a terrorist attack.

"We were told to keep driving to New Jersey and under no circumstances turn
back.

"It was just pure hysteria because people on the coach had family and friends in
New York.

"They knew something major had happened but they had no idea what was going on.

"We turned and looked behind us and all we could see was this massive cloud of
dust spilling out of Manhattan.

"I will never forget looking back and seeing the smoke. I was completely
terrified.

"People tried to get through on the telephone to find out information from
relatives, friends and colleagues but the circuits went down.

"I felt like I was in a Hollywood movie and that I was an actress playing out
this unbelievable part."

Cailin, a juvenile social worker, did not discover what had really happened in
Manhattan until the conference she was attending was interrupted.

She said: "Shortly after 12 someone came in and asked for all fire-fighters,
cops, medical personnel and anyone from the legal profession to return to their
jobs because there was a national state of emergency.

"About 75 per cent of the people left.

"I will never forget the look of fear on their faces. They had no idea what they
were going into.

"That was when it hit everyone and people just started to pray.

"At lunch-time everyone sang the national anthem and held a minute's silence.

"It was then I realised I was not living out a movie anymore."

Cailin was glued to televisions, her only source of information, which were set
up in the hotel lobby.

She said: "People were sitting there crying and screaming.

"I just wanted to get back to my own house. I felt so alone and isolated."There
was nobody at the conference I knew and I needed somebody to reach out to.

"People in the hotel came round asking for counsellors and social workers to
talk to guests.

"But the last thing I could do as a social worker was talk to anybody.

"Despite all the years of training I needed to be on my own with my thoughts.

"I just could not think about talking to someone else.

"That was the ironic thing - I just went to pieces.

"I have seen so many suicides of kids and children murdered in gang wars, but
this has been such a massive crisis and I felt so useless."

In her hour of need Cailin desperately tried to get in contact with her family
in Northern Ireland.

"I kept trying to get through to my mummy on the phone because I knew she would
be worried sick, but it was very hard.

"When I finally got through it was such a huge relief I just broke down.

"I couldn't stop crying. I cried all day.

"I have just kept telling myself I have to stay psychologically stable."

Although Cailin is bearing up her younger sister is terrified.

"My 18-year-old sister Elena had just arrived at university in New Jersey the
previous week and she is so frightened.

"She said people on her campus were hysterical because many of their fathers and
mothers worked in the World Trade Centre.

"She just wants to go back to Belfast because it was never as bad as this at
home."

Until 13 hours after the tragedy Cailin had been on a long list of people who
were believed to be missing.

She said: "No one had been able to get hold of me and then my boss managed to
track me down to the hotel and I was removed from the list.

"Many of the staff and clients I work with are missing and presumed dead.

"At this point people are just holding very tight and praying for a chance of
survivors."

As the hours passed Cailin said the pain and suffering of guests in the hotel
turned to anger.

"I became fearful when a lot of people of different nationalities started
arriving in the hotel when the airports were closed down.

"There was a lot of rage and people were saying they would explode if anyone
came in from any of the middle eastern countries being blamed for this.

"All they were saying was that we are going to war and it was frightening
people. There's a lot of anger.

"It is very hard going to sleep wondering what is going to happen during the
night."

Cailin believes that the full impact of the devastation will not hit her until
she returns to New York.

"I have no way of getting home to where I live in Queens.

"But at the same time I am afraid of going back and entering New York again.

"It's just that initial shock of witnessing the devastation first hand.

"The normal skyline I left on Tuesday is no longer there and friends I had are
no longer alive."

Cailin fled Belfast 10 years ago because of the Troubles.

She said: "One of the reasons I left Belfast was because of the violence and
terrorist threat.

"As soon as I finished university I went straight to America to get away from it
all.

"I lived through the Troubles - but this is on a scale I have never experienced
before.

"All the years of violence in Belfast came nowhere near what happened in New
York and Washington."

Despite the fear of further attack and that America might go to war, Cailin has
vowed to remain in New York.

She said: "My mother said maybe this would make my mind up to move back home,
but I love America.

"I love my job and I have so many friends here.

"This tragedy has united people. It has shown me how supportive Americans are in
times of trouble.

"It's hard not to think of the friends I have lost, but in the midst of this
tragedy life goes on. People have to go back to work and pay bills.

"I know the coming weeks will be filled with guilt, heartache and fear.

"The next few weeks will be spent attending funerals and services. There's no
way you can even begin to prepare yourself for that."

Cailin still can't believe how different it all could have been had she not
changed her mind at the 11th hour.

"In so many ways I am so lucky but I am not thinking of that.

"I just want to get back to my friends who have been caught up in this.

"I have never gambled in my life, but I was walking through the casino on
Tuesday and I stuck a dollar in one of the machines and won $ 200.

"I could not be happy with that. I was embarrassed that I was lucky when so many
others had been so unlucky."'SOMANY IRISH PALS MISSING' CAILIN is lucky to be
alive but a number of her friends are still unaccounted for, and five have been
officially confirmed dead.

She said: "A lot of my close friends and colleagues are still unaccounted for.

"They would have been either in the World Trade Centre or passing through.

"I personally know a hundred Irish people who either worked in or travelled via
the World Trade Centre every day - it's one of the main transport centres.

"The number who have died is going to be unbelievable.

"I tried calling a lot of different friends but there has been no response.

"I don't want to think how many of them have died.

"Two fire-fighters I knew are dead - one of them has family back in Ireland.

"It has not sunk in yet that I will never see them again.

"I am just completely numb and shocked.

"I got about three hours sleep last night.

"I kept waking up hoping, thinking that this was not real, and then I switched
on the news.

"Every time the phone rings I jump because it may be a call about another lost
life.

"I can't believe it. It's hard to take everything in."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA: FRIEND'S MIRACLE ESCAPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 283 words

HIGHLIGHT: 'ACT OF GOD': Madeline


CAILIN'S best friend was one of thousands of terrified New Yorkers caught up in
the terror attack.

Madeline was in the World Trade Centre when the hijacked plane smashed into the
building.

Cailin said: "Madeline works on the 44th floor of the World Trade Centre.

"She had only been working there a couple of weeks.

"She was in the building when the plane crashed and against all the odds she
managed to get out of it.

"Initially she thought it had been an accident. She was totally distraught.

"She said she was stepping over bodies as she came out of the World Trade Centre
but they just had to keep running because no one knew what was going on.

"She said she was running past people she knew she couldn't help but at the same
time she felt guilty," said Cailin.

"People poured out onto the street and the building started to collapse. They
had not realised the danger they were in.

"Madeline's boss also escaped and he just said to her 'Thank God at least one of
my staff is alive.'

"She had 13 telephone calls from people ringing to check she was alive."

Madeline had been late getting in to work - and that is what may have saved her.

Cailin said: "Madeline told me she had never been late in her life but that day
she spent extra time blow-drying her hair.

"Those extra five minutes saved her life.

"She just kept saying over and over 'I am safe'. She will be traumatised for
life.

"A woman who was attending the conference I was at was hysterical because her
daughter worked in the World Trade Centre.

"But there were no celebrations when her daughter rang to say she had taken a
sick day.

"It was another act of God," said Cailin.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: 'JET TOWER' HOLS PROMO IS PULLED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 41 words


AMERICAN brewing giant Miller have withdrawn a holiday promotion on their beer
cans because it used an image of a jet flying towards the World Trade Center.

Scottish Courage, who brew Miller lager, have withdrawn all promotional
material.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BEEB SAY SORRY OVER QUESTION TIME ROW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 204 words


BBC supremo Greg Dyke last admitted they blundered by broadcasting cruel anti
-American comments after the US terror strikes.

The director apologised for Thursday's Question Time debate, which left former
US ambassador Phillip Lader close to tears.

He and other American guests faced a hostile audience, who attacked US foreign
policy.

Some members of the audience claimed the attacks were America's own fault.

Last night, Dyke said it was "inappropriate" for the programme to have been
shown live and said he had personally apologised to Mr Lader.

He added: "I would like to apologise to the viewers who were offended by it.

"With hindsight, this programme should have been recorded and edited before it
was broadcast.

"Much of the programme was an entirely proper debate on how the US should react
to the atrocities of the past week.

"However, despite the best efforts of chairman David Dimbleby and the panel,
there were times when the tone was not appropriate, given the terrible events in
America."

Last night, Dimbleby said: "I'm sorry for the offence caused by the intemperate
language and aggressive attitudes of a small part of the audience.

"It was not what we intended."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BOWIE: WORLD CHANGED FOREVER

BYLINE: Colleen Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 210 words


MUSIC legend David Bowie has spoken of his grief over the attacks on America.

He said: "Our world will never be the same." Bowie, who has made New York his
home, talks of the "small mercy" that none of his friends or family were caught
up in the carnage.

He said: "My heart goes out to those of you who do have family or friends
missing. I hope beyond hope they are found."

Bowie's heartfelt tribute is posted on his internet site, davidbowie.com, on
which he writes: "Like all of you, nothing has prepared me for the horrors of
the last few days. Like you, I never thought I would see anything like this in
my lifetime."

He describes the city's mood, saying: "The streets are empty downtown except for
the few who live there, trancelike, going about their day to day lives, walking
their dogs, going to work, or just walking. At some ghostly unseen signal
everyone turns his or her heads, crane their necks, looking to the patch of sky
where the mountainous peaks of those two towers stood. The sunrise was seen
earlier today. No obstruction."

Bowie adds: "The likelihood of survivors is paltry. Two friends offered to give
blood only to be told that it was not necessary, as there weren't going to be
enough survivors to warrant it."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: ISLAM MUST NOT BE BRANDED AN ENEMY OF WEST;
  HOW MUSLIMS FEEL VICTIMISED

BYLINE: Dr Mona Sidiqui Lecturer In Arabic And Islamic Studies University Of
Glasgow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 321 words


LIKE many, I watched the horrific scenes of the destruction of the World Trade
Center in a sort of daze.

But this hypnotic state soon turned into a shudder inside when I first heard the
words Osama bin Laden and Islamic terrorism.

As news reports continued to make comments on the increasing probability of
Muslim terrorists being behind this tragedy, it began to dawn on everyone very
quickly that once again Islam was portrayed, not so much as a world religion
but, as a terror within the world.

The tenuous but persistent links made with the Saudi dissident bin Laden as a
possible perpetrator means that somehow the whole Muslim world is once again
dragged into a repetitive rhetoric with the media.

But why? And is not some of the backlash premature and even bigoted?

Questions are already being asked about difficult concepts such as martyrdom in
Islam, the notion of 'holy war' and whether Islam as a faith carries any
credibility as a world religion if it allows such atrocities.

But I can only reply, "Whose Islam are we talking about?"I, as a British Muslim
academic, who has been teaching in Glasgow for a number of years, find myself
carrying multiple identities.

My nationality gives me a strong sense of loyalty to the western country which
has always been home to me, my profession allows me to make some meaningful
contribution to the society around me, and my faith helps me to understand a
little about myself and the world I live in.

I cannot live side by side with my Christian and Jewish neighbours and
colleagues and believe in this sort of 'martyrdom' that has not just killed
Americans but people of all nationalities and all faiths including Muslims, no
doubt.

If we persist in making false distinctions such as Islam and the West or talk
about Islamic terrorism as separate from global terrorism then we will
perpetuate old arguments and even stir up new hatreds.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THE MOST WANTED MAN IN WORLD TOLD ME: 'I AM NOT A
TERRORIST';
 MY MEETINGS WITH KING OF TERROR

BYLINE: Scott Macleod Time Magazine Journalist Who Twice Met Bin Laden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 445 words


OSAMA bin Laden is a hard man to find.

An exile from Saudi Arabia, his whereabouts are known only to his aides and a
handful of officials.

To arrange to see him involved an elaborate waiting game. After tracking down
one of his associates in London, weeks passed before I finally came face to face
with him in a cramped office on the outskirts of Khartoum, Sudan.

Surrounded by bodyguards, a tall, barefoot and smiling bin Laden offered me a
cushion as a seat with an exaggerated gesture of his arms.

Depending on who is to be believed, this gracious hospitality came from either a
devout Muslim businessman, as bin Laden would claim, or one of the most
significant financial sponsors of Islamic extremist activities in the world
today, according to the US State Department.

Bin Laden is a towering figure among fundamentalists. His family's wealth is
estimated at $ 5billion, and, at 43, bin Laden controls a personal wealth of $
300 million. In the 1980s he became famous in Islamic circles for fighting the
Russians in Afghanistan, before going into exile in Sudan.

The American government claims bin Laden helps fund three different terrorist
training camps in northern Sudan, where extremists from Egypt, Algeria and
Tunisia receive instruction.

But he would have the world believe he is a businessman who gives money to
charity.

At our meeting he belittled the terrorism charges against him. During the long
conversation, interrupted twice for prayers, he told me the Egyptians would
catch somebody who would say, 'I was trained in bin Laden's camp'.

He said: "These camps were set up to help the Afghans, but suddenly the Egyptian
media is blaming me for anything that happens. It's like blaming a university
for students who graduate and go on to perform bad deeds."

Speaking of claims that he is one of the world's top terrorists, he told me: "It
is no surprise to me that corrupt regimes would make such charges."

He gave me a warning back in 1996 which could be equally applied today in the
wake of the worst terror attack the world has ever seen.

He said: "People are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty, but not the
Afghan fighters. They are labelled the terrorists of the world. But pushing them
against the wall will do nothing, except increase the terrorism."

I think many things point to bin Laden being behind Tuesday's atrocities, but
there are many terrorist groups operating in the world today capable of this.

He holds himself up as a spokesman for this freelance fraternity of professional
terrorists intent on attacking the United States. I spent 12 hours with him in
two meetings.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: I TRAINED BIN LADEN GUARDS IN SCOTLAND;
 SAS HELPED MUJAHEDIN BEAT USSR

BYLINE: Brendan Mcginty Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 684 words


THE fanatical guerrillas protecting Osama bin Laden were secretly trained in
remote hills in Scotland.

The training camps were organised by SAS hero Ken Connor, who had to resign so
the British Army would not be implicated.

The killers travelled under cover to the Highlands to learn "hit and run"
warfare before leading their feared Mujahedin troops.

Yesterday, Connor, 53, told the Sunday Mail: "The Mujahedin fighters were
already excellent soldiers committed to their cause.

"The main thing they lacked was tactical knowledge and battle planning, so we
worked constantly on that.

"Some helicopter training was also arranged for them and they were taught how to
attack airfields.

"But the main achievement was to turn them from a disorganised mob into a
fighting unit."

The officers went on to command senior positions in the Taliban regime, helping
shelter bin Laden, the prime suspect for last week's terrorist atrocities in the
US.

The Scots training camps can be revealed today as George Bush contemplates the
cost in US lives of waging war on the infamous fighters.

Warlords were trained by crack British troops in some of Scotland's most rugged
and remote mountain ranges.

And Connor operated another camp in north England during the top-secret training
programme.

The secret initiative came as Britain and the US secretly supported Afghan
guerrillas in their war with the Soviet Union.

Much of bin Laden's pounds 300m wealth came from CIA cash aimed at winning the
war and installing a "sympathetic" government in Afghanistan.

The makeshift army inflicted humiliating defeats on the heavily-armed Soviet
forces, leading eventually to the break-up of the Soviet Union.

But it is now feared the skills honed on Scots mountains could cost the lives of
western troops ordered to seek out and destroy bin Laden's terrorist force.

The Sunday Mail can today reveal the locations of the camps where the Mujahedin
learned from some of Britain's best soldiers.

One was in mountains surrounding the Criffel in Dumfries, the other in the
remote Applecross peninsula in the West Highlands.

The Scots missions took place in 1983 - four years after the Soviet invasion.
The Afghans trained with incredible determination, stopping only to pray five
times a day, eat and sleep.

Connor added: "It was all work and very little rest - the Mujahedin were at war.

"At night, they crowded round a television and they would watch absolutely
anything.

"In one of the camps they watched Westerns such as the John Wayne film, The
Searchers.

"They loved films like that although they would always be rooting for the
Indians. Unlike the Mujahedin, though, the Indians never won." The training
camps paid off for the Mujahedin.

They returned to Afghanistan and turned the conflict into a savage and
successful war against the Soviets.

The year after training in Scotland, the Mujahedin - using sophisticated
weaponry secretly bankrolled by the CIA - killed 2343 Soviet troops.

Locally-led bands of the religious warriors waged jihad - or holy war - against
the invaders. The balance of power in Afghanistan decisively turned towards the
Mujahedin to the delight of then US President, Ronald Reagan.

Today, President Bush is weighing up the cost of taking on the SAS-trained
killers.

The benefits of battlefield training were clearly learned by bin Laden, who now
uses such camps extensively.

And Connor says they will be dangerous adversaries

But he warned: "Not every Muslim is a bad Muslim.

"At first the Mujahedin backed Ahmed Shah Masood, who is opposed to the
Taliban."

But Masood was assassinated on Friday, and Connor says the consequences are
impossible to predict.

"If Afghanistan unites, these soldiers will be a fearsome enemy.

"It's a landlocked country and the terrain is such that a couple of dozen
soldiers could fight off thousands .

"And this is the scary bit. I don't think there's any way of getting bin Laden
out.

"Unless the Taliban lock him up and present him to the US, he's not coming."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: FAMILY TURNS ITS BACK ON TOP SUSPECT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 150 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN'S family denounced him yesterday and offered their sympathy to
the victims of the terror attacks in the United States.

Sheik Abdullah Awad Aboud bin Laden, head of the wealthy family, expressed deep
sorrow over Tuesday's carnage and the suffering caused.

The bin Ladens have previously distanced themselves from Osama and condemned his
terrorist acts.

Millionaire Sheik Abdullah, who is the uncle of Osama, said from his home in
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia: "All of the family members condemn violent and terrorist
acts - even if Osama is behind them."

Bin Laden is a prime suspect for the hijacking of four planes, the destruction
of the World Trade Center and the attack on the Pentagon.

A US federal court has indicted him for masterminding the August, 1998, bombings
of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, in which 231 people were killed,
including 12 Americans

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: CRACK UNITS WILL GO INTO AFGHANISTAN ATTACK ON
HUMANITY: BRITISH SOLDIERS TAUGHT REBELS;
 HOW WE'LL HUNT HIM

BYLINE: Robert Weir, Ex-Raf Officer Who Trained Troops To Fight

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 251 words


THE key to any attack in the deserts of Afghanistan will be small teams of
Forward Air Controllers, known as FACs.

These men will probably come from Delta Force, a highly motivated, highly
trained and exceptionally equipped branch of the American Army's Airborne, the
US equivalent of our Parachute Regiment.

America will not want to be seen as acting alone, so it is likely the SAS and
Special Boat Service, plus forces from other NATO nations, will be involved.

Parachuting into Afghanistan without detection, these teams can identify targets
and guide in attack aircraft carrying laser guided bombs.

These teams working with skilled pilots make a lethal combination.

But the most vital advantage they have over any other military response is
accuracy.

These troops will be less than 1000metres from the targets they are watching.
They are so close they can guide a 2000lb bomb through a window.

There was criticism of laser guided bombs during the Kosovo conflict after many
missed their targets.

But during Kosovo most bombs were guided to their targets by other spotter
aircraft.

There is a vast difference between trying to bomb a target while flying at
450mph and from sitting 500 metres away from where the bomb strikes.

If the intelligence is good, these teams will be able to wipe out training camps
used by bin Laden and his followers.

But what America or her NATO allies cannot afford to do is get dragged into a
large-scale conflict in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SCOTLAND MOURNS;
 ATTACK ON HUMANITY: A NATION FALLS SILENT

BYLINE: Brian Lironi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 556 words


AT football grounds, churches, businesses and Scotland's biggest air show,
ordinary folk united to honour America's dead yesterday.

Fans bowed their head for a minute's silence at every senior game in the
country.

A hush fell over 50,000 spectators at the international airshow at RAF Leuchars
in Fife as jets cut their engines.

Scottish firms made goodwill gestures to US citizens when they opened up free
internet facilities so they could contact their loved ones at home.

At St Giles Cathedral in Edinburgh American Consul General Ms Liane Dorsey
joined 500 mourners - dozens of them American holidaymakers - at an ecumenical
service.

The Moderator of the Church of Scotland, the Right Reverend John Miller, led the
prayers for those who lost their lives.

He told the congregation they had been brought together by "shared distress."

The Moderator added: "There is no hiding from the horror of what has taken
place.

"We cannot erase the image of the aircraft disappearing through the glass walls
of the towers, nor the realisation that their cargo of precious lives was
annihilated in the exploding flames, flames which themselves spelt death for so
many.

"We cannot erase the realisation that hundreds of brave, self-sacrificing men
and women in emergency services, acting in fulfilment of their own human
decency, were enveloped in the terrible cloud of death.

"How we wish that we could hide from it all. But we cannot."

The Catholic Bishop of Motherwell, Joseph Devine, and the Primus of the Scottish
Episcopal Church, the Rev Bruce Cameron, also led prayers.

At RAF Leuchars spectators honoured a minute's silence for the victims of the
terrorist attacks.

Airmen from Britain, France, Spain, Belgium and Holland also stood in silence as
thoughts turned to the USA.

Ten American aircraft and their crews had been due to attend the airshow but
they cancelled after the horrific events of Tuesday.

John Smillie, from Glasgow, who watched the airshow with his children, Cameron,
three, and Louise, five, said: "As we stood among the vast silent crowd we got
some understanding of the scale of this tragedy.

"This has touched the lives of everyone, there is no getting away from it.

"Even the children, although they don't understand exactly what has happened,
they know that something very bad happened in America.

"They could feel how sad everyone was during the silence."

Anne Tudor, from Dunfermline, said: "I wanted to come to the air show especially
to pay my respects to the people who died in America.

"Standing silent with all the other people made me feel like I was doing
something, even if it was just paying my respects."

At football matches across Scotland fans observed a minute's silence for the
victims of terrorism.

There was an eerie atmosphere at stadia around the country as fans paid their
respects.

The silence was impeccably observed at all the grounds.

In England, Everton's Kevin Campbell laid a wreath on top of an American flag
before the derby game with Liverpool.

In Edinburgh, the 24-hour internet cafe easyEverything offered free internet
access to Americans so they could contact friends and relatives back home.

Finance giant Scottish Widows also laid on six terminals at their headquarters
in the capital.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: HUNT GOES ON FOR 3 LOST SCOTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 255 words


THREE Scots are still feared dead in the rubble of the World Trade Center.

Computer consultant Gavin Cushny, 48, from the Isle of Lewis, Derek Sword, 29,
from Dundee, and Christopher Newton-Carter, 52, from Moray, are still missing.

Strathclyde Police are working with the FBI in New York and the Metropolitan
Police in London to help relatives of Scots killed or missing.

Detective Superintendent Alex McAllister said the force was dealing with five
missing person cases.

Two included Mr Sword and Mr Newton-Carter. Mr Cushny's relatives were informed
by agencies outside Strathclyde Police.

Two others reported missing have turned up safe and well.

The fifth person turned out to be an American with only tenuous Scottish
connections.

One of the two found safe is believed to be a man from Renfrewshire who works in
the USA.

Computer consultant Gavin is thought to have been working in the 104th floor
office in the north tower, the first one hit. He was due to fly home next month
to be married.

Christopher Newton-Carter was working in the south tower and phoned his brother
Mark after the north tower was hit. Mark, 50, who runs the Findhorn Caravan
Park, near Forres, said: "As we spoke the second plane hit the building. He
said, 'the building is swaying. I am getting out'. That was the last thing he
said."

Mr Sword, a banker, worked on floor 89 of the south tower.

One expat Scot, Washington businessman Ian Gray, 55, was among the dead on the
flight that struck the Pentagon.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: COUNTDOWN TO COLLAPSE;
 ATTACK ON HUMANITY: FIRMS COUNT THE COST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1256 words


THIS is the moment the world was changed forever by terror.

With both towers of the World Trade Center ablaze, there was no longer any
question of an accident.

A stunned world realised New York was under attack.

At 8.45am local time on Tuesday, hijacked United Airlines Flight 11, a Boeing
767, crashed into the north tower.

Eighteen minutes later, a second 767 crashed into the south tower.

The north building was hit around floors 95 to 104 and its southern twin between
floors 85 to 94.

At 10.07am, the south tower crashed to the ground, followed 20 minutes later by
the remaining skyscraper.

The 110-storey buildings, erected in 1972 and 1973, were designed to withstand
hurricane force winds.

Both survived the initial impact, estimated as equivalent to 20 HGVs hurtling
into the towers at the same time. But the heat from the blazes caused by the
planes' aviation fuel doomed them.

Temperatures are estimated to have reached 1000 degrees Centigrade.

As temperatures inside the buildings soared, their steel columns slowly began to
weaken, soften and buckle, and finally crash down.

SOUTH TOWER

9.03am: Flight 175 smashes into storeys 85-94

9.50am: The tower collapses

FLOORS 101-110

Floor 106 - The Atlantic Bank of New York was on this floor. It is not yet known
how many staff survived or are still missing.

Floor 104 - Investment bankers Sandler O'Neill and Partners said 67 of its 88
staff including founder Herman Sandler, were unaccounted for.

FLOORS 91-100

Floor 93 - Regus Business Centres: five missing

Floors 92, 99, 100 - AON Corporation: most staff safe.

Floor 91 - The Washington Group: 40 missing. No details on Raytheon or Gibbs and
Hill engineers.

Floors 90, 94 to 97 - Franklin Templeton Investments: over half their 600 staff
are safe.

FLOORS 81-90

Floors 88, 89 - Keefe, Bruyette and Woods: 70 lost.

Floor 87 - Corporation Service Company: all safe.

Floors 86 and 87 - Dept of Tax and Finance: 40 lost.

Floor 85 - Harris Beach & Wilcox LLP: five missing. Keefe, Bruyette and Woods
offices: no information.

Floor 84 - Maxcor Financial Eurobrokers: 60 lost.

FLOORS 71-80

Floors 79 to 82 - The Fuji Bank said 50 of 650 workers were unaccounted for.

Floor 78 - First Commercial Bank had an office on this floor. However, no
information is yet known about their losses.

FLOORS 61-70

Floors 43 to 46, 56, 59 to 74 -- these floors were occupied by Morgan Stanley
investment giants. The vast majority of their 3500 staff managed to escape from
the building with their lives.

FLOORS 51-60

Floors 57 and 58 - Dow Jones publishers had offices on these floors but nothing
is known about how many of their staff escaped.

FLOORS 41-50

Floors 47 to 54 - Marsh and McLennan owned businesses in both towers. More than
1000 of 1700 employees have been accounted for.

Floor 48 - All 190 employees from the Fireman's Fund Insurance Company escaped.

FLOORS 31-40

Floor 38 to 40 - Thatcher, Proffitt and Wood: almost all their 300 staff are
accounted for.

Floor 37 - Siemens: most staff - over 70 - are safe.

Floor 35 - No news from Frenkel Insurance.

Floor 33 - Rohde & Liensfield transport: two lost.

Floors 31 and 32 - Oppenheimer Funds: all 598 safe.

FLOORS 21-30

Floors 28 to 30 - NY Stock Exchange: all 300 safe. No news from Big A or Hua Nan
Commercial Bank Ltd.

Floors 25 and 26 - Sun Microsystems: all 346 safe.

Floor 24 - Groupe Coface: 15 employees escaped.

Floor 22 - Mancini Duffy: all staff evacuated safely.

Floor 21 - Adecco: a number of staff still missing.

FLOORS 11-20

Floors 14 to 18 - Candia Shipping, Caserta, Chen, Lin, Li & Jiang LLP
investments, Charna Chemicals, James T Ratner attorneys, John J McMullen
Associates, John W Loofbourrow Associates, Mancini Duffy Architects, Patinka
Int., Orient Int., Union Bank of California, Showtime Pictures. No information.

FLOORS 1-10

Floors 9 to 12 - Telecom company Verizon said most of its 500 employees were
accounted for.

Floor 1 - Colortek Kodak Imaging Centre had no information.

Basement - Xerox document manufacturers also had no information regarding staff
in the tower.

NORTH TOWER

8.45am: Flight 11 hits between floors 95-104

10.29am: The tower collapses

FLOORS 101-110

Floor 110 - TV transmitter floor: no-one missing.

Floors 107 and 106 - Up to 500 brokers missing, along with 80 workers from a
restaurant and bar.

Floor 102 - Nishi-Nippon BankTwo: three staff lost.

Floors 101 to 105 - Cantor Fitzgerald: 700 missing.

Floor 101 - Kidder Peabody and Co: no staff safe.

FLOORS 91-100

Floors 93 to 100 - Marsh USA: over 700 of their 1700 employees are unaccounted
for.

Floor 93 - Management specialists Fred Alger have lost 38 of their 55 staff.

Floor 91 - American Bureau of Shipping: all 16 workers escaped.

FLOORS 81-90

Floor 90 - Japan's Chugoku Bank: 10 missing.

Floor 89 - Metropolitan Life Insurance: two lost.

Floor 87 - May Davis Investors: 44 of its 45 safe.

Floors 81 to 85 - Thermo Electron, Taipei Bank, Atlava Trading and Network Plus
reported 130 had survived the attack.

FLOORS 71-80

Floor 80 - RLI Insurance, Shizuoka Bank: nine safe.

Floor 79 - Daynard and Van Thunen Co Inc: all staff safe. Nikko Securities Bank:
one missing.

Floor 78 - Software company Avenir Inc and Hyundai Securities reported all staff
safe.

Floor 77 - Martin Progressive LLC: over 200 safe.

FLOORS 61-70

Floor 63 - Airport Access Program have been unable to gather any information
regarding the survival of their staff.

FLOORS 51-60

Floor 60 - The Asahi Bank: 94 staff fled the tower.

Floors 56 to 59 - Corporate finance lawyers Sidley Austin Brown: all but three
of their 600 staff safe.

Floor 55 - Pace University would not reveal figures.

Floor 52 - Banking systems firm Temenos: all staff escaped. Law firm Hill Betts
& Nash: 10 staff safe.

FLOORS 41-50

Floors 47 to 51 - AT&T: all 111 staff evacuated.

Floor 46 - Kanebo Information Systems: four staff are thought to have escaped,
but have not since been contactable amidst the mayhem.

Floor 44 and 45 - Pure Energy Corporation: 10 staff lost. NY Society of Security
Analysts: no news.

FLOORS 31-40

Floors 38 to 40 - Bankers Lehman Brothers: most of their 100 staff in the
building survived.

Floor 37 - The Thai Government had offices in the tower: all six of their staff
are safe.

Floors 35 to 36 - Insurance company Kemper: a number of employees are reported
safe and well.

FLOORS 21-30

Floors 29 to 33 - The China Daily Distribution Corporation, Chang HWA Commercial
Bank and China Patent & Trademark USA had no information.

Floors 25 and 26 - Brokers ICAP said virtually all staff had a "miraculous"
escape.

Floor 22 - Tai Fook Securities: three staff escaped.

FLOORS 11-20

Floors 18 to 21 - Nine firms had no news.

Floors 17, 19, 20, 23, 24 and 27 to 31 - Empire Health Choice: nine out of 2000
staff still missing.

Floors 15 and 16 - California Bank & Trust and the Landmark Education
Corporation are unknown.

Floors 13 and 14 - Reuters: most of 200 staff safe.

FLOORS 1-10

Floors 9 to 11 - Bank of America: most of 400 safe.

Floors 3, 5, 7 and 8 - Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, The Amerson
Group, Thai Farmers Bank, Gayer, Shyu & Wiesel: no details available.

Lobby - Avis, Delta Airlines and Olympia Airline Express: no information about
how many survived.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WHY DO MUSLIMS HATE THE USA? FOR A TOKEN ACT. OUR
RESPONSE WILL BE SUSTAINED';
 ARAB RESPONSE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 396 words


Prof Yasir Suleiman, of Edinburgh University, explains how the Muslim world
feels alienated by US foreign policies.

NOTHING, absolutely nothing, can justify Tuesday's outrageous atrocities.

The death of thousands of innocent people, and the anguish of so many others, is
a crime which should be condemned by all decent people.

Right from the start the responsibility for this crime was pinned on Arab or
Muslim elements, which have been described in the media as sworn enemies of the
US and, by implication, the West.

Whether Muslim elements turn out to be responsible or not is an open question at
the moment.

But even if they aren't, two questions demand answers: Why has there been such
feeling against US foreign policy by Islamic people across the world? And what
can the US do to change it?

There is no doubt that the US is the object of much anger, some would say even
hatred, in most of the Muslim world.

America's un- questioning military and diplomatic support for Israel in its
ruthless oppression of the Palestinians and the occupation of their land
inflames anti-American feelings.

The recent American disengagement from the peace process in the Middle East is
seen as the "green light" for Israeli premier Ariel Sharon to try to bring the
Palestinians to their knees.

The attacks against Iraq and the sanctions that have reduced what was once a
prosperous country to a miserable place, in which hundreds of children die every
month, have been a sore point.

The Americans stand accused of double standards for their love of democracy at
home and support for Arab and Muslim dictatorships abroad.

There is also a feeling that American policy is built on maximising prosperity
for Americans and visiting hardship on third world countries.

In a sense, whether the above list of "grievances" is true or not is immaterial.
What we are talking about here are strong perceptions in most Arab and Muslim
countries.

I am convinced that one of the positive consequences of the evil of last Tuesday
will be a re-evaluation of US foreign policy.

America needs allies in its determination to fight terrorism, and it needs them
in those parts of the world where it would most make a difference.

To obtain the support it needs, the US would have to show that it will take on
board the concerns of those whose can help.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SHELVES EMPTY AS PEOPLE STOCKPILE GUNS AND FOOD;
 AMERICA PREPARES

BYLINE: Charles Lavery

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 357 words


AMERICANS were preparing themselves for war last night, as shops sold out of
guns, tinned food and survival goods.

The shock of Tuesday's attacks is slowly waning, replaced by anger.

Already some mosques have been targeted. And in New York one of the city's
busiest tobacconists, owned by a Libyan, is empty. The owner said: "They have
already started looking at us as if it was all our fault."

Sales of bullets have risen by 400 per cent in the US since the attacks. One gun
store sold over 100 shotguns on Wednesday alone.

Grocery stores are without food. Candles, tents, paraffin and knives are all
flying off the shelves and army recruiting offices are reporting a massive surge
in numbers.

In Longwood, Florida, a flag store had almost sold out by Tuesday afternoon.
Owner James Knapton said: "Soon there won't be any flags left in the country."

And in Washington, martial law was more or less declared after the national
guard was brought on to the streets and the skies were patrolled by US jet
fighters.

President Bush has become a lightning rod for some of New York's anger.

He has been criticised for not visiting until Friday. Joel Reyes, 19, whose
father Adam escaped from the 57th storey of one of the towers, said: "Thousands
of innocent people died and were hurt. I am not saying it is his fault, but he
took too long getting here."

Meanwhile, lawmakers across the political spectrum are arguing for heightened
security measures, including armed guards on commercial airliners and greater
surveillance powers for federal agents.

Republican leader Senator Trent Lott, said: "When you are at war, civil
liberties are treated differently. We cannot let what happened yesterday happen
in the future."

And Democrat Barney Frank said, "The general assumption in this country is
freedom and individual privacy. But when conditions turn adverse, you respond to
them."

However, Marc Rotenberg, director of the Electronic Privacy Information Centre,
said: "My own family has been touched by what's happened this week - but it
would be an enormous cost to severely limit American freedoms."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BUSH WAR CRY;
 THE PRESIDENT: WE WILL HUNT DOWN TERRORISTS IN A LONG AND UNRELENTING CAMPAIGN,
HE VOWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 732 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush last night named Osama bin Laden as the prime suspect in
the terror attacks on the US and told Americans: "Get ready".

In a nationwide radio address, President Bush outlined his plan for a
"comprehensive assault on terrorism".

He said: "This is a conflict without battlefields and beachheads, a conflict
against opponents who believe they are invisible.

"They will learn the lesson that those who make war against the Unites States
have chosen their own destruction.

"We are planning a broad and sustained campaign to secure our country and battle
the evil of terrorism. We will see this through.

"I will not settle for a token act. Our response must be sweeping, sustained and
effective."

And he warned: "You will be asked for your patience, for the conflict will not
be short."

Prime Minister Tony Blair has already pledged Britain's support for any
retaliatory strikes by the US.

On Friday, Bush called 50,000 US military reservists to duty.

He told them: "My message is, for everybody who wears the uniform, get ready.
The United States will do what it takes to win this war."

Yesterday, the Pakistan Government agreed to allow a multi-national force to be
based within its borders.

Pakistan shares a 1560-mile border with Afghanistan, which is believed to be
harbouring bin Laden.

Before meeting national security advisers at the Camp David retreat in Maryland
yesterday, Bush said: "We will find those who did it, we'll smoke them out of
their holes.

"There is a desire by the American people to not seek only revenge, but to win a
war against barbaric behaviour.

"Make no mistake, underneath our tears is the strong determination of America to
win this war and we will win it."

Bush went on: "Americans must brace themselves for great sacrifices because the
conflict will not be easy. We're at war."

The President, for the first time, identified Osama bin Laden as a suspect in
the suicide attacks on Washington and New York, plus the downing of a plane over
Pennsylvania.

He said: "If he thinks he can run and hide from the United States and our
allies, he will be sorely mistaken.

Echoing the words of his father, former President George Bush, after Iraq
invaded Kuwait in 1990, the president added: "This act will not stand.

"We will get them running and we'll bring them to justice.

"We will not only deal with those who dare attack America, we will deal with
those who harbour them and feed them and house them.

"They have stirred up the might of the American people."

Earlier, Bush met with his national security team at the marine-guarded Camp
David presidential retreat in western Maryland.

His advisers at the meeting included Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of
State Colin Powell, national security adviser Condoleezza Rice, Defence
Secretary Donald H Rumsfeld and Attorney General John Ashcroft.

After the meeting, Ashcroft said the investigation had made progress, adding:
"We believe the picture is developing a kind of clarity. On the diplomatic
front, support for any US action appeared to be solidifying last night

Powell announced that Pakistan had offered to "assist us in whatever might be
required".

Pakistan - an Islamic country but with strong military and economic ties to the
west - agreed to a full list of US demands for a possible attack on neighbouring
Afghanistan.

That includes allowing a multi-national force, which could launch strikes on
Afghanistan, on its soil.

American demands had included a closure of Pakistan's border with Afghanistan
and permission for flights over Pakistani airspace in the event of military
action.

The US State Department has already taken the unusual step of summoning foreign
diplomatic representatives to warn that their governments would be isolated if
they tolerated or assisted terrorist groups, a senior official said last night.

The strak warning was delivered in separate meetings by top State Department
officials in charge of the five major regions of the world - Europe, the Middle
East, South Asia, Africa and Latin America.

Lawmakers in the US Congress have already passed a measure to allow Bush to
exercise "all necessary and appropriate force" against the terrorists, their
sponsors and protectors.

Only one person, Representative Barbara Lee, voted against the ruling.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: TALIBAN DECLARE HOLY WAR AND WARN BRITAIN WILL BE A
TARGET;
 WORLD JIHAD

BYLINE: Lindsay Mcgarvie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 337 words


THE Taliban yesterday threatened to attack Britain and other US allies as it
urged Muslims around the world to join a Holy War against America.

The hardline Afghanistan regime's warning came as the Americans continued a
build-up of military might.

Afghanistan remains the prime target for retaliation for the suicide attacks on
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon which cost an estimated 5000 lives.

The mastermind behind the attacks is thought to be Islamic fanatic Osama bin
Laden, who has been using Afghanistan as a base as a guest of the fundamentalist
Taliban.

Yesterday they warned that they would not give into American demands to hand
over bin Laden.

Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar warned all Muslims to prepare for Jihad, or
Holy War, against America and its allies.

He said: "Death comes to everyone. We must stand proud as Afghans in the defence
of Islam. Believe in Allah. With the grace of Allah American rockets will go
astray and we will be saved."

In a radio address, Mr Omar said he would die rather than back down.

He added: "Don't be cowards. I am ready for sacrifice."

Abdul Salam Zaeef, Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, warned war would be declared
on any country that allowed its land or airspace to be used for attacks on
Afghanistan.

He said: "If any neighbouring country helps the US attack us it would spark
extraordinary dangers. It would draw us into a reprisal war."

Mr Omar later warned that any attack could draw the West into an unwinnable war.

He added: "If America is now pointing fingers at us, it will be the third
imperialistic attack on our country. During the British and Russian invasions of
years past, there was no Osama bin Laden, so don't blame him."

The hardline comments appeared to make a conflict with the West inevitable.

The possibility of strikes against Afghanistan for harbouring bin Laden
heightened yesterday after neighbouring Pakistan agreed to help the US, despite
previous backing for the Taliban.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WAR CRY;
 BUSH TELLS AMERICA: 'GET READY' AS TALIBAN URGES ITS SUPPORTERS TO FIGHT FOR
ISLAM

BYLINE: Lindsay Mcgarvie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 538 words


PRESIDENT George W. Bush last night named Osama bin Laden as the prime suspect
in the terror attacks on the US and told Americans: "Get ready".

And while Bush rallied the nation, Afghanistan's Taliban regime urged Muslims
worldwide to join a Holy War against the US and its allies, including Britain.

In a nationwide radio address President Bush outlined his plan for a
"comprehensive assault on terrorism".

He said: "This is a conflict without battlefields and beachheads, a conflict
against opponents who believe they are invisible.

"They will learn the lesson that those who make war against the Unites States
have chosen their own destruction.

"We are planning a broad and sustained campaign to secure our country and battle
the evil of terrorism. We will see this through.

"I will not settle for a token act. Our response must be sweeping, sustained and
effective."

And he warned: "You will be asked for your patience, for the conflict will not
be short."

Prime Minister Tony Blair has already pledged Britain's full support for any
retaliatory strikes by the US.

Mr Bush's words will be seen as a stark warning to Afghanistan, where Saudi
rebel bin Laden has sheltered for a number of years.

But the leaders of the hard-line Taliban regime seemed to dismiss the threat
from the US and called for a holy war. Mullah Mohammad Omar said: "Death comes
to everyone. We must stand proud as Afghans in the defence of Islam. I am ready
for sacrifice. Every Muslim should be ready for holy war and take strength from
their faith in Islam. We shall be victorious."

Following his statement Abdul Salam Zaeef, Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, said
that war would be declared on any country that allowed its land or airspace to
be used for attacks on Afghanistan.

He said: "If any regional or neighbouring country helps the US attack. It would
draw us into a reprisal war."

The hard-line comments from the Taliban however, are unlikely to deflect Bush
and the US effort to strike back at the terrorists.

Before meeting national security advisers at the Camp David retreat in Maryland,
Bush said: "We will find those who did it, we'll smoke them out of their holes.

"There is a desire by the American people to not seek only revenge, but to win a
war against barbaric behaviour. Make no mistake, underneath our tears is the
strong determination of America to win this war and we will win it."

Meanwhile, in Afghanistan refugees poured towards the Pakistan border where they
were beaten back by Taliban guards armed with sticks.

In the capital Kabul Taliban soldiers positioned their few anti-aircraft weapons
around the city.

The possibility of air or land strikes against Afghanistan for harbouring bin
Laden heightened yesterday as neighbouring Pakistan offered its support to the
US, according to highly-placed sources.

Pakistan's agreement was conveyed by President Pervez Musharraf in a meeting on
Friday with US Ambassador Wendy Chamberlin.

As well as allowing US troops to launch missions from its territory, Pakistan
also agreed to close its border with Afghanistan, allow its airspace to be used
for possible strikes and co-operate in intelligence gathering.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ORIGINAL BOMB SAVED SAMMY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 218 words


A SCOT who once ran the restaurant on top of the World Trade Center told
yesterday how his fear of a terrorist attack saved his life.

Sammy Wilson quit the Windows On The World restaurant in the north tower after
fanatics bombed the skyscraper in 1993, killing six and injuring 100.

He feared the building's owners had not taken on board the risk of another
attack.

Sammy, 70, said: "We felt the impact all right. People were scampering and
scrambling everywhere. Some were taken off the roof by helicopter.

"I couldn't face going back and I'm glad I didn't. I may be past retirement age
now, but I know I would still have been working there."

Sammy started in 1972, welcoming celebrities such as Elizabeth Taylor, Rock
Hudson and Sylvester Stallone.

He met most of the Kennedy family, Presidents Nixon and Carter and King Juan
Carlos of Spain.

Sammy had quit his home in Glasgow's King's Park in 1954 and travelled to
Kearny, New Jersey, with Mamie, his wife of six years.

He became maitre d' at the stunning restaurant but after the shock of the 1993
bomb he retired to Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

He said: "I once took a picture from the roof when there was a double rainbow in
the sky.

"It was a beautiful picture. Now there will never be another taken like it."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE FLOOR GAVE WAY AND 200 PEOPLE VANISHED RIGHT IN
FRONT OF MY EYES;
 SCOT TELLS OF SHEER TERROR AS SHE FLED FROM 60TH STOREY

BYLINE: Russell Findlay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 1236 words


A SURVIVOR of the World Trade Center inferno told yesterday how hundreds of
victims were plunged into an abyss.

Scot Lorraine Gilmartin was only a few paces ahead of the workers who perished
as they fled from the 60th floor of the south tower.

As the floor shuddered and moved, she clung on to two men in front of her - then
looked back in horror at the devastation behind.

She said yesterday: "The entire floor was rippling and everyone was screaming
and pushing and trampling each other. I thought the entire floor was going to
give way."

"I reached the 44th floor and looked round and saw all these people.

"But when I turned and looked back they were gone. They had just been swallowed
up. I'm talking about 200 people. It could so easily have been me."

Financial analyst Lorraine, 32, from Carmyle, Glasgow, who worked only two
blocks away at the time of the 1993 bombing of the twin towers, said she feared
she was about to die at least five times during her terrifying descent from her
60th floor office.

And she said she only escaped alive because she ignored a PA announcement to
return to her desk after the first plane struck the north tower.

She was already heading down the south tower when the second plane struck, 18
minutes after the first impact

Lorraine, who spoke of her ordeal for the first time yesterday, has suffered
nightmares since surviving the terrorist attack that shocked and sickened the
world.

The day had started normally for her with the train and subway journey from her
home in New Jersey to the Morgan Stanley offices in the World Trade Center.

She started working for Dean Witter, now merged with Morgan Stanley, in the
towers five years ago.

She said: "It was a great place to work. On a day like Tuesday it's something to
be seen. It was warm and crystal clear. You could see the water glistening below
- it was gorgeous."

But the peace of the day was to be cruelly shattered when the first hijacked jet
hit.

Lorraine said: "It was a rumbling sound almost like thunder, and then the lights
flickered twice.

"My next thought was, 'I'm leaving. I'm leaving.' I realised that there was
something seriously wrong and thought it must be a bomb."

She said one boss emerged from his offices to tell staff there was nothing to
worry about and a light aircraft had hit the tower.

Lorraine added: "I didn't care what anybody else said. Something inside me said
I wanted out."

As Lorraine headed out, she bumped by chance into best friend Angela Brass, 28.

She said: "We latched on to each other and I was saying to her, 'Let's go.'

"I started to feel my whole body shake. I didn't want to scream or cry I just
wanted to go.

"Instinct took over. We were in a group of about 50 people, most of whom had
been through the bombing eight years ago.

"I'm convinced if it hadn't been for the 1993 bomb then a lot of people wouldn't
have acted so quickly.

"Angela and I were supporting each other and her body was in convulsions.

"Most of the men were acting calm with confused looks on their faces but a lot
of the girls were shaking."

A crowd had gathered on a main lobby on the 44th floor but the lifts to the
street had no power.

Lorraine said: "The fire marshal came over the public address system saying that
it was the other tower and everyone was okay. He sounded increasingly aggressive
as he was ordering everyone back to their desks.

"A group of 50 people went towards the freight elevators to go back up.

"That's a point I can never forget - those people who decided to go back up.

"Everyone else was just looking at each other and they weren't convinced."

When the second plane hit, Lorraine knew she had the made the right decision.

She said: "There was this massive explosion. It was the biggest crash I had ever
heard and it felt as if it was underneath us.

"In the panic I had lost Angela but she got out okay.

"I met another friend, Mary, and now everyone was crying and screaming."

The horror on the 44th floor when 200 fellow workers plunged to their deaths
exposed the full extent of the danger they were in.

Lorraine said: "I made the right decision to leave when I did."

Lorraine and Mary walked in single file down a narrow stairwell. "We were
holding hands and I felt so safe as we kept getting further down and the stairs
were solid.

"As we got to the around the 30th level, everyone started to shout that we were
okay.

"People were crying with relief. My phone rang at that point and it was a friend
who had just moved to Florida.

"She was very emotional as she had watched it all on TV. I told her to call my
mum and let her know I was safe."

It was around one of the floors in the lower 30s that Lorraine remembers one
English woman who she fears is now dead.

She said: "She stopped in the corner and she just kept saying she couldn't go
on.

"One man was trying to get her moving but she was quite overweight and refused
to go.

"She said she was too hot and too weak. I don't know what happened but I've a
feeling in my heart she is dead.

"When we got to about the 10th floor, I began screaming that we were safe. When
we hit ground level there was a hug sense of relief and we just ran through the
main lobby area to the doors.

"A female cop grabbed me and flung me to another cop. They were in a chain and
shouting at us not to look up."

Lorraine ran across the street and finally got her first glimpse of what the
entire world had been watching on its TV screens. She said: "We were still
scared and decided to get as far away as possible."

Two blocks away, a group of dazed workers, including Lorraine, went into a shop
for cigarettes and water.

She said: "The lights suddenly went out and that was when our tower collapsed.

"We didn't get our cigarettes or water and everyone scrambled to get out of the
shop. I remember thinking there could be a domino effect with all these
skyscrapers.

"Everyone was on the street just running as fast as they could to get away."

By now, Lorraine was desperate to get off Manhattan, but all bridges and tunnels
were closed.

Eventually, she joined thousands of people who got on a tourist boat off the
island.

She said: "This was about 12.30 in the afternoon, several hours after the first
tower was hit.

"It was only then that I got my first real view of what had happened.

"The whole skyline was altered. You could see nothing where the twin towers had
once stood so proudly."

Lorraine believes her life has now changed forever. She feels she cannot go back
to Manhattan and cannot imagine ever flying on a plane again. She said: "On
Thursday, there was severe thunder and lightning and I started screaming and
shaking as if it was happening all over again.

"The phone hasn't stopped with colleagues all asking about each other and it
seems most have been accounted for.

"I'm very lucky because 200,000 people go into that building every day and I
managed to get out okay."

Lorraine's cousin in Glasgow, Thomas McKenzie, said yesterday: "Lorraine was
meant to be coming over to our silver wedding anniversary on Friday but couldn't
make it.

"My wife couldn't stop crying on Tuesday, they're the best of pals.

"I was in the tower visiting Lorraine a few weeks ago and it's astonishing to
think that something so big has disappeared."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: TEARFUL REUNIONS AS FIRST FLIGHTS ARRIVE FROM N.Y.

BYLINE: Billy Paterson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 373 words


THOUSANDS of stranded passengers flew back into Britain yesterday for emotional
reunions with family and loved ones.

In Glasgow and at Heathrow in London, the first flights from New York touched
down within ten minutes of each other.

Tearful singer Lulu was among the first to return after being stranded in New
York following Tuesday's terrorist outrage.

The Glasgow-born star - who had been recording in New York when the terrorists
struck - still looked shaken as she flew into Heathrow at 10.55am.

Holding back tears, she admitted she had to force herself on to the aeroplane.

She added: "It's terrible. I'm very fortunate. Words can't explain what it's
like. It's horrific. I'm very relieved to be back.

"I have been watching TV and I think everything has been said... everything.

"You feel exhausted because it is so emotional. I can't talk about it. It's
something I can't be verbal about."

Ten minutes later, scores of Scots were reunited with their loved ones after
flying into Glasgow Airport on a Continental Airlines flight from Newark.

There were emotional scenes as toddlers ran to greet their fathers and weeping
mothers embraced children they had feared they might never see again.

One of the first to emerge into the arrivals terminal was 32-year-old Edward
Brooks, who was met with a hug from his 18-month-old daughter Libby.

Edward, from Glasgow, was in Manhattan on Tuesday for a one-day business meeting
when the devastating attacks took place.

In the chaos that followed, he was unable to return home to his frantic partner
Marjorie April in their West End home.

He said: "It was very frightening because nobody knew what was happening.

"It was awful waiting because all the shops were closed and nobody could go
anywhere."

Larry Conroy, 71, and his 50-year-old wife Christina, from Greenwich Village,
New York, arrived in Glasgow to begin a Highland holiday they feared they would
never live to enjoy.

Christina said: "The fact we are here is a miracle in itself. I just never
thought we would make it.

"It has been terrible because we only live four blocks away and the first plane
flew over my head, so I saw it happen.

"It is still surreal for me."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: TYCOONS' POUNDS 70,000 TO ESCAPE NEW YORK

BYLINE: Charles Lavery Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 300 words


THREE of Scotland's richest men splashed out pounds 70,000 on a private jet to
escape New York in the wake of the twin tower attack.

Business gurus Tom Hunter, Richard Emanuel and Chris Gorman were all in the city
as the atrocity unfolded.

The men finally chartered a private jet to get them to safety after being stuck
for two days in Manhattan as all US airports shut down.

Last night Hunter, who has an estimated personal fortune of pounds 400million,
said: "It was worth every penny just to hug my kids."

The Scots entrepreneurs were attending a Young Presidents conference in the city
and flew in on Monday.

Hunter was due to leave on Tuesday but was left stranded at the airport.

He said: "I had forgotten to pack a belt, so I went to shop for one on Tuesday
morning.

"It's normally the busiest city in the world but, as I walked down the street, I
noticed that it was very quiet.

"Then I saw a group of people huddled around a radio and I asked what was going
on. The guy said: 'You have to listen to this.'

"That was when the first plane hit the towers, and I walked back to the hotel
and told the staff there was a serious situation.

"We stayed in Manhattan on Tuesday night but we got off the island and went to
New Jersey on Wednesday because I didn't feel too safe.

"Everybody was stunned - nobody could comprehend what had happened.

"We searched around for a restaurant on the Tuesday night in Manhattan and ended
up eating in an Italian place where we just sat around in stunned silence."

The three men, whose collective wealth is over pounds 600million, were delighted
to be home and safe with their friends and family.

Richard Emanuel, 33, declined to comment but a spokesman said he was happy to be
back with his fiancee, Valerie.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: LOCKERBIE DAD'S PLEA FOR CAUTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 128 words


THE father of a Lockerbie victim last night urged caution over reprisals for the
attacks on New York and Washington.

John Mosey, of the support group UK Families Flight 103, lost his daughter Helga
in the Lockerbie disaster.

He has written to Prime Minister Tony Blair pointing out that the 270 who died
in the 1988 bombing were killed in reprisal for "aggressive" US policies in the
Arab world. Mr Mosey's letter to the Premier went on: "The utmost care must be
taken that whatever path is eventually pursued is successful and does not harm
innocent people, thus producing another batch of terrorists.

"We must find a better way of dealing with our international differences than
simply picking up a bigger stick with which to beat the other guys."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: I SAW MY HUBBY DIE AS WE SPOKE ON PHONE;
 THE WIFE

BYLINE: Billy Paterson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 333 words


A DEVASTATED wife told last night how she was speaking to her husband on the
telephone as she watched him die on television.

Denise DeAngelis, 46, had taken a call from husband Robert after the first
hijacked plane slammed into the World Trade Center.

But as they spoke Denise watched in horror as the second hijacked plane swooped
down and exploded in the tower where Robert was working.

Denise said: "I screamed into the phone to warn him. I was shouting, 'Robert,
there's another plane coming! Get out of the building!'

"There was no answer. I watched as the plane exploded inside the building. All I
could say was, 'I love you'."

Minutes earlier Robert, 48, had called Denise to tell her about the first
airliner hitting the World Trade Center.

She said: "He told me he couldn't believe what he was seeing.

"He was telling me he could see people jumping out of windows on the other
building."

He then told her to switch on her TV. It was then that she watched helplessly as
the second airliner screamed from left to right across the screen towards the
second tower - and her husband.

Robert left home early on Tuesday morning for his job with Washington Group
International, an engineering and construction firm. He has not been confirmed
as killed and is officially listed as missing.

Denise has been sending a message to Robert's pager every hour on the hour in a
desperate attempt to help the rescue teams to locate him.

Denise, who is a volunteer fire marshall, believes Robert may have died trying
to help others.

She knows that he did try to leave the tower after the first impact.

But she understands he was then told that everything was clear and had started
to return to the 91st floor of the doomed building to answer telephone calls
from anxious relatives.

Denise, who is being comforted at her home by friends and family, said of
Robert: "He was a small man, but with such a big, big character. My husband is a
sweet, sweet man."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: WE THOUGHT BRONCO WOULD SURVIVE.. WE THOUGHT STEEL
WOULD BEND AROUND HIM;
 ATTACK ON HUMANITY: FIREFIGHTERS MOURN THE LOSS OF COLLEAGUE AND PIPE BAND
DRUMMER THE FIREMAN

BYLINE: Bsteve Mckenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 980 words


THEY were the New York Fire Department's Band of Brothers.

Forty-nine friends who organised pipe band practice nights around their shifts,
fine -tuning renditions of Scotland the Brave and The Braemar Gathering.

Together they went to Glasgow for the World Pipe Band Championships and together
they risked their lives rushing to the aid of people fleeing the doomed World
Trade Center.

The 49 mercy workers, all members of New York Fire Department Pipes and Drums,
were among the first to reach the crippled towers.

They guided streams of frightened people down the seemingly endless flights of
twisting stairs to safety.

Then, without warning, the burning buildings, which for three decades stood
proud as symbols of New York's prosperity and security, collapsed.

In the ensuing, dust-filled haze and horror, band chairman Joe Murphy, a fireman
with Brooklyn Ladder Company 156, tried to take a head count.

He checked and checked again, but no matter how many times he recounted, 12 of
the band were missing.

Then, slowly, one by one, the missing men emerged from the choking smoke and
dust. Their faces and scorched uniforms caked in white.

But one man remained missing, presumed dead, last night.

Durrell 'Bronco' Pearsall is the band's snare drummer.

The 34-year-old man-mountain was a captain with the department's grid iron side,
dubbed The Bravest Football Club.

The band made a desperate - but ultimately futile - search of New York's
hospitals and casualty lists for their lost friend.

Last night, Joe was prepared for the worst, resigned to the fact that his friend
and colleague was dead. He said: "Of all the guys, I thought Bronco would
survive

"He got his nickname because he's built like a horse. I thought the steel and
concrete would bend around him.

"We thought he might have been one of the guys pulled from the rubble. We hoped
he'd been taken to hospital in New Jersey in the confusion.

"But now we are fearing the worst. Everyone in the band is grieving the loss of
a good friend.

"Bronco is with Rescue Four in the Queens district. It is a specialist unit and
one of the first to go into action.

"After the towers came down we thought we had lost a dozen guys, but eventually
we found them all. Bronco is the only one still missing."

Durrell was at the World Pipe Band Championships in Glasgow four years ago. The
band stayed with firefighters from the Strathclyde brigade.

Joe said: "Bronco played drums. He loved Scotland. He loved our trips there and
to Ireland."

As if to remind himself of happier days, Joe said: "We came ninth in grade four
out of 65 bands at the World Championships in Glasgow.

"Next year is our 40th anniversary and we had hoped to go back to Scotland."

His voice cracked when he added: "After what has happened I doubt if there will
be any celebrating."

New York Fire Department Pipes and Drums - which includes 18 retired officers -
proudly boast of their links with Scotland and Ireland.

When it was formed in 1962, they shipped in bagpipes from Scotland. The kilts
were bought from Granger and Campbell Ltd in Glasgow.

Even their tartan is registered with the Scottish Tartan Society in Stirling.

They are famous for rousing parades down New York's Fifth Avenue.

Resplendent in kilts, they skirl Scots tunes Rowan Tree, Will Ye No Come Back
Again, Atholl Highlanders and Lord Lovat's Lament.

Roddy MacLeod, 39, director of the Piping Centre in Glasgow, recently went to
New York to lead some tuition.

He said: "I expected the usual-sized band of 15 or 16 pipers, but they had
nearly 30.

"They are passionate about the music and ties with Scotland and Ireland.

"They are a nice bunch, always laughing and joking. Salt of the earth kind of
guys.

"I've been trying to get hold of one of them, Brian Marr, on the phone and e
-mail. I haven't been able to reach him yet. I appreciate it's is really
difficult for them just now."

Strathclyde Fire Master Jeff Ord paid tribute to New York Fire Department.

He said: "Many of us have forged strong friendships and bonds with the
firefighters and we feel their loss.

"Fire Chief Pete Ganci, who lost his life last Tuesday, was a good and personal
friend of many of us. He had hoped to visit Scotland in November.

"We are offering compassionate and emotional support. We don't have any
pretensions of offering technical help. They are the best for the job."

New York firefighters are known as the Bravest and their counterparts in the
police the Finest.

A fire department internet bulletin board has been flooded with messages of
sympathy and outpourings of grief.

One Texan appealed for information on how he can volunteer for the New York fire
service.

A Dallas firefighter's message read: "I understand what you guys have
sacrificed.

"I know there was no hesitation, just the focus on what you had to do, the job
to keep people safe and get them out alive.

"God called those brave ones home today. Our hearts are broken because we
understand what they gave ... their lives."

Another, from New York paramedic Joseph DeMarco, said: "Hug your children, and
remember that a 'good run' is any run that you return home from. Brothers, you
will not be forgotten."

Bronco's disappearance is the second tragedy to hit Rescue Four.

In June, two of the specialist unit died along with a third firefighter in an
explosion on Father's Day.

Emergency services were tackling a blaze in a hardware store when propane tanks
and paint exploded in the shop basement.

Harry Ford, 50, a 27-year veteran, and Brian Fahey, 46, who had served for 14
years, were killed in the blast.

Firefighter John Downing, 40, from Ladder Co 163 in Queens, also died.

The fate of the rest of Rescue Four following the World Trade Center attacks
remains unclear.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BRAVE PRIEST LAID TO REST AS AMERICA CRIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 432 words


GRIEVING New York firefighters buried their chaplain yesterday.

Brave officers held their arms across their chests as a mark of respect as they
carried the coffin of Franciscan priest Mychal Judge, 67.

The funeral, watched on TV by millions of sobbing Americans, was one of many
yesterday, as the nation began the grim task of laying to rest its dead from
Tuesday's terror attacks.

In New York and Washington, the first of what will be thousands of funerals took
place, each of them packed with mourners.

Father Judge was killed as he gave the last rites to a firefighter when the twin
towers collapsed.

He had rushed to the scene in a fire truck as soon as emergency services were
called and worked to comfort people before he, too, became a victim.

Hundreds of firefighters from across north-east America stood to attention
outside his church at the funeral, led by New York's cardinal, Edward Egan, and
attended by mayor Rudolph Giuliani.

Father Brian Jordan said: "At the wake service last night everyone who met him
said they felt like his best friend. His duties really began after the
tragedies, after the fires had been put out.

"Some of the people here talked about how he helped them through so much. The
fireman who found his body took him to St Peter's Church, laid him in front of
the altar, with a sheet over him and put his badge on top."

Funerals were also due for fire chief Peter Ganci and some of the other 300
firefighters killed as the towers collapsed.

In Washington the funeral took place of Barbara Olson, a lawyer and TV
commentator, who had phoned her husband Ted from the hijacked flight which
slammed into the Pentagon, to tell him about the hijacking.

She told her husband, America's solicitor-general, what was happening. She said
the terrorists had knives and asked him: "What should I do?"

St Thomas More cathedral in Arlington, Virginia, was packed with mourners for
her funeral, one of the first after the attack on the Pentagon, which claimed
around 190 lives.

At each funeral there were prayers for the thousands who died and for those
still searching through the rubble.

Meanwhile, plans were unveiled for a mass-memorial service in New York's Central
Park on Sunday for the missing firefighters.

One million people are expected to flood to the park for the service, being
organised by a committee which includes leading Catholic, Protestant, Jewish and
Muslim clergy, as well as two former mayors.

Former mayor Ed Koch said: "It's going to be a solemn affair, but one with
plenty of spirit."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: RODNEY, 11, KILLED ON HIS FIRST JOURNEY ON JET;
 THE SCHOOLBOY

BYLINE: Victoria Mitchell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 337 words


IT was to be the trip of a lifetime for an 11-year-old boy hand-picked to
represent his school in California.

Baby-faced Rodney Dickens was aboard the doomed American Airlines flight which
crashed into the Pentagon on Tuesday.

He had been chosen by the National Geographic Society to attend a four-day field
trip where he was to study marine animals around the Channel Islands off the
coast of California.

Rodney, a pupil at Ketcham Elementary School, Washington, had never been on a
plane before.

He had been elected to go on the trip by his teacher for his enthusiasm and
interest in geography, and as a reward for his hard work in the classroom. His
teacher, James Debeuneure, two other pupils and their teachers as well as two
representatives from the National Geographical Society, were also on the flight.

Rodney's aunt, Cynthia Dickens, said he had been excited about the trip. She
said: "He felt like a big boy."

Tributes were paid to the youngster on Friday by classmates stunned by his
death. An American flag and flowers were laid on his desk.

He had two younger brothers. Cynthia added: "They are used to having their big
brother ride on the bus with them every day. They don't understand what has
happened."

A spokesman for the National Geographical Society said: "It just makes you
almost physically sick. It's a tragedy on all levels."

Mr Debeuneure, 58, had recognised Rodney's eagerness and passion for geography
and chose him to accompany him on the trip, which was to include kayaking and
hiking as well as studying nature.

Mr Debeuneure's son Jacques said: "He was going to learn as much as he could
about rivers and oceans, so he could bring it back for his kids.

"He'd give his lunch to those kids in his class when they'd forget their own.

"My dad was a good man who loved to teach. He was a very compassionate man whose
focus was educating youngsters. He wanted to make a difference in their lives."

A school spokeswoman said: "We are all in shock."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: DAD IN POSTER PLEA FOR MYA, 6

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 137 words


THE youngest victim of the World Trade Center destruction is believed to be
six-year-old Mya Braker.

The brown-haired girl was last seen with mother Mallene on the 107th floor of
one of the doomed towers.

Her distraught dad has put posters of his girl on fences, telephone polls,
subways and even TV trucks.

But, tragically, Alan Braker put the wrong cell phone number on his appeal for
information. Mya, from New Jersey, is described as having green eyes and was
wearing a medical alert bracelet because she is allergic to penicillin. She was
also wearing a gold chain and bracelet.

"The poor man must have been so devastated, probably losing his whole family,"
said Joan Wilkins, 45, who was reading the poster at Union Square in Manhattan.
"And to leave the wrong number, that is heartbreaking."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: VICTIMS' FAMILY BEG FOR PEACE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 226 words


THE brothers of tragic terror victim Ruth Clifford McCourt, who died along with
her little daughter Juliana, have pleaded with America not to wage war in
retaliation for last week's horror.

Ruth, 45, and her four- year-old daughter were on the hijacked United Airlines
plane which ploughed into the World Trade Center last Tuesday.

In a tragic twist of fate, brother Ronnie Clifford, 47, was in the same
building, running for his life to escape the carnage.

Yesterday, their brothers John and Mark from The Lough, Co Cork, made an
emotional plea to the United States not to take innocent lives to avenge their
deaths.

Mark made his address for restraint along with his brother John on Irish
television.

He said: "For one child to die innocently in Juliana's retribution would kill us
as a family.

"For our children to see just one child in the north of Ireland or anywhere in
the world die because some fanatic wants to get his message across, is just
profoundly insane.

"We shouldn't show children any more horror. Enough is enough. Juliana was a
beautiful child."

He said his family wanted the terrorists brought to justice, but did not want
more loss of innocent life.

He said: "The President of the United States, and we love the United States, has
so much power, but please please don't start killing innocents."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: AMERICA GOES FOR ITS GUNS

BYLINE: Charles Lavery

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 157 words


AMERICA PREPARES

AMERICANS were preparing themselves for war last night, as shops sold out of
guns, tinned food and survival goods.

Sales of bullets have risen by 400 per cent in the US since the attacks. One gun
store sold over 100 shotguns on Wednesday alone. Food, tents, paraffin and
knives are all flying off the shelves and army recruiting offices are reporting
a massive surge in numbers.

In Longwood, Florida, a flag store had almost sold out by Tuesday afternoon.

In Washington, martial law was more or less declared after the national guard
was brought on to the streets and the skies were patrolled by US jet fighters.

The shock of Tuesday's attacks is slowly waning, replaced by anger.

Already some mosques have been targeted. And in New York one of the city's
busiest tobacconists, owned by a Libyan, is empty. The owner said: "They have
already started looking at us as if it was all our fault."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: CIA WARNED ABOUT MAJOR ATTACK ON US;
 THE WARNING

BYLINE: Brendan Mcginty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 222 words


THE CIA came under fresh scrutiny yesterday amid more claims that its agents
were given warnings about the Twin Towers atrocity.

Sources close to Israeli intelligence agency Mossad revealed that a clear
warning of a major attack on an American target was sent to US intelligence.

The latest warnings came "on or around September 4".

A former Israeli agent said: "I have heard the American media report that 'no
credible warnings' were received. I don't believe that is true.

"The same claim was made after Lockerbie, and then it emerged a series of
warnings had been received in the days leading up to the bombing.

"My understanding is that the warning was not specific. No target was
identified. But it should have resulted in an increased state of security."

The Israeli claim was rejected by US intelligence, but it's been confirmed that
a warning did come from Japan about an imminent attack.

The US embassy in Tokyo put out an alert on September 7 that a warning had been
received of a major attack on US military targets.

And new questions are being asked after it emerged the CIA rejected a key
warning three years ago.

The report to the CIA, called Terror 2000, stressed the US was vulnerable to an
attack which could cause huge civilian casualties. But it was greeted with
scepticism.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: MAN HELD AS FBI SWOOPS ON SUSPECTS;
 THE HUNT

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 444 words


THE FBI made the first major arrest in the World Trade Center investigation
yesterday as officers stepped up inquiries across the world.

The man held in the New York borough of Queens was described as a "material
witness" in the atrocity.

The arrest was followed with raids on the homes of Islamic militants across
Europe as FBI agents in London scrutinised the telephone records of suspected
supporters of prime suspect Osama bin Laden.

The suspect arrested in New York was brought in under a warrant which allows him
to be kept in custody without being charged.

His capture came on the most extensive day of worldwide police operations since
Tuesday's attacks.

In Hamburg, police targeted a terrorist cell of around 300 people working from
the city's huge Muslim population. They questioned a 20-year-old woman.

In Belgium, police are investigating possible links between bin Laden and one of
eight people arrested in a joint operation with Dutch police.

Police sources in New York claimed the Queens arrest provided them with an
important breakthrough in the investigation.

The man, who appeared in court on Friday night but has not yet been identified
by police, was the same person detained by Port Authority police for trying to
use a fake pilot's licence at JFK airport.

The woman detained in Hamburg is Nese Alghamdi, the wife of hijacker Saeed
Alghamdi, who died in the United Airlines flight which crashed in Pennsylvania.

They believe she may be the key to the terrorist cell operating from the city.

Three of the other hijackers, Mohamed Atta, 33, Marwan Al-Shehhi and his cousin
Waleed Alshehri, all lived within five minutes of the Alghamdis.

It is believed the raids and arrests in Belgium were related to the Hamburg
cell.

Justice minister Marc Verwilghen said: "It is a serious lead and we are
investigating it seriously, but it is too early to come to conclusions."

Police found two loaded Israeli-made Uzi submachine guns, a machine pistol and
fake documents in the home of one of the Belgian suspects.

One report said he had been planning attacks on the US Embassy in Paris.

Four others detained in the Netherlands were identified as two Frenchmen, an
Algerian and a Dutchman but police said passports found at their homes could be
fake.

In London, security forces have placed the mosque of extremist cleric Abu Hamza
under surveillance.

Abu Hamza, himself, is also subject to close scrutiny by the authorities.

Sheikh Hamza, who lost both arms and an eye fighting the Soviet Union in
Afghanistan, sparked outrage this week when he refused to condemn Tuesday's
atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: GHOSTS OF MANHATTAN;
 RESCUE WORKERS IN TEARS AS BOSSES TO CALL OFF SEARCH FOR NEW DANGER FORCES
TRAPPED VICTIMS

BYLINE: Jane Findlay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1083 words


RESCUE workers were ordered out of the ruins of the World Trade Centre yesterday
as a pall of smoke and dust lingered over the New York skyline.

Desperate searchers wept, and talked movingly of the haunting sound of mobile
phones and beepers which convinced them someone could still be alive beneath the
rubble.

But no one has been found alive amid the devastation for more than two days. And
emergency service chiefs feared more casualties as neighbouring buildings
teetered on the brink of collapse.

The rescuers, many of them office workers who had left their own jobs to claw at
the debris, slammed the halt as a mistake.

One visibly distraught man, who had temporarily left his job at banking giants
Goldman Sachs to help the effort, said: "They're down there. There are people
alive - I swear.

"The halt is a mistake. We were crawling beneath Tower 2 when we heard the faint
sounds of cell phones and beepers. And when we banged, they banged back."

While cranes and bulldozers picked at the surface rubble, they were far below in
the wrecked labyrinth which was once the World Trade Centre's underground
shopping mall and subway station.

If there was still life in the wreckage, it was here that the exhausted and
heartbroken volunteer rescuers believed they would find it.

Experts concede there may still be survivors of the atrocity trapped in cavities
in the underground area. But thunderstorms have added to the hazard of buildings
destabilised by the impact of the towers' collapse by turning the disaster area
into a huge mudpile.

A multi-storey building at 1 Liberty Plaza had actually started to wobble and
emergency chiefs warned they faced another catastrophic loss of life if the
search continued.

One Fire Department spokesman said: "I saw the outside of the building buckle.
It could come down at any moment. It would be another catastrophe."

Now time is running out for anyone trapped underneath the wreckage, with chances
of reaching them alive dwindling by the minute.

The volunteer mercy team, who had ripped their hands and arms apart as they
scrabbled frantically through the debris, saw those precious minutes slipping
away yesterday as they were forced to abandon their life-saving mission.

Only five people have been pulled out alive since terror rained on New York last
Tuesday. A grim toll of 124 bodies have been recovered so far, along with more
than 400 body parts.

A total of 184 people are confirmed dead and more than 4700 are missing.

Three hundred dogs are searching the site with one Alsatian finding 14 bodies.

Among those still unaccounted for are 23 New York police officers and hundreds
of fire-fighters.

The last person rescued from the twin towers disaster - which is feared to have
claimed the lives of more than 5000 people, including at least three Scots - was
Ginelle Guzman, 32, of Brooklyn.

She was pulled from the rubble of Tower 1 at 12.30pm on Wednesday - 26 hours
after being entombed.

Port Authority Police Sergeant John McLaughlin, who survived an 81-storey
plunge, was dug out at 7.30am that day.

At one point on Friday, rescuers pulled out two victims with pulses, but they
were so weak they died shortly afterwards.

The group took the decision to list them among the dead so their relatives would
never know they suffered in agony.

John Clark, director of emergency management in Oklahoma City, where a bomb
killed 168 people in 1995, said: "I think there are void spaces in there. They
may be able to get water from the rain. They may be able to survive.

"We need to hold out hope. The harsh reality is that every hour, every day, the
chances decrease dramatically."

Another leading authority on the impact of explosions explained that victims can
survive a limited time in cavities created by falling structures.

Ted Krauthammer said the crucial problem with the New York blast was the sheer
scale, which is like nothing encountered before.

He added: "You're dealing with hundreds of thousands of tons of debris. Just
moving it is time-consuming, even at the accelerated rate they're working.

The search has also taken an emotional toll on rescuers, many of whom have
refused to take breaks.

One heartbroken man, who searched for two solid days, had to be removed from the
scene after he pulled a little girl's doll from the rubble and finally broke
down.

There were also tears as a body was carried out wrapped in an American flag.

The task of identifying the victims will be more difficult because few complete
bodies are being recovered. Yesterday, people whose loved ones are missing in
the disaster were asked to hand over everyday objects last used by them to help
DNA identification of body parts.

Traces of DNA on toothbrushes, hairbrushes and even cigarette ends will provide
enough material for identification.

The families and friends will also be asked to fill in detailed seven-page
descriptions of the person, to be matched against any body parts found.

New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani said: "Families should prepare to bring any
potential items holding their loved ones' DNA to the medical examiners' office
starting Monday."

But the painstaking process could take years.

Glasgow University forensic medicine professor Peter Vanezis said it was one of
the toughest identification challenges ever faced.

He said: "We are talking about a long time. One year, two years, maybe more or,
with some, maybe never."

President Bush was one of the visitors to the Trade Center site on Friday. He
wore a fire helmet and placed his arm around one of the drained rescue workers,
saying: "Thank you for your hard work."

Through a megaphone, he then addressed the workers and promised to "answer these
attacks." Despite the harrowing backdrop, the volunteers echoed a rousing
response of "USA, USA".

Meanwhile, the man who built the devastated towers broke down and wept as he
described watching the horror unfold.

Gerry Sigal, chairman of Washington's Sigal Construction Corp, was construction
supervisor in the early 1970s.

He revealed that both 110-storey buildings were designed to withstand the impact
of a jet up to the size of a Boeing 707 - considerably smaller than the
hi-jacked 767s.

He said: "To watch that on TV, to look at that, watching the flames.

"I saw the second plane hit and I broke down. I just sat there for hours.

"I just thought about all those people that were trapped."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: LAMENT FOR A HERO;
 FIREFIGHTERS MOURN THE DEATH OF BRAVE BRONCO

BYLINE: Steve Mckenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 102 words


MARCHING proudly in his kilt, Durrell 'Bronco' Pearsall was as proud of Scotland
as he was of his job with the New York Fire Department.

The courageous firefighter was among the first rescue workers to reach the
devastated twin towers of the World Trade Center on Tuesday. He never came out.

A colleague in the NYFD pipe band said: "We thought Bronco was so big the steel
and concrete would bend around him."

Yesterday, America began the grim task of laying its dead to rest as President
George Bush told the country to prepare for a sustained war against terrorism.
FULL STORY - PAGES 4 & 5

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

Israeli security issued urgent warning to CIA of large-scale terror attacks

BYLINE: BY DAVID WASTELL in Washington AND PHILIP JACOBSON in Jerusalem

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 1589 words

ISRAELI intelligence officials say that they warned their counterparts in the
United States last month that large-scale terrorist attacks on highly visible
targets on the American mainland were imminent.

The attacks on the World Trade Centre's twin towers and the Pentagon were
humiliating blows to the intelligence services, which failed to foresee them,
and to the defence forces of the most powerful nation in the world, which failed
to deflect them.

The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that two senior experts with Mossad, the Israeli
military intelligence service, were sent to Washington in August to alert the
CIA and FBI to the existence of a cell of as many of 200 terrorists said to be
preparing a big operation.

"They had no specific information about what was being planned but linked the
plot to Osama bin Laden and told the Americans that there were strong grounds
for suspecting Iraqi involvement," said a senior Israeli security official.

The CIA has said that it had no hard information that would have led to the
prevention of the hijacking, but the FBI said it believed that cells operating
within America and totalling at least 50 terrorists were behind last week's
devastating hijacks; the names of new suspects are being added to the list
daily.

America's intelligence agencies are being widely blamed for their failure to
predict the attacks, or anything like them, and for not discovering any of the
terrorist cells before the hijackings on Tuesday. Some of those who took part
had lived in the US for months, or even years.

Evidence that a clear Israeli warning was delivered to American authorities, but
ignored, would be a further blow to the reputation of the CIA, which is under
fire for its failure last week.

An administration official in Washington said: "If this is true then the refusal
to take it seriously will mean heads will roll. It is quite credible that the
CIA might not heed a Mossad warning: it has a history of being overcautious
about Israeli information."

For years, staff at the Pentagon joked that they worked at "Ground Zero", the
spot at which an incoming nuclear missile aimed at America's defences would
explode. There is even a snack bar of that name in the central courtyard of the
five-sided building, America's most obvious military bullseye.

This weekend, five days after that target was struck with devastating effect by
a hijacked plane, the joking has stopped.

It is far from certain that any military commander would have had the courage to
recommend shooting down a passenger airliner, even in the unprecedented
circumstances of last Tuesday.

For three of the four airliners hijacked last week, however, the question did
not even arise. Two pairs of combat fighters were scrambled into action but did
not get near enough to shoot any of them down.

Norad, the command headquarters in Colorado responsible for defending all of
North America from air attack, was notified of the first hijack at 8.38am and
six minutes later two F-15 fighter jets were ordered into the air from Otis
airforce base on Cape Cod. Before they could take off, however, the first
hijacked airliner crashed into the World Trade Centre's north tower at 8.46am.

Six minutes later the two military jets were airborne, but when the second
hijacked airliner hit the south tower shortly after 9am they were still 70 miles
from Manhattan.

The only successful action against the hijackers was taken by passengers of the
fourth airliner, whose heroic decision to fight back led to its crashing into
the fields of Pennsylvania.

The reason lies in the strict distinction America draws between civil and
military power, combined with the fact that until last week nobody had
confronted the possibility that a terrorist hijacker might turn kamikaze pilot.

Although Norad has its own radar system to track aircraft over the US, its prime
task is to watch for hostile aircraft approaching America from
outside. "We assume anything originating in US airspace is friendly," said a
spokesman.

For the same reason, the 20 or so American fighter planes on permanent full
alert in case of a suspect intruder, were deployed at half a dozen bases in the
likeliest flightpaths of an attack from the former Soviet Union, several hundred
miles from New York or Washington DC.

All aircraft flying over American airspace are monitored and controlled by a
network of 20 regional Federal Aviation Authority air traffic control centres,
backed up by individual airport control towers. Military aircraft under Norad
control can intervene with domestic traffic only if called on for help by their
civilian colleagues.

That is what happened on Tuesday, but in no case was there apparently enough
time after the FAA's warning for fighter planes to reach the hijacked airliners.

More puzzling, there were 45 minutes between air traffic controllers losing
contact with the third airliner, which took off from Dulles airport just outside
Washington, and its crash on to the Pentagon. At that point, however, the
aircraft was still flying on its intended course westwards. It may not have been
until later, possibly after a passenger's mobile phone call to the Justice
Department, that the civil authorities finally twigged what was happening.

It was not the military but civilian air traffic controllers at Washington's
Reagan National Airport - tipped off by their colleagues at Dulles - who alerted
the White House to the fact that an unauthorised jet was flying at full throttle
towards it.

As shaken White House staff began a frantic evacuation, the aircraft banked,
performed a 270 degree turn and sailed past lines of aghast drivers on
expressways to crash explosively into the west side of the Pentagon.

If the airliner had approached much nearer to the White House it might have been
shot down by the Secret Service, who are believed to have a battery of
ground-to-air Stinger missiles ready to defend the president's home.

The Pentagon is not similarly defended. "We are an open society," said a
military official. "We don't have soldiers positioned on the White House lawn
and we don't have the Pentagon ringed with bunkers and tanks."

It emerged last night that two F-16 fighters took off from Langley airforce base
in Virginia just two minutes before the American Airlines Boeing 767 crashed
into the Pentagon, again too late to have a chance of intercepting.

Only the fourth hijacked airliner, which was less than 30 minutes from
Washington when it crashed, might have been successfully intercepted: air
traffic controllers at a regional centre in Nashua, New Hampshire, told a Boston
newspaper that at least one F-16 fighter was in hot pursuit, and defence
officials confirmed that the fighters already launched from Langley were on
their way to intercept the flight when passengers apparently took matters into
their own hands.

Deep inside the Pentagon, in the hardened bunkers of the National Military Joint
Intelligence Centre, senior officials were said to be "stunned" by the
terrorists' achievement. Within minutes of the attack American forces around the
world were put on one of their highest states of alert - Defcon 3, just two
notches short of all-out war - and F-16s from Andrews Air Force Base were in the
air over Washington DC.

A flotilla of warships was deployed along the east coast from bases in Virginia
and Florida, with two aircraft-carriers to help protect the airspace around New
York and Washington DC. Off the west coast, a further 10 ships put to sea to
take up station close to the shore.

Extra Awacs aerial reconnaissance aircraft were sent aloft to ensure that
nothing other than military aircraft flew in American airspace - a home-grown
version of the "no-fly zones" enforced for many years over Iraq. For much of the
rest of the week, the unsettling roar of F-15 and F-16 fighters patrolling the
skies high above America's biggest cities replaced the usual rumble of
commercial airliners.

On Friday, in a tacit admission that America must in future be better prepared,
Donald Rumsfeld, the Defence Secretary, announced that fighters were being put
on a 15-minute "strip" alert at 26 bases nationwide.

There was anger among politicians at what many saw as the failure of the
intelligence services, and some officials on Capitol Hill began canvassing
support for a move to force George Tenet, the director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, originally appointed by Clinton, to step aside.

James Traficant, a Democratic congressman from Pennsylvania, said that for years
Congress had poured billions of dollars of largely unscrutinised funding into
America's intelligence services, "yet we learnt of every one of these tragedies
from Fox News and CNN"- two television channels. Senator Richard Shelby, a
Republican member of the Senate intelligence committee, said it was "a failure
of great dimension".

There are moves to address one severe shortcoming noted by many critics: the
CIA's reliance on technological rather than "human" means to gather information,
and its weakness as a means of finding out what Osama bin Laden is up to.

During the Clinton administration, Congress banned the CIA from recruiting as a
paid informer anyone with a criminal record or who was guilty of human rights
violations. James Woolsey, another former CIA director, said: "Inside bin
Laden's organisation there are only people who want to be human rights
violators. If you don't recruit them then you don't recruit anyone."
[PS]News: [ES]

THE WEST AT WAR:

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

Security Alert Will increased security measures following Tuesday's terrorist
attack make flying safer? Adrian Weale reports

BYLINE: By ADRIAN WEALE

SECTION: Pg. 03

LENGTH: 1396 words

Air travel will be forever changed following last week's terrorist attacks on
the United States. At least, that's what we are being assured. Certainly,
security analysts on both sides of the Atlantic say they expect airport and
airline security to be overhauled significantly and that holidaymakers can
expect longer queues, extended check-in times, and a widespread ban on carry-on
baggage. So far, so good. But can we really expect flights to be safer from now
on?

Security in America's domestic airports has always been notoriously lax. In
April last year, the General Accounting Office (GAO) of the US Congress noted
"serious vulnerabilities in our aviation security system".

But it's only over the past few days that US officials have announced a series
of new security measures, which include: thorough searches of aircraft and
airports; an end to "curbside" check-ins, as well as check-ins at hotels and
other off-airport sites; restricting departure areas to passengers only; a ban
on all knives and cutting instruments; uniformed police patrols in airports;
searches of flight crews, service personnel and airport workers; searches of
passengers using handheld metal detectors; and the reintroduction of the Federal
Aviation Authority's (FAA) armed "sky marshal" service.

Many European travellers will be surprised that some of these restrictions are
not already in force. But the American public are traditionally intolerant of
delay and inconvenience imposed by government regulation.

One problem, it seems, is the way responsibility for security is devolved. "In
the US, it's the airline security staff who have responsibility at the check-in
and the aircraft door," says a spokeswoman for the British Airports Authority.

In the cut-throat US domestic aviation market that can easily lead to a
temptation to cut costs. By contrast, British airport security personnel are
selected, screened, trained and employed by one entity, the BAA, with
consequently better results.

As Gordon Rottman, a former Green Beret now employed by the US Special
Operations Command for his expertise on terrorism, points out, "We need
increased and improved training for all airport security personnel: right now
it's zip in many cases. We also need better background checks on personnel:
again, many get no checks at all. What we must do is to develop real
professional security personnel with better pay. There is a very high turnover
of personnel."

Many US airport security staff are recent immigrants with poor language skills,
working for the minimum wage and with little incentive to do their job properly.
By contrast, better trained and paid British airport personnel are operating a
system in which all passengers, air crew and airport employees are screened by
metal detectors, and - by regulation - at least 20 per cent of the above undergo
a more detailed hand search of their clothing and baggage, even when the
terrorist threat is deemed to be low.

Even so, this system is not foolproof. In my previous career as a military
intelligence officer, I inadvertently carried a box of 9mm ammunition aboard a
scheduled flight from Heathrow to Amsterdam. The bag in question had received
both an X-ray examination and a hand search at Heathrow. This was only a few
months after the destruction of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie.

But can a tightening of airport security procedures prevent the kind of attacks
we witnessed this week? Many experts believe the only answer is to adopt the El
Al method.

In the early 1970s, the Israeli national airline began "profiling" passengers,
singling out certain categories of traveller for extra scrutiny and questioning
by highly trained personnel.

The airline has always refused to confirm which types of passenger fit its
terrorist profile but among those typically picked out are women travelling
alone, the shabbily dressed and, of course, Arabs.

This immediately raises one of the most awkward questions about a procedure that
does seem to work (El Al has remained hijack-free for 30 years). "Profiling is
the key; and the liberals will scream about it being racist," says Rottman.

There is no doubt that an informal system of passenger profiling, based on the
personal prejudices of security staff, has always operated at our ports and
airports but civil liberties groups in the US have objected that formal
implementation would be "an invitation to discriminate against ethnic groups and
other minorities".

In Britain, the Commission for Racial Equality has yet to receive a complaint
about profiling and a spokesperson confirmed that they would need to study the
procedure before they could determine whether it fell foul of race relations
law.

Perhaps a more realistic objection is that terrorist groups are aware of how
profiling works and try to beat it by selecting apparently innocuous members to
carry out attacks. This is accepted within the security community, but as a
serving MI5 officer explains, "Profiling may not be the answer on its own, but
in combination with a battery of searches and checks, it is clearly a powerful
security tool. In the light of what's happened in the States, we're going to see
a lot more of it."

Western governments have been developing anti-hijacking counter-measures and
intelligence networks since the early 1970s.

In Britain, the SAS was given primary responsibility for hostage rescue and
anti-hijack operations after the Munich Olympics in 1972. Most Western nations
possess the capability to free hostages from a hijacked aircraft after it has
landed but Tuesday's atrocities introduced a new horror: the suicide hijacker.

Western security forces have been waiting for it to happen. Peter Scholey served
for 20 years in the SAS and is now a professional security consultant. "The way
to defeat the terrorist is through intelligence. If you can gain intelligence
about a potential attack, you can deploy to deter or defeat it.

"The best way is to nail them before they get near their target, but in the case
of hijackers, increased levels of airport security are a real deterrent,
provided they're properly enforced."

It is also possible to put counter-measures in place in the air. Since the
1970s, the FAA has trained and deployed "sky marshals" on some aircraft, armed
and prepared to use their weapons to prevent hijackings, but these are not as
decisive a deterrent as one might imagine.

According to Scholey, "There are just too many flights to put a sky marshal on
every one, not least because to be effective they need to work in pairs - or
even fours on a 747 - so you've got to pick your aircraft. Then you have the
problem of using weapons at altitude - most firearms will penetrate the skin of
a modern jet, and in the worst case, that could lead to an explosive
decompression, bringing the plane down just as surely as a bomb."

To prevent this, the SAS and their counterparts around the world have adopted
special low-penetration ammunition that should - in theory - kill terrorists
without damaging aircraft. Another suggested option is that members of aircraft
crews should be trained and armed against hijackers. But although the FAA has
pledged to increase the numbers of gun-carrying sky marshals, it is not an
option that their European counterparts, including Britain, are likely to
follow.

For the foreseeable future, travellers can expect rigorous security checks at
check-in and on boarding any flight, domestic or international. Airlines and
security authorities remain tight-lipped about specific measures but it seems
certain that some form of profiling will be introduced to screen passengers.

Providing the new security measures are adopted and rigorously adhered to,
flying will remain one of the safest forms of travel.

We would like your views on travel and safety in the light of last Tuesday's
events. What now concerns you about travel, and flying in particular? Do you
intend to cancel travel plans: if so, why? Are you happy about existing security
arrangements? Are there any destinations you consider too dangerous to visit?

Please send brief replies to these questions, or other related points you wish
to raise, to the Future of Travel, The Sunday Telegraph, Travel Desk, 1 Canada
Square, London E14 5DT. Please enclose a day-time contact number. You may also
email your replies to sttravel§telegraph.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: THE AFTERMATH WE WERE CYNICS BUT NOW FLAGS ARE ALL OVER CITY;
 A TOP NEW YORK WRITER RELIVES HER TRAUMATIC HOURS AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Katie Roiphe, New York Author

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 1367 words

HIGHLIGHT: HEROES: Crowds cheer firefighters; UNITED: Flags fly across the city;
REUNITED: For hours Katie feared that her fiance, Harry Chernoff, had been
killed


I'VE stopped hearing the sirens. Firetrucks, ambulances and emergency vehicles
have been wailing through the streets for four days straight, and I no longer
hear them.

Instead they've become part of my days. The feeling of alarm has crept into my
dreams.

Tuesday didn't seem out of the ordinary at first. Outside my living room window
I noticed ribbons of smoke coming from the World Trade Center. The sun glittered
against glass. The sky was a perfect late summer blue. I switched on the news
which said a plane had accidentally hit one of the towers, and went back to my
coffee.

And then, nearly an hour later, when I next glanced out the window, I saw the
tower fall into itself. A cloud of blackish dust replaced the sky. At first I
didn't believe it. I thought it was a trick of the eye. The towers had been
there all my life.

The towers were solid steel, and the man I am about to marry had left for work.
Instead of his midtown office, he was going to a courthouse not far from the
World Trade Center. He had been running late. I tried his cell phone. It was
busy. I tried his cell phone again. It was busy.

I thought of how he looked as he left. He was wearing a navy blue tie with white
polka dots and a gray suit. I didn't think to close the windows even though a
strange metallic smoke was filling the house. I was breathing in the building
that had fallen. I can't say what I was thinking. Panic creates wilder, more
miserable scenarios than you see on the news.

A couple of hours later he called - but he only said my name before he was cut
off.

Outside, people were walking with paper masks over their faces, and hiding their
eyes from the dust and particles that had flown over the river. Others were
gathered around a television that had been dragged out of a laundromat onto the
street.

At the grocery store, there were long lines of people who had stuffed their
carts with bottled water, cans, coal, and candles. The hardware store around the
corner had put a handwritten sign in the window: "Gas masks: $ 19.99".

One friend of mine was emerging from the subway at Times Square. He had been
trapped in the subway on the way to work. He didn't know anything was wrong, but
when he got out, he noticed the streets were filled with people instead of cars.

He looked up and saw the electronic news billboard: "WHITE HOUSE EVACUATED.
WORLD TRADE CENTER LEVELLED. PENTAGON HIT." He thought it was a nuclear war, and
sat in the middle of the street and cried.

Another friend somehow managed to get to the World Trade Center. Someone handed
him a gas mask and he became a volunteer. He carried water and supplies to the
first aid units set up next to the rubble.

At one point he went into an abandoned hotel directly behind the spot where the
World Trade Center had been. He said it was like walking into Pompeii. The hotel
was eerily frozen in the moment of flight: there were high-heeled shoes left in
the middle of the floor, sheets left in the hallways, wallets left on the table,
and laptops left on. He found an abandoned phone that worked and called his
girlfriend.

For me, the time stretched out forever. I didn't know what to do. I cleaned up
the house. I switched from one channel to another. I sat down and got up.

Finally I heard the key in the door. I can't remember being so purely happy.

And then I felt guilty because of all of the people who were waiting for that
sound and wouldn't hear it. In my nephews' school, there are seven children with
missing parents.

Now, four days later, the city is caught in a state of suspension. It's
impossible to talk or think about anything else. There are American flags in the
windows of almost every store. They are taped on doors and flying from cars.

My Brooklyn neighbourhood, which is filled with bookstores and French bistros,
with Spanish restaurants and writers and young professionals and black projects,
is not normally a flag-flying neighbourhood, but now everyone has one. It is
strange, this surging of patriotism. When something like this happens, you feel
the value of what is imperiled.

All over the city so many people lined up to give blood that they had to turn
people away. Volunteer doctors and nurses stood on streets waiting for the
wounded. Dozens of policemen and hundreds of firemen gave their lives to save
strangers. One can't help taking all of this as a sign that terrorists failed.
Disaffected liberals and cops are united behind the idea of our democracy.

These terrorists have filled us with the pride of our country. They have filled
a notoriously ironic and cold city with American flags.

Everyone I know is experiencing a kind of hollowness today. Our mayor, Rudy
Giuliani, said that we should go back to normal life to show that terrorism
cannot defeat us.

But normal life feels suddenly strange and irrelevant.

It's hard to remember back to the way things were five days ago. Everything
seems so far from what is really occupying all of your waking and sleeping
hours: the attack.

All of the women I've talked to in the past few days say that their husbands and
boyfriends are edgy and irritable.

Every couple I know is fighting about insignificant things. I think it is
because the helplessness we all feel, the realisation that there is nothing we
can do. I think it's because right now all the men in this city want to be
firemen.

In a coffee shop around the corner from me everyone is going over and over the
details of the events: "Why did they tell them not to leave the first building
once they knew the other one was hit?" "Since they knew the planes were
hijacked, why didn't the airlines try to do something before it was too late?"
Every cabdriver, waitress, and brain surgeon is a scholar of the week's events.

The TV news keeps replaying the fall of the buildings over and over as if to
convince us that it really happened. We watch the smoke and debris billowing
around buildings and chasing people through the streets.

Everyone has been saying: "It was like a movie" for days. It is so outside of
our expectations, so unlike any world that we have reasonably imagined
inhabiting that we can only think of Hollywood. We do not think Ireland. We do
not think World War II. We think Steven Spielberg.

In spite of the Oklahoma City bombing and the World Trade Center bombing a few
years ago, we have been secure in the idea that terrorism does not happen here.

New York City has never known bombs falling from the sky. It has never felt,
really felt, the foundations of the city shaken. We could abstractly imagine
that terrorism was a danger but we couldn't, in our hearts, believe it. Our
city, unlike all of yours, has never experienced this kind of fear.

The recent bombings rattled us but they did not make us feel vulnerable in the
way that much of the world already feels vulnerable. They did not shake our
feeling that wars were something to be fought "over there".

There is no doubt that everything has changed. "Unreal," people keep saying.
"Surreal." But maybe this new world we are about to wake up in is more real.

MAYBE the blithe sense of security we had was false. This is the real world. You
can never be sure that the people you love are safe.

On the evening of the fourth day we can still hear the sirens. Military planes
roar overhead. The streets are dark and empty. But people have put candles on
the stoops and in windows of their brownstone homes to show sympathy for those
who have died.

We make our way to the promenade across the river from where the World Trade
Center used to stand. On a normal day it is filled with tourists, who come to
see the ravishing view of the city. But now there are hundreds and hundreds of
candles flickering in the darkness.

There are blue and red flashes on the water from the emergency boats. Smoke
still pours into the sky from the place where the World Trade Center was. There
are two buildings missing. But the Statue of Liberty glows against black water.

And something spectacular is rising on the skyline: the spirit of the city.

-Katie Rophie is the author of The Morning After: Sex, Fear And Feminism

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Investment Adviser adviser

                            September 17, 2001 2001

FSA criticises halt in dealing; Special report: Investment Adviser examines the
fall-out of the US terrorist attacks for British investors investors

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593

LENGTH: 383 words words


By Nasreen Seria

THE FSA has criticised asset managers who suspended dealing across their entire
fund ranges last week following the US terrorist atrocities.

On Wednesday, up to 20 groups suspended dealing across their entire ranges,
including UK and European funds.

However, the FSA told a meeting with the Depositary and Trustee Association (a
body for the trustees of funds) on Wednesday that while it could understand
US-focused funds being suspended, it was not appropriate to close funds across
an entire range.  range.

Autif alerted its members to the regulators concerns in a circular seen by
Investment Adviser: "The FSA noted that as the UK and European markets were
openand trading normally, they would expect pricing and dealing in funds exposed
to these markets to continue as normal."

The FSA also warned fund managers that clear evidence of unreliable price feeds
would be necessary in order to justify the suspension of funds.

Leading investment houses, such as Deutsche Asset Management, Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership, Artemis and Edinburgh Fund Managers, suspended dealing
in all funds, including those invested in markets which were trading as usual.

A spokesman for Artemis said it had suspended dealing in its funds on Wednesday
because of the inability to secure prices for the underlying equities.

By Friday, the firms which had suspended all of their funds had heeded the FSAs
warnings and kept only US funds closed.

The FSA said it was up to the discretion of the trustees of the funds whether
suspension was necessary. Trustees are obliged to inform the FSA and give
reasons for the suspension.

A spokesman for the FSA said: "On Wednesday morning, some funds had to price
early in the morning and because there was no information coming from Autif or
ourselves, some trustees took an over-cautious view and suspended their entire
fund range."

Fund managers which put their entire fund ranges out of investors reach also
came under attack from IFAs.

Jason Hollands, deputy managing director of BestInvest, said: "We are critical
of those groups who ceased dealing in all funds, even those not directly
impacted by the events in New York. There is no case what-soever for preventing
investors dealing in UK, Far Eastern or European funds." funds."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

FBI ON TERRORISTS' TRAIL BEFORE ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 366 words


The FBI had been hunting for two of the suicide hijackers who launched Tuesday's
terror attacks for two weeks before they struck.

Newsweek magazine said the FBI started searching for Khalid Al Midhar and Salem
Alhamzi - named as two of the five hijackers who crashed American Airlines
Flight 77 into the Pentagon - in late August after the CIA told them the pair
were associated with 'prime suspect' Osama bin Laden.

The FBI failed to find the pair before the attacks.

If true, the report would be the first indication that US security services had
suspicions about some of the hijackers before the attacks.

The passport of a suspected hijacker was discovered near the ruins of the World
Trade Centre, authorities said yesterday, as exhausted rescue workers clawed
through the wreckage, searching unsuccessfully for signs of life.

FBI Assistant Director Barry Mawn did not disclose the name on the passport or
other details, but the discovery prompted an intensive search for more evidence
from the towers that were brought down by the two hijacked jets.

In Washington, the Justice Department said the FBI was questioning 25 people
arrested for immigration violations.

Authorities also had one man in custody in New York on a material witness
warrant, allowing them to hold someone considered crucial to the investigation
without charging him. Another person was being sought on a material witness
warrant.

Two men arrested in Texas as part of the investigation were being questioned by
police yesterday. Ayub Ali Khan and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath were detained by
police as they travelled on an Amtrak train from St Louis, Missouri, and were
flown to New York.

They had taken the train to San Antonio after landing in St Louis on a diverted
flight from Newark, and were detained for carrying box-cutters and having no
legal identification.

US officials continue to believe would-be terrorists are still at large in the
country and have not ruled out the possibility of more attacks.

One official told CNN: 'There is reason to believe not all the perpetrators are
dead or in jail.'

The FBI has issued a 'watch list' of people it wants to question.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS SLUMP FEARS

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 435 words


TV broadcasters, publishers and advertising groups now fear their advertising
revenue may dwindle even further in the wake of the wave of terrorist attacks in
the US.

Broadcasters and publishers are already grappling with a shrinking ad market as
companies cut their marketing spend to combat slower economic growth.

Some fear a steep decline in ad spend rather than the gentle 'bath shaped'
recovery coined by WPP chief executive Martin Sorrell last month.

Leading economists now think the attacks may hit US consumer confidence so hard
that it will tip the world into recession.

French broadcaster TF1 last week made very cautious remarks on advertising
expenditure for the rest of this year, reflecting the impact of the attacks.

TF1 now expects its full year advertising revenue to fall three to five per cent
from 2000.

Deutsche Bank cut its ad spend estimates for TF1 to minus four per cent from
previous estimates of growth of 1.6 per cent for 2001 and to plus two per cent
from five per cent for 2002.

'TF1 is the bellwether of the sector and we think the repercussions will be
severe and not just confined to the TV broadcasters because if TF1 are right,
the anticipated slowdown of the US consumer, and consumer focused advertising
markets will be sudden and extreme,' said Deutsche Bank in a research note.

Doug Flynn, chief executive of advertising buyer Aegis Group, said that
advertisers will pull their campaigns.

The group has been spared the worst of the decline in the US as it earns 70 per
cent of its revenue from Europe.

Others like WPP, Omnicom Group and Publicis are more exposed.

Attention in the advertising sector is now focused on the release of half year
results from RTL, Europe's biggest television and radio broadcaster. RTL chose
to delay the release of its figures, due today, until next Wednesday due to the
events in the US.

Analysts expect RTL to say net income fell 46 per cent to 38 million euros from
71 million euros in the same period last year.

Sales are forecast to have dropped 3 per cent to 1.96 billion euros from 2.03
billion euros.

In July RTL, which makes shows like The Price is Right, forecast a drop of 10
-15 per cent in earnings due to lower advertising sales.

Ad spending in Germany, RTL's biggest market, dropped 9.2 per cent last month,
according to AC Nielsen.

It has declined every month this year.

RTL shares have fallen 44 per cent this year.

'The woeful performance in UK ITV advertising looks set to continue into
November and December 2001,' said Merrill Lynch in a research note.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE HELL HOLE;
 WAR ON THE US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22, 23

LENGTH: 118 words


THIS harrowing aerial photograph shows for the first time the massive scale of
the devastation at the site which was once the World Trade Centre - an area now
known as Ground Zero after the name given to the main point of impact from a
nuclear attack. The picture illustrates the enormity of the task which faces
those involved in the rescue and recovery operation following last week's
terrorist atrocities in New York. Workers have so far removed more than 20,000
tons of debris but that is a tiny fraction of the total. It is estimated there
could be more than 500,000 tons, which may take as long as two months to remove
from the scene of the worst terrorist outrages the world has ever seen.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BACKDRAFT STAR PITCHES IN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 192 words


BACKDRAFT film star William Baldwin helped to console a the young son of a
firefighter missing in the rubble of the World Trade Centre.

Baldwin became a household name after the blockbuster 1991 film in which he is
seen as a young boy watching his fireman dad die in a blaze.

Little Skylar Marcado has been praying that his father Steven, a veteran of the
New York fire department, will be found alive.

The seven-year-old was dressed up in a mini-version of his father's firefighting
kit and played with his dad's colleagues at fire company 40, ladder 35, as they
waited for news.

Baldwin turned up at the station to volunteer to help, but he was put to work
instead helping to raise the morale of little Skylar and his family.

Baldwin said: "It is so very sad, look at the little guy."

Backdraft opened with a scene showing a child actor watching his screen father
die in a blaze. The film then flashes forward to show Baldwin as the grown-up
Brian McCaffrey - now a firefighter just like his dad.

Company 40, ladder 35, is missing 11 fire fighters.

Baldwin is the brother of fellow actors Alec, Daniel and Stephen.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: WE NEED TO CELEBRATE LIFE;
 NEWLYWEDS INSIST THAT LOVE MUST LEAD THE WAY BRAVE COUPLE TIE KNOT IN
DEVASTATED NEW YORK FAMILY WHO LOST DAD GO ON WITH WEDDING

BYLINE: Gary Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14, 15

LENGTH: 1069 words


TWO American couples have refused to buckle to hatred and gone ahead with their
weddings, days after terrorist attacks devastated New York and Washington.

They were determined to show the world that love would not be beaten and that
the US would fight through its grief to celebrate life.

With the carnage from the collapsed World Trade Centre and frenzied rescue
missions still casting a deathly gloom over New York, Anthony Rakis and
Elizabeth Nysewander celebrated the happiest day of their lives yesterday.

They were still awaiting news on the fate of three guests missing since two jets
were flown into the city's showpiece skyscrapers, killing thousands of workers
inside.

But groom Anthony said: "No stupid terrorist is going to take this day from us."

"At first we thought we could not go through with it but then family and friends
all called telling us to do it.

"We need to celebrate life not mourn death.

"Even our friends who escaped with their lives wanted to come. They wanted to
celebrate."

Nine guests at the ceremony had lost loved ones in Tuesday's attack.

Another guest escaped from the 27th floor of the south tower minutes before the
second plane hit.

Elizabeth added: "They told me right from the beginning they wanted to come to
the wedding.

"They said they wanted to celebrate life and show that even tragedy has not
dimmed our spirits."

More than 100 guests - almost 70 per cent of those invited - turned out for the
45-minute ceremony on Manhattan's exclusive east side and the reception
afterwards at the Tavern on the Green.

But the tragedy of the past week was certainly not forgotten.

Each guest added a red, white and blue ribbon to their wedding couture, the
symbol of a free America, in defiance of the attack.

After the festivities, restaurant manager Anthony, 34, rode off into the sunset
with his new bride, actress Elizabeth, 30, in a horse drawn carriage.

However, their wedding almost never happened amid the confusion of the attacks.
On the afternoon of the blast the bride was meant to be confirmed at the Holy
Trinity Church.

Her mother, Beth, said: "We had to walk 40 blocks to get there and we were still
really uncertain about whether to go ahead with the wedding.

"Then the priest, Father Robert Stephanopolis, told us, 'Come on, we are going
to do this.'

"So we went out with our heads up and decided we couldn't break up our
happiness."

Family and friends battled chaotic conditions across the US to make the big day.

One groomsman went to Denver airport every day this week to get a flight.
Anthony said: "People made incredible plans to get here. They were all calling
and saying, 'Whatever it takes we'll be there'."

However, other preparations for the wedding were obviously turned upside down on
Tuesday.

Dress fittings, hair appointments and the rehearsal dinner all had to be changed
at the last minute.

Then four of the groom's Greek relatives were diverted to Nova Scotia on a
flight from Athens and had to make their way by road.

Their determination was also out in force. They made it to New York in the nick
of time on Friday night.

The wedding director was on a flight to New York the same day and ended up in
Cleveland but she, too, drove for hours to get there.

And the boxload of wedding programmes mailed to New York only arrived 24 hours
before the ceremony.

The couple were far from blind to the chaos still wracking their home city as
they celebrated their first day as husband and wife.

The remains of their 300-person wedding cake and the extra food from their
reception were rushed out to keep up the strength of the rescue workers.

They have battled non-stop since Tuesday - around 300 losing their own lives in
the process - to find survivors and the bodies of the dead.

Anthony said: "This tragedy was always going to be there in the back of our
minds.

"But we wanted this to be a happy occasion for all our family and friends.

"The best way to get over our hate is to give out as much love as possible."

Across the US in LA, the mother of another bride wore two yellow rose
buttonholes - one for herself and one for her husband, killed when his hijacked
plane crashed into the World Trade Centre.

Air Force veteran Louis Neil Mariani, 59, was one of 65 passengers massacred
when United Airlines Flight 175 slammed into the south tower of the World Trade
Centre.

His wife, Ellen, had left on a separate LA-bound flight from Boston's Logan
International Airport to see her daughter, Gina Corcoran, 25, marry Christopher
Bronley, 22.

Despite her heartbreak, Ellen forbade Gina from cancelling her big day, telling
her simply: "Neil wouldn't want you to do that."

She admitted she has cried herself to sleep every night thinking of her husband
of 13 years' gruesome death.

She wakes suddenly from her "bad dream" only to remember the nightmare is real.

However, smiling through her pain yesterday she said: "We don't give in to the
enemy.

"If you do, then you've done what they want. You don't stop life."

Another tale of bravery and determination helped to keep the spirit of hope
alive in the US yesterday.

London stockbroker Nick Feingold revealed how he sprinted two miles to save a
toddler's life on Tuesday.

The 36-year-old from Putney, pushed two-year-old William Sissons' buggy to
safety as the deadly dust cloud from the collapsed World Trade Centre threatened
to engulf them.

Nick was staying with the tot's mum, Katy, in her flat opposite the towers.

They had watched in terror as the two planes struck the towers and Nick realised
had to get away quickly in case the towers collapsed on their block.

But once on the street he saw the cloud of smoke and dust could easily overcome
them - and especially the fragile young lungs of William.

So he grabbed the pushchair and ran through a maze of debris and unfamiliar New
York streets until they were out of danger.

He said: "It was so hard to judge the distance between us and the cloud, but I
knew it was moving fast and we needed to beat it if I was going to keep William
alive.

"There were people running alongside us in their underwear.

"Their clothes had been blown from their bodies and their limbs were cut to
ribbons from the blast.

"I will never be able to forget any of what I saw, although I wish I could."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: GUIDE DOG WENT BACK FOR OWNER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 138 words


A BLIND computer operator yesterday told how his guide dog led him down 70
floors of the blazing World Trade Centre to safety.

Trapped Eduardo Rivera had ordered labrador Dorado to leave without him after
the north tower was struck in Tuesday's terrorist attack.

But the devoted dog battled back through the flames to his owner's side.

Then he braved the growing panic to negotiate him down hundreds of stairs by
thousands of frightened workers and outside the crumbling building.

Eduardo, 42, said: "I knew I couldn't run down the stairs through all the
obstacles and thought it wasn't fair that we should both die in that hell.

"I thought I was lost forever as the noise and the heat were terrifying but I
had to give Dorado the chance to escape."

"But he was prepared to die to save my life."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WORLD'S GRIEF FOR U.S. DEAD;
 TEARS AND TRIBUTES ON GLOBAL DAY OF PRAYER

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 843 words


THE WORLD mourned victims of the US terrorist atrocities at church services
around the globe yesterday.

As America buried its dead, the Duchess of York, her eyes red from weeping, made
a very personal pilgrimage to pay her respects to the thousands killed in the
atrocities.

Fergie - who was on her way to visit the twin towers on Tuesday as the
terrorists struck - laid a bouquet of white roses at the US embassy in London.

Ex-husband Prince Andrew, who was on an America-bound plane which was forced to
turn back to Britain, placed a comforting hand on her shoulder as she added to
the growing carpet of flowers at the Roosevelt Memorial.

And at Westminster Abbey, Mick Jagger joined mourners for a service where ex
-wife Jerry Hall gave a reading.

In Scotland, the Queen attended a service at Crathie Kirk, near Balmoral.

She was accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh and the Queen Mother, despite fears
over her health.

Parish Minister Reverend Robert Sloan said: "We pray for the President of the
United States of America and our own Prime Minister and all who advise them.

"Guide and direct our leaders as they decide how to react - the course they take
will, in the long term, deliver our world from evil."

As religious leaders from as far afield as Lebanon and Australia offered words
of sympathy to families and friends of victims, Pope John Paul told how the
terrorist attacks left him "heart- broken".

Before the Pope arrived to celebrate Mass in Frosinone, south-east of Rome, a
choir sang Blowin' In The Wind and waved an American flag.

Security was tighter than normal for the pontiff's visit, with about 4000 law
enforcement agents were on duty.

Flights over Frosinone were barred for the Mass.

The Pope had a message for those grieving in America, telling them: "To the
children of this great nation, I direct my heart- broken and shared thoughts."

The Duchess of York has now started a fund for children whose lives have been
shattered by the suicide attacks.

The 911 Fund is one of a series of charities and funds set up in America and
comes as an offshoot of her Chances for Children charity.

CFC had been given space on the 101st floor of the World Trade Centre's north
tower by bond trading firm Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost hundreds of employees
in the attacks.

The duchess, who returned to London on Saturday night, was said by her spokesman
to be "devastated" by the tragedy.

The message on her bouquet said: "Thank you to all our friends at Cantor
Fitzgerald and to all the victims of the September 11 disaster, our love and
deepest sympathy."

It was signed simply "Sarah".

She fought back tears when she was asked for comments on the tragedy.

Her voice wavered as she said: "I do not have enough words."

The duke also left a message with his bouquet of apricot roses, saying: "With
deepest sympathy."

The two - accompanied by daughters princesses Beatrice, 13, and Eugenie, 11 -
then joined 450 mourners of many nationalities at an emotional service at the
American Church in London's West End. Hundreds more stood outside.

The growing mound of floral tributes - lilies, carnations, a single red rose -
has been accompanied by hundreds of cards and messages of support.

One message read: "We have been living in a time of freedom, beauty and peace.
May it continue."

Inside the simple, whitewashed church, the sermon was punctuated with gentle
sobbing.

Senior Pastor Steve Rettenmayer spoke to the congregation of forgiveness and
fighting evil with love.

One little boy summed up American feelings as he clutched his country's Star and
Stripes flag to his chest throughout the service.

When the congregation sang the rousing battle hymn "Mine Eyes Have Seen The
Glory," defiant Christiaan Tahyar unfurled the flagand proudly held it high,
helped by his mum, Margaret

Outside, strangers held hands as prayers were said for those who died, those
missing and President Bush "who must lead his people and the world out of this
crisis". Since Tuesday, 2000 people have paid their respects at the church.

Pastor Rettenmayer said: "One man came in, in tears, with a copy of the Koran.

"He said he was from Baghdad and was devastated by what had happened."

The pastor also told of one American woman who came to grieve after seeing
Tuesday's harrowing pictures of the plane crashes.

He added: "Her daughter was working in the World Trade Centre and she came here
to seek comfort, fearing the worst.

"We prayed together, and when we went into the sunshine outside her mobile phone
rang.

"The voice was the daughter she feared had been killed."

Speaking of his worries over expected American retribution, he added: "I am
concerned over what will happen.

"There must be accountability. There must be justice.

"But when revenge begets revenge, it can lead only to destruction.

"The people who have been coming here all speak of tolerance.

"Americans, British, Moslems and Jews are united over their outrage."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SCOTS 'A SOURCE OF COMFORT'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 159 words


THE US Consul General in Edinburgh yesterday praised the people of Scotland for
their "remarkable" response to the terrorist attacks.

Liane Dorsey told Radio Scotland's Eye to Eye programme that the close links
between the two nations were a great source of comfort.

She said: "The outpouring from the Scottish public as well as from leaders and
representatives and all types of organisations has been truly remarkable and we
are appreciative for it.

"I was at the service at St Giles Cathedral yesterday and had the opportunity to
talk to a number of my countrymen.

"They mentioned how they had been touched by the Scots.

"Ties between the Scots and the US go way back. What you see immediately is how
close we are in confronting this."

Dorsey added: "We are a much smaller world and you have only to look down the
list of companies in the World Trade Centre to see that many, many nations will
be affected by this tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BIN LADEN ALLY HELD IN LONDON;
 FBI TO GRILL FANATIC MUFTI KHAN OVER TERROR BLITZ ON AMERICA

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 381 words


OSAMA bin Laden's right-hand man was arrested at Heathrow airport two hours
after the New York atrocity.

Mufti Mohammed Khan was on a flight from New York which had taken off before the
terror attacks began.

He was detained by immigration officers, then arrested by police under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.

He is now being held at a secret location in Britain on behalf of the FBI.

Early this week, he will be escorted back to New York on a military plane by
armed US federal agents.

On arrival, he will be interviewed about last week's attacks on the World Trade
Centre and the Pentagon.

Khan is alleged to be second-in-command of the fanatical Jaish-i-Mohammed (Army
of Mohammed) who are committed to the destruction of Britain and the USA.

Formed less than two years ago, the group claimed responsibility for last
October's attack on the USS Cole in Yemen that killed 17 sailors.

Jaish-i-Mohammed has also been active in Britain, where it has recruited
volunteer fighters.

Abdullah Bai, 24, from Birmingham, was killed when he took part in a suicide
-bombing raid on an Indian barracks in Kashmir.

Mufti Khan's closeness to bin Laden became known in 1998 when the Saudi exile
urged the Pakistani people to back the Taliban in Kabul.

In a public letter to Khan, bin Laden said it was the "religious duty" of every
Moslem to support them.

Earlier this month, Home Secretary David Blunkett passed an order banning Khan
from the UK. He is believed to have been travelling on false documents.

Officially, Scotland Yard would only say they had detained a man in his forties.

But a Yard insider has confirmed the man was Khan.

He is thought to have been entering Britain for talks with other bin Laden
supporters.

Jaish-i-Mohammed has been active in Britain for at least three years, recruiting
young British Moslems to train in terrorist techniques in Pakistan and
Afghanistan.

News of Khan's arrest comes just after the FBI released a list of the 19
kamikaze hijackers they believe were on board the four jet airliners that were
turned into flying bombs in the US on Tuesday.

They included Ziad Jarrah, pictured left, who is belived to have been on board
United Airlines flight 93, which crashed in rural Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: PASSPORT CLUE FOUND IN RUINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 133 words


THE passport thought to be that of one of the suspected hijackers has been
discovered near the ruins of the World Trade Centre.

The document was found by rescue workers as they searched through the wreckage
hoping to find survivors of the horrific attack. It is not known if the passport
was intact or partially burned or even if a picture of the hijacker is
discernible.

FBI Assistant Director Barry Mawn refused to disclose the name on the passport
or any other details.

But the discovery prompted an intensive search on Saturday for any other
evidence. Authorities believe a body recovered in a section of the cockpit of
ones of the planes found among the rubble is one of the hijackers.

No information regarding the identity of the body has been released by officials
yet.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: 26 ARE QUIZZED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 26 words


The FBI were questioning 25 people about immigration violations, while another
man considered crucial to the investigation was being held in New York.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: SWISS LINK TO KNIVES USED IN HIJACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 258 words


KNIVES and cardboard cutters used to take over the planes that smashed into the
World Trade Centre and Pentagon were bought in Switzerland by one of the
hijackers.

Swiss justice ministry spokesman Victor Schlumpf said: "One of the prime
suspects used credit cards to purchase two knives."

He refused to elaborate on where or when the knives were brought or to give
names of the any of the suspects involved.

A newspaper in Zurich said both Mohammed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi - who seized
the planes that hit the Twin Towers - spent time in Switzerland in the summer
and stayed in a Zurich hotel.

The men lived and studied in the German city of Hamburg.

Police chief Urs von Daeniken told the paper: "At least one hijacker spent time
in Switzerland."

He said the man might have entered with a false passport.

Swiss authorities have launched a formal investigation into the extent to which
the terrorists used the country as part of their terror network.

Von Daeniken said: "As an airport city, we can't exclude the possibility that
Zurich was used by the terrorists. But neither Zurich nor Switzerland can be
described as a terrorist hub."

He said that, as a priority, investigators wanted to find out whether there were
groups of Islamic extremists based in Switzerland.

There has so far been no evidence that Swiss banks were used to fund the
terrorist activities.

However, a another newspaper, based in the Swiss city of Lugano claimed funds
linked to Osama bin Laden may have passed through the city.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BRAVE MAYOR GIULIANI FINALLY BREAKS DOWN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 135 words


TOUGH New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani finally cracked and broke down in tears
last night.

Giuliani's leadership and strength in the face of the world's worst terrorist
massacre won him global praise.

But the scale of the slaughter finally got to him at a ceremony to promote fire-
fighters to replace those killed in the Manhattan attacks.

As he sat beside Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen and Fire Departmental Chief
Daniel Nigro in Brooklyn, he could no longer hide his pain.

He slumped forward with his head in his hands, trembling with emotion as tears
rolled down his cheeks.

One onlooker said: "The mayor has been an example to us all and to the world.

"But it really got to him that the city has lost so many people - including the
bravest fire-fighters in the world."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: MEN AND WOMEN TRYING TO STRIKE A BALANCE

BYLINE: Claire Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 356 words


It would be a testing time for even the longest-serving leader.

After just five months in the job, President George W Bush seems to be still
finding his feet.

At times looking nervous and unsure, he has depended on a tight-knit team of
experienced advisers to guide him through America's blackest week.

Those telling Bush where to go next aren't always united.

Divided into two main camps they have been labelled the hawks, who see decisive
military action as vital, and the doves who are urging caution.

Claire Donnelly profiles the President's men and where they stand.

THE HAWKS

Donald Rumsfeld, Defence Secretary

After pulling injured staff from the Pentagon, he has been clear about calling
for revenge. Thought to be planning war from a secret bunker, the Cold War
veteran was responsible for calling up 50,000 US reserve troops last week.

Condoleezzaa Rice, National Security Adviser

International affairs expert and former Soviet scholar. Described as "pretty
tough" she tutored the President on foreign affairs. A strong supporter of a
ballistic missile defence shield.

George Bush snr

Known as Presidents 41 and 43, the two Georges are extremely close when it comes
to policy-making with Bush junior appointing more than 40 staff from his
father's administration when he came to power.

THE DOVES

Dick Cheney, Vice President

Although he enjoys a close relationship with the President and Rumsfield, after
almost 30 years in politics Cheney could offer a more measured view. He favours
a global campaign rather than quick strikes.

Colin Powell, Secretary of State

His previous position as US Chief of Staff during the Gulf War has given Powell
a keen understanding of the use - and limitations - of military action. He has
urged Bush to look at other options.

Barbara Lee, Democratic Congresswoman

Lee - not a Bush adviser - is the only member of either House to vote against
retaliation. She said: "Our deepest fears now haunt us. Yet,I am convinced that
military action will not prevent further acts of international terrorism against
the United States."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: STORMIN' RALSTON;
 GENERAL WILL FOLLOW IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF GULF WAR HERO SCHWARZKOPF

BYLINE: Tom Parry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 611 words


WHEN President Bush decides to launch his international war on terrorism, his
man on the ground will be General Joseph Ralston.

The 53-year-old Vietnam war hero took over the top NATO post of American Supreme
Allied Commander in Europe earlier this year.

He is a charismatic US military leader, like "Stormin'" Norman Schwarzkopf, the
legendary Gulf campaign commander.

Now Ralston commands nearly 65,000 troops from 39 countries currently involved
in peace- keeping operations in the Balkans.

But his rise through the ranks almost came to an abrupt halt four years ago
after revelations of an extra-marital affair.

He was forced to withdraw his name from consideration for the post of chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1997 after admitting to a steamy relationship
with a woman CIA intelligence officer.

At the time Ralston conceded: "Our armed forces are composed of human beings
that strive to meet the highest standards every day, but I am acutely aware of
human strengths and frailties." He added that he had "worked diligently to learn
from my mistakes".

For the duration of the affair, which took place in the mid-80s, Ralston was
estranged from his first wife, Linda.

The couple separated and Ralston re-married in 1989. He and wife Dede have four
children.

But the storm surrounding his illicit liaison and the US military's seemingly
inconsistent treatment of adultery by men and women led to calls for reform of
the entire military penal code.

Many Washington experts thought his career would be finished after the scandal,
but Ralston received high-level backing for the NATO appointment.

Bill Clinton's Defence Secretary William Cohen publicly defended the general,
saying adultery in an earlier stage of life should not affect his nomination.

And senior figures smoothed the way for Ralston to enter the top NATO job late
in 1999.

They cut short the term of his predecessor, General Wesley Clark, who often
clashed with Washington over the possible use of American ground troops during
the war in Yugoslavia. Ralston's distinguished military career began in 1965. He
started pilot training in Texas after graduating with a chemistry degree.

His CV includes influential management positions at every level of the US Air
Force.

As a US Air Force pilot, Ralston flew more than 100 combat missions in Vietnam.

He has won many decorations, including the Distinguished Service Medal, the
Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Force Commendation
Medal.

In July 1994, he was promoted to deputy chief of staff for plans and operations
at the US Air Force headquarters in Washington.

His appointment as vice- chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff came two years
later.

Apart from being NATO supreme chief, Ralston is Commander-in-Chief of US
European Command.

He is likely to co-ordinate all NATO contributions to President Bush's battle to
eliminate those behind last week's hijackings.

He is no stranger to the role, after playing a major part in the US's failed bid
to smoke out Osama bin Laden from Afghanistan in 1998 with missile strikes.

In May, Ralston called for a reduction in the number of flights by Allied
fighters over no-fly zones in Iraq because of increased fears of pilots being
shot down.

Recently, much of his energy has been devoted to the British-led Operation
Essential Harvest in Macedonia.

He decided that it would be safe for NATO troops to be sent in to collect
weapons from Albanian rebels.

But, in weeks to come, he will face his greatest challenge yet, heading a US
-led force larger than any since the war with Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORST ATTACK USA: WE'LL SEE THIS THING THROUGH;
 BLAIR'S PLEDGE TO FIGHT TERROR

BYLINE: Paul Gilfeather

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 746 words


TONY Blair told Britain yesterday: "We are at war with terrorism."

The Prime Minister made the announcement in a special TV interview, beamed into
the homes of millions of Americans.

It was a clear signal that our military would become directly involved in any
conflict.

Blair had deliberately avoided using the word "war" following Tuesday's outrage.

But talking to US television network CNN from Downing Street, he moved up a gear
as Britain prepared to play a full part in America's response.

He said: "Whatever the technical or legal issues about a declaration of war, the
fact is we are at war with terrorism.

"It is a war between the civilised world and fanaticism.

"These are people who will stop at nothing, so however much we regret the fact
that we have to take this action, nonetheless we have to do so.

"This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We will see this thing through.
It will be done."

He raised the stakes for British involvement after President Bush ordered
American troops to "get ready" to hit back at those behind the World Trade
Centre and Pentagon attacks.

The Prime Minister stressed that terrorists like Osama bin Laden would be hunted
down by a new world order - a ground- breaking coalition of civilised countries.

Pakistan has already given the green light for its air space to be used by
Allied jets against Afghanistan where bin Laden is believed to be sheltering.

And Blair said his ministers were working round the clock with America to form
the new global alliance.

The PM said: "We have made it clear that we stand side by side with the United
States."

Asked about the evidence needed to pinpoint those responsible, he said it was
fairly clear. But Blair added: "I think it's important that we consider the
evidence in a very careful way - that we are hard-headed about it.

"I have spoken to Arab leaders in the past few days who have expressed their
outrage that this has happened, their determination that this is something that
Islam should be seen as standing against.

"I do think that the whole of the civilised world will stand together.

"There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who committed this attack
to account and we will play our full part in that.

"Secondly, there has to be an agenda we construct at an international level to
dismantle the machinery of inter- national terrorism."

Yesterday, defence supremo Geoff Hoon was asked if Britain would join US
fighters in air strikes against Afghanistan if the country's Taliban regime did
not surrender the Saudi terror godfather.

Talking on Radio 4, he would not comment directly on the point, but said: "The
Ministry of Defence is preparing the kind of options which allows us to stand
shoulder to shoulder with the Americans."

Blair, who spent the weekend at No 10 in talks with senior ministers, military
and intelligence chiefs, admitted world leaders had not done enough to tackle
the threat from global terrorism.

He said: "For a long period of time the world has turned a blind eye, been
somewhat indifferent, to the menace of international terrorism."

He stressed even though it was in Britain and the civilised world's nature to
"proceed very carefully", he insisted: "When the conflict comes we have to be
prepared to face up to it."

Blair used yesterday's broadcast to remind Americans that Britain had also
suffered huge losses.

As the death toll topped 5000, he said the two countries were united in grief.

Blair said: "What happened on Tuesday was an attack not just on the United
States, but an attack on the civilised world.

"Probably 200-300 people from Britain will have died. That makes it the worst
terrorist attack there has been on British citizens since the Second World War."

Later, speaking outside No 10 as he left with his family to pray in nearby
Westminster Cathedral, Blair repeated: "Are we at war with the people who have
committed this terrible atrocity? Absolutely.

"And we have to assemble the evidence, present it and then pursue those
responsible. This has been an attack on the whole of the civilised world.

Father Michael Seed led prayers at the cathedral dedicated to world leaders.

He told the congregation: "We are here tonight to join our thoughts with those
throughout the world who have lost loved ones.

"We must rise up and show that we are human and be hopeful and give people hope
who are desperate."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WE ARE AT WAR WITH TERRORISM;
 BLAIR'S HARD LINE OVER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Gilfeather

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 738 words


TONY Blair admitted for the first time yesterday: "We are at war with
terrorism."

The Prime Minister made the announcement in a special TV interview, beamed into
the homes of millions of Americans.

It was a clear signal that our military would become directly involved in any
conflict.

Blair had deliberately avoided using the word "war" following Tuesday's outrage.

But talking to US television network CNN from Downing Street, he moved up a gear
as Britain prepared to play a full part in America's response.

He said: "Whatever the technical or legal issues about a declaration of war, the
fact is we are at war with terrorism.

"It is a war between the civilised world and fanaticism.

"These are people who will stop at nothing, so however much we regret the fact
that we have to take this action, nonetheless we have to do so.

"This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We will see this thing through.
It will be done."

He raised the stakes for British involvement after President Bush ordered
American troops to "get ready" to hit back at those behind the World Trade
Centre and Pentagon attacks.

The Prime Minister stressed that terrorists like Osama bin Laden would be hunted
down by a new world order - a ground-breaking coalition of civilised countries.

Pakistan has already given the green light for its air space to be used by
Allied jets against Afghanistan where bin Laden is believed to be sheltering.

And Blair said his ministers were working round the clock with America to form
the new global alliance.

The PM said: "We have made it clear that we stand side-by-side with the United
States."

Asked about the evidence needed to pinpoint those responsible, he said it was
fairly clear. But Blair added: "I think it's important that we consider the
evidence in a very careful way - that we are hard-headed about it.

"I have spoken to Arab leaders in the past few days who have expressed their
outrage that this has happened, their determination that this is something that
Islam should be seen as standing against.

"I do think that the whole of the civilised world will stand together.

"There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who committed this attack
to account and we will play our full part in that.

"Secondly, there has to be an agenda we construct at an international level to
dismantle the machinery of inter-national terrorism."

Yesterday, defence supremo Geoff Hoon was asked if Britain would join US
fighters in air strikes against Afghanistan if the country's Taliban regime did
not surrender the Saudi terror godfather.

Talking on Radio 4, he would not comment directly on the point, but said: "The
Ministry of Defence is preparing the kind of options which allows us to stand
shoulder to shoulder with the Americans."

Blair, who spent the weekend at No 10 in talks with senior ministers, military
and intelligence chiefs, admitted world leaders had not done enough to tackle
the threat from global terrorism. He said: "For a long period of time the world
has turned a blind eye, been somewhat indifferent, to the menace of
international terrorism."

He stressed even though it was in Britain and the civilised world's nature to
"proceed very carefully", he insisted: "When the conflict comes we have to be
prepared to face up to it."

And he hinted that Britain and other Western nations could become more like Big
Brother states as new security measures were introduced to deal with the threat.

Civil rights, once taken for granted, could be overhauled as Britain attempts to
protect itself from terrorism.

Identity cards and more spy cameras could emerge in the aftermath of the
catastrophe.

Asked about increased domestic security measures, Blair replied: "I think there
are a whole series of things people will look at.

"This is the time to set an objective then to consider very carefully how we
meet that objective."

Blair used yesterday's broadcast to remind Americans t Britain had also suffered
huge losses.

As the death toll topped 5000, he said the two countries were united in grief.

Blair said: "What happened on Tuesday was an attack not just on the United
States, but an attack on the civilised world.

"Probably 200-300 people from Britain will have died.

"That makes it the worst terrorist attack there has been on British citizens
since the Second World War."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: FANATICS WHO TRADE IN TERROR

BYLINE: Frank Corless

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 156 words


NUMEROUS groups now bargain via terrorism.

Abu Nidal Organisation: want to destroy Israel.

Armed Islamic Group: want Islamic state in Algeria.

Al-Qaeda: led by bin Laden, aim to end Israel and West's influence on Moslem
world.

Babbar Khalsa: want Sikh state Khalistan in Punjab.

ETA: want independent state of Basque regions in France and Spain.

Egyptian Islamic Jihad: aim to oust Egypt government and set up an Islamic
state.

Hamas-Izz Brigades: want end to Israeli occupation of Palestine.

Harakat Mujahideen: seek independence for Indian-ruled Kashmir.

Hizbollah: back liberation of Palestine and Jerusalem.

International Sikh Youth Federation: want independent state of Khalistan.

Tamil Tigers: fight for separate Tamil state in Sri Lanka.

Palestinian Islamic Jihad: Shi'as want Palestinian state.

November 17ists: protest "imperialist" actions, killed British attache in
Athens.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: NOBLE EAGLE TAKES WING;
 CHENEY VOWS TO HUNT DOWN BIN LADEN AS US MOVES CLOSER TO WAR

BYLINE: Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 999 words


AMERICAN vice president Dick Cheney today vowed to track down Osama bin Laden
and warned that any nation sheltering him will face "the full wrath of the
United States".

As the US took another step towards war, with military preparations being given
the codename Operation Noble Eagle, Cheney confirmed Afghanistan as a likely
target.

In an interview from the presidential retreat at Camp David in Maryland, he
said: "What we are going to do is aggressively go after Mr bin Laden, obviously,
and all his associates.

"Even if it takes a long time, I'm convinced eventually we'll prevail."

Cheney had joined President George Bush and several other key administration
figures at Camp David for a meeting that was a virtual council of war.

Operation Noble Eagle will encompass all actions in connection with the attacks
on America and is reminiscent of Operation Just Cause, the name of the coalition
effort in the Gulf War.

The move comes as US reservists wait to hear when they should report for duty
after President George Bush gave the green light for them to be called up.

They will form part of a "homeland defence", backing up aircrews at bases around
the country.

Fighter jets are on 15-minute alert on landing strips across America, meaning
they can be airborne within minutes of a threat being detected.

But to maintain the effort, the Pentagon had to call up technical staff and
groundcrews from the 1.4million-strong reserve force.

The army will receive an extra 10,000 troops and 7500 Marines were also given
orders, along with 3000 sailors and 2000 coastguards.

And American defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld said yesterday he expected to ask
for help from other countries, singling out Britain as a "close ally".

He said: "The United States need assistance from states and intelligence
information.

"We need intelligence to deny terrorists and terrorist networks.

"I have certainly been in touch with the minister of defence of the UK.

"They are certainly a very close ally with capabilities that are important."

The Northern Alliance rebel groups fighting the Taliban in the north of
Afghanistan, have also offered their help and Rumsfeld hinted it may be accepted
in some form.

Meanwhile, a delegation of senior Pakistani officials will visit neighbouring
Afghanistan tomorrow to demand the ruling Taliban militia hand over bin Laden to
the US or risk a massive retaliatory assault.

The government of Pakistan, "has been very supportive," Secretary of State Colin
Powell said. He also confirmed that the US is considering seeking Iran's support
and said, "perhaps there are new opportunities," to wean Iran away from
supporting terrorism.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said Congress will be asked this week for
increased anti-terrorism authority, including extended powers to use wire taps
to find and prosecute suspected terrorists.

Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said bin Laden is only part of a problem that
is "much bigger than one person". He explained: "It's a matter of his network.
If he were not there, there'd be 15 or 20 or 30 other people who would step in.

"Obviously, he's a prime suspect but we have to be realistic."

Cheney added that the US would retaliate against "a nation out there now that
has provided a base, training facilities, a sanctuary, assets".

Afghanistan fits that description, he suggested.

He added: "They have to understand, and others like them around the world have
to understand, if you provide sanctuary to terrorists, you face the full wrath
of the United States of America."

In Britain, American airmen at the massive US airbases at Mildenhall and
Lakenheath, in Suffolk, were last night on their highest state of alert.

Tension was high at the bases, home to 12,000 service personnel and their
families and dubbed Little America by locals. Since Tuesday, they've been little
more than heavily guarded ghost towns.

Parents kept children indoors, leaving a play area empty apart from one man and
his child.

Suffolk police said the closure of a road which runs alongside the base had been
ordered by the Ministry of Defence and senior police officers "as an additional
safety measure".

One American said: "I have worked on the base through Vietnam and through the
Libyan crisis but nothing could prepare you for what has happened.

"People were walking around here like zombies for a day or two after Tuesday -
the reality of all those people's deaths had not properly sunk in.

"But now there is just a grim determination to get on with the job. We know
America is going to war and we know this base is going to be a part of it."

A serviceman, who wouldn't be named, said: "The atmosphere inside the base is
real tense.

"Virtually all leave has been cancelled and everyone has been warned to keep
their eyes peeled for anything suspicious.

"We are on a war footing and we know we might have to go into action any time
now."

Families and staff on the bases have been warned by their commanding officers
against talking to the media about activity on the sites or what was happening
back in their homeland.

A spokesman said: "We are not releasing any statement at this time."

But one American airman's wife, who asked not to be named said: "It is as if a
cloud of shock has descended over the whole base.

"Folks here are still struggling to come the terms with the enormity of what has
happened.

"We all saw what was happening on the TV, but we felt distanced from it as if we
were watching some terrifying disaster movie.

"Now we are worried what is going to happen next.

"I don't want my husband to go to war - what woman does?

"But we know there is no alternative now. Everyone here is fully behind the
President in whatever course of action he takes.

"I think all the families just want to spend some time together.

"We know we might not have long and we don't know when they'll be coming back."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: AFGHANS GET 72 HOURS TO HAND OVER TERRORIST CHIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 401 words


TALIBAN leaders will be given a 72-hour ultimatum today to hand over Osama bin
Laden.

A high-powered delegation will cross into Afghanistan from neighbouring Pakistan
to tell the ruling sect: "Hand him over or risk a massive retaliatory assault."

Pakistan has agreed to allow the deployment of international troops in the event
of an invasion of Afghanistan, although it will not be part of the allied force.

As the US planned its revenge yesterday, vice president Dick Cheney identified
Afghanistan as a likely target and said: "What we are going to do is
aggressively go after Mr bin Laden."

Britain has rejected bin Laden's denial that he helped mastermind the US
terrorist attacks.

Yesterday, the Moslem extremist said in a statement released to the Afghan
Islamic press: "I categorically state that I have not done this."

But the Foreign Office said Britain and its allies would look at all the
evidence pointing to who was behind Tuesday's atrocities.

Bin Laden claimed it would have been impossible for him to have organised the
terrorist attacks because of restrictions placed on him by the Taliban. He
added: "I am residing in Afghanistan. I have taken an oath of allegiance which
does not allow me to do such things from Afghanistan.

"We have been blamed in the past, but we were not involved."

As tensions grew around Afghanistan yesterday, the Foreign Office urged British
nationals to leave parts of Pakistan.

Britons who were still in Pakistan's southwestern Baluchistan province, North
West Frontier province and other northern areas were advised to leave
immediately.

A spokesman for the Foreign Office spokesman said: "Pakistan is one of a number
of countries where there's an increased threat to British interests."

The Foreign Office later stressed it was not pointing the finger of blame at bin
Laden, but wanted to assess all the available evidence.

Meanwhile, the last international aid workers in Afghanistan left the capital
Kabul after the Taliban told them they could not guarantee their safety in the
event of a US assault.

The International Red Cross, which rarely withdraws from a war-torn nation,
pulled out its remaining 15 foreign aid workers.

Earlier, the organisation evacuated its other staff.

There were reports in the capital that buses heading east toward Pakistan were
crammed with people fleeing the city.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THE KEY COUNTRIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 323 words


As the United States pores over its options for vengeance it also has to
consider its effect on the future of the planet. It is is possibly the most
complex diplomatic task the world has ever faced linking together countries,
continents and creeds.

Today we calculate the mood of the people in whose states support is vital to
maintain global stability.

PAKISTAN

Crucial to the future of the world's safety.

Has pledged full cooperation with US despite the support the Taliban enjoys
among its people. But Pakistan also needs US support if it is to end the
struggle with India for control of Kashmir.

IRAN

Hardliners will ensure Bush gets no help from the pro-Afghani Iranians. The US
made enemies for life by backing the now-deposed Shah.

But Iran yesterday closed its 562-mile border with Afghanistan to prevent
refugees from entering the country.

INDIA

A passionate hatred of Pakistan will boost support for the US. India has offered
to let Washington use its military bases. But officials have warned of the risk
of clashes between its Hindus and Muslims over US retaliation.

CHINA

Have pledged to join the war on terrorism as Islamic activists have also killed
officials there.

Also, they are eager to protect the 2008 Olympics in Beijing and join the World
Trade Organisation.

IRAQ

This old enemy never goes away.

Saddam Hussein would respond to attacks on Afghanistan as payback for UN
sanctions.

His staff claim Tuesday's attacks were by American dissidents.

ISRAEL

Bloodshed inevitable here if the US targeting of bin Laden fails.

Trying to arrange truce talks with the Palestinians, whose leader Yasser Arafat
wants Arab states to join against US stikes.

RUSSIA

President Putin supports US bar allowing invasions of Afghanistan from Russia,
the best base.

Their intelligence is invaluable, though, to avoid the mistakes of the failed
Soviet invasion.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: GRIEF TRIPS FUNDED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 50 words


THE Government is to pay for families of British victims to visit New York.

Two close relatives can have flights, travel insurance and three nights'
accommod- ation funded, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw announced yesterday.

They can contact the Foreign Office helpline on 0207 008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: AGONY OF 7-PAGE FORM TO IDENTIFY THE DEAD

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 265 words


FAMILIES awaiting news of missing loved ones face the traumatic task of filling
in a seven-page form to aid identification of the dead.

The questionnaire covers every conceivable personal detail, any of which may
hold the key to putting a name to a body.

From inscriptions on wedding rings to descriptions of tattoos, it builds a list
of distinguishing features vital to identifying bodies and body parts.

Relatives have been told they may have to wait years for deaths to be confirmed
- if at all. So, to increase their chances, families have been asked to supply
hair brushes and tooth brushes for DNA samples.

The complexity of the task is obvious, given the scale of the damage and the
fact it will take months to clear the site and recover all the bodies.

Dr Michael Baden, chief forensic pathologist with New York State Police, said:
"It'll probably be the biggest identification project ever.

"But every body or body part recovered should be identified."

Glasgow University forensic medicine professor Peter Vanezis, who has worked in
Kosovo, said it could take years.

He added: "For some there may not be proper identification at all."

THE FORM

What colour nail varnish was she wearing?

Did she paint her toenails?

Was he/she wearing any jewellery?

Was there an inscription on his/her wedding ring?

Did the victim have a pacemaker?

Did he/she have any fillings in their teeth?

Was there a war wound - a lodged bullet or war shrapnel?

Does she have artificial fingernails?

Did he/she have any scars from any operation?

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: 7 PAGES OF QUESTIONS IS ANOTHER ORDEAL FOR RELATIVES

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 286 words


FAMILIES awaiting news of missing loved ones face the traumatic task of filling
in a seven-page form to aid identification of the dead.

The questionnaire covers every conceivable personal detail, any of which may
hold the key to putting a name to a body.

From inscriptions on wedding rings to descriptions of tattoos, building a
comprehensive list of distinguishing features is vital as the grisly task of
identifying thousands of bodies and body parts gets under way.

But relatives have been told they may have to wait years for deaths to be
confirmed - if at all.

To increase the chances, families have been asked to supply hairbrushes and
toothbrushes which may contain DNA samples.

The complexity of the task is obvious, given the scale of the damage and the
fact it will take months to clear the site and recover all the bodies.

Dr Michael Baden, chief forensic pathologist with New York State Police, said:
"It'll probably be the biggest identification project ever.

"But every body or part of a body that's recovered should be identified."

Peter Vanezis, a professor of forensic medicine and science at Glasgow
University, who has worked in Kosovo, said it could take years.

He added: "It could be that in some cases there will not be a proper
identification at all."

What colour nail varnish was she wearing?

Did she paint her toenails?

Was he/she wearing any jewellery?

Was there an inscription on his/her wedding ring?

Did the victim have a pacemaker?

Did he/she have any fillings in their teeth?

Was there a war wound - a lodged bullet or war shrapnel?

Does she have artificial fingernails?

Did he/she have any scars from any operation?

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: TORMENT OF THE FAMILIES WHO GATHER BEFORE THE
NOTICEBOARD OF LOST SOULS

BYLINE: Anna Smith, Chief Reporter, In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1502 words


DEEP down, the relatives who plaster "Missing" posters of their loved ones along
walls know they are gone forever.

But they put the pictures up just the same, leaving phone numbers and heart
-rending messages pleading for someone to get in touch.

One has a snapshot of Jason Jacobs with his young son and the simple question:
"Have you seen my daddy?"

Every picture is heartbreaking, every face is a reminder how precious - and
fragile - life is.

As workers continue searching the rubble, they also know in their hearts the
rescue is now a recovery.

There have been precious few stories of survival against the odds - only the
despair of dead bodies and body parts.

The gruesome reality of the aftermath of the terrorist attacks is all too
graphically illustrated by the discovery yesterday of a pair of hands, bound
together, on a rooftop.

One man searching for news of loved ones asks reporters: "Where was Bruce Willis
when we needed him?"

It was not meant to be flippant. America has always needed its heroes.

In recent years, most of them have been the creations of Hollywood fiction,
indestructible icons on the big screen.

Now, as we see grieving families clinging to fading hopes and firemen crying as
they pull comrades from the rubble, we see what selfless bravery is in the real
world.

We are left in no doubt that heroes are not hard to find. Only the cowards are.

Everywhere you turn, you see people in that desperate state between hope and
mourning.

Mike Toner, 33, from New Jersey, lost his best friend, 33-year-old Richard
Frazier, an insurance executive who died when the jet hit tower two.

New dad Richard had just moved to another job there because his baby son had
cancer and the health insurance was better.

Through tears, Mike told how he also lost a close friend in the Lockerbie
bombing. He said: "My friend Beth Ann was a college pal and she died in the Pan
Am bombing. Now my best friend has gone too.

"All Richard was doing was trying to get a better way of helping with his kid's
cancer. How can this happen?"

Caroline Staub told of her brother Craig, a star at the financial house KBW, the
most successful of the four children - two brothers, two sisters - who made it
out of their poor Bronx neighbourhood.

Craig, 31 this week, was on the 89th floor. His wife Stacey is due to give birth
to their first child on his birthday.

When the first plane hit, he called his wife, who was in the shower, and left a
message. He said: "I'm OK, darling."

When the second plane hit, he phoned again to say he was helping his staff to
safety. There were no more messages.

Caroline said: "My brother was in the building when they tried to blow it up in
1993. He had a T-shirt with the slogan, 'I Survived the WTC Bombing'.

"Stacey is wearing it now. It's a conscious effort to maintain hope."

Mayra Valdez, 39, is pictured with a message from her mother.

Mayra was also in the insurance business and was a fire marshal on her floor in
tower two. She was last seen screaming at colleagues to get out as the second
jet hit.

Her mother Lydia said: "She may have died helping other people and that was so
like her. But we cannot give up hope that she will be found."

Two young brothers stood looking bewildered, clutching red carnations as their
big sister and mother fixed a rose to the poster of "New York's Bravest",
firefighter Lieutenant Anthony Jovic.

His wife, beside herself with grief, was hugged by strangers as she told them:
"They are all so brave. We can only pray he comes out."

Not since World War II has there been such a united front in America. Even young
children, usually shielded from such horror, are being included.

Alongside pictures of the missing, crayon drawings of the Stars and Stripes
adorn the walls with the simple message, "Get Well America," from nursery tots.

Inside the sprawling former armoury tenement building that has become a family
crisis centre for thousands of stricken relatives, messages from children to
President Bush and to relatives line the walls.

Their simplistic scrawls include pictures of the wobbling twin towers and a
message that could be a lesson to all world leaders: "Learn to help each other".

But this is America and amid the grief there are cringeing scenes that could
only happen here.

In Chinatown, at the edge of the financial sector where people gather to watch
the dust swirl up, some are selling what many consider sick T-shirts for five
bucks a throw.

They bear the American flag and slogans such as, "I got out", "Evil will be
punished", "Terror Attack".

The horror of the attack looked like a movie - and now, just like a movie, you
can even buy the T-shirt.

The sellers certainly have a massive potential market to exploit, as the crowds
come to mourn.

Some arrive on roller blades and there are spontaneous sing-songs as gospel
choristers belt out We Shall Overcome among grieving relatives and fellow New
Yorkers.

Ribbons, yellow this time, representing the missing thousands, are tied to
fences along the Hudson River.

And in the night, dozens of flag-waving locals gather like cheerleaders to shout
their support to any rescue vehicle that emerges.

But inside the disaster area, at Ground Zero where the rescuers face the grim
task of working among the stench of decomposing bodies, the horror really hits
you.

Police officers and fire crews who have had the heart torn from them after
losing more men than at any time in the history of the forces, stand at the edge
of the site, eyes dark from exhaustion.

They have seen too much. The nightmares will always be with them.

Aside from the body parts, there are the remnants of lost lives - personal
belongings such as training shoes, handbags and briefcases. Then there are desks
and computers where doomed workers spent their final morning.

One volunteer, Gene Forman, 37, who raced to help after watching the tragedy
from the roof of his apartment, told of the desperate rescue attempts. He said:
"You are pulling out dead bodies and bits of bodies. It is heartbreaking.

"The firemen are such heroes it makes you want to break down when you watch
them.

"Every fireman that they find dead gets identified by his uniform or number and
the guys from that particular department are the only ones who handle his body.

"They pass the body along the line to each other like he is their brother. You
want to weep but you can't because you are there helping your people and your
country and you cannot give in."

And Americans refuse to give in. As President Bush prepares his country for war,
the nation's youth is talking tough, of "kicking butts" and "flattening
Afghanistan".

One college student said: "Last year, if you had asked any kid my age would he
fight for his country he'd have told you to kiss his ass.

"Now we are ready and we will fight anywhere in the world anytime and we will
win.

"This will be no Vietnam where some Americans don't want to be a part of it.

"Everyone is behind whatever President Bush wants us to do."

But in all the flag-waving patriotism, there is also the voice of reason.

One old New Yorker, sitting in a pavement cafe, remembers other conflicts where
their boys came home in bodybags.

Cy Gru said: "We can't go dropping bombs because we don't know where to drop
them.

"We could kill innocent people and that would make us just as bad as them. Let's
all think about this for a little while before we jump and do anything rash."

Earlier, on the other side of the Atlantic, the first flight left Heathrow bound
for New York on Saturday.

Understandably, the passengers were subdued. Drained. Quiet.

The British Airways captain set the tone: "We all join in your sense of loss. It
is an emotional journey for all of us."

He said the in-flight movie had been changed to Bridget Jones's Diary, a feel
-good romantic comedy. The movie guides had been removed to prevent passengers
discovering the original selection.

Plastic cutlery accompanied the meal. In the departure lounge the metal ice
-tongs had been removed.

And then, as the plane started its approach into JFK Airport, you saw it.
Everyone craned for a sight of the city, straining for that first glimpse in the
morning sunshine of the spot that had been the most dominant feature of a famous
skyline.

They were, of course, staring at nothing. A nothing which had been the twin
towers. All that was left was a weak cloud of smoke.

Who on board could have helped but imagine for a moment the horror as passengers
such as themselves were forced to whisper messages to their loved ones, knowing
they were going to die?

So people twisted and stared at an empty space and waited till the plane touched
down.

Many applauded when those wheels bumped on earth.

Sober people, thankful - though for many, the toughest time lay ahead as they
set off in search of lost friends and family.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: DON'T GIVE UP SEARCH FOR LIVING

BYLINE: Anna Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words


A RESCUE worker fears survivors in the rubble of the World Trade Centre may
never be saved.

Demolition expert Jim Monsini spoke out yesterday as he emerged from the
thousands of tons of debris at Ground Zero.

He said: "My worry is that this becomes a recovery mission because people at a
high level have made that decision and that the people who may be alive are left
to die."

In the past three days, Jim, a volunteer from Boston, has crawled down into the
basement of the Twin Towers - to places where the authorities told him not to
go.

He said: "In some places the air is so bad I would doubt that a lot of people
will have been able to survive.

"But there must be places within these tunnels where there are still people.

"We should still be concentrating on finding survivors, not turning this into a
big recovery mission because we haven't found any survivors in the last few
days."

Jim, who is married with two children, told of the horror of finding personal
items.

He said: "When I found a cell phone, I thought, 'Someone has to call this
person's family.' I passed everything on to the authorities and left them to do
that."

John Hartley, a volunteer from the New York suburb of White Plains, spent a
gruelling 16-hour shift passing buckets of rubble by hand.

When it was over, he practically staggered up the street.

John said: "You're taking out rubble a brick at a time. You're always hoping
that you find something."

One rescuer had found the body of a flight attendant, whose hands were bound.

Another said he had found the remains of people strapped to aeroplane seats.

Everywhere, dazed firefighters showed the strain of their fruitless search for
life.

Greg Shriver, a firefighter who travelled down from Connecticut to help, said:
"They're drained. They have to rest up to go back. They've lost a lot of
brothers."

THE DEAD AND MISSING

NEW YORK World Trade Centre: 5097 missing, 180 dead. This includes those on
hijacked planes - 92 on American Airlines Flight 11 and 65 on United Flight 175.

WASHINGTON Pentagon: 188 unaccounted for. Includes 64 on hijacked plane -
American Airlines Flight 77.

PENNSYLVANIA United Airlines Flight 93: 45 killed.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: DESIGNERS QUIT SHOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 90 words


SIX top designers have pulled out of this week's London Fashion Week after the
tragedy in the United States.

Nicole Farhi, Paul Smith, Katharine Hamnett, Clements Ribeiro, Justin Oh and
Burberry all complained it was inappropriate for the event to go ahead, the
British Fashion Council revealed yesterday.

The five-figure sums due to be spent on axed aftershow parties for the remaining
nine designers will now be donated to the Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.

More than 3000 visitors were expected at the six-day show.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BIZARRE E-MAIL SAYS IT ADDS UP - TO 11

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 225 words


E-MAILS are being sent across America detailing a bizarre connection with the
number 11 to the terrorist attacks.

There has been a string of theories as to why the hijackers chose September 11
to target the US.

Now, in an anonymous e-mail being sent to millions, the attacks are being linked
to number 11 in a series of 11 freaky connections.

The e-mail highlights:

l The date of the attack was September 11. And, if written as 11/9, those three
figures add up to 11 - 9+1+1.

l The first flight to hit the World Trade Centre was American Airlines Flight
11.

lThe flight had 92 people on board and 9+2= 11.

l There were 65 people on board Flight 77 and 6+5=11.

lThe Twin Towers of the Trade Centre themselves looked like the number 11.

l After September 11, there are 111 days left until the end of the year.

l September 11 is the 254th day of the year and 2 + 5 + 4=11.

l New York was the 11th state to be added to the Union and New York City has 11
letters.

l The Pentagon, the second target, also has 11 letters along with the country
Afghanistan where prime suspect Osama Bin Laden is believed to be hiding.

The e-mail does not include any reasons or explanations why the number 11 has
such relevance for the terrorist attacks.

But it has got Americans taking note of the freaky coincidence.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: THE TINIEST RAY OF HOPE AMID AGONY;
 LITTLE ALLISON BORN JUST DAYS AFTER BACKSTREET BOYS DAD IS KILLED

BYLINE: John Mceachran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1008 words


BACKSTREET Boys baby Allison Danielle Lee is the first ray of hope to emerge
from the carnage which has taken over America.

She weighed a healthy 8lb 12oz when she entered the world on Friday in Los
Angeles.

But despite signifying a new beginning for her country, the tragic tot will
never know her dad Danny, who was a roadie for top boy band The Backstreet Boys.

The 34-year-old was murdered just three days before her birth as he raced home
at the end of the band's gruelling tour schedule to be by the side of his
heavily pregnant wife, Kellie.

His American Airlines Flight 11 was one of those hijacked and sent careering
into New York's World Trade Centre on Tuesday.

And any joy Kellie felt on Friday as she saw her beautiful baby girl for the
first time was over- shadowed by her grief that she will never know her father,
already a proud dad to big sister Amanda, two.

Office worker Kellie, 32, wept: "I had a hard time being happy.

"I'm all teared out at the moment. Danny would have held my hand. He would have
been in the room."Tributes poured in from the chart-topping band last night when
when they called all their crew on stage in Boston and asked their fans to
observe a minute's silence for Danny and the other victims.

Tour manager Marty Hom, said: "What we do out here is not really important -
it's entertainment.

"What Danny was going home for - that was really important."

Danny had been working a gruelling 21 hours a day to keep the tour on the road
but had been given permission to break away as the band flew to Toronto.

Kellie, of Van Nuys, Los Angeles, gave birth surrounded by her parents and
toddler Amanda.

Kellie wept: "I told Amanda Daddy isn't coming home but she insisted he was."

The experienced roadie had work for a string of top acts, including Barbra
Streisand and *NSync.

Battling through his grief last night, Danny's brother Jack said: "We're holding
up. At least we don't have to wait up to see if he's lying in the rubble.

"A lot of people waiting for news of relatives have to do that."

Distraught New Yorkers desperate to find relatives have plastered their city
with pictures of missing loved ones.

So the beleaguered city rejoiced yesterday after a rare happy ending for one
couple.

Like many elderly people, husband and wife Harry and Rose Franklyn were caught
in the stampede as residents fled the World Trade Centre inferno.

Split up in the evacuation, neither knew if the other was alive or dead.

But they refused to give up and their sorrow turned to joy when they were
reunited yesterday after four days apart.

Hugging her husband of 50 years, Rose, 70, said: "I cannot believe we are back
together. I thought I'd never see him again.

"It will always be tinged with sadness as so many have not come home. But we
thank God we both made it through."

The couple were helping out with council elections at a polling station just
five blocks from the Twin Towers when the first hijacked plane struck the WTC.

Rose ran out into the street and was swallowed up in the human tide fleeing the
flames.

Dazed after staggering for two and a half miles, she eventually washed up at a
Red Cross centre but could only tell aid workers she had a son in Boston but did
not know his phone number.

Hard-working staff tracked him down and learned he had also heard from his
father.

He then put an advert in Manhattan's Armory hospital hoping someone would know
of Harry's whereabouts.

But it wasn't until a neighbour saw his picture on a TV station that the
pensioner was traced.

Harry, 72, had managed to crawl back to their apartment within the evacuated
zone but believed his missing wife had died.

Harry said: "I couldn't believe my ears when our neighbour told me she was
alive. It was the happiest day of my life."

A spokesman for the Red Cross centre said: "By hook or by crook we were able to
piece the information together and finally get them together."

"We have made a miracle happen and are delighted there is a happy ending.

"It has brought joy to everyone that out of so much sadness we have this ray of
hope."

There was good news for another family yesterday when two young brothers were
reunited with their estranged mother. Brits Daniel and Jack Wright, aged five
and three, burst into tears after their mum Trudi Freeman flew out from Britain
to be by their side.

The boys live with their options broker dad Neil, who was working on the 105th
floor of the World Trade Centre when it collapsed.

The 30-year-old is still missing feared dead following Tuesday's atrocity and
distraught Trudi was desperate to be by her sons' side.

Hugging them yesterday she said: "They are understandably very upset and I just
gave them a hug and said, 'Mummy's here'.

"It's a very difficult time for all of us and the boys are coping as best they
can but it is agony for us all not knowing where Neil is."

Trudi, 30, was on the standby list of passengers who have priority for any US
-bound flights on compassionate grounds.

She said: "Daniel was on the phone in tears asking, 'Where's daddy. We want him
home'.

"I told him to wait and daddy might be home soon. But then he asked me, 'Is
daddy dead?'."

She added: "Neil's mum and sister were looking after the kids but they kept
asking, 'When are we going to see you, mummy?'"

Trudi, from Bexleyheath, Kent had exchanged e-mails with Neil, originally from
Tilbury, Essex, just an hour before the first plane hit.

He is one of 700 Cantor Fitzgerald workers missing but Trudi is still
desperately clinging to the hope he is alive and has posted his picture on the
internet and left numerous messages on his mobile phone.

She said: "I am not giving up hope until I know for sure what has happened to
him."

"He's a brilliant daddy and the kids will be devastated if anything terrible has
happened to him.

"And even though we divorced last year we are still best friends.

"I won't give up hoping that he's alive."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: A CITY OF LOST SOULS;
 THOUSANDS ARE SEARCHING FOR LOVED ONES BUT ONLY BODIES ARE BEING PULLED OUT OF
RUBBLE

BYLINE: Anna Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1080 words


ARRIVING at Ground Zero felt like walking on to the set of a spectacular
disaster movie.

Masses of twisted, tangled metal stretch out of the rubble, while an enormous
star-spangled banner flutters from the blown-out windows of a battle-scarred
skyscraper.

Fire engines and rescue vehicles, lights blaring, speed along Broadway past
bombed- out shops.

But then the reality hits and you remember this is no Hollywood drama.

Thick clouds of dust and smoke catch your breath and sting your eyes.

And hanging in the air is the unmistakable, sickly reek of decomposing flesh
that I remember from the mountains of dead I encountered on assignment to the
killing fields of Rwanda six years ago.

To reach Ground Zero I had to join hundreds of journalists from all over the
world who queued for hours to obtain special NYPD police passes.

But even with no pass, I was able to mingle with the crowds and get past at
least six checkpoints with heavy police and military guard.

The streets are plastered with "Missing" posters put up by friends and relatives
who, deep down, now know that their loved ones are gone forever.

Still, they leave phone numbers and heart-rending messages pleading for news.

One has a snapshot of Jason Jacobs with his young son and the simple question:
"Have you seen my daddy?"

Every picture is heartbreaking, every face is a reminder how precious - and
fragile - life is.

As workers continue searching the rubble, they also know in their hearts the
rescue is now a recovery.

The gruesome reality of the aftermath of the terrorist attacks is all- too
graphically illustrated by the discovery yesterday of a pair of hands, bound
together, on a rooftop.

One man searching for a loved one asks reporters: "Where was Bruce Willis when
we needed him?"

It was not meant to be flippant. America has always needed heroes. In recent
years, most have been Hollywood creations, indestructible icons on the big
screen.

Now, as we see grieving families clinging to fading hopes and firemen crying as
they pull comrades from the rubble, we see what selfless bravery is in the real
world.

We are left in no doubt that heroes are not hard to find. Only the cowards are.

Everywhere you turn, you see people in that desperate state between hope and
mourning.

Mike Toner, 33, from New Jersey, lost his best friend, Richard Frazier, 33, an
insurance executive who died when the jet hit tower two.

New dad Richard had just moved to another job there because his baby son had
cancer and the health insurance was better.

In tears, Mike told how he also lost a close friend in the Lockerbie bombing. He
said: "My friend Beth Ann was a college pal and she died in the PanAm bombing.
Now my best friend has gone too.

"All Richard was doing was trying to get a better way of helping with his kid's
cancer. How can this happen?"

Caroline Staub told of her brother Craig, a star at the financial house KBW, the
most successful of four children - two brothers, two sisters - who made it out
of the Bronx.

He'd have been 31 this week. His wife Stacey is due to give birth to their first
child on his birthday.

Caroline said: "My brother was in the building when they tried to blow it up in
1993. He had a T- shirt with the slogan, 'I Survived the WTC Bombing'.

"Stacey is wearing it now. It's a conscious effort to maintain hope."

Mayra Valdez, 39, was also in the insurance business and was a fire marshal on
her floor. She was last seen screaming at colleagues to get out as the second
jet hit.

Her mother Lydia said: "She may have died helping other people and that was so
like her. But we cannot give up hope that she will be found."

Not since World War II has there been such a united front in America. Even young
children, usually shielded from such horror, are being included.

There are messages from youngsters to President Bush and relatives. Their
simplistic scrawls include a message that could be a lesson to all world
leaders: "Learn to help each other".

But this is America and amid the grief there are cringeing scenes that could
only happen here.

At the edge of the devastation some are selling what many consider sick T
-shirts for five bucks a throw.

They bear the American flag and slogans such as, "I got out", "Evil will be
punished", "Terror Attack".

The horror of the attack looked like a movie - and now, just like a movie, you
can even buy the T-shirt.

At Ground Zero, police and fire crews who have had the heart torn from them
after losing more men than at any time in the history of the forces, stand at
the edge of the site, eyes dark from exhaustion.

A medics is visibly moved by their courage. He told me: "We came to be part of
the rescue mission but we are mainly treating rescuers.

"They're collapsing from exhaustion and the effects of smoke inhalation - yet
they just won't give in."

They rescuers have seen too much horror. The nightmares will always be with
them. One volunteer, Gene Forman, 37, who raced to help from his apartment,
said: "You are pulling out dead bodies and bits of bodies.

"The firemen are such heroes it makes you want to break down.

"Every fireman that they find dead gets identified by his uniform or number and
the guys from that particular department are the only ones who handle his body.

"They pass the body along the line to each other like he is their brother. You
want to weep but you can't because you are there helping your people and your
country and you cannot give in."

Earlier, in London, the first flight left Heathrow for New York on Saturday.

Understandably, the passengers were subdued. Drained. Quiet.

The captain set the tone: "We all join in your sense of loss. It is an emotional
journey for all of us."

Plastic cutlery accompanied the meal. In the departure lounge the metal ice
-tongs had been removed.

Then, as the plane approached JFK Airport, you saw it. Everyone craned for that
first glimpse in the morning sunshine of the empty spot that had been the most
dominant feature of an internationally famous skyline.

Who on board could have helped but imagine the horror as passengers such as
themselves were forced to whisper messages to loved ones, knowing they were
about to die?

Many applauded when those wheels bumped on earth. Sober people, thankful -
though for many, the toughest time lay ahead as they set off in search of lost
friends and family.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: BRING US BIN LADEN'S HEAD;
 AMERICANS IN ULTIMATUM TO TERROR LEADERS

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 124 words


US Vice-President Dick Cheney yesterday demanded the head of terror leader Osama
bin Laden "on a platter".

Afghanistan will today be told to hand over bin Laden within three days or be
targeted in all- out war. A Pakistani delegation will demand of the Afghan
regime: "Surrender him or risk a massive retaliatory assault."

America's huge military effort - Operation Noble Eagle - is gearing up to go
after bin Laden after last week's atrocities. The US efforts have been boosted
by a Pakistani pledge to let the West use their country for strikes on
neighbouring Afghanistan.

PM Tony Blair vowed to stand shoulder to shoulder with the US and said: "This is
a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We'll see this through."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THREE DAYS TO THE WAR;
 DEADLINE FOR THE TALIBAN TO HAND OVER BIN LADEN..

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 394 words


THE US will today demand that the Taliban hand over Osama bin Laden within the
next three days.

A Pakistani delegation with tell the Afghan regime: "Hand him over or risk a
massive retaliatory assault."

US vice-president Dick Cheney yesterday said that a massive military effort -
Operation Noble Eagle - was ready to "aggressively go after bin Laden."

And as tensions grew around the globe, Prime Minister Tony Blair once again
vowed that Britain would stand shoulder to shoulder with the US in the imminent
war against terrorism.

He said: "This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves.

"We will see this thing through. It will be done."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: THREE DAYS TO THE WAR;
 DEADLINE FOR THE TALIBAN TO HAND OVER BIN LADEN..

BYLINE: Simon Houston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 111 words


THE US will today demand that the Taliban hand over Osama bin Laden within the
next three days.

A Pakistani delegation with tell the Afghan regime: "Hand him over or risk a
massive retaliatory assault."

US vice-president Dick Cheney yesterday said that a massive military effort -
Operation Noble Eagle - was ready to "aggressively go after bin Laden."

And as tensions grew around the globe, Prime Minister Tony Blair once again
vowed that Britain would stand shoulder to shoulder with the US in the imminent
war against terrorism.

He said: "This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves.

"We will see this thing through. It will be done."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 17, 2001

US terrorist attacks will "stifle" rental growth, says RICS

BYLINE: Piers Wehner

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 241 words


Last week's terrorist attacks on the US will make an economic recovery unlikely
and will continue to stifle UK commercial rental growth, according to a report
published by the RICS today.

The RICS September economic brief said the manufacturing recession and growing
global economic uncertainty has led to a slowdown in rental growth, which is
unlikely to pick up over the next few months.

"The global economic outlook was helped by signs of a recovery in US
manufacturing, but the shock of the horrific terrorist attack across the
Atlantic has dampened hopes of a near-term economic recovery," the report said.

"Rental growth in the commercial property market continues to slow as economic
conditions become more apparent."

Office rental growth slumped from a high of 11.9% in December to an annualised
growth of 4.7% in the three months to July, according to the report.

Retail rents "continue to crawl along at a slow pace" with annualised growth at
1.7% for the three months to July compared with 2.9% in January. Industrial
rents were sluggish but solid at 2.8%, compared with 3.3% in April.

Meanwhile, general consumer spending and the housing market "remains firm" with
annual growth of house prices estimated at 11.9% in August by Halifax. "The
perception of increased wealth bestowed by rising house price inflation has led
to homeowners increasingly borrowing against their homes to finance consumer
spending," said the RICS.

EGi News 17/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 17, 2001

Blair: We're at war with America's attackers;
Terror War Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 226 words


TONY BLAIR was preparing to meet the Government's key diplomatic and military
advisers today after giving his strongest warning yet of "war" against the
terrorists who attacked America.

"Are we at war with the people who have committed this terrible atrocity?

Absolutely," the Prime Minister said. "We have to assemble the evidence, present
it and then pursue those responsible."

It was the first time Mr Blair, who was speaking in Downing Street yesterday
before taking his family to Westminster Cathedral, has spoken in terms of war.
Later, he said he believed support from Europe was solid and that "the whole of
the civilised world will stand together".

President Jacques Chirac of France, who will visit Washington tomorrow for talks
with President Bush, is expected to reinforce that message. But some, at home
and abroad, struck a note of caution.

One Cabinet member, International Development Secretary Clare Short, said the
fact that many innocent people had lost their lives in last Tuesday's attacks
was "intolerable". But, raising the possibility of widespread attacks on
Afghanistan, she added: "It would be unbearable if the response was a lot more
innocent people losing their lives."

Mr Blair himself stressed that America and its allies would act in a calm,
measured and sensible way - "but act we must".


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 17, 2001

'Revenge' attacks on Muslims;
Terror War: Violence Terrorism USA

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 393 words


AN AFGHAN minicab driver was beaten and paralysed from the neck down after an
argument over the fare escalated into a violent confrontation over the US
attacks.

The 25-year-old victim was racially abused by his passengers - three men and a
woman - and then hit over the head with a bottle and kicked.

He was driving a blue VW Golf and had dropped his fare in the Staines Road area
of Twickenham late on Saturday night or early yesterday.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Twickenham CID on 020 8247 7031 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

It follows a young Muslim woman who suffered bruising at the weekend after an
assault in Swindon. The 19-year-old, wearing a traditional head scarf, was set
upon by two thugs who bludgeoned her over the head with a baseball bat.

Security has been stepped up at a Southend mosque after it was vandalised in
what police say may be "revenge" attacks.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 17, 2001

Mum in airgun attack terror;Thugs shatter car window as woman breastfeeds
daughter

BYLINE: Exclusive By Martin Murray

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 407 words


A TERRIFIED mum was the victim of a drive-by airgun shooting as she fed her
three-month-old baby in her car.

Lindsey Kelly and her daughter Jessica were showered in glass after thugs fired
through the rear passenger window of her estate car.

The mum had been breastfeeding her baby while husband Graham joined other
members of their canoe club on the water.

Lindsey, 33, of Kilbarchan, Renfrew-shire, said: "We were up at Kilbirnie Loch
and I went back to the car to feed Jessica. I was sitting in the rear passenger
seat when I noticed a white car, coming in the

opposite direction,

slowing down to a crawl.

"The next thing I knew the window exploded and Jessica and I were covered in
shards of glass."

The baby suffered a minor cut to her lip and Lindsey escaped unhurt but shocked
by her ordeal.

She said: "There was a hole the size of a pellet in the baby shade which had
been on the window, so I have no doubt they used an airgun.

"I don't know whether these people knew we were in the car or not, but I can't
believe my baby's life was put at risk by mindless vandals. It was a frightening
experience.

"I jumped out of the car screaming hysterically and ran down to the waterfront.

''Graham's reaction was a mixture of shock and anger and I wouldn't like to
think what he would have done if he'd got his hands on whoever was responsible."

Lindsey vowed the airgun thugs would not put her off enjoying her favourite
hobby of canoeing but said she would be changing her baby

feeding arrangements.

She said: "They won't put me off going back to the canoeing club but I certainly
won't be breastfeeding the baby in the car again.

"In future when Jessica needs fed I will take her down close to the waterfront."

An insider at the rowing club said the shooting had left everyone stunned.

He added: "There are about 40 members in the club and they are all stunned and
shocked by what happened.

"Maybe they thought it was a courting couple in the car and decided to give them
a fright, but that's no excuse.

"There are some youngsters who drive round the area showing off, but to do
something like this is just beyond belief."

A Strathclyde Police spokeswoman confirmed the airgun attack.

She said: "There was an incident on Thursday night at about 7.30pm on the road
from Kilbirnie to Beith and we believe a white saloon car was involved. Our
inquiries are continuing."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: Lindsey Kelly and baby Jessica were showered with glass

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 17, 2001

NOW US ADMITS HUNTING HIJACKERS 3 WEEKS BEFORE ATTACK; TERROR CELLS ESCAPE THE
BIG FBI DRAGNET

BYLINE: BY GABRIEL MILLAND IN LONDON AND GEORGE GORDON IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  15

LENGTH: 749 words


EVIDENCE emerged last night that many of the terror plotters have now slipped
out of America, evading the country's huge spying network.

And FBI sources revealed that the bureau had been searching for two of the
hijackers on board the flight that crashed into the Pentagon for three weeks
before the terror attack.

Khalid Al Midhar and Salem Alhamzi were placed on a watch list in late August
after the CIA told the FBI that the pair were associated with "prime suspect"
Osama Bin Laden.

Al Midhar had been caught on surveillance tape in Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia,
meeting a man suspected of involvement in the last year's attack on the warship
USS Cole in Aden. Bin Laden is believed to have masterminded the attack, killing
17 US sailors.

An unnamed official said: "We had only three weeks and one small piece of
information about where Al Midhar and Alhamzi were supposed to be."

FBI headquarters failed to pass on the names of the men to its office in San
Diego - where, it turns out, the men had been living.

The FBI is also probing a British connection.

Habib Zacarias Moussaoui - who lived in London before moving to the United
States - has been under arrest in Minnesota for the last three weeks.

He was initially taken into custody under suspicion when he asked "too many
questions" about flying Boeing aircraft during flying lessons in the US.

While being held on immigration charges, he was found to be on a list of Bin
Laden sympathisers provided by the French security services.

But for three weeks, Moussaoui, 33, sat in jail in Minnesota with "no-one coming
near him", according to the administrator of the jail, Pat Carr.

French agents are convinced he was involved in planning the World Trade Center
attack and are now said to be concerned that the FBI did not aggressively
interview him. A list of over 100 suspects has now been passed to the 18,000
police and FBI officers involved in America's biggest ever manhunt.

Over 100 members of the suicidal bombers' back-up team scattered across the US
before and after the crashes and headed for the borders.

At least eight managed to escape the huge FBI dragnet and slipped into Mexico,
25 are in custody and the rest are thought have gone to ground - slipping back
into their "sleeper" roles.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said the probe was "developing a kind of clarity.
We are beginning to understand the ways in which this terrible crime was
committed".

The probe's two crucial questions are: What was the next target and how more
cells exist across the country?

A man picked up at John F Kennedy airport in New York with a fake pilot's
licence has links to Bin Laden's brother. He is now being held as a material
witness and can be detained as long as necessary. Also, Germany is playing a key
role in the investigation. Police have searched an apartment in the university
city of Bochum belonging to the girlfriend of Ziad Jarrah, one of the 19
hijackers.

The FBI said Jarrah was aboard United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed near
Pittsburgh. Jarrah had been registered at Hamburg's technical university, as
were fellow hijackers Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi.

Atta and Al-Shehhi, who seized the planes that smashed into the Twin Towers,
bought pocket knives and cardboard cutters in Switzerland during the summer and
stayed in a Zurich hotel, it emerged yesterday.

The weapons were used to hijack the four passenger jets.

German police last week searched the Hamburg apartment where Jarrah, Atta and
Al-Shehhi lived as they studied engineering and aircraft construction for four
years. In Beirut, Lebanese-born Jarrah's family told how they had sent their son
money to train as a pilot.

"He called just two days before the plane crashed to tell me he'd received the
GBP 1,400 I'd sent him, " his father, Samir Jarrah said."Ziad said it was for
his aeronautical course."

Jarrah's uncle, Jamal Jarrah, said: "He was a normal person. He drank alcohol,
he had girlfriends."

Another lead among the 1,000 being pursued in Florida was that some of the
hijackers could have been trained at the US navy airbase at Pensacola.

People in Florida are aghast that the suicide attackers prepared in their midst.
Delray Beach librarian Kathleen Hensman said: "I could not believe my eyes when
I saw the names." She recalled how the men seemed edgy as they used computers.

"They kept staring at the computers and then staring at me, " she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 17, 2001

Attack on America: The hunted: Bin Laden and family flee to the hills and family
go into hiding: Terror suspect denies role in attack on US

BYLINE: Luke Harding and Rory McCarthy in Islamabad, Brian Whitaker and Richard
Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words


Osama bin Laden has abandoned his main base near Kandahar in fear of attack by
the US and has moved to an undisclosed location in the mountains, sources in the
Afghan city said last night.

The Saudi-born dissident's large family, together with his Arab followers, has
also left the city, the sources added. His four wives and many children have
taken refuge in the countryside, according to reports.

Bin Laden and his men have apparently moved to one of their many hideouts in a
remote part of the country. His decision to vacate the southern Afghan city was
not only for his personal security, but to reduce the chances of civilian
casualties in case of an attack, his aides said.

In a statement faxed to the pro-Taliban Afghan Islamic Press (AIP) agency, Bin
Laden yesterday denied having anything to do with last week's attacks in New
York and Washington. "I am residing in Afghanistan. I have taken an oath of
allegiance (to the Taliban's spiritual leader, Mullah Mohammad Omar) which does
not allow me to do such things from Afghanistan," he claimed.

"We have been blamed in the past, but we were not involved," he said. The fax,
written in Arabic, was sent from a secret location, AIP said.

In the past, Bin Laden has shifted base whenever there has been any threat of
American retaliation, most recently last October after the attack on the USS
Cole in Yemen, in which 17 sailors were killed.

He has several main bases inside Afghanistan - a large camp next to Kandahar
airport, where several hundred of his Arab followers live, a smaller base in the
Oruzgan mountains and a third camp near the south-eastern city of Jalalabad, cut
into a rockface.

But he is also believed to have a network of smaller hideouts, many of which
were used by the mojahedin in the 1980s in their guerrilla war against Soviet
troops. Afghanistan is a large country with mountains, deserts and remote
valleys.

One source said that Bin Laden had the choice of many isolated and secure
sanctuaries, adding: "There are plenty of places to hide."

Locating him is only one problem that the Bush administration faces. The US
vice-president, Dick Cheney, said yesterday that he had "no doubt" that Bin
Laden was the "prime suspect", but proving that he had directly instigated or
funded last week's attacks on the US was likely to be another matter.

Although no evidence linking Bin Laden to the attacks has been disclosed,
reports yesterday linked one of the suspected hijackers to the suicide bomb
attack on USS Cole.

Newsweek and the Los Angeles Times said that Khalid al-Midhar, who died in the
crash at the Pentagon, had earlier been captured by a surveillance video meeting
one of the Cole suspects in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

But despite strong suspicions that Bin Laden was behind the attack on the
warship in Aden, no specific evidence of his role has emerged. One of the most
tantalising pointers is that Abdul al-Muhsin al-Taifi, named as one of the two
suicide bombers in Yemen, was wanted for questioning about the 1998 bombing of
the American embassy in Nairobi, for which Bin Laden has also been blamed.

British intelligence sources say that Bin Laden's sympathisers have no formal
structure, making it extremely difficult to penetrate his al-Qaida organisation
or to find hard evidence against it.

"It is an informal network which crosses international boundaries", one source
said. The members do not see themselves as a part of a group and, unlike the IRA
and other terrorist groups, they do not operate in cells.

Rather they are a collection of individuals "inspired" by Bin Laden, the
intelligence sources added.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 17, 2001

Attack on America: The manhunt: Two terrorists were under investigation by FBI:
Intelligence services under attack for missing hijackers living in America

BYLINE: Stuart Millar, Nick Hopkins in Miami, John Hooper in Berlin and Giles
Foden

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2001 words


Two of the hijackers on board the aircraft that hit the Pentagon had been under
surveillance by US intelligence, it was revealed yesterday, along with more
details about the terrorists' final movements. Intelligence officers issued a
warning two months ago that Khalid al-Midhar and Nawaq al-Hamzi may have been
planning to enter the US after surveillance video footage linked al-Midhar with
Osama bin Laden and the terrorist attack on the USS Cole in Yemen last October
that killed 17 sailors.

The FBI was alerted after the authorities discovered that both men were already
in the country, but they could not be traced. The two men resurfaced last week
when, along with al-Hamzi's brother Salem and a fourth man, Hani Hanjour, they
seized control of American Airlines flight 77 and crashed it into the Pentagon
an hour after taking off from Washington Dulles airport.

The revelation came as FBI investigators claimed they were making significant
progress in America's biggest ever criminal investigation. The attorney general,
John Ashcroft, said that although there were 36,000 individual leads to follow
up, "clarity" was emerging.

The passport of one of the hijackers involved in the New York attacks was
recovered several blocks away from the rubble of the World Trade Centre,
prompting investigators to widen the search site. The name on the passport has
not been released.

Federal agents also arrested a second person on a "material witness" warrant,
which allows them to be held without charge. The latest arrest took place in an
apartment in Jersey City, across the Hudson river from New York, late on
Saturday. Evidence collected from the apartment is being examined for clues.

Lost nerve

The arrest came a day after a man of Middle-Eastern origin, whom investigators
believe holds important information about the attacks, was formally taken into
custody as a material witness. He had been detained on Thursday evening in New
York after being stopped at JFK airport with fake pilot identification papers.

Another two men who were arrested on a train in Fort Worth, Texas, were taken to
New York for questioning. Ayub Ali Khan, 51, and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47,
were on a plane that took off from Newark, New Jersey, on the day of the attacks
and was diverted to St Louis when the Federal Aviation Authority ordered every
aircraft in US airspace to land. Law enforcement sources were quoted as saying
that they believe the men may have been planning to hijack the flight but lost
their nerve.

In St Louis, the men boarded a train bound for San Antonio, Texas, but were
detained during a routine drug search in Fort Worth and were found to be
carrying box cutters and Dollars 5,000 in cash.

The FBI refused to comment on the arrests. "This is an ongoing investigation," a
spokesman said. "It would be completely inappropriate to comment."

A further 23 people have been detained by US immigration authorities as part of
the investigation, although most of these are for immigration violations. But
the disclosure that at least two of the hijackers were being sought by the
authorities weeks before the attacks is certain to spark renewed criticism of
the intelligence services' failure to uncover the terrorist plot.

Al-Midhar was filmed by the CIA in January last year at a meeting in Kuala
Lumpur with a suspect in the bombing of the USS Cole. In August, the CIA advised
the immigration authorities to place al-Midhar and his associate, al-Hamzi, on a
list barring entry to the US but officials quickly established that they had
already entered the country, apparently using Saudi documents. The FBI launched
a hunt for the men on August 21 but, despite an "aggressive investigation",
failed to track them down.

Nest of terrorists

The authorities established that both men had flown into LA early last year and
into New York earlier this year. It has also emerged that both men had lived in
America at various times in the past year. Al-Hamzi had rented a room in San
Diego from September to December last year, which al-Midhar had shared for the
first month.

Fresh details were also emerging about another of the Pentagon hijackers, Hani
Hanjour. He took flying lessons at the CRM Airline Training Centre in
Scottsdale, Arizona, in 1996 and in December 1997. On both occasions he had
tried but failed to qualify for a private pilot's certificate. "He'd be late, he
wouldn't show up, he was unprepared, he didn't do his homework," said Paul
Blair, CRM's controller. "He didn't seem like he was committed to being an
airline pilot."

The focus of the FBI investigation remains in Florida, where 14 of the 19
hijackers had either trained as pilots at one of the state's many flying schools
or lived a comfortable, quiet existence in the towns along the south-east coast.

One fear is that there are other "sleeper" terrorists still at large.

The FBI believes that seven of the men were living in the Delray Beach area,
north of Miami, days before the hijacks. Two others, including the suspected
ringleader, Mohamed Atta, were in Hollywood - a nearby town - until two months
ago. Although the exact movements of the hijackers are still unclear,
investigators are following up more than 1,000 leads that suggest Florida had a
nest of terrorists who did not work, but had easy access to money. The men
flitted from hotels to motels to apartments, rarely staying longer than a month
before moving on.

None of the men appeared to have jobs, but they were not short of money, and
were able to pay landlords and motel owners in cash. They also bought
business-class tickets for the flights they intended to hijack: Atta, for
example, was in seat 8D in the business class of the American Airlines flight 11
from Boston, which was the first to hit the World Trade Centre.

Intelligence failures

The FBI also believes that three of the hijackers enrolled at flying schools
using false or stolen papers which showed that they worked for Saudi Arabian
Airlines, and that the academies did not check to see if their stories were
true.

Jeb Bush, the Florida governor and brother of the president, yesterday ordered a
review of Florida's anti-terrorism measures, saying he was "extremely concerned
about the apparent failures of intelligence that led up to these incidents".

Atta, 33, and Marwan Al-Shehhi, who was on the United Airlines flight that
crashed into the south tower, both trained at the Huffman Aviation International
Flight School in Venice, Florida, for four months last year. They paid a total
of Dollars 38,700 (pounds 26,000) for the course, which ended in November.

A month later, they spent another Dollars 1,500 for three hours of flight
simulator training at the SimCenter, near Miami. An instructor said they
concentrated on turning aircraft, rather than practising the more difficult
manoeuvres of take-off and landing, which he thought was unusual.

Atta was last traced to a motel in Deerfield Beach, checking out of room 12 the
day before the hijacks. He had stayed in the Panther hotel for a week with
al-Shehhi. After they left, hotel staff found a black duffel bag in a rubbish
skip. It contained flight manuals for Boeing 757s, flight path maps for the east
coast, three jujitsu martial arts books, a binder full of handwritten notes and
a German/English dictionary. A box cutter had been left in one of the drawers.

Seven of the suspected terrorists - Fayez Ahmed, Ahmed al-Ghamdi, Hamza
al-Ghamdi, Mohald al-Shehri, Saeed al- Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ahmed
al-Nhami - have been traced to Delray Beach, but the FBI has refused to disclose
exactly where they were staying.

The town has a small Middle-Eastern community, but no mosques or an Islamic
centre. Police believe the men "may have had some help or at least had
sympathisers" in the area.

Waleed al-Shehri rented an apartment in Ocean Drive, Hollywood, while Abdu laziz
al-Omari had been living quietly for several months in a house close to a flying
school in Vero Beach, 300 miles north of Miami. Al-Omari told his neighbours
that he was Saudi Arabian. Ten days before the attack he sent his wife and four
children "back home".

A terrorist on the United Airlines flight 93 that crashed in rural Pennsylvania,
Ziad Jarrahi, rented an apartment near Fort Lauderdale for two months earlier
this summer. The landlord, Charles Lisa, said he was with another man and that
they were "very polite and friendly, the kind of young men you would like to
take to a baseball game". When they left, Mr Lisa asked them for a forwarding
address, and they replied: "We'll send you a postcard."

A fuller picture of the terrorists' movements outside the US also began to take
shape. It emerged that Atta had travelled to Spain from Miami on two occasions
in the months leading up to the attack, while the Swiss authorities revealed
that one of the hijackers had bought knives while staying in the country. The
justice ministry in Bern refused to elaborate, but the SonntagsBlick newspaper
claimed that Atta and Al-Shehhi had spent time in Switzerland during the summer,
staying in a Zurich hotel.

Atta, who is believed to have led the hijacking operation, and al-Shehhi were
members of an Islamic extremist cell in Hamburg. After raids in the city of
Bochum at the weekend, the German authorities revealed that al-Jarrahi was also
a member of the cell to have died in last Tuesday's carnage. The 27-year-old
Lebanese, also referred to as al-Jarrah and Jarrahi, had studied aircraft
engineering at the same Hamburg university as Atta and al-Shehhi.

The raids, late on Friday, uncovered "aircraft-related documents". Police
questioned al-Jarrahi's German girlfriend who was said to have told them she had
no idea he might be linked to terrorism. Officials said she had been put under
police protection after being questioned.

German investigators said they were searching for a fourth man whom they
identified only as "Said B". The Guardian revealed on Saturday that the man who
first rented the group's flat in Hamburg was called Said Bahaji, a German
national. After questioning his wife, police said that he may have left for
Pakistan earlier this month.

Despite a weekend of intense police activity in Germany, however, the country's
chief prosecutor said he still had no evidence linking the alleged hijackers to
the Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden.

"Whether there were links to other people or groups will have to be determined
in the investigation," said Kay Nehm, who heads the federal prosecutors' office.
But in the UK, it emerged that the man who was detained at Heathrow on the day
of the attacks last week was Mufti Mohammed Khan, believed to be the
second-in-command of Jaish-i-Mohammed, a terrorist group closely linked with Bin
Laden.

Birmingham connection

Mr Khan was held for two days under the Prevention of Terrorism act before being
released without charge, but security service sources were quoted as saying that
he had been returned to New York for questioning by the FBI. According to
reports yesterday, Mr Khan is believed to have flown into the UK from New York
to meet other members of Bin Laden's organisation in London, Birmingham and
Wales.

Jaish-i-Mohammed is banned in the UK and is a prime suspect in the US attacks.
Formed at least seven years ago to overthrow states friendly to the US and
Israel, it claimed responsibility for the attack on the USS Cole.

The group has deep and varied connections to Bin Laden. A Jordanian member of
the group told an Arab interviewer, working on behalf of ABC TV, that in the
Sudan "there were many bases at secret locations" and that the "big man"
financing them was Bin Laden.

The possible link with Jaish-i-Mohammed highlights the difficulty for US
authorities in tying down the labyrinthine organisational structure of the group
or groups which backed last week's attacks, and of establishing their exact
relations to nation states.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

MERSEY TROOPS MAY TAKE PART IN HUGE ATTACK;
 WAR ON TERRORISM - BRITISH TASKFORCE IN GULF FOR EXERCISE

BYLINE: Mark Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 676 words


HUNDREDS of Merseyside troops could find themselves involved in a massive
military strike against Osama bin Laden's Afghan hideaways.

They are among a 20,000-strong British task force on its way to the Gulf for a
military exercise that has suddenly become a preparation for war.

US President George W. Bush has declared his country at war in the wake of last
Tuesday's terrorist outrage on the American mainland, and Tony Blair says the UK
will stand "shoulder to shoulder" with the US in any war against world
terrorism.

The Pentagon has launched Operation Noble Eagle - a defence buildup to prepare
for a massive offensive on bin Laden, prime suspect for the US attack and the
world's most wanted man.

Britain has been planning Operation Swift Sword, a military exercise in the
friendly Arab state of Oman, for months.

Members of the King's Regiment in Liverpool and the Chester-based Cheshire
Regiment are among the British forces bound for Oman.

Many of the other Army, Navy and RAF units involved also recruit from the
region.

The Ministry of Defence has confirmed that the exercise, announced last
November, will go ahead.

The soldiers will fly to Oman in the next fortnight for the exercise which will
deploy army, air force and navy troops in a joint operation.

The troops would be ready to join any Nato attack on Afghanistan, where bin
-Laden is in hiding.

Saif Sareea (Arabic for "Swift Sword") II was announced by Defence Secretary
Geoff Hoon last year after a series of meetings with the Sultan of Oman. The
government had been planning the exercise since 1997.

The "rapid reaction" operation has been designed to test the troops' ability to
carry out high-speed missions in a war zone.

The British task force includes 27 ships, headed by the air craft carrier
Illustrious which has eight Sea Harriers and seven RAF Harrier GRs aboard.

Two nuclear submarines have been deployed, one of them equipped with Tomahawk
land-attack cruise missiles. The Royal Marine Commando brigade and an army
armoured brigade, with 66 Challenger 2 tanks, has also been deployed.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: "The exercise in Oman is still going
ahead.

"As there has been no clear indication yet as to what America's reaction will
be, it's business as usual.

"The purpose of the exercise is to demonstrate the rapid reaction force concept.

"It will test our ability to deploy ourselves in an area, do what is asked of us
and then get back to the UK safely.

"This demonstrates our commitment to security in the Gulf region."

The exercise, due to run from September 28 to November 12, will see more UK
troops deployed in Oman than anywhere else in the Middle East.

Around 4,000 UK troops are based in Cyprus, with others stationed in Saudi
Arabia, Bahrain and Kuwait, where the US has 20,000 soldiers.

The Pentagon has refused to rule out a land invasion of Afghanistan, despite the
enormous problems for any force trying to tackle the country's mountainous
terrain.

Elite special forces teams could be deployed with a mission to flush out bin
Laden, and kill or capture him.

British SAS teams operated successfully in Afghanistan after the 1979 Soviet
invasion.

RAF Tornado ground attack bases in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Turkey are
on heightened alert.

Britain will allow US B52 bombers to use air bases at Fairford, Gloucester, plus
others in Cyprus and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean.

Defence experts believe the first strike by the US will almost certainly come
from the air and involve America's F117 stealth bombers which are invisible to
radar and can fly at night to drop laser-guided bombs.

Two aircraft battleship groups are also heading for the region, the Carl Vincent
and the Enterprise, both with escorting warships.

Pakistan's military rulers have pledged full co-operation and demanded that the
Taliban in neighbouring Afghanistan hand bin Laden over to the west.

The Taliban, in turn, have threatened reprisals against Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 17, 2001

The Pentagon orphans;
 Michael Moore grieves for the thousands killed by last week's terrorist attacks
in the United States and asks a straightforward question - why did it happen?

BYLINE: Michael Moore

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1207 words


LAST Tuesday, I was supposed to fly on the 4.30pm American Airlines flight from
Los Angeles to New York.

Instead, I found myself stuck in LA, with an incredible range of emotions over
what had happened on the island where I work and live in New York city.

My wife and I spent the first hours of the day - after being awakened by phone
calls from our parents at 6.40am - trying to contact our daughter at school in
New York and our friend JoAnn, who works near the World Trade Centre.

I called JoAnn at her office. As someone picked up, the first tower imploded and
the person answering the phone screamed and ran out, leaving me no clue as to
whether she or JoAnn would live.

It was a sick, horrible and frightening day.

On December 27 1985, I found myself caught in the middle of a terrorist incident
at the Vienna airport - which left 30 people dead, both there and at the Rome
airport.

The event still brings up much despair and confusion in me.

However, safe, secure, I'm an American, living in the United States.

I like my illusions. I walk through a metal detector, I put my carry-ons through
an X-ray machine and I know that all will be well.

But here's a short list of some of my experiences with airport security.

At Newark Airport, the plane is late at boarding everyone. The counter can't
find my seat, so I am told to just "go ahead and get on" - without a ticket!

At Detroit Metro Airport, I don't want to put the lunch that I just bought at
the takeaway through the X-ray machine so, as I pass through the metal detector,
I hand the sack to the guard through the space between the detector and the
X-ray machine.

I tell him: "It's just a sandwich." He believes me and doesn't bother to check.

The sack has gone through neither security device.

At LaGuardia Airport in New York, I deposit a piece of luggage for the flight,
but decide to catch a later plane. The first plane leaves without me, but with
my bag - no-one knowing what is in it.

Back in Detroit, I take my time getting off the commuter plane.

By the time that I have come down its stairs, the bus that takes the passengers
to the terminal has left - without me.

I am alone on the tarmac, free to wander wherever I want. So, I do. Eventually,
I flag down a pick-up truck and an airplane mechanic gives me a ride the rest of
the way to the terminal.

I have boarded planes with knives and, once, my travelling companion brought a
hammer and chisel. No-one stopped us.

Of course, I have got away with all of this because the airlines consider my
safety so important.

They pay rent-a-cops $5.75 an hour to make sure that the bad guys don't get on
my plane. That is what my life is worth - less than the cost of an oil change.

Too harsh, you say? Well, chew on this - a first-year pilot on American Eagle -
the commuter arm of American Airlines - receives around GBP 9,400 a year in
annual pay.

That's right - GBP 9,400 for the person who has your life in his hands.

Until recently, Continental Express paid a little over GBP 8,100 a year.

There was one guy, an American Eagle pilot, who had four kids, so he went down
to the welfare office and applied for food stamps - and he was eligible!

Someone on welfare is flying my plane? Is this for real? Yes, it is.

So, spare me the talk about all the precautions that the airlines and the
Federal Aviation Authority are taking. They, like all businesses, are concerned
about one thing - the bottom line and the profit margin.

Four teams of three to five people were all able to penetrate airport security
on the same morning at three different airports and pull off this heinous act?
My only response is - that's all?

Well, the pundits are in full diarrhoea mode, gushing on about the "terrorist
threat" and today's scariest dude on planet Earth - Osama bin Laden.

Hey, who knows, maybe he did it. But, something just doesn't add up.

What I do know is that I have heard everything about bin Laden except this one
fact - we created the monster known as Osama bin Laden!

Where did he go to terrorist school? At the CIA!

When the Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan, the CIA trained him and his buddies
in how to commit acts of terrorism against the Soviet forces.

It worked! The Soviets turned and ran.

Bin Laden was grateful for what we taught him and thought it might be fun to use
those same techniques against us.

We abhor terrorism - unless we're the ones doing the terrorising.

We paid and trained and armed a group of terrorists in Nicaragua in the 1980s
who killed over 30,000 civilians.

That was our work - 30,000 murdered civilians and who the hell even remembers!

We fund a lot of oppressive regimes that have killed a lot of innocent people
and we never let the human suffering that causes interrupt our day one single
bit.

We have orphaned so many children, tens of thousands around the world, with our
taxpayer-funded terrorism - in Chile, in Vietnam, in Gaza and in Salvador - that
I suppose that we shouldn't be too surprised when those orphans grow up and are
a little whacked in the head from the horror that we have helped cause.

Yet, our recent domestic terrorism bombings have not been conducted by a guy
from the desert but rather by our own citizens - a couple of ex-military guys
who hated the federal government.

From the first minutes of Tuesday's events, I never heard that possibility
suggested. Why is that?

Maybe it's because the Arabs are much better foils. A key ingredient in getting
Americans whipped into a frenzy against a new enemy is the all-important race
card.

It's much easier to get us to hate when the object of our hatred doesn't look
like us.

Congressmen and senators have spent their time calling for more money for the
military - one senator on the news channel CNN even said that he didn't want to
hear any more talk about more money for education or health care as we should
have only one priority, our self-defence.

Will we ever get to the point that we realise that we will be more secure when
the rest of the world isn't living in poverty so that we can have nice running
shoes?

In just eight months, Bush has got the whole world back to hating us again.

He withdraws from the Kyoto agreement, walks us out of the Durban conference on
racism, insists on restarting the arms race - you name it, and baby Bush has
blown it all.

The senators and congressmen broke out in a spontaneous version of "God Bless
America." They're not a bad group of singers!

Yes, God, please do bless us.

Many families have been devastated.

This just is not right. They did not deserve to die.

If someone did this to get back at Bush, then they did so by killing thousands
of people who did not vote for him.

Boston, New York, Washington DC and the planes' destination of California -
these were places that voted against Bush.

Why kill them? Why kill anyone?

Such insanity.

Let's mourn, let's grieve and, when it's appropriate, let's examine our
contribution to the unsafe world that we live in.

It doesn't have to be like this.

This is an abridged version of an article that first appeared on www.
michaelmoore. com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                               September 17, 2001

Michael Jackson to release fundraiser for victims of US terror attacks; What
More Can I Give?

LENGTH: 212 words

SUMMARY: Britney, Justin Timberlake, Destiny's Child will also appear on 'What
More Can I Give?'...



http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,43126,00.html is set
to produce and perform on forthcoming track 'WHAT MORE CAN I GIVE?', a
fundraiser for the survivors and families of victims of the US terror attacks.

http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,165845,00.html ,
http:/destinyschild.nme.com , Justin Timberlake and Nick Carter of the
http:/backstreetboys.nme.com are also confirmed to appear.

In a statement released over the weekend,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,43126,00.html said, "I
believe in my heart that the music community will come together as one and rally
to the aid of thousands of innocent victims. There is a tremendous need for
relief dollars right now and through this effort each one of us can play an
immediate role in helping comfort so many people. We have demonstrated time and
again that music can touch our souls. It is time we used that power to help us
begin the process of healing immediately."

http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,43126,00.html hopes
the single will release £30 million. He als co-wrote and performed on 'We Are
The World', which raised £40 million for African famine relief during the 80s.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Printing World

                               September 17, 2001

Big sell out after US terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 252 words


By Fiona Fraser

Newspaper print runs were boosted as readers flocked for news of the terrorist
atrocity in New York last week.

Sales of the Daily Mail, printed at Harmsworth Quays and sites at Belfast,
Bradford, Glasgow and Newcastle, were up by 20% on Wednesday, an increase of
500,000 copies. Managing director Guy Zitter says: "The big question is whether
this will hold up. It could start to decline unless we do something special."

The Guardian, printed at West Ferry Printers, had to increase its print run by
130,000 to meet demand.

Newsweek magazine, printed at Cradley Print in Cradley Heath, was planning an
extra edition involving 2 million extra copies. Newsweek chairman and
editor-in-chief Richard Smith says: "Extraordinary news events deserve an
extraordinary response."

In the US, communications were still in chaos. The New York Daily News is not
publishing its free afternoon commuter edition, the Daily News Express. The Wall
Street Journal, based only a few blocks from the World Trade Centre, also had to
put contingency plans into place. All the editorial functions were moved to the
printing centre in a suburb.

The Screenprinting & Graphic Imaging Association has cancelled the SGIA 2001
Convention & Exposition in Anaheim, California, this week, because of air travel
bans.

ffraser@cmpinformation.com


 In brief


* Huge print run increases

* Sales up by 20%

* Extraordinary situation

 Online: www.dotprint.com/resource/sep17




LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2001 CMP Information Ltd

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Printing World

                               September 17, 2001

Big sell out after US terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 251 words


By Fiona Fraser

Newspaper print runs were boosted as readers flocked for news of the terrorist
atrocity in New York last week.

Sales of the Daily Mail, printed at Harmsworth Quays and sites at Belfast,
Bradford, Glasgow and Newcastle, were up by 20% on Wednesday, an increase of
500,000 copies. Managing director Guy Zitter says: "The big question is whether
this will hold up. It could start to decline unless we do something special."

The Guardian, printed at West Ferry Printers, had to increase its print run by
130,000 to meet demand.

Newsweek magazine, printed at Cradley Print in Cradley Heath, was planning an
extra edition involving 2 million extra copies. Newsweek chairman and
editor-in-chief Richard Smith says: "Extraordinary news events deserve an
extraordinary response."

In the US, communications were still in chaos. The New York Daily News is not
publishing its free afternoon commuter edition, the Daily News Express. The Wall
Street Journal, based only a few blocks from the World Trade Centre, also had to
put contingency plans into place. All the editorial functions were moved to the
printing centre in a suburb.

The Screenprinting & Graphic Imaging Association has cancelled the SGIA 2001
Convention & Exposition in Anaheim, California, this week, because of air travel
bans.

ffraser@cmpinformation.com


 In brief


* Huge print run increases

* Sales up by 20%

* Extraordinary situation

 Online: www.dotprint.com/resource/sep17


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2001 CMP Information Ltd

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                               September 17, 2001

Muslim leader's call to stay calm
 Terrorist attacks on New York beyond everyone's belief

BYLINE: Paul Savage

SECTION: NEWS:999:Disasters, Pg.4

LENGTH: 135 words


THE SAMARITANS are offering their support to everyone affected by the terrorist
attack in America.

Simon Armson, chief executive of The Samaritans, said: "Many people will be
experiencing emotional distress as a result of the traumatic and devastating
events.

"Our thoughts are with all those affected by this tragedy. The feelings of
shock, disbelief and grief will touch people the world over, and may last for
some time.

"The Samaritans are here to provide emotional support at anytime of the day or
night for anyone who needs our help."

The Samaritans offer time and space for people to explore their feelings in a
service that is available 24 hours a day for anyone in crisis or in need of
confidential emotional support.

Anyone wanting to contact the Samaritans, should call 0845 790 9090.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               September 17, 2001

US terror attacks: Chairman sends support message.

BYLINE: Andrew Ffrench (author email affrench@nqo.com)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 57 words

DATELINE: Witney



The chairman of West Oxfordshire District Council, Tony Walker, has sent a
message of condolence and "deepest sympathy" to the United States' ambassador in
London.

"Our thoughts are with the American people at this tragic time," said Mr Walker,
whose message was sent to William Farish on behalf of the residents of the
district.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

POP BAND 'TRAUMATISED' BY ATTACK;
 USA TERROR

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 378 words


GIRL band Atomic Kitten yesterday told how they and other popstars, including
Blue, Jamiroquai and Craig David, witnessed the destruction of the World Trade
Centre in Tuesday's terrorist attacks.

The band - who were in New York recording a video - were staying in a nearby
hotel and were said to be "very traumatised" after seeing the twin towers
collapse during the attack.

Atomic Kitten were due to appear in the pounds 1.2m UK launch of America's "toy
of the year" at Harrods yesterday, but cancelled on Saturday night.

The band decided to make room on crowded flights for people affected by the
atrocity who want to travel to Britain, and did not fly to London for the
Harrods launch of Cybiko - a hand-held computer aimed at teenagers.

the band, Brian Dowling, was at the event in Knightsbridge, central London, and
spoke to the Kittens via a telephone link set up so the group could speak to
hundreds of fans waiting in Harrods.

Brian and members of Atomic Kitten had a "very emotional" phone conversation, in
which the band said they were shaken by Tuesday's events, a Harrods spokesman
said.

Band member Natasha Hamilton, 18, told Brian, "We were shooting our video for
the new single You Are.

Unfortunately, we saw what happened - it was horrible.

"We were in a hotel nearby - the police came and got us, but we're far away from
it now and we are all fine but a bit shaky, " she said.

The band said they were looking forward to coming home today and wanted to get
back to normal as soon as possible.

"We are trying to find things to make us smile, " the band said.

A spokeswoman for Atomic Kitten said the members of the band were "still very
traumatised" by their experiences in New York.

The spokeswoman confirmed the girls had been in touch with Craig David and boy
band Blue "to make sure they were okay."

"They have left the hotel and have moved out of Manhattan to a safe location, "
she said.

Last month, the band played at what was planned to be a mass hot air balloon
launch. The launch had to be called off following fears about footand-mouth.

Organisers of the Bristol Balloon Fiesta in August decided that wind speed and
direction would risk bringing the balloons over agricultural land.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 17, 2001

Arnie's film is hit by terror attacks;
 Have a break

SECTION: News, Pg.47

LENGTH: 185 words


THE release of Arnold Schwarzenegger's new film is likely to be delayed because
of the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington DC.

Executives at Warner Bros are to decide by the weekend how to handle the problem
posed by Collateral Damage, which is due to be released in the US on October 5.

Starring Schwarzenegger as a man who seeks revenge after his family is killed
when a skyscraper is hit by a massive bomb blast, the title refers to innocent
people who lose their lives because they are in the wrong place at the wrong
time.

Sources at the studio say the film's release is likely to be postponed for
several months at least.

In addition, production has been halted - possibly indefinitely - on Terrorism,
a big-budget five-part television mini-series about a series of terrorist
attacks on New York City.

The future of the series, which was to star the casts of all three series of Law
And Order, is now under consideration following the attacks on the World Trade
Centre and the Pentagon.

Current events have changed everything, said the show's creator, Dick Wolf.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAITING FOR THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 657 words


IT is difficult to know how to start this view, appearing as it does one week
after the tragic events in the United States, in which democracy itself came
under attack.

Nothing should detract from the sheer scale of the human tragedy which has
occurred, and its effects on the lives of thousands of people. I am sure that I
speak for the whole of the Northern Ireland business community when I say that
our sympathy and understanding go out to all the families, friends and
colleagues of those caught up in the horrific events of last Tuesday.

President Bush and Prime Minister Blair have encouraged all of us to get back to
'business as normal' and make a defiant stance against global terrorism.

It is too early to say what the economic impact of the attacks and the likely
repercussions will be on the world economy. Much will depend on how the ordinary
person on the street responds to this tragedy.

Consumer spending has been the main driver of the economics on both sides of the
Atlantic. If consumer spending and confidence is maintained, then the US and
Europe should keep out of recessions. Everything should be done to bolster that
confidence.

The CBI's message to the Monetary Policy Committee is that it is time for
another cut in interest rates to cope with the continuing downturn reported by
exporting manufacturers.

We have been saying over the last few months that interest rates should fall in
the autumn, and the events last week have strengthened our call. A cut is needed
to stimulate the economy and maintain consumer confidence.

This is particularly the case as far as Northern Ireland is concerned. Our
latest Business Confidence Survey, published last week, and taken before the
attacks on the US, showed that confidence in the local economy was still
falling, and was at its lowest level since the survey was started in 1986.

This plummeting confidence in the Northern Ireland economy, which is still
recovering from the foot-and-mouth crisis, is undoubtedly linked to the
continuing lack of political stability and apprehension about the future of the
Assembly, combined with increasing concerns about the global economy.

We regret that over the summer months outstanding difficulties facing our local
politicians have not been resolved. At the same time, the extent of community
tensions and sectarianism have been on view to the rest of the world.

These negative images of Northern Ireland have been seen around the globe by
potential investors and tourists. Business people, who all act as ambassadors
for Northern Ireland when travelling abroad, get a real feel for the impact that
such images make.

Recent pictures of attacks on children, whatever the rights and wrongs of the
circumstances that provoked it, have seen the reputation of the Province reach a
new low.

Surely the events of last week must send a message to those in our own community
who cling to the weapons of terror that it is time for change.

Decommissioning must start, and we must have strong political leadership, which
through example can create confidence in the future.

The Province must offer a stable and attractive environment for investment in
order to deliver greater opportunity and prosperity. Clearly these conditions
currently do not exist and our future prosperity and the opportunities available
to our young people are at risk.

Peace and political stability are the foundations on which a new Northern
Ireland has to be built. It is in no-one's interest for the Executive and
Assembly to fall.

The current political uncertainty is damaging our future prospects in a world
which owes us nothing. We call on all involved in the political process to
redouble their efforts to secure a way forward to create the political stability
that the people of Northern Ireland deserve.

The dreadful events in the United States of last week reinforce this need more
than ever.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: COUNCILLORS HURT IN HATE ATTACK

BYLINE: Sophie Blakemore

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 352 words


TWO Asian Birmingham councillors have been injured in a violent racist assault
sparked by the terror attacks in America.

Coun Chaman Lal and a colleague who did not want to be named, spoke today of
their horror when a man ran up to them shouting, 'Are you Muslim, I want to kill
all Muslims.'

The assault in Cape Hill, Smethwick, came as tensions continued to mount
worldwide of a religious war.

The two Sikh councillors - one asked not to be named for fear of reprisals - had
left a pub in Cape Hill with another friend when the attack happened at around
11.30pm on Saturday night.

As the three men waited at a bus stop, a white man believed to be Irish, rushed
up to them screaming racist abuse.

Coun Lal (Lab, Soho) was struck in the stomach and the unnamed councillor was
smashed in the face, knocking out some of his teeth.

Coun Lal said: 'I am completely against the attacks in the USA and believe
terrorism should be wiped out, but it is not right for people to attack innocent
people at will.

'We were all very scared and the police and law enforcement agency need to
tighten their control and make sure this does not happen again - we do not want
inter-community fighting.'

Hospital treatment

The other councillor, who needed hospital treatment, said: 'There is no doubt
that this was a racist attack. The man was shouting at us that he hated Islam
and wanted to kill all Muslims.

'We told him we were Sikhs but he just kept saying that one of us must be a
Muslim and he would get us.'

'I have lost one tooth and may have to have others out. It has really shaken us
all up.'

Police were called to the scene but the man ran away before they arrived.

Officers are treating the incident as a racially motivated attack.

A Mosque has been damaged by fire amid fears of a backlash against Muslim
communities following the US terrorist attack.

Police today said the fire last night at the Alvia mosque on Bromwich Street in
Bolton, Greater Manchester, was being treated as suspicious. It follows a number
of attacks on the Muslim community in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 18, 2001

HOLY WAR DECLARED;
 One week on from terror attacks and world peace hangs by a thread

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 378 words


TALIBAN leaders today warned of a possible invasion and urged Afghans to prepare
for a jihad, or holy war, against the United States.

Throughout Afghanistan Taliban leaders are telling their people to prepare for
jihad against "U.S.

invaders, " the Taliban's Bakhtar News Agency said.

Taliban leaders said Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden, who has taken refuge in
Afghanistan, had been wrongly implicated in the terrorist attacks in New York
and Washington which killed more than 5,000 people a week ago.

Bin Laden - also wanted by the U.S. in connection with the 1998 bombings of U.S.
embassies in East Africa - is the prime suspect for last week's attacks by
suicide jet hijackers on New York's World Trade Centre towers and The Pentagon
in Washington.

But the state-run news agency said: "The accusations against Osama bin Laden are
baseless and a pretext to attack Afghanistan."

Within hours of the attacks in the U.S. , the Taliban's foreign minister, Wakil
Ahmed Muttawakil, condemned the violence and said that it would have been
impossible for bin Laden to carry them out because he did not have the
facilities.

Since then the Taliban's leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, has defended bin Laden
and accused the U.S. of accusing him because investigators have been unable to
come up with a real suspect.

Bin Laden has been living in Afghanistan since 1996 and is accused by Washington
of running a global terrorist network.

The Taliban have been placed under economic sanctions twice by the United
Nations to press an earlier U.S. demand that they hand over bin Laden for trial.

Since taking control of most of Afghanistan in 1996, the Taliban has declared
holy wars against the northern-based antiTaliban alliance, Russia and Iran, but
never the U.S.

In the beleaguered Afghan capital Kabul today dozens of Islamic clerics were
meeting, apparently to decide whether bin Laden could be handed over to the U.S.
in line with a request being made by a top Pakistani delegation.

The Pakistani team warned on Monday that unless bin Laden was handed over the
country was sure to be attacked by a multinational military force.

Omar deferred the decision to the council of Islamic clerics, which was
convening today in Kabul.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

DUKE SPEAKS ON 'BARBARIC' TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 107 words


THE Duke of York, a veteran of the Falklands war, said yesterday the "harrowing"
terror attacks in the US were beyond the comprehension of servicemen.

Andrew, who flew Sea King helicopters during the 1982 conflict in the South
Atlantic, and recently retired from the Navy, told a gathering of Navy
servicemen: "We have sadly witnessed and had to watch on TV the worst barbaric
act of terrorism.

"Those of us who have served in the armed forces have experienced conflicts but
this is beyond even our comprehension."

The Duke was speaking at a lunch in central London to celebrate the centenary of
the submarine service.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

HOW ATTACK SHATTERED STOCK MARKET CONFIDENCE;
 VOLATILE EQUITY MARKETS AND FALLS IN THE FTSE AND DOW JONES FOLLOWING THE US
TERRORIST ATTACK HAVE LEFT MANY INVESTORS WONDERING WHAT THEY SHOULD DO WITH
THEIR MONEY. NICKY BURRIDGE REPORTS

BYLINE: Nicky Burridge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words


Q: What is causing share prices to fall?

A: The terrorist attack on the US has shattered confidence and there are fears
that world economies could now plunge into recession as a result of Tuesday's
events. Insurance and airline stocks are among the hardest hit.

Q: How much lower is the FTSE likely to go?

A: Analysts are predicting that the FTSE has reached its lowest point and will
now begin to recover, although one analyst, Tony Dye, chief executive of Dye
Asset Management, has predicted that it could be five years before share prices
rise quicker than inflation.

Q: What should I do if I have money invested in the stock market?

A: Analysts stress it is important to remember that shares are a long-term
investment and investors should sit tight and wait for the market to rebound,
and not be tempted to sell investments at a low price. They should also not sell
ISAs as they will lose their tax-free allowance for this year.

Q: How will this affect my pension?

A: Most pension funds invest in equities so if the market goes down so does your
pension fund but observers say it is important to remember that pensions are a
long-term investment and the stock market is likely to recover before you need
to buy an annuity.

People in final salary pension schemes will not be affected by the current
turbulence as their employer guarantees their final pension.

Q: What if I am about to retire?

A: If you are due to retire in the next five years it is likely that your
pension fund will have been transferred out of equities and into safer
investments such as gilts. If your pension is still heavily exposed to the stock
market, it may be possible to delay buying an annuity until stock market levels
have recovered. Alternatively, talk to a financial adviser about the other
options available.

Q: What impact will this have on an endowment policy?

A: Endowment policies are linked to equities so a fall in the market affects the
value of the policy. But like pensions they are longterm investments.

Q: Is now a good time to invest in the stock market?

A: Yes, say many analysts, because the fall in the market creates a good buying
opportunity as you know you are not buying at the top of the market. The market
may fall further but it is difficult to catch it at the bottom and shares
currently seem fair value.

Q: Are some stocks safer than others?

A: Shares of companies such as airlines and insurance groups are likely to
suffer as a result of last week's tragedy. But companies such as supermarkets,
food and drink firms, tobacco companies and pharmaceuticals tend to perform well
in an economic downturn as they provide products people need regardless of what
the economy is doing.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: MODEL STUDENT TURNED MASS KILLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 188 words


MOHAMED Atta, the hijacker behind the World Trade Centre atrocities, turned from
model student to a fanatic who thought he was the "chosen one" for his terrorist
mission.

The 33-year-old Egyptian used his university course in Germany as a front for
his plans of mass destruction.

Tutor Dittmar Machule believes the smiling pupil who arrived at Hamburg's
Technical University in 1992 changed his name to carry out his horrific plot.

Prof Machule said: "It was perfect for hiding this conspiracy."

The words on the front of Atta's dissertation take on a new meaning now: "Speak:
My prayer and my sacrifice and my life and my death belong to Allah, the Lord of
the Worlds. Koran 6-162."

Atta stayed with fellow bomber Marwan El-Shehhi in the months before the
atrocity. Lebanese Ziad Jarrah, 26, often joined them in Hamburg for flying
lessons.

The FBI are unsure if fourth suspect Said Bahaji, 26, died in the attacks.

But their inquiry is growing. Yesterday, they revealed 4000 agents were tracking
40,000 leads.

They are hunting more than 100 people. It's feared many hold pilots' licences.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: TERROR HAS NO PLACE IN TRUE ISLAM;
 BUSH PLEA TO AMERICANS AFTER RACE-HATE ATTACKS

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14, 15

LENGTH: 542 words


PRESIDENT Bush last night called on Americans not to launch a backlash against
Moslems.

He visited a Mosque in Washington and made his plea after a series of race hate
attacks throught the US - the FBI are already investigating at least two murders
which could have been revenge attacks.

Standing in his stocking feet at Washington's Islamic Centre, Bush pleaded for
calm and insisted "the face of terror is not the true faith of Islam."

He said: "Those who feel like they can intimidate our fellow citizens to take
out their anger don't represent the best of America, they represent the worst of
humankind and they should be ashamed of that kind of behaviour."

Quoting a verse from the Koran, he said: "In the long run, evil in the extreme
will be the end of those who do evil."

And Bush added: "These acts of violence against innocents violate the
fundamental tenets of the Islamic faith and it's important for my fellow
Americans to understand that."

Police in Dallas are investigating whether the weekend slaying of a Pakistani
grocer was a hate crime.

And an Indian man running a petrol station in Arizona was shot and killed on
Saturday by a gunman shouting: "I stand for America all the way."

The killing prompted the Indian government to urge America to take steps to
protect Sikhs in the US.

It was claimed last night that the murdered cousin of a Scots businessman may
have been the victim of an anti- Moslem revenge attack.

Retailer Mazhar Rehman, 40, of Thornliebank, Glasgow, told how his relative was
gunned down at point-blank range in Dallas, Texas, on Saturday night.

Karachi-born Waqar Hassan Choudhry, 40, was found dying of gunshot wounds in his
grocery store.

Detectives probing the murder told the family there was no evidence of a robbery
and that they could not eliminate the possibility that it was a revenge killing.

Father-of-three Mazhar blamed his cousin's death on a backlash against Moslems
for the atrocities last week.

He said: "It has hit us very hard. His death has come as a tremendous shock. It
must be in response to what has happened with terrorist attacks in America.

"There have been attacks on various ethnic businessman in the US whether Sikhs
or Moslems by people who just don't know the facts or the truth about our
religion.

"It was done by people who just don't know the truth or the facts. They were
going out for revenge. The people who shot him just don't know the real
situation."

He also appealed for calm and pleaded that attacks on ethnic minorities around
the world don't escalate in the wake of the worst terrorist tragedy in history.

He said: "Killing innocent people is never right. I just hope it does not
escalate and that the people in America and the UK start calming things down."

Dallas Police revealed that a "considerable amount" of money was left in the
cash register at Mr Choudhry's store. They said they were not ruling out that
his murder was a revenge killing.

Meanwhile, Balbir Singh Sodhi, 52 - another petrol station owner - was shot dead
in Arizona on Saturday afternoon.

It is suspected the Indian Sikh may have been targeted because his beard and
turban reminded his attackers of Osama bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: BUSH: I WANT BIN LADEN DEAD OR ALIVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 315 words


US PRESIDENT George Bush yesterday demanded that suspected terrorist mastermind
Osama bin Laden be brought to justice.

Speaking as he was briefed on the US military's capabilities, Bush said: "There
is an old poster out west that says, 'Wanted: Dead or Alive'.

"Osama bin Laden is just one person. He is representative of networks of people
who absolutely have made their cause to defeat the freedoms that we understand.
This is a different type of enemy than we are used to. It is an enemy who like
to hide and burrow in.

"Their network is extensive. They have no rules. It is barbaric behaviour.

"They slit the throats of women on airplanes in order to achieve an objective
which is beyond comprehension.

"We are adjusting our thinking to the new type of enemy."

In a warning to Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime, he said: "Osama bin Laden
is the prime suspect. Any people who house him, encourage him, provide him with
food or money are on notice.

"We are going to find those evil-doers who attack our country. The people who
feed them will be held accountable. The Taliban must take my statements
clearly."

Bush acknowledged that American troops might face casualties, saying: "I know
that an act of war was declared against America. We will win the war, but there
will be costs."

Bush was speaking after he toured the Pentagon to meet people who had been in
the huge office building, the seat of US military power, when one of the
hijacked jets ploughed into it.

And he went out of his way to thank America's allies for the help and support
they have provided.

Bush said: "We know in America that more than just America suffered death in the
World Trade Centre.

"That is why the world is rallying to our call to defeat terrorism.

"They know that when you start putting the heat on those who house them, we will
get them running."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: QUIET MAN AT THE CENTRE OF STORM;
 AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: Mark Daly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 208 words


MULLAH Mohammed Omar, the spiritual leader of Afghanistan's ruling Talibans, has
been thrust to the centre stage of world politics.

His absolute refusal to hand over old friend Osama bin Laden has brought his
country to the brink of war.

In the ranks of world leaders, few are as sinister or reclusive as one-eyed Omar
- rarely seen in public for seven years.

His painful shyness earned him the nickname, the hermit.

He makes no speeches or appearances. To the ordinary Afghans he is just a name.

But he and his right-hand man Abdul Salam Zaeef, the Taliban ambassador to
Pakistan, hold the fate of their people in their hands. In the West, Omar is
virtually unknown.

There are no photographs of him and he refuses to see non-Moslem outsiders.

The 42-year-old cleric is described as striking with a long black beard.

His only outings are Friday prayers in the southern city of Kandahar.

Omar lives in a house in a compound near the city centre with three wives and
five children.

Bin Laden is said to live nearby and is also believed to have paid to have
Omar's home bomb-proofed.

Ironically, Kandahar has a large airfield built with US aid in 1980s when Soviet
forces fought for control of Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: RULER CAUGHT IN CROSSFIRE;
 PAKISTAN

BYLINE: Mark Daly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 215 words


THE dilemma Pakistan's President General Pervez Musharraf finds himself in today
is possibly one of the most difficult in the world.

The military ruler has declared "unstinted co-operation" to America in any
military attacks on Afghanistan.

But by supporting the US Musharraf - who came to power less than two years ago -
risks the fury of the Taliban.

He also risks alienating many of his own people, who are sympathetic to the
Taliban.

The Pakistani dictator has been locked in talks with his closest advisers,
wrestling with the question of how much support he could give.

But it would be nearly impossible for Musharraf to have refused the US demands,
as he has become crucial to Operation Noble Eagle.

Earlier this year, Musharraf made it clear that his regime wanted to be flexible
on the question of sending Osama bin Laden abroad for trial.

Yet his regime has been criticised for funding militants fighting a guerrilla
war against India in Kashmir.

But Musharraf has led a drive against armed terror groups in his own country.

And he has made some progress in curbing the religious extremists in Pakistan.

He is trying to regulate the Islamic schools, from which the Taliban sprang, to
persuade them to teach other subjects beside the Koran.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: TALIBAN'S D-DAY

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 4

LENGTH: 699 words


TERROR chief Osama bin Laden's fate will be decided today by a small group of
Afghan chiefs.

After a day of crisis talks, Taliban ruler Mullah Mohammed Omar refused to hand
the world's most wanted man to America.

Instead, he called a meeting of 20 Islamic religious leaders for this morning
after Pakistani diplomats delivered an ultimatum to Afghanistan's Taliban
government.

The Taliban were given a stark choice - give up bin Laden - or be bombed.

And Omar was warned: "A strike could occur as early as the weekend."

But as bin Laden's fate was being discussed, the Afghan government sent up to
25,000 troops armed with Soviet-made Scud missiles to menace the border with
Pakistan.

These have a range of 185 miles, bringing them within striking distance of the
Pakistani capital Islamabad.

The Afghans also closed their airspace and threatened to shoot down any planes
caught flying overhead.

In addition, the Taliban have warned that they will attack Pakistan if it allows
American troops to use its bases to launch air strikes.

The fundamentalists also threatened to declare a jihad, or holy war, against any
country which helps the US against Afghanistan.

As the Scud missiles arrived at the Khyber Pass, Pakistan responded by
strengthening its own forces along the 870-mile long frontier.

And at a military checkpoint in the Khyber, Pakistani army captain Abid Bahtti
said: "For the time being we fear they may attack us, but we will defend the
motherland."

Amid the escalating crisis, tens of thousands of terrified Afghans have fled
their homes.

But their hopes of finding safety swiftly were dashed when Pakistan sealed its
border with its mountainous neighbour.

The refugees' only hope now is to head for Iran, or to make a dangerous and
difficult trek through some of the highest peaks in the world.

Among those fleeing was reported to be bin Laden himself.

He has left his main headquarters near Kandahar and moved with a large number of
supporters to a remote mountain hideout.

His four wives and many children are believed to be also hiding elsewhere in the
countryside.

So far, he seems to have the full support of the Taliban who have been
sheltering him since 1996.

The US had given the Taliban regime three days to hand over bin Laden.

But the senior Pakistani officials who flew to Kandahar yesterday reported that
their talks with Omar had ended in deadlock after three hours.

Despite the setback, the delegation decided to stay on and make another attempt
to defuse the looming violence.

Pakistan's Foreign Minister Abdul Sattar warned that time was running out for
the Taliban to avoid retribution from America over the New York and Washington
attacks.

He stressed: "Time is of the essence. There is no ultimatum, but time is
definitely running out."

But his own government is in great difficulty as well.

Millions of Pakistanis support the Taliban and are opposed to helping America
attack them.

When the American assault starts, there will be a massive backlash which could
plunge the country into civil war.

But Pakistan has helped out America with its investigations into terrorism cases
before.

In February 1995, CIA and FBI agents were helped by members of Pakistan's own
Inter-Services Intelligence directorate to arrest Ramzi Yousef in an Islamabad
guest house.

Yousef was later jailed for bombing the World Trade Centre in 1993, killing six
people and injuring 1000.

But in 1998, Pakistan refused America access to its airspace for its attacks
against bin Laden following the African embassy bombings.

The Washington government was forced into using long-range missiles.

Meanwhile, ordinary Afghanis who have managed to flee to Pakistan are facing a
security clampdown.

Pakistan's Northwest Frontier province has banned the refugees on its side of
the border from leaving their camps. The crackdown has fuelled anger and dismay.

Abdullah Jan, a 56-year-old father of six who fled Kabul, insisted that Pakistan
had nothing to fear from them.

He said: "We have nothing to do with terrorism or terrorists. We are ourselves
victims of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

Did bin Laden cash in before terrorist attack?

BYLINE: By Andrew Cave Associate City Editor

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 347 words

AUTHORITIES in Germany and the US confirmed yesterday that they are
investigating claims that terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden tried to profit from
share trading before last week's terrorist attacks on America.

The inquiries centre on sharp falls in the prices of reinsurance and airline
companies in the two months before the attacks.

Munich Re, the world's biggest reinsurer, lost 13pc of its value in the week
before the outrages, while American Airlines' parent AMR fell about 15pc in the
prior six weeks.

Part of American's price fall followed a profits warning on September 7. United
Airlines, Continental and Delta also suffered steep price falls in the period,
along with reinsurers Swiss Re and Axa of France.

Yesterday, American dropped 42pc in early trading, while United was off 40pc.

Regulators believe terrorists may have sold short shares likely to be affected
by the attacks, placing "put options" to sell at a fixed price in the knowledge
that the market was about to fall sharply.

A spokesman for German stock market watchdog BAWe, said: "We are taking a
routine look at the share prices of various stocks. We're studying movements in
trade and in prices in the days leading up to the attacks."

German authorities are said to have informed America's Securities & Exchange
Commission of "suspect movements" in Munich Re's shares, which have lost 22pc
during the last two months.

Asked about suggestions that terrorists had profited from the attacks, US
Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill said: "As part of our general programme to go
after these rotten people, we're going to track down every terrorist and
expected terrorist and we're going to confiscate their money wherever it is in
the world.

"I think we'll have the co-operation of every financial institution in every
civilised society in the world."

Reports in Italy said bin Laden used a Milan brokerage account to invest in
European markets. Japanese regulators are also said to be investigating whether
he has been trading on the Japanese stock market.
[PS]City: [ES]

America at war:

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 18, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: UK tenant demand to suffer

BYLINE: Mark Cooper

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 154 words


Last week's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York are likely
to hit tenant demand in the UK, Merrill Lynch analysts claimed today.

In their latest Real View report, property analysts Alec Pelmore and Robert
Fowlds said: "Decision making by tenants is likely to be adversely affected and
we expect a sharp fall in take-up in Q3 and Q4.

"This is likely to have an adverse affect on developers who are in the process
of letting space or who have speculative developments completing in the next few
months."

Further uncertainty would slow the economy and depress capital markets further,
the report said. There was also a risk that tenants would cease to favour
high-rise buildings, which could affect prospects for London office towers.

However, the analysts said the above factors could put a brake on speculative
development in the City and Docklands, which would support rents and capital
values.

EGi News 18/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 18, 2001

Attack on America: Atom threat: Sellafield nuclear plant could be prime target
for terrorists: Experts warn of possible plane attacks

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words


Nuclear reprocessing plants at Sellafield in Cumbria and Cap de la Hague in
Normandy could be prime terrorist targets, experts warned yesterday, as the
conference of the international watchdog on atomic energy opened in Vienna.

With the New York and Washington attacks dominating discussions, Spencer
Abraham, the US energy secretary, warned that fanatics could wreak havoc by
destroying plants or stealing materials to build their own weapons.

Governments around the world have put their facilities on maximum security, but
officials admitted that little could be done to protect them from airborne
threats which could cause a "Chernobyl situation".

"We cannot assume that tomorrow's terrorist acts will mirror those we've just
experienced," Mr Abraham told the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
conference. "Clearly, terrorists will attack any target, so no one will be
immune. And clearly terrorists will use any method."

He went on: "The terrible events of last week demonstrate in the clearest
possible fashion the importance of maintaining the highest levels of security
over nuclear materials.

"We expect the members of this body to prohibit nuclear exports in cases where
there is a significant risk of diversion."

But delegates from the 132 member nations acknowledged that their ability to
shield facilities is limited.

"It is practically impossible to protect nuclear plants to the extent needed to
withstand the sort of attack we saw last week," said Melissa Fleming,
spokeswoman for the IAEA.

"Consideration was given to the possibility of a plane crashing into them when
they were designed and built. But over 20 years later, we have planes that are
almost twice as big and are going on long-haul flights able to carry tonnes of
fuel."

Dr Frank Barnaby, a nuclear physicist working for the Oxford Research Group,
warned that Sellafield and Cap de la Hague were likely targets be cause they are
home to the only reprocessing plants in Europe outside Russia.

"What are very big risks are the huge tanks of very, very radioactive liquid
stored in reprocessing plants," he said.

"They contain a huge amount of radioactivity and are less well-protected than
reactors, which are within very large concrete shields."

A spokesman for British Nuclear Fuels said both reactors and reprocessing plants
were "extremely robust" and were designed to withstand accidents, including
plane crashes.

But a US official, who declined to be named, said that a direct hit from an
airliner could cause a "Chernobyl situation". Although it would not destroy a
reactor, it could cause meltdown by damaging its cooling systems, allowing the
fuel rods to overheat.

Dr Barnaby also warned that the proposed mixed oxide (Mox) plant at Sellafield,
which is expected to get the go-ahead from the Department of Environment this
week, would be another prime target, because it would provide a simple source of
material for bombs.

"It's crazy to give permission to open a Mox plant under these circumstances,"
he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 18, 2001

Attack on America: Arrests: Terror suspect in US had London connection: Yard
also raids house seeking woman

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington, Vikram Dodd and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 819 words


Investigators looking into the possibility that more hijack teams may still be
at large were yesterday investigating a London connection in the terrorist
conspiracy and were questioning a French-Algerian suspect who lived in Brixton
before travelling to the US this year for flying lessons.

The 31-year-old suspect, Zacarias Moussaoui, was detained in Minnesota in
August, weeks before the attack, after arousing suspicion when he wanted to
learn to fly a Boeing airliner on a flight simulator in Minnesota, before he had
a basic pilot's licence.

He was found to be carrying a forged French passport and was handed over to the
immigration authorities. He was still in detention when hijacked airliners
destroyed the World Trade Centre and blew a hole in the Pentagon. According to
prison guards, Mr Moussaoui stood up and cheered when he saw the conflagration
on television.

The FBI questioned him the same day, and he was transferred to New York for
questioning as a "material witness", but is reported not to be cooperating.
Questions are likely to be raised in intelligence circles over why Mr
Moussaoui's activities and his background failed to ring alarm bells before
Tuesday's catastrophe.

Mr Moussaoui was born to Algerian parents in France's Basque country. The
Paris-based newspaper Liberation reported that French intelligence, the DST, had
a file on him as a terrorist suspect. He made several trips to Afghanistan,
before moving to Britain, possibly last year.

In February, he applied for flying lessons at the Airman Flight School in
Oklahoma. The school helped the would-be student, who listed his ad dress as
Lambert Road, Brixton, south London, secure a US visa.

British detectives raided an address in Brixton on Saturday, but would not say
if this was linked to the US investigation into Moussaoui. Scotland Yard sources
said after the raid they were looking for a woman in her thirties, as part of
their investigation into the British part of Osama bin Laden's international
terrorist network.

The woman, said to be Algerian-Moroccan, is believed not to have lived at the
address raided for several months. The FBI asked British police to track her
down after information was recovered in Florida from the belongings of one of
the suspected hijackers.

According to the flying school, Moussaoui struggled to get the hang of flying.
Dale Davis, the school's director of operations, said: "He flew a total of 56.9
hours and had still not soloed. Normally our students fly solo after 40 hours".

He left abruptly at the end of May with only a student's pilot licence, and
surfaced again in Eagan, Minnesota, where he applied to the Pan Am International
Flight Academy. He offered cash for time on a flight simulator, learning how to
handle a jumbo jet, but did not want to learn how to take off and land. His
instructor grew suspicious and called the police. He was arrested on August 17,
when it was discovered his French passport had been doctored.

The French newspaper Le Soir reported that Moussaoui had been in contact with an
Algerian Islamic militant, Farid Melouk, who is serving a nine-year sentence in
a Brussels prison. Melouk is suspected of belonging to the Algerian terrorist
movement, the Armed Islamic Group, and was arrested in 1998 after a shootout
with police who raided his home in Brussels.

The FBI are currently questioning 49 people being held for immigration
irregularities and further arrest warrants are expected.

Last Wednesday, two men were detained on a train in Texas during a routine drug
search. The men, Ayub Ali Khan and Mohamed Jaweed Azmath, were found to be
carrying retractable knives similar to those carried by the hijackers, as well
as hair dye and Dollars 20,000 in cash.

On Tuesday morning, they took a flight from Newark bound for San Antonio, Texas.
United Airlines flight 93, which was hijacked and crashed in Pennsylvania, took
off at about the same time from the same airport.

However, the San Antonio flight was diverted to St Louis after the World Trade
Centre was hit. Investigators believe it is possible that the two men were part
of another hijack team which lost its nerve.

US investigators are also expected to question Mufti Mo hammed Khan, the man
alleged to be second in command of Jaish-i-Mohammed, who was arrested at
Heathrow within hours of the attacks. The group, banned in Britain, claimed it
was behind the attack on the USS Cole in Yemen last October, which killed 17
Americans.

Some of those tracking the Bin Laden organisation say he may have had three
cells based in Britain of up to 10 people who operate semi-autonomously from
other cells.

The British security services have adopted a policy of allowing Bin Laden
sympathisers to stay, and indulge in rhetoric, on the basis that it is better to
watch them above ground. They know they are under surveillance.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERROR IN AMERICA: INSIDER TRADING - TERRORISTS MAY HAVE SOLD SHARES BEFORE
ATTACKS

BYLINE: Saeed Shah

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 513 words


THE WORLD'S financial regulators have launched an investigation into the
possibility that the terrorists who attacked the US last week made million
-dollar profits by dealing in shares ahead of the World Trade Centre attack.

It has been suggested that Osama bin Laden or his supporters used knowledge of
the impending assault on New York to sell shares in companies such as airlines
and insurance groups that were bound to be affected by the atrocities.
Suspicions were raised by a sharp and unexplained fall in the share price of
Munich Re, a giant German insurance company, in the week before the events of
last Tuesday.

Stock market regulators, including those in Britain, the US, France, Germany,
Italy and Japan are examining patterns of dealing in shares before and after the
attacks. According to reports in the Japanese media, American and British
intelligence agencies are also involved.

Yesterday Axa, the French insurance group that will have to pay out hundreds of
millions of pounds for the damage caused by the terrorists, asked the French
stock market regulator to find out whether its shares had been sold by people
connected with the attacks.

The financial watchdogs will examine whether there were any other unusual
movements in the share prices of companies directly affected by the attacks,
which would suggest that "short selling" took place.

This practice allows investors to sell shares that they do not own in the hope
that the stock will fall in value in the future, so they can buy it at a lower
price and pocket the difference. Short selling is not illegal but doing it on
the basis of insider knowledge is.

The idea that Mr bin Laden or his network speculated on the stock market ahead
of their assault on America is considered to be far-fetched by most experts but
others were taking it seriously.

The Italian defence minister, Antonio Martino, said: "I don't think it would be
exaggerated to think that the terrorist organisations were among those who
speculated on international markets." A report in an Italian newspaper, Corriere
della Sera, said that the multi-millionaire Mr bin Laden had played the stock
market before, using an unidentified Milan broker.

In Europe, speculation that short selling was carried out by people with prior
knowledge of the terrorist attacks has centred on Munich Re, which stands to pay
out pounds 630m because of the New York catastrophe. The attacks triggered a
fall of about 15 per cent in the value of Munich Re shares.

Sabine Reimer, a spokeswoman for Germany's federal securities regulator, said it
was looking at the possibility of share price manipulation as part of its
regular monitoring of the market.

If terrorists did speculate on shares, it is likely that they would have used
frontmen and gone through many different brokers to cover their tracks.

Britain's Financial Services Authority began investigating the possibility last
Thursday. An FSA source said: "It is incumbent on us to look into this. But it
is like looking for a needle in a haystack."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

TERROR IN AMERICA: DIPLOMACY - ATTACKS RAISE POSSIBILITY OF US THAW WITH IRAN

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 694 words


SOME STRANGE diplomatic fallout is emanating from the attacks on the United
States, none more so than the high- profile feelers from Washington towards a
sworn enemy - Iran.

Despite a small relaxation under the Clinton administration last year, whereby
trade in carpets, nuts and a few other innocuous goods was allowed, Iran remains
under a blanket of sanctions. These remain, but Tehran and Washington are now
driven by that oldest of diplomatic adages: My enemy's enemy is my friend.

Undeclared enemy No 1 of the US right now is the Taliban of Afghanistan, the
government that shelters the "prime suspect", Osama bin Laden. Scarcely less
hostile to the Islamist regime, however, is Iran.

Not only is Iran threatened by refugees from civil war and drought in
Afghanistan and the drug smuggling that orginates there: Iran is a theocracy of
mainly Shia Muslims, which sees the Taliban, a Sunni Muslim movement, as a
religious rival and a persecutor of a Persian-speaking Shia minority in
Afghanistan. Indeed, in 1998 eight of Tehran's diplomats were killed by the
Taliban, raising fears of a full - scale Iranian attack on Afghanistan.

Already Iran has closed its 560-mile (900km) border with its eastern neighbour,
to prevent a further flood of refugees trying to escape a new bombardment by the
Americans - but Washington would like to extend the co-operation much further,
despite all the sanctions in place.

These reflect Washington's insistence, dating back to the Islamic Revolution of
1979 and that year's hostage taking at the US embassy in Tehran, that Iran is a
state which sponsors terrorism - not only against the US but also, through
groups such as Hizbollah, against Israel. To no little irritation among US
allies, US companies and their foreign subsidiaries are barred from trade in oil
and most other products with Iran.

Such considerations are now crumbling before both real-politik and the demands
of sympathy. The Tehran authorities, as stunned as anyone by what happened on 11
September, have made unprecedented gestures of support and solidarity with their
opposite numbers in stricken New York.

Meanwhile, "interesting possibilities" were opening up with Iran, Colin Powell,
the Secretary of State, said; while President George Bush too has made clear
that he wants his "crusade" against terrorism to extend to non-Christian
countries, among them almost certainly Iran. "We will work with nations that one
would have felt a couple of years ago it would have been impossible to work
with," he has said.

No one is pretending that Iran and the nation it still calls "the Great Satan"
are about to lie down together as lambs. But obvious confluences of interest
abound in the current crisis.

Washington and Tehran could well make common cause in channelling military
support to the Afghan opposition group, the Northern Alliance. It is struggling
after the death of its former chieftain, General Ahmed Shah Masood, to hang on
to the 5-10 per cent of Afghanistan it controls, and joint Iranian and American
support would help it to recover.

Beyond that, however, collaboration has its limits. Despite a common enemy in
Afghan-istan, Iran remains an Islamic theocracy and rival of America in other
spheres, above all in the Israeli conflict. However much President Mohammad
Khatami would like to ease his country's estrangement from America, the
religious leadership that runs Iran is less amenable.

Ayatollah Ali Khamanei, the country's spiritual head, said yesterday in his
first reaction to the attacks: "Islam condemns the massacre of defenceless
people, anywhere and by any means." But he added: "Based on the same principle,
Iran condemns a possible attack on Afghanistan which could lead to another human
catastrophe."

The pattern may well resemble the Gulf War, in which Iran did not in any way
take part in the US-led coalition against Saddam Hussein. This time too, Iran is
unlikely to join any coalition, or permit America to overfly its territory -
still less install bases. Experts caution that, just as a decade ago, the best
to be hoped for is that Iran will do nothing to interfere.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK PLOTTERS - 5 TRAINED IN UK

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 79 words

HIGHLIGHT: Logan tower


AT least five of the 19 hijackers were trained in Britain, it was claimed last
night.

The FBI is said to have passed details to Scotland Yard. Officers will now seek
"sleeper" cells planning attacks in the UK.

Dozens of homes will be raided and phone records, bank accounts and emails
investigated. Meanwhile, an Afghan used a pilot's licence to get into the
control tower at Logan airport, Boston, three days before the hijack jets took
off from there.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 18, 2001

Airline unions urge state aid;
 Virgin blames terror attacks for 1,200 sackings

BYLINE: by IAN MORRISON

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 483 words


AVIATION unions demanded government cash aid yesterday to stop bosses from using
the US terrorist attacks as a pretext to slash jobs.

Airline giant Virgin Atlantic axed 1,200 workers, but company chairman Sir
Richard Branson claimed that the decision had been forced on him by last week's
"tragic" events.

Jobs will be cut across the board, including pilots, cabin crew and office
staff.

Before announcing the cuts, Sir Richard thanked his staff for their "spirited
and professional" response in the past week.

The cuts followed the decision of US giant United Airlines to axe 11,000
workers, blaming last Tuesday's attacks on New York and Washington.

Pilots' union BALPA said that airlines in the US would be given substantial
state funding to help them through the difficulties that the industry faced in
the aftermath of the devastation.

BALPA general secretary Chris Darke stated: "British airlines, both large and
small, have been badly hit and need similar support.

"The airline industry is a strategic industry and, like farming, it needs help
of a temporary nature to offset job losses and financial difficulties.

"The government should also join BALPA and the rest of the industry to tell the
British public that it is safe to fly and that this country has among the
highest standards of safety and security, " Mr Darke urged.

Manufacturing union MSF joined the call for government aid, arguing that
interest rates should be cut immediately to bolster industry.

MSF general secretary Roger Lyons urged the Bank of England's monetary policy
committee to meet in emergency session this week and reduce rates by 0.25 per
cent.

"Manufacturing is already suffering and cannot stand another big hit, especially
if exports fall any further, " he warned.

Mr Lyons said that airlines such as British Airways should be given government
aid to help them cope with business lost because of the attacks.

"BA is one of the country's premier employers and should be helped. The
government needs to consider the economic victims of this tragedy."

Transport union T&G national secretary Tim Lyle said, following talks with BA
bosses: "This is clearly a difficult situation.

"With over 20,000 T&G members at BA, we have a very keen interest in how the
company responds.

"At this stage, we are not ruling out an approach to the government, such is the
importance of aviation and allied industries to the economy, " Mr Lyle stressed.

Last week, BA confirmed that it was axing 1,800 jobs, but more could follow in
the wake of the US attacks.

Engineering union AEEU general secretary Sir Ken Jackson said: "It is essential
that airline companies and financial institutions hold their nerve and take a
long-term view.

"We are calling on the government to urgently consult with airlines and unions
to find a solution to this short-term crisis."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

GRAPHIC: TRADE FOLLOWS THE FLAG: Financiers, politicians and members of the
uniformed services taking part in the reopening of the New York stock exchange
yesterday for the first time since the terror attacks, as workers on both sides
of the Atlantic discovered that it would be business as usual. Afghanistan
masses troops: p2

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                               September 18, 2001

Madonna set to quit touring in wake of terrorist attacks on US; Madonna Waves
Goodbye To Live 'music'

LENGTH: 169 words

SUMMARY: The star reportedly tells friends she is too horrified to ever take to
the road again...



"http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,55205,00.html">
MADONNA is set to give up touring in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the
US.

The star has reportedly told friends she is too horrified to ever take to the
road again. According to The Sun (September 18) newspaper, the Queen of Pop is
intent on savouring time with her two children. "She says the Drowned World Tour
will her last. She can't see herself going back on stage again," a source says.
"What happened in New York put everything into perspective for
"http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,55205,00.html">
Madonna."

"http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,55205,00.html">
Madonna cancelled a show due to have been held in Los Angeles on the evening of
last Tuesday's attack (September 11). She played a gig in the city's Staples
Center two days later wearing an American flag as a skirt. She led the audience
in a silent prayer of remembrance for the victims.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAITING GAME AS US AND ALLIES DETERMINE ACTION;
 EXECUTIVE WITH THE CARDIFF OFFICE OF STOCKBROKERS BREWIN DOLPHIN, HARRY LEWIS,
ASSESSES THE POTENTIAL GLOBAL ECONOMIC FALL-OUT FROM LAST WEEK'S TERRORISM
ATTACKS IN AMERICA AND HOW SMALL INVESTORS IN EQUITY MARKETS MAYBE AFFECTED.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1369 words


THE terrorist attacks on America were without precedent in terms of scale,
organisation and the resulting tragic loss of life.

This makes comparisons with previous crises and forecasts of what happens next,
extremely difficult. To a great extent economic analysis has to be seen as
hypothetical insofar as much will be determined by the political and military
response from America, its consequences and any counter-retaliation by the
perpetrators.

The New York Stock Exchange opened for business yesterday afternoon after four
long trading days of blank screens. As expected the Dow Jones index opened lower
and after 30 minutes trading, it had dropped more than 500 points to test the
9000 level. Given the extent of the circumstances, this has to be considered a
measured response. The FTSE100 ended its trading session in positive territory
up 143.2 points to stand at 4898.9.

Harrowing tales run along the wires concerning those missing and not now sitting
in hastily arranged temporary offices in Manhattan. Such stories only serve to
increase the impression of the siege mentality that is reminding some of
Londoners during the blitz in the Second World War.

In the short term emotions will continue to rule; growing anger coupled with a
determination not to allow the terrorists to inflict further damage on the
American economy may well prevail. Any US hedge fund trying to "short" the
market may find they have been thrown out of the club.

Central banks are well aware of the risks of financial melt down and will be
both supporting the markets and leaning on financial institutions to follow
their lead.

It will take weeks for the full extent of the tragedy to sink in and to quantify
the "economic" cost.

In purely economic terms, the timing could hardly have been worse given that
fears of US (and consequently global) recession were already rife. There was an
immediate flight to safety with the UK market shedding in excess of 6pc as it
awaited Wall Street's reaction.

Many have highlighted the importance of sustaining consumer confidence in the US
in order to pull out of the current downturn. The very least you can say is that
this "event" may unleash many feelings, but confidence may not be one of them.
History has shown that the beginning of a conflict leads to a sharp fall in
consumer confidence that only recovers when the extent and duration of that
conflict can be seen. It would be unusual if the consumer did not rein back in
the current climate and investors may seek out sanctuary for capital and avoid
risk.

So formal recession - defined as at least two back to back quarters of negative
growth - is likely to be just around the corner and may well prove longer than
was previously feared. Indeed there was a strong view that the US economy was
building towards a recovery in late 2001/early 2002. This opinion now seems
seriously undermined. A consensus view is that recovery may well be delayed
until well into next year.

The good news is that inflation should not prove too much of a problem (although
this is to make the assumption that Opec (Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
Companies) retains its discipline of the last year in maintaining the oil price
within its set parameters) thus giving central banks the scope to reduce
interest rates sharply.

The Federal Reserve acted before Wall Street opened in cutting US rates by 50
basis points. It may well cut further at its planned meeting in 19 days and its
role over the coming days is crucial. Whilst the Fed has shown its support it
will be equally keen not to generate panic in the markets. The European Central
Bank also responded late yesterday with a 50 basis points cut in rates in the
eurozone.

There is also a short-term threat to market performance and psychology due to
the - as yet unquantified - loss of personnel in New York. The current story
that Cantor Fitzgerald, the London-based stockbroker, lost 800 staff drives home
the point that for financial companies, the capital in the balance sheet is
intellectual not physical.

All this has implications for the UK private investor. Our FTSE markets are very
sycophantic to the American indices and these circumstances dictate that this
link will be even stronger as events unravel.

Many leading financial figures turn to History for a perspective. Michael
Stutzer, professor of finance at the University of Iowa, refers to "a civil and
emotional crisis not a financial one."

His point is, in essence, that this should not trigger a major financial crisis
unless it is mishandled by government authorities.

Vic Niederhoffer, a long time colleague of George Soros, the legendary trader
who caused sterling to be ejected from the ERM on Black Wednesday, is even more
upbeat.

He said, "I hate to sound really mercenary, but I have received many messages
from traders who say this will be a terrific opportunity to buy. Whether you
look at the Eisenhower heart attack, the Warren G Harding ptomaine poisoning or
airline crashes, usually disasters provide the greatest times of opportunity."

Niederhoffer argues with a singular lack of emotion, that past disasters have
led to a tremendous boost for local and national economies as capital
infrastructure gets rebuilt with the most modern equipment.

"Everyone will chip in to help and this will turn out to be a transitory event,
" he said.

"It may cause a temporary slowdown in the US economy and a big disruption in the
supply chain, but there is no evidence to suggest that stocks do any worse in
recessions than in better times".

Perhaps, but markets, as we have seen over the past year, do tend to perform
badly as economies slow prior to recession; once in recession markets look for
(and react to) signs of recovery. Further many people will not see this as a one
off event to react to. If stock markets hate anything, they hate uncertainty.

But there are lessons to be learnt from history and whilst they should not be
viewed complacently, there is some reassurance in studying the past. Charts
detailing the stock market impact of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990 and
the Russian economic crisis of 1998 provide some clues. Both cases saw shares
fall sharply.

However the reaction, if not knee jerk, was short lived and prices rose quickly
as more stable conditions followed. This recovery through 90/91 was despite a
deep and long economic recession in Britain.

Long term shareholders will also point out that an investment in a FTSE100
tracker in September 1987 (before the world wide stock market crashes known as
"Black Monday"), would still have more than doubled in capital terms if sold
today. This, perhaps, gives weight to the sagest of investment advice - namely
to buy for long term.

Much of investment/share selection is common sense. It would appear obvious that
airlines and airport operators will be under pressure. Their share prices have
dropped markedly on fears of lost revenue and increased security costs. There
are obvious connotations for the insurance sector.

Economic slowdown may affect telecommunications companies as usage drops; media
firms will be looking to avoid a delay in the advertising cycle.

The oil sector will be a significant benchmark over the coming weeks. Control
over the oil price is key and despite favourable noises from Opec, nothing can
be certain. Any possibility of military action in the Middle East will worry
markets.

Even in these troubled times there are areas that are seen as defensive. Food
retailers always feel resilient. The market for electricity and water is
unlikely to be unduly challenged so we are seeing some support for the
utilities. Banks are usually attractive in a time of falling interest rates
(increased margin on their lending) and the multi-national pharmaceutical
companies will continue to show classic defensive qualities. For shareholders
and brokers alike appraisal should remain calm and measured as events unfold.

Harry Lewis is an executive with Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. (Cardiff Branch
telephone number 029 20340100. ) The views expressed here are not necessarily
held throughout the Brewin Dolphin group.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUSINESS AS USUAL: Traders at the Cantor Fitzgerald Equities trading
floor in London on Monday

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 19, 2001

Dismay as balloon adventure grounded;
 HEMPLEMAN-ADAMS: flight ban following terror attacks puts an end to Everest
attempt

BYLINE: Mark Ford

SECTION: News, Pg.13

LENGTH: 304 words


DAVID Hempleman-Adams is planning to relaunch his aborted Everest balloon flight
in the spring.

The Box-based adventurer had his plans to become the first person to fly solo
over the peak scrapped last week when Chinese authorities refused him permission
to fly.

The balloon was grounded due to China's increased security and tightened border
controls in the wake of the US terrorist attacks.

Mr Hempleman-Adams' future plans are still up in the air and will be discussed
once he arrives back in the UK in the next week or so, but they could involve
another attempt in April or May 2002.

Team Cadbury spokesman, Jo Bailey, is hopeful spring will be in the air next
year.

She said: "This weather window only lasts until the end of October and the next
one is in April to May next year, so we will be looking at things with that in
mind.

"It depends on lots of factors including the political situation."

Since the record attempt was called off last Friday, Mr Hempleman-Adams and most
of his 20-strong team have trekked from their 16,000ft base camp to the Everest
base camp at 17,000ft.

They are now on their way down to the Nepalese capital Kathmandu where they are
hoping to organise a short, half-day consolation flight.

Jo Bailey said: "For a lot of people who are on Team Cadbury it is their first
time on Everest and David wanted to show them a bit of it and make the most of
their time.

"David is very disappointed and wants to do something now they are out there."

Three American doctors were due to fly out last week to join the team to conduct
research into the effects of altitude on the team.

However they remained in the US after the terrorist strikes in New York and
Washington and are thought to have been involved with relief efforts in and
around the Pentagon.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

US TRAGEDY: CHURCH ATTENDANCES RISE IN WAKE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 257 words


CHURCH attendance has risen in the wake of the US terrorist attacks in a manner
not seen since the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, religious leaders said
yesterday.

Spokesmen for the major Christian faiths said thousands of people were seeking
solace in churches in an effort to come to terms with the scale of the
atrocities.

"In many ways, it is like the time when Diana was killed," a Church of England
spokesman said.

"People have needed and sought comfort in the churches and in prayer."

The Rev Richard Thomas, director of communications for the Oxford diocese, said
the response to the events in New York and Washington last week had been "very
large".

"There is a very strong feeling among people," he said.

"I spoke to one man who said that, although he was all for the use of force to
bring the people responsible to justice, we need to remember that retribution
has no place in the Christian gospel."

The Roman Catholic Church also reported an increase in attendance.

The Rev Stanislaus Hobbs, of Ealing Abbey church in west London, said: "When the
tragedy happened we put a huge peace candle in the middle of the church. I was
touched by the number of people who came and stood before it."

The Evangelical Alliance said it had posted a number of prayers on its website
to help churches with special services of remembrance.

The Rev John Smith, UK director for the alliance, said: "Something has been
evoked in people that they want to make some kind of response to what has
happened."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

GRANDSON WAS SECONDS FROM DEATH;
 MAN ESCAPED TERRORIST ATTACK 'BY PURE CHANCE'

BYLINE: Catherine Hendrick FREQUENT VISITS: Mrs Hassle with her late husband
Ralph in front of the World Trade Centre

SECTION: Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 407 words


A BIRMINGHAM woman today told how her grandson escaped the World Trade Centre
disaster by seconds after he caught an earlier train to work than usual.

Pat Hassle, of Hazeloak, Shirley, believes that a matter of pure chance saved
David Hassle's life.

David, a 25-year-old computer analyst, would normally have been travelling
underneath the World Trade Centre around the time the buildings collapsed.

But luckily, as he waited for his normal train, another turned up and he decided
to jump on that instead. Pat said: 'He arrived at the World Trade Centre early,
just at the moment the second plane hit.

'Debris was falling all around him but he ran and got away in time, thank God.

'Had he taken his usual train to his office, which is near the

Twin Towers, it would have arrived slightly later and I dread to think what
would have happened.

'We understand that that train is still trapped underneath the mountain of
debris.

'Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of America and our heartfelt
sympathy goes out to all the people in New York who were not as fortunate as we
were.'

Mrs Hassle's son Gary moved to New York 28-years-ago and works as a senior
diamond consultant at Tiffany and Co on Fifth Avenue.

His wife Nancy is a senior nurse at New York University Hospital which dealt
with many of the victims.

David is engaged to NBC TV production company worker Jamie Scotto, aged 22.

Mrs Hassle said: 'When I spoke to Nancy she was disappointed because they had
been waiting for people to be brought in for treatment and there weren't many,
which was a bad sign.' The grandmother described how she had watched the tragedy
unfold on television, unaware that her grandson was so nearly involved.

She said: 'I just turned the television on and at first I thought it was a
disaster movie.

'I saw the smoke pouring out of one of the Twin Towers and the second plane hit
it without realising my grandson was just coming up the subway.

Visited

'As myself and my daughter, Michelle, were trying to work out what was
happening, my son rang to say they were all okay.'

Mrs Hassle and her late husband, Ralph, who died three years ago, regularly
visited the World Trade Centre.

'Gary has told me he hopes this tragedy will not put people off coming to New
York because if it does, the terrorists have won.

'He said the security there now is fantastic and it will remain so.'

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORISM EXPERT'S REVENGE ATTACK WARNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words


AN EXPERT in terrorism at Warwick University says it is a mistake for America to
pledge to root out Osama bin Laden "dead or alive."

Dr David Carlton (above), a lecturer in international studies, said that such an
approach could lead to chemical or biological warfare.

And he warned Britain against launching into reckless acts of revenge.

Dr Carlton said: "It is a huge mistake to build up one man into a Scarlet
Pimpernel-type figure.

"If we suddenly bomb a country for harbouring someone like bin Laden, that
country might take counter-measures and unleash chemical and biological weapons.

"We are dealing with shadowy extremist groups who are based all over the world.

"If you build up America's expectations that it will all be over once bin Laden
is caught dead or alive, a lot of people are going to be very disappointed.

"It is implausible to think that one man in his cave in Afghanistan is behind
these atrocities in America."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: JET MAKERS TO LAY OFF 30,000 AS CRISIS BITES;
  THIRD OF BOEING WORKERS FACE AXE - 3AM NEWS

BYLINE: Judith Duffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 356 words


AIRCRAFT makers Boeing are planning to lay off 31,000 as a result of last week's
terrorist attacks.

Around 30 per cent of their commercial airline workforce are facing the axe and
the company are set to make an announcement today.

The lay-offs are expected to be implemented by early next year.

The British airline industry is also bracing itself for the worst.

Virgin Atlantic have already announced 1200 job cuts and unions fear British
Airways will unveil up to 6000 redundancies this week.

Continental Airlines have also laid off 12,000 and US Airways are set to cut
11,000 jobs.

Around 93,000 work for Boeing's commercial airline sector centered around the
company's former headquarters in Seattle.

The White House and Congress are currently considering a federal aid package for
the airline industry to help it recover from last week's attacks.

The industry has asked for pounds 16billion and the House of Representatives
floated a pounds 10billion relief plan last Friday.

But though the White House and congressional leaders suggested a multi-billion
-dollar package was on the way, they weren't offering a final figure or
timetable for debate.

In Britain, executives from British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and British Midland
met Transport Secretary Stephen Byers to discuss security and how to maintain
public confidence in flying.

Further talks will be held, including meetings with charter and low-cost
carriers, in a bid to maintain the competitive position of airlines.

Pilots' leaders called on the Government to give the pounds 1billion-a-year
airport tax back to airlines to help stave off job cuts.

The British Airline Pilots Association are seeking talks with ministers in the
next few days to press their case.

General secretary Christopher Darke said: "Redirecting the airline passenger
duty tax is the most immediate help the Government can give.

"It would be short term but would bring long-term benefits.

"Thousands of jobs might not have to be cut and UK airlines would not lose their
share of what everyone agrees will be, for a time, a smaller market."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: CABBIE FIGHTS FOR HIS LIFE AFTER ATTACK

BYLINE: Jan Disley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 251 words


AN Afghan cabbie beaten and left for dead in a revenge attack for the US
massacres fled his country to escape violence there.

Haniddullah Gharwal, 28, of Acton, Middlesex, sought a better life in Britain
after living under the extremism of the ruling Taliban.

But he was brutally attacked by three white racists shouting abuse about the
twin towers disaster and was left paralysed from the neck down.

Last night he was fighting for his life in a London hospital.

His ordeal is just one story from a catalogue of shame across Britain.

In South Shields, Tyneside, vandals daubed graffiti on walls urging people:
"Avenge USA - kill a Moslem now."

The sick graffiti - 6ft high and 8ft wide - was splashed in red letters on a
white wall just yards from a mosque.

Local Labour MP David Miliband condemned the vandals and called for unity to
stop far-right groups turning "outrage" to "hatred".

A 20-year-old Bangladeshi man was badly beaten by a gang in a park in South
Shields at the weekend.

Mosques in Manchester and Bolton have also been firebombed in the aftermath of
the terrorist atrocity.

Last night, in an article for the Daily Jang, a London-based newspaper for the
Asian community, Prime Minister Tony Blair stressed the terrorists did not
represent Britain's Moslems.

Blair wrote: "Barbarism of the kind we have just witnessed is totally foreign to
the true spirit and values of Islam which puts so much stress on tolerance and
respect for human life."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: THE MEN BEHIND AMERICAN TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 195 words


THESE are the faces of the men thought to be behind the horrific terrorist
attack on the US.

The photographs have been taken from driving licences and public records.

Several of the 19 hijackers first appear in public records in the last two
years, suggesting they entered the United States far more recently than others
sought for questioning. At least nine of the hijackers obtained their drivers'
licences in Florida between April and June of this year.

Five list their home addresses in Delray Beach and Boynton Beach in Palm Beach
County, two had addresses in Fort Lauderdale and one each were based in Vero
Beach and Daytona Beach.

Meanwhile, the FBI said they had arrested a total of 83 people as part of their
investigation.

NAWAF AL HAZMI: Aboard Flight 77

AHMAD HAZNAWI: Aged 20, on Flight 93

KHALID ALMIHMADI: On the Pentagon flight

MARWAN AL SHEHHI: Aged 23, on Flight 175

HAMZAH SALEH Details scarce

ZIAD SAMIR JARRAH: Aged 26, aboard Flight 93

AHMED AL NAMI: On Flight 93

WAIL AL SHEHRII: Aged 28, aboard Flight 11

WALEED AL SHEHRI: Aged 21 to 27, brother of Wail

SATAM AL SUQAMI: Aged 25, on Flight 11

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: TERROR CHIEF TOURS IN PICK-UP TRUCK

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 219 words


OSAMA bin Laden is thought to be riding around Afghanistan with a handful of
bodyguards in two Toyota pick-up trucks.

Although the terror chief has a personal following of up to 2000 armed
fundamentalists, it's unlikely they'e travelling with them.

For that would draw attention to him, according to Major Charles Heyman, editor
of Jane's World Armies.

Another theory is that bin Laden had gone to a remote mountain hideout with a
large number of supporters .

Yesterday as the ruling Taliban showed no sign of giving up bin Laden, options
for taking him by force were being drawn up by strategists on both sides of the
Atlantic.

Their main difficulty may be knowing precisely where he is hiding.

Heyman said that, with the operation to seize the terror chief looking decidedly
long-term, the US is likely to launch a "cosmetic" strike in the next few days
for the benefit of public opinion.

He added: "They're not going to hit much, but will launch some sort of air
attack using cruise missiles or artillery."

Paul Burton, co-ordinating editor of Jane's Sentinel Security Assessment, said:
"I think a covert operation to find bin Laden is most likely, but it will be
difficult."

Observers agree that a prolonged ground war involving British and American
troops is unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: GRIEF AS BRITISH VICTIMS' FAMILIES FLY IN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 316 words


RELATIVES of the British victims of the terrorist attacks began arriving in New
York last night.

As the death toll from the atrocities rose to 6000, British consulate officials
greeted the devastated families at a city hotel.

Dazed and tired, the group, clutching pieces of paper, stared straight ahead as
they formed a queue.

Each person was asked to register their name as three consular staff smiled and
offered what little comfort they could.

One man in his fifties stared at the pieces of paper on the burgundy table cloth
in front of him.

He turned away, clutching the bridge of his nose and took a deep breath, before
his wife comforted him by squeezing his hand.

Earlier in the day, British Ambassador Sir Christopher Meyer laid a bouquet of
red and white roses and purple blooms at Our Lady of the Rosary, the closest
church to the ruined World Trade Centre.

He said no confirmed figures were available for the number of Britons killed but
expected it was in the region of 250, or "somewhat more".

Visibly shaken, he said: "It is very difficult to talk about this in public, I
find it very affecting.

"This week we have got to focus on the British people flying out and find out
what has happened to their loved ones.

"It is going to be a difficult week for everyone and the shock of this will
reverberate through the weeks, months and years for a very, very long time.

He said: "The challenge this week is to be able to deal sensitively and
respectfully with some very distressed people who fear the worst for their loved
ones."

Thirty embassy staff are on call for the British families as well as 20 police
family liaison officers and a group of grief counsellors that flew out with
them.

New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani yesterday admitted there was "little hope"
anybody would be found alive in the debris of the World Trade Centre.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: THE FACES OF PURE EVIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 322 words


THESE are some of the men thought to be behind the horrific terrorist attacks on
the US - many of them pictured for the first time.

Our main picture shows terror group leader Mohammed Atta.

It is believed the 33-year-old led the takeover of American Airlines Flight 11
which smashed into the north tower of the World Trade Centre.

Also on the plane were Satam Al Suqami and brothers Waleed Al Shehri and Wail Al
Shehri

Atta's nephew, Marwan Al Shehhi, is thought to have taken control of United
Airlines Flight 175, along with Hamza Alghamdi, before crashing into the south
tower of the World Trade Centre.

Khalid Alminihmadi and Nawaf Alhamzi are believed to have crashed American
Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon.

United Airlines Flight 93 - which was brought down in Pennsylvania - carried
Ahmed Alhaznami, Ahmed Alnami and Ziad Samir Jarrah.

The photographs have been taken from driving licences and public records.

At least nine of the hijackers obtained their drivers' licences in Florida
between April and June of this year.

Five list their home addresses in Delray Beach and Boynton Beach in Palm Beach
County.

Two are listed as having addresses in Fort Lauderdale and one each was based in
Vero Beach and Daytona Beach.

MOHAMMED ATTA: The 33-year-old helped take control of one of the doomed
airliners. He is thought to be the leader of the terror attack

AHMED ALNAMI: He was aboard Flight 93

KHALID ALMINIHMADI: On the plane which hit the Pentagon

MARWAN AL SHEHHI: The 23-year-old was on Flight 175

NAWAF ALHAZMI: He was aboard Flight 77

WAIL AL SHEHRI: Aged 28, he was on board Flight 11

WALEED AL SHEHRI: Aged 21 to 27, he is the brother of Wail

AHMED ALHAZNAWI: The 20-year-old was on Flight 93

ZIAD SAMIR JARRAH: Aged 26, he was on board Flight 93

HAMZA ALGHAMDI: Details of this hijacker are scarce

SATAM AL SUQAMI: Aged 25, on Flight 11

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: MEETING OFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 21 words


The UN last night postponed next week's annual gathering of world leaders in New
York for the first time in 56 years.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: BUSH LEADS US SILENCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 77 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush led the US in a moment of silence yesterday to mark the
attacks a week earlier.

At a ceremony honouring rescue workers, he said Americans should take heart in
their spirited rush to give aid and comfort.

He said at the White House: "Out of our tears and sadness, we saw the best of
America."

He also announced a website to co-ordinate donations. And a federal grand jury
has been formed to probe the New York attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: FBI LOOK AT FOILED HIJACK OF JET NO 5

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 229 words


THE FBI are investigating whether a fifth suicide hijacking was foiled when a
flight from Boston to Los Angeles was cancelled.

Investigators are trying to find out if some passengers on American Airlines
flight 43 - halted at the last minute due to technical problems - were
terrorists.

It was due to take off just 25 minutes after American Airlines flight 11, which
was hijacked and flown into New York's World Trade Centre.

The FBI are also looking at the passenger lists of several other flights ordered
to the ground in the aftermath of the hijackings.

Agents have narrowed down their search to several dozen passengers with Arabic
-sounding names who were on grounded flights and did not continue their journeys
when commercial air trips resumed.

Police in their local areas have been given their names and told to find them
and bring them in for questioning.

Many of prime suspect Osama bin Laden's family live in Boston and have now been
put under surveillance.

The FBI also believe a second wave of attacks was due to be launched on Saturday
by those behind the New York and Washington atrocities.

Intelligence reports suggest last Tuesday's attacks were just the start of a
massive terror campaign in the US and elsewhere.

The revelation came as a new anti-terrorist network of law and order forces
across America was unveiled

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

Today in sport The nature of sport in the US may be changed forever after last
week's terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Mike Katz

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 576 words

THE wind changes, and it is an ill wind that blows smoke and the smell of death
up my street, maybe a mile and a half from where the World Trade Center towers
stood.

The wind also changes sport in this country, perhaps forever.

At most stadiums and arenas, spectators will not be allowed to bring in ice
coolers. Women's bags were opened at the gates yesterday when the games began
for the first time since the attack. Even the players had to show identification
to gain entrance.

Baseball returned yesterday. The National Football League, which played the
Sunday following the Kennedy assassination in 1963, comes back on Sunday. The
most anticipated boxing match of the year, Felix Trinidad Jr against Bernard
Hopkins, which was to have taken place last Saturday, was rescheduled today for
Sept 29.

Let the games resume, but they'll never be the same. From now on, they are only
games, even in this sport-crazy nation.

Vinny Testaverde, the star quarterback of the New York Jets football team,
visited Ground Zero on Saturday for four hours, chatting with the police and
firemen and other rescue workers. He took a piece of concrete from the buildings
that his father, a construction worker, helped erect.

Ray Lucas, a former Jet quarterback now with the Miami Dolphins, said: "If
you're from New York or that area, let's face it, you know somebody who was at
the World Trade Center." Lucas has one friend who raced down 85 floors to
escape. He has another who worked on the 85th floor who has not been seen and is
presumed dead.

The games may take people's minds off a war against an invisible enemy for a few
hours, but that's all. Pennant races and championships are no longer life and
death. There were poignant reminders everywhere.

In Philadelphia, both baseball teams stood to attention on the field as the
national anthem was played and the curmudgeon who manages the Phillies, Larry
Bowa, could not stop the flow of tears. Thoughts were running through his mind,
he said later.

"I was thinking about the people in New York and Washington, the country as a
whole, how proud you are to be an American," Bowa said after his team won an
important game against the Atlanta Braves.

"We're starting a healing process that'll never heal completely. These scars
will never go away. I thought the Kennedy killing was the worst. This was worse.
We have to let these cowards know they may have knocked us down, but they didn't
knock us out."

All over the country, as John F Kennedy said in 1963 to the beleaguered city of
Berlin, "ich bin ein Berliner," people were suddenly New Yorkers, rooting for
this town's team. In St Louis, local police and firemen led the pre-game
ceremonies in honour of New York's Finest and Bravest. In Pittsburgh, where the
Mets had to go to play the Pirates because the New York team's home, Shea
Stadium, was being used as a depot for emergency supplies, "I Love NY" buttons
were given to fans.

John Franco was the winning pitcher on his 41st birthday but the native New
Yorker admitted he wasn't "fired up and focused".

"It was kind of a blah feeling," said Franco, who has brothers in the fire
department. "I think our heads and our hearts are still back in New York."

Franco's brothers were reported OK. But the fireman who coaches the Met
pitcher's son in Little League baseball (11 and 12-year-olds) was missing.

What does that make the final score?

Mike Katz is a senior New

York sports writer

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 19, 2001

BIN LADEN FILMS TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 168 words


OSAMA bin Laden makes grisly real-life horror movies of all his terrorist
atrocities, a shock report has revealed.

US investigators have discovered he funded a film crew to video last year's
attack on warship USS Cole which killed 17 American crew.

FBI agents are hunting five men spotted filming the suicide jet raids on the
World Trade Center. The men set up video cameras and trained them on the twin
towers to capture the moment the passenger airliners slammed into them.

Horrified witnesses saw the men congratulating each other after the attacks,
which left more than 5,000 dead.

US intelligence sources said last night the filming was "key evidence" linking
bin Laden to last week's carnage.

The warlord uses the footage to brainwash new recruits to his Al-Qaeda
organisation.

At his terrorist training camps in the Afghan hills bin Laden edits the tapes -
dubbing readings from the Muslim holy book the Koran and his crazed rantings of
US hatred over the scenes of horror.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 Express Newspapers

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 19, 2001

US Terrorist Attacks: UK property market in shape to withstand fallout

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 219 words


The strength of the UK property market will help it ride out the economic
fallout of last week's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York,
say industry experts.

"The UK and European commercial property markets are in their best shape for
over 30 years to withstand a recession," said Angus McIntosh, head of research
at King Sturge.

He said that any loss of confidence in the equity markets will encourage
investors to buy property.

DTZ Debenham Tie Leung chairman, Robert Peto, said : "The characteristics of
property as a competitive investment medium are better than ever. Before the New
York attack, the fundamentals looked very sound."

However, he accepted that corporate decision-making will suffer as a result of
the general economic uncertainty, but said that no property deals have fallen
through in London since the attacks on the US.

Insignia Richard Ellis head of research Peter Damesick said: "Before 11
September, the property market was set to see weaker demand and slower rental
growth, particularly in the industrial sector and the Thames Valley.

"Now, lower consumer spending and weakening business confidence pose a threat to
economic growth - well be lucky to see growth better than 2% next year."

For the full version of this story see this Saturday's Estates Gazette.

EGi News 19/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 19, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: JLL puts property cost at $10USbn

BYLINE: Mark Cooper

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 112 words


Jones Lang LaSalle has estimated that the property costs of last week's attack
on the World Trade Center in New York will be at least $10USbn (£6.8bn).

A total of 2.33m sq m (25m sq ft) of property was destroyed or damaged in the
attack and JLL said that only a fifth of that total would be repaired and usable
within the next 12 months.

JLL says that the short-term demand for temporary offices in the area had
increased sharply since the attack.

Jacques Gordon, co-chair of JLL's global research team, said the economic
uncertainty following the attack would delay the US's recovery for six to nine
months, with the economy being in recession in Q3 and Q4.

EGi News 19/09/01



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Terrorists 'had planned second wave of attacks';
NEW FEARS

BYLINE: Hugh Muir;James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words


FEARS that Osama bin Laden terrorists had planned a second wave of attacks this
Saturday have sparked alarm in Britain and the United States.

The FBI and government authorities have grown increasingly certain - from
intelligence intercepts, witness interviews and evidence gathered in hijackers'
cars and homes - that a second wave of violence was planned by collaborators.

The date 22 September has emerged as important in the evidence, although
officials have refused to say what was planned. The FBI believes that the
targets might have included buildings, bridges and even chemical attacks on the
water supplies to some cities.

Reports in the US suggest that one new attempt to hijack an airliner on Saturday
may already have been foiled. The five people booked to fly on United Airlines
service from San Antonio to Denver on Saturday were on a confidential FBI list
of associates of the 19 hijackers. Alader Alhazmi, 34, a medical student from
San Antonio, has been detained and is being questioned in New York.

Last week it emerged that two men Ayub Ali Khan, 51, and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath,
47, were taken off a train in Texas after being found without legal
identification and carryingbox cutters like those used in the hijackings.

It is now thought last week's attacks were arranged as part of a larger plan
with other acts of terrorism. Senator Bob Graham, chairman of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, said: "There has been credible evidence gathered since
that Tuesday's attacks were not designed to be a one-day event.

There were other acts of terrorism in the US and elsewhere that were part of the
plan. These acts were going to occur in the United States and elsewhere in the
world."

Attorney General John Ashcroft added to the concern. "We are looking at the
possibility that there may have been more than four planes targeted for
hijacking," he said.

It is understood that investigators are focusing on American Airlines Flight 43,
which was due to leave Boston's Logan Airport for Los Angeles shortly before the
other hijackings began, but was cancelled at the last minute because of
mechanical problems. The FBI was reported to have drawn up a list of several men
with Arabic-sounding names who failed to rebook their cancelled seats once
flights resumed on Thursday.

Like the four crashed aircraft, Flight 43 was laden with fuel for the six-hour
flight to California.

Investigators have recovered evidence from the cars and homes of the dead
hijackers indicating if the 19 hijackers failed in their mission they had an
alternative target which would have been hit with more conventional weapons.

The authorities have filed the first criminal charges after finding three men
with false immigration papers and airport diagrams. The men, from Morocco and
Algeria, were arrested in Detroit on charges of identity fraud and misuse of
visas. The men are Karim Koubriti, 23; Ahmed Hannan, 33; and Farouk Ali-Haimoud,
21.

Authorities said they believe some of the men may have worked at one time for a
company that provides food service to airlines at the Detroit airport.

The FBI now has 4,000 agents and 3,000 support staff working on the case, making
it the biggest inquiry in its history. Yesterday the bureau issued a warning to
fire departments across America to increase security on emergency vehicles,
saying they could be stolen by terrorist groups and used as rolling bombs.

INTELLIGENCE agencies in Britain and America had been expecting a terrorist
attack with biological weapons, writes Robert Fox. They believe it could still
happen. US agents believe terrorists have been trying to acquire anthrax.
Another danger is thought to be the smallpox virus. According to satellite
reports the area around terrorist camps near Jalalabad has been littered with
dead animals, suggesting chemical experiments.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WRECKAGE FROM THE WORLD TRADE CENTER TWIN TOWERS HAS BEEN MOVED TO A
SITE ON STATEN ISLAND FOR INVESTIGATION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 19, 2001

The end for Arnie;
Filmmakers in Hollywood may be set for a boom in the wake of the terrorist
attacks on the USA. However, there are some high-profile movie casualties.

BYLINE: Christopher Goodwin

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 884 words


HOLLYWOOD finds itself in an odd position in the wake of the terrible events of
last week in New York City and Washington. On the one hand the terrorist attacks
sent the movie studios and the TV networks into crisis, scrambling to reassess
all their forthcoming projects, weeding out any that might conceivably cause
offence. Paramount Pictures, for example, has postponed the release of a new
romantic comedy starring Ed Burns and Heather Graham even though its
light-hearted subject matter has nothing whatsoever to do with last week's
grisly events. The reason? The film's title: Sidewalks of New York.

"Everyone has been jolted," says New York producer Bonnie Timmerman. "Things
have to be put on hold until people get a grip on what's happening in the world
today. The film business will be affected by it emotionally, economically and
physically."

But while many other major American industries, such as the airline business,
tourism and insurance, are likely to face a severe recession in the coming
months, Hollywood is in the enviable position of being set for a boom.

Even last weekend, when the best new film Hollywood had to offer was a soso
baseball drama starring Keanu Reeves, people flocked to the cinemas and the
video stores, desperate to escape, for a couple of hours at least, the
relentless bad news coming at them from 24-hour cable news channels.

VIDEO store owners reported heavy rentals of romantic comedies, as adults tried
to relax, and Disney cartoons, as parents tried to keep their children away from
the troubling images on television.

In the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks, however, Hollywood
executives were forced to review their release schedules. The first movie to be
affected by the unfolding disaster was the action thriller Collateral Damage,
originally set for release on 5 October. The film stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as
a firefighter whose wife and child are killed when a terrorist bombs a Los
Angeles skyscraper. Some Hollywood insiders are suggesting that the film, which
cost more than $ 100 million and on which Sony Pictures had already spent $ 20
million on advertising, is so eerily close to the mark that it may never be
released, effectively ending Schwarzenegger's career as an action hero.

"Everyone has been asking me, 'What's the cost?

When will you open?'" says Steve Reuther, the film's producer. "My answer is, I
have no idea."

The other major studio film which has been pulled from the schedules
indefinitely is the Walt Disney comedy Big Trouble, which was due to open this
weekend. The film, which stars TV comedian Tim Allen, opens with a scene which
shows a bomb in a suitcase on a plane.

Next summer's big release, Spiderman, has also been hit. Within a day of the
attack, Sony Pictures had pulled the film's trailers, which were also playing on
the internet: they showed the comic-book hero spinning a huge spider's web
between the - now destroyed - twin towers of the World Trade Center to ensnare
robbers trying to escape in a helicopter. The poster for the film, in which the
twin towers can be seen reflected in Spiderman's eyes, has also been taken out
of circulation. It's unclear what Paramount Pictures plans to do about its big
summer 2002 release The Sum of All Fears, the latest Tom Clancy thriller. It is
the first in which Ben Affleck stars as Jack Ryan, who was previously played by
Harrison Ford. In the film, now in postproduction, terrorists set off a nuclear
bomb in a football stadium, killing thousands of people, a plot line that must
be giving the organisers of next year's World Cup in Japan and South Korea
sleepless nights.

Numerous other films will also have to be changed, in large or small ways.

Men in Black 2, about secret government agents who fight against aliens, will
have to be altered because the ending takes place against the backdrop of the
World Trade Center. Even the next Jackie Chan action comedy Nosebleed, which was
just about to go into production, has not escaped.

Chan was to play a window washer at the World Trade Center who discovers a
terrorist plot to blow up the Statue of Liberty.

While these changes are being made to specific projects, everyone in Hollywood
is busily re-evaluating the kinds of films that the public is now going to want
to watch. "I think every mainstream producer and director and studio and
television executive will be very cautious about entering a world where people's
lives are in jeopardy," says Brian Glazer, producer of Apollo 13 and Liar, Liar.
"People will look toward more escapism, more comedies, more dramas about family
love."

MOST executives expect Hollywood to start pumping out escapist comedies and
light-hearted family entertainment, films like National Velvet and Meet Me in St
Louis which kept Americans entertained during the Second World War, or Mary
Poppins and The Sound of Music, which dominated the screens in the post-Kennedy
assassination era when the Cold War was still an imminent threat.

"I don't think anyone wants to make a bodycount movie," says Tom Pollock, a
producer and the former head of production at Universal Pictures. "Who can deal
with that? It's pornographic."

The kind of pornography, of course, at which Hollywood has long excelled."


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 19, 2001

AMERICAN TERROR ATTACKS FORCE TINSELTOWN TO RETHINK MULTI MILLION DOLLAR MOVIE
SCRIPTS;Reality bites in Hollywood

BYLINE: By Brian Beacom

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 732 words


SINCE last week's New York outrage it has been widely declared that the world
will never be the same again.

And it's becoming increasingly clear that Hollywood will never be the same again
either.

The fallout from the World Trade Centre atrocity will strike a lasting blow in
the world's movie capital

Top studios have spent the last week frantically re-writing scripts and re
-considering entire blockbuster movies to avoid any accusations of
insensitivity. Already, the release of several major movies has been delayed,
while others may even be canned indefinitely.

Last week's terrorist strikes seem certain to spell the end of the disaster
movie and to usher in a new era of comedies and saccharine-coated family films.

Mark Dinning, of Britain's leading film magazine Empire, revealed how Hollywood
has already set the comedy wheels in motion.

"You can expect to see a whole new wave of Capra-esque comedies," he said.

"Violence is out. Already, the new Jim Carrey vehicle, The Majestick, is being
tipped for an Oscar next year - and that's before the film is released. The
reason is because it's a feelgood film.

"Conversely, it's predicted Martin Scorsese's upcoming Gangs of New York won't
do well because it's a violent period piece."

It's not just films that are being re-thought. TV bosses, too, are suddenly
wary.

A spokesman for Twentieth Century Fox television summed it up by saying: "People
don't want to hear or see anything right now that's a dark, gritty drama.

"What people want are blue skies and escapist dramas and programmes as an
alternative to the realities all of us are dealing with now."

The reverberations from last week have already claimed several eagerly-awaited
films.

Collateral Damage, the $ 100m action thriller in which Arnold Schwarzenegger
tackles Arab terrorists, was set to open next month. But now it may not be
released at all.

Film producer Steve Reuther said: "By last Tuesday afternoon, with firefighters
buried beneath the rubble of the World Trade Centre, we were thinking, 'Oh my
God, how could we possibly mount a publicity campaign?'

"The tragedy seems certain to influence decisions about which films will go into
production."

Many other scripts are being altered. Although Hollywood has long used
terrorists as stock villains in action movies, Collateral Damage - if it is
released - will see Colombian terrorists replacing Arabs.

BIG Trouble, a dark comedy featuring Tim Allen and Rene Russo, has also been
pulled. The plot turns on a nuclear device that is hidden in a plane.

Even a romantic comedy, Sidewalks of New York, starring Heather Graham, has been
sidelined. Paramount deems it to be a 'celebration of Manhattan'.

Yesterday it was announced that Oscar-winner Gywneth Paltrow's new movie, View
From The Top, was in doubt because it features two flight attendants. Ben
Affleck's latest film, The Sum Of All Parts, about a nuclear threat to the
Superbowl, will most certainly be postponed.

Sony Pictures has pulled trailers of the upcoming Spiderman - because it
prominently features the obliterated twin towers.

Men In Black 2 has been re-written to alter a scene which had been set against
the backdrop of the World Trade Centre.

And Warner Bros has pulled Training Day, a gritty police corruption drama
starring Denzel Washington.

Veteran film producer Mark Johnson, who made Donnie Brasco, said he could hardly
imagine a studio giving the green light to any movie with a terrorism theme.

"Who could feel confident making any film involving hostage-taking or big
buildings blowing up?" he asked.

Television, too, has not been absolved from the social responsibility.

A major five-hour TV series, Law and Order, about a biological warfare attack on
New York, has been cancelled.

And the first episode of a new TV series about the CIA has been pulled because
it includes a reference to Osama bin Laden as the mastermind of a plot to blow
up top London store, Harrods.

Executive producer Shaun Cassidy - David's younger brother - said: "The world's
a very different place today.  We will have to make some adjustments."

"Disaster and mayhem are a stock-in-trade to the artist, as long as enough time
and distance have elapsed," said Ed Zwick, director of The Siege, which starred
Denzel Washington. "But right now, it's unbearable."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: IN TROUBLE: new movies Spiderman, Men in Black 2 and the Sidewalks of
New York have all been affected;DROPPED: all publicity for Collateral Damage,
the $ 100 million action thriller in which Arnie Schwarzenegger tackles Arab
terrorists, has now been dropped

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 19, 2001

IBROX UPDATE: Rangers star tells of day team bus came under fire;LATAPY IN BRICK
ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By Darrell King

SECTION: Pg. 68

LENGTH: 608 words


RUSSELL LATAPY today revealed the terrifying moment when the Rangers bus was
attacked as it left Edinburgh after the 2-2 draw with Hearts 10 days ago.

The little midfielder escaped serious injury after a brick was hurled at the
window he was sitting at.

Former Hibs star Latapy - who had been the target of the home fans during the
game because of his links with their big city rivals - was only saved from
injury when the brick failed to smash through the second pane of the double
glazing.

Australian star Tony Vidmar was also near the window, and both players were left
shaking.

Latapy said: "The attack came out of the blue and it was uncalled for.

"I suppose it's one of these things, but it is very sad.

"We did not see who it was. It was a shame because there are a lot of good
people involved in football, and then one stupid person goes and does something
like that.

"Whoever threw the brick would not have been able to see inside the bus, so I
don't think it was aimed at me.

"It was thrown aimlessly, and I was unfortunate to be sitting near where it hit.
There was a massive bang, but no-one really knew what had happened.

"Thankfully nobody was seriously injured, but it would have been a

different matter had the brick came through the second pane.

"Tony Vidmar was sitting behind me and the brick came smashing into the window
between the two if us.

"It was very frightening, and we were all in shock for a minute before we
eventually calmed down.

"The incident just does not have a place in football."

Earlier, Hearts had fought back

to snatch a 2-2 draw with Rangers, equalising with just nine minutes to go.

There had been an earlier incident at Tynecastle when Hearts fans banged on top
of the Rangers dugout after they took the lead in the first half.

Raging Gers gaffer Dick Advocaat leapt out and demanded action, and when police
moved in, the Dutchman urged them to just give the offending fans a warning.

Latapy's team-mate, Scott Wilson, has already said he will never again go out
with the little Trinidadian star in his home town of Edinburgh because of the
stick he gets after the summer move to Rangers.

And Latapy added: "We should respect each other as individuals in whatever job
we do.

"As long as people respect me, then I respect them and that is the basis of a
good relationship.

"That is the way football should be - not about throwing bricks.

"I took a lot of pelters against Hearts, but the stick was in good humour and
usually I have a laugh with the fans.

"They are often very witty.

"But there has to be a line drawn, and throwing bricks at team buses goes over
that line."

Latapy managed to get back to football quickly and had an outstanding game
against Motherwell last weekend.

The midfielder played a part in all three of Gers' goals and admits he's happy
with the way things have gone for him in recent weeks.

However, he knows he faces a battle to stay in his role just off the front two,
with several players at Ibrox able to occupy that position.

"The injuries have created an opening and given me first team games a lot
earlier than I would have expected," said the 33-year-old.

"I'd like to think that I am hitting form.

"Things have been going quite well for me, but we have been dropping a couple of
points and have to make sure that stops.

"We all want to play every week and make a contribution, but the gaffer has
great knowledge of the game and we have to trust his judgement.

"The most important thing is the good of the club - and it's important we have
competition for places."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Russell Latapy narrowly escaped injury after a brick was thrown at team
bus

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 19, 2001

Plymouth remembers victims of terror attacks Sub - Head:

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 144 words


A POIGNANT service for the victims of the terror attacks in America saw hundreds
gather at St Andrew's Church in Plymouth last night.

The city's tribute to the dead and injured on the other side of the Atlantic
came as the Mayor of New York, Rudolph Giuliani, said hope had by now almost
entirely disappeared of finding anyone alive in the rubble of the World Trade
Center.

As emergency services continued to work round the clock at the scene of the Twin
Towers' collapse, Prime Minister Tony Blair was today embarking on a round of
diplomatic talks in Europe, aimed at creating a broad coalition behind expected
military strikes on Afghanistan and other terrorist targets.

At the same time, as many as 1,000 clerics were meeting in the Afghan capital,
Kabul, to decide whether the ruling Taliban should hand over prime terror
suspect Osama bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TRIBUTE: Callum Beer, 6, lights a candle at last night's service
Picture Lucy Duval

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Attack on America: Europe on terror alert: Spain

BYLINE: Jane Walker

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 53 words


National identity cards are compulsory and authorities have advised people to
carry them at all times.

Security has been tightened in certain areas, particularly around Alicante where
Mohamed Bensakhria, believed to be Osama bin Laden's right hand man, was
arrested last summer and extradited to France.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Attack on America: The demons that drive terror: Islamist extremists may not be
the Nazis of the 21st century but they share the same need to be victimised

BYLINE: Ian Buruma

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 834 words


Bolshevism was one of the demons of Nazi propaganda. The other was "world
Jewry". In Nazi minds, one was a manifestation of the other. Bolshevism was part
of the Jewish plot to destroy western civilisation. So was capitalism, but then
Nazi propagandists never let logic or reason spoil a good line.

Islamist extremists are not the same as Nazis. They have not taken over the
government of one of the world's most sophisticated and powerful states. Nor are
they likely to do so soon. They do not command great armies. And their ideology
appears to be even less coherent than national socialism. But Muslim extremists
are like the Nazis in two respects: they don't represent Muslim civilisation or
values, any more than the Nazis were the defenders of western civilisation; and
their demons are as symbolic as those of the Nazis. Their main aim is to take
power in their own countries, and attacking the demons is the best way to gain
prestige and recruits. Most nations in the Middle East are ruled by more or less
secular autocrats. Radical Islam is one way to vent one's frustration.

Nazi and Muslim extremist demons overlap. "World Jewry" has survived the last
world war as a Great Satan. Its headquarters has shifted from Moscow to New
York. The Nazis, too, saw the New World as a Jewish bastion, but the main office
of Zion was still thought to be in the Soviet Union. One of the ironies of
recent history is that the US created some of its bitterest Muslim enemies in
the struggle against communism. Osama bin Laden and others of his ilk fought
godless communism in the name of Islam. Their US backers did so in the name of
"freedom". But when America's former proteges turned against the US, this was
also an attack on "world Jewry".

Nazis believed that the US had a soulless, deracinated, materialistic culture,
revolving around money and nothing else. Muslim extremists seem to have the same
view. But they are hardly alone. The phrase "predatory capitalism" was bandied
about quite a lot last week by people blaming the US for its own misfortunes.
Jews have been tainted by the same image for many centuries. Which is why
anti-semitism and anti-Americanism so often get mixed up.

Jews have sometimes been said to have brought anti-semitism upon themselves. The
argument, in the time-honoured voice of the anti-semitic bore, goes something
like this: if only the Jews were a little less pushy, or stuck less to
themselves, or were less arrogant, or money-grubbing, or whatnot, then surely
people would learn to overcome their distaste. Much recent comment on the events
in America has been a variation on the same theme: if only Americans were less
pushy, less arrogant, less money-grubbing, then maybe anti-Americanism would
subside.

At least the US, unlike "world Jewry", is a state which has policies that are
open to legitimate criticism. Palestinians are right to feel that Washington has
never been on their side. But would terrorism end if the US put more pressure on
Israel? Would Bin Laden and his friends be appeased if President Bush forced
Ariel Sharon to withdraw all Israeli settlers from Palestinian territories and
allowed Yasser Arafat to establish a Palestinian state on his terms? It won't
happen, of course, but would it really make a difference?

I do not believe so, for demons do not disappear with appeasement. They are
essential to the militant cause. No "pure Aryans" without "world Jewry", no
"pure Islamic state" without the American Satan. Turning an alien threat against
one's own government is an old trick of many rebellions. The rebels present
themselves as pure, and the government as corrupt lackeys of foreign interests.
The fact that the US is openly pro-Israel enrages many Muslims, but rabid
anti-Americanism does not depend on it. Fanatics, whether they be Muslim
extremists, Serbian nationalists, Christian fundamentalists, Japanese
militarists, or Chinese communists, need to feel victimised by larger forces. It
is in the interest of those who seek absolute power, or wish to retain it, to
fan the flames of victimhood ever higher.

There is not a great deal America, or other countries of the wealthy west, can
do about this. We are in fact stuck with a nasty dilemma. If we see the "war
against terrorism" as a clash of civilisations, of the west against the rest, of
Christianity against Islam, we see the world roughly through Bin Laden's eyes,
and that way lies nothing but death. But if Muslim extremism is a form of
rebellion against secular Arab dictatorships, the "allied coalition" will be
made up of some very dodgy partners. Backing oil sheiks, military strongmen, and
absolute monarchs, in an exercise that inflames many of their subjects, is not
the best way to defend "the civilised world". Perhaps we have no choice. Winston
Churchill once said he would make a pact with the devil to defeat the Nazis.
Fine. But let's drop all the guff about civilisation and democracy then, and get
on with a dirty job.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 19, 2001

A two-pronged attack;Poverty and terrorism must be our joint targets

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 610 words


At first it was 10 days that shook the world. That was the title John Reid, the
American journalist, took for his eyewitness account of the Bolshevik revolution
of 1917. Yesterday marked the culmination of seven days that shook the world so
early in the new century. But yesterday was not the end of a process which began
with the attacks on New York and Washington, leaving more than 5000 dead. Far
from it. Diplomatic and military manoeuvres are proceeding apace to pave the way
for an assault on Osama bin Laden and, possibly, Afghanistan's Taliban regime,
other fundamentalist terror groups such as Islamic Jihad and Hamas, and, even,
Saddam Hussein's Iraq.

Diplomatic efforts appear to have made an early breakthrough in the Middle East,
where Yasser Arafat's order to the Palestinians to hold to a ceasefire and,
incredibly, not to fire back even if attacked, has been partially reciprocated
by Ariel Sharon, who has withdrawn Israeli forces from Palestinian -controlled
territories in the West Bank and Gaza. If the ceasefire can be built upon,
something positive might just emerge from last week's dreadful events.

However, there will be no lasting peace and stability in the world until there
is a binding accord in the Middle East that involves Israelis and Palestinians
living side by side as civil neighbours. Is the ceasefire yesterday the first
sign of a new world order emerging that includes moderate Arab states,
marginalising fundamentalist extremists to the point where they no longer pose a
threat? We hope so.

Equally, the ceasefire might simply be a US-led drive to dampen down the

Middle East flames and clear the decks for military intervention against bin
Laden and the Taliban. Either way, it is a reassurance for us that America is
playing this deliberately and slowly, using diplomacy for whatever comes next.
Even if there are to be strikes, the need to keep the coalition against
terrorism intact should ensure that whatever military action is taken will be
measured, appropriate, and will not be indiscriminate.

There is still an understandable demand for revenge among many Americans, and
the longer Mr Bush waits, the greater will be the pressure on him to strike. But
he should bide his time so that he can build a sustainable case against the
perpetrators and act within international law. Doing otherwise would cause
further instability in a world that is already facing severe challenges after
last week's events, as the prominent contributors to pages four and five of The
Herald today make clear. Freedoms that underpin liberal democracy seem under
threat as the west seeks to protect aspects of liberty by, paradoxically,
restricting them.

Liberal democracy's economic creed, capitalism, has also been seriously
undermined. In Britain, the Bank of England has taken unprecedented action in
cutting interest rates as part of a concerted effort by the western economies to
avoid worldwide recession. Suddenly, globalisation no longer looks like the
panacea for the world economy it once did.

The war against terrorism is absolutely right, but it needs to go hand in hand
with another war - a war on poverty. Big profits in the first world still all
too frequently mean big debts in the third world. For every comfortable first
world country, there seems to be a desperate, debt-ridden third-world enclave.

We need to be as assiduous in fighting poverty as we are in fighting terrorism.
Tackling poverty and injustice is the best long-term strategy for ridding the
world of terrorism. The battle against both is the campaign we have to wage.
Waging one without the other is pointless.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 19, 2001

FREELANCE WRITER ANDREA SMITH with her view of how democracy should react to
last week's terrorist attack in america

BYLINE: by ADawson

SECTION: Pg.13

LENGTH: 505 words


Revenge desire must not harm the innocent

The UK must stand shoulder-to -shoulder with the USA in the pursuit of justice
for last Tuesday's attack. Tony Blair said the attacks on New York and
Washington were an attack on every democratic nation. He is right.

And we must show how democracy reacts to an atrocity of this magnitude.

The principles of democracy insist on an open -minded investigation that does
not allow prejudice to rule any suspect in or out without evidence.

They do not permit the innocent to be harmed in a desire for revenge.

And once a prime suspect has been identified, they arrange a trial to take place
before a neutral court.

If George Bush is the leader of the free world, he will follow these principles.

He will remember that after the Oklahoma City bombing, Osama bin Laden was
blamed initially; the culprit was Timothy McVeigh. He will remember that Saddam
Hussein was at first thought to be behind the Lockerbie bombing.

The bombers were Libyan.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said British intelligence has identified bin Laden
as the prime suspect, but that is not the same as finding proof that he
orchestrated these attacks.

The German chief prosecutor said his investigators had so far not found evidence
linking the hijackers with bin Laden.

That does not mean that the Taliban should not hand over bin Laden so that he
can be held in custody while investigations are carried out. But he should be
handed over to the United Nations, not the USA.

He and others suspected of causing this tragedy should be tried by a neutral
court - just as Slobodan Milosevic is being tried before the UN's International
Court of Justice in The Hague.

That is the fair, democratic response.

It gives Pakistan, which is playing such a pivotal role in preventing further
deaths, a better chance of success.

If the Taliban is willing to hand bin Laden over to an Islamic court, then the
USA should accept that.

This is not a global crusade.

Muslims and Christians are not necessarily placed on the opposite sides of a
great divide.

Muslims around the world are appalled by this outrage too.

They want the culprits caught as well.

Pakistan has offered its help, so have forces within Afghanistan opposed to the
Taliban.

Yasser Arafat rolled up his sleeve to give blood to help those injured by this
horror.

Even bin Laden's own family in Saudi Arabia rejects terrorist activity.

This consensus must not be lost by hasty action.

The only way to defeat international terrorism is for fair-minded people of all
religions and nationalities to stand united against it.

If we lash out in anger, indiscriminately killing, then we will fuel the sense
of injustice that creates young men willing, even wanting, to die in the kind of
attack that rocked our world on September 11.

However, if some unity can be maintained throughout the hunt for those
responsible for this tragedy, then perhaps a significant good will have come out
of this massive evil - and democracy will have won through.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

SUZY IN THE CITY: TAX-CUTS VICTIM OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Chris Parkin

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 148 words

HIGHLIGHT: TANAISTE: Mary Harney


THE prospects of yet another giveaway, tax-cutting budget - already slender
because of the worldwide economic downturn - have been blasted out of existence
by last week's terrifying terrorist attacks in the United States.

There was no doubt that was the message emerging from yesterday's report on the
government's performance over the past four years, presented in Dublin by
Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and Tanaiste Mary Harney.

Ms Harney warned that future economic strategy was bound to be coloured by the
worldwide slowdown and events in America and their possible consequences.

She said: "It is clear that the economic situation, even before last week, is
very different from what it was a year ago.

"We will have to bear that in mind in any decisions we take."

For his part, Mr Ahern asserted: "We have managed the bad days and we will
manage the good days."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 19, 2001

Commissioner scores points off terror attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 118 words


EU commissioner Gunter Verheugen tried yesterday to exploit the terror attacks
on the United States to speed up the expansion of the European Union.

Speaking in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius, Mr Verheugen said that the
attacks would have a "positive effect" on the growth of the EU.

"I expect that people are more aware now of what the basic importance of the
enlargement process is and that we will get even more public support for it, "
he said.

Lithuania is one of 12 candidates for EU entry.

Neighbouring Latvia and Estonia are also in talks with Brussels for EU entry, as
well as Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Slovenia,
Cyprus, Romania and Malta.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

PRAYING FOR A MIRACLE;
 FEARS FOR MISSING FIREFIGHTER AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Exclusive Chris Herdman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 293 words


A CARDIFF woman is praying for a miracle for her firefighter cousin who is
missing presumed dead in the rubble of the World Trade Centre.

But eight days after the worst terrorist attack the world has ever seen, Joanna
Edwards, from Cyncoed, has little hope that her 34-year-old cousin Michael Lynch
will be pulled alive from the wreckage in New York.

The married father-oftwo is one of 300 New York Fire Department firefighters
listed as missing following the assault on Manhattan when two hijacked planes
crashed into the WTC twin towers, killing thousands.

Heroic Mr Lynch dashed straight to the scene last Tuesday - even though he had
clocked off 30 minutes before.

Mrs Edwards said:

"Michael had just finished his shift at 8.30am, when the first plane struck the
twin towers.

He turned around and went straight to the World Trade Centre - he was one of the
first firefighters at the scene and would have been there when the buildings
collapsed."

So far, just 218 bodies have been pulled from the rubble in which 5,400 are
feared dead and Mrs Edwards says the family holds out little hope that Mr Lynch
will be found alive.

"I have spoken to my relations in the United States and they have accepted that
there is very little hope for Michael, " she said.

"They just want a body to be recovered."

The congregation at Mrs Edwards' church, St Philip Evans, in Llanedeyrn,
Cardiff, this week prayed for the Lynch family, on her request.

Parish priest Father Martin Wilson said: "At mass, I asked the congregation to
pray for all the victims in the United States and particularly for Michael
Lynch, who is the cousin of a parishioner."

The New York Fire Department confirmed that Mr Lynch was listed as missing.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

WELSH MUSLIMS ARE ATTACKED AND ABUSED;
 USA TERROR

BYLINE: Catrin Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 342 words


MUSLIM communities are being targeted following the terrorist attacks in the
USA.

A number of Muslims in Wales have been attacked and abused, after similar
incidents in English towns and cities.

A group representing Welsh Somalians said verbal abuse had been hurled at women
wearing Islamic veils and men had been hounded in Cardiff streets with taunts of
"Go home".

South Wales Police said there had been an increase in the number of racist
incidents but refused to give details.

Across the UK several mosques have been daubed with graffiti, a fire at a
Manchester mosque was being treated as suspicious and an Afghan taxi driver was
left paralysed from the neck down after he was beaten up in London. In America,
two men of Asian descent have been killed and a woman run over.

Welsh Secretary Paul Murphy and Assembly Finance Minister Edwina Hart said these
attacks were no more justified than the acts of terrorism.

Mrs Hart, who chairs the Assembly's equal opportunities committee, said, "The
terrorists attacked innocent men, women and children and those who were going
about their everyday lives. Racist attacks here are also upon those innocent of
any crime."

Mr Murphy said, "It must be recognised that the Muslim people living in Wales
are decent lawabiding citizens who have condemned the attack on America and the
horrendous loss of life. We must stay calm and stay together as a community,
protecting and respecting each other."

South Wales's Assistant Chief Constable, David Francis, said the backlash was
regrettable.

He said, "There are also many instances of increased support being shown to
minority communities in light of them becoming victims of misplaced anger. It is
important that people remember the issue is one of terrorism and not of race."

Somali Advice and Information Centre director Abdikarim Abdi Adan said, "It is
not only white people who have been hurt in America. It is all nationalities and
colours.

We have suffered the same as you, so please do not take it out on us."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 19, 2001

Defence boss warns of germ warfare threat;
 Terrorists could slaughter millions in attack

BYLINE: Tristan Cork

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 409 words


BRITAIN must guard against the increasing threat of chemical or biological
attack, the Defence Secretary warned last night.

Secretary of State Geoff Hoon said the terrorist attacks in America had made the
British Government "think afresh" about how to prevent an attack which could
kill millions.

Mr Hoon admitted the Government "hadn't prepared" for the kinds of fanaticism
that people were prepared to use in order to achieve their "appalling
objectives."

Now government departments are rapidly redrawing emergency plans, with the
realisation the same terrorists behind last Tuesday's attacks in America could
slaughter millions with just one briefcase of germs here in Britain.

Security at airports, ports and the Channel Tunnel is being stepped up in a bid
to stop biological weapons entering the country.

Experts warned that in the wrong hands, biological weapons like anthrax or the
nerve gas sarin could kill millions of people if spread around London or other
major British cities.

And in the light of the suicide attacks in America, politicians are warning a
more serious attack is a possibility.

"It's certainly something we have to guard against, " said Mr Hoon. "I believe
that the appalling events of last week have certainly caused us to think afresh
about the preventive actions we need to take."

His fears were echoed by Conservative leader Ian DuncanSmith, who said it was
clear groups such as that which carried out last Tuesday's terror attacks would
be prepared to use weapons of mass destruction.

"The worry is that if these people are capable of flying an aircraft into a
tower, they are quite capable of using a biological or nuclear weapon or a
missile, " he said.

Complex nerve gases and other weapons of mass destruction have been developed by
the likes of Saddam Hussein and other Arab nations. Vast stores of them are said
to have been left behind during the collapse of the former Soviet Union in what
are still relatively unstable nations bordering Afghanistan and Iran.
Intelligence chiefs fear that although the operation to inspect and destroy
sites in Iraq, where Saddam Hussein had been developing such weapons, was hailed
a success, some of them could already have been smuggled out of Iraq.

It is feared a hidden trade in such weapons could be going on between Arab
nations, warlords in former Soviet republics and with terror groups like Osama
bin Laden's Al-Queda network.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Financial Adviser adviser

                            September 20, 2001 2001

Financial world fears the worst; As the West tries to come to terms with the
terrorist attack on America, fears of a global recession grow grow

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276

LENGTH: 1443 words words


DEWI JOHN dewi.john@ft.com

THE outrage carried out on the US by suspected Middle East terrorists may well
resound on the world economy in a profound way.

Although we may hope American consumers will show their contempt for the
suicidal terrorists by maintaining their lifestyles unhindered by the atrocity,
the Japanese economy, which depends heavily on imported crude oil, may well be
pushed into a deep recession.

However, for the Americans the attack was a wake-up call. Not since World War II
have US markets closed for more than two consecutive days. It was not for this
alone that comparisons with Pearl Harbour hit the headlines last week, as the US
reeled from what was possibly the worst assault on its mainland and certainly
its financial heartland ever.  ever.

As the dust from the World Trade Centre settles into the rubble, there is great
concern as to when, and how, the worlds markets will rise from the impact of
this.

Richard Lehman, managing director of investment strategy of Royal & SunAlliance,
said: "Its extremely difficult to work out. Weve not had to deal with anything
like this before."

Outside the US, Asias markets bore the brunt of the crisis. Hong Kongs Hang Seng
index plummeted more than 10 per cent the day after the attack. In Japan, the
Nikkei Stock Average dropped below the psychologically-important 10,000 barrier
for the first time since 1984.

Anticipating this, the Tokyo Stock Exchange delayed opening for 30 minutes on
Wednesday, the day after, and halved the daily maximum limit on share price
changes, in order to dampen volatility. South Koreas exchange held off opening
for three hours for the same reason.

The exchanges in Singapore, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand all saw
sharp falls.

Markets in Taiwan, Malaysia and Thailand were all closed on Wednesday, as was
Turkeys stock market.

European markets, possibly benefiting from stronger economic fundamentals, were
not so hard hit. For the London Stock Exchange, trading continued across its
full range of assets. By midday, the FTSE 100 had seen falls of 94 and risesof
135, with the volatility set to continue.

The European exchanges, like the UKs, proved resilient in the immediate
aftermath. Tuesdays sharp losses were thrown into reverse the following
morning,but markets proved to be extremely volatile. The Deutsche Borse
attempted remedial action by suspending dealing in US equities.

One cause of the increased volatility was that a huge degree of liquidity had
gone from the markets with the USs temporary removal from the equation. Spreads
became considerable wider, and volatility greater.

However, global banks have attempted to ease this by stepping in with extra
funds.

The European Central Bank stated: "The Eurosystem stands ready to support the
normal functioning of the markets."

How effective a bulwark this proves to be, remains to be seen. Immediately after
the atrocity, Mike Lenhoff, chief portfolio strategist of Gerrards, predicted
investors "would sit tight with cash".

There has indeed been a rush for the certainties of cash, with gold,
traditionally a safe haven in market chaos, soaring in value.

The UK government sold 20 tonnes of gold last Wednesday, with the auction being
4.3 times over-subscribed.

Government bonds also rose in price, as security became the need of the hour.
The demand for these assets, however, may be short-lived, as Wednesday saw a
partial retreat from the previous days panic position.

Sectors were in chaos throughout the European markets, fluctuating wildly up and
down in the days after the attack.

Unsurprisingly, reinsurers were hard hit with estimates for the insurance bill
topping $ 15bn, according to the Financial Times, and Moodys putting it atmore
than $ 10bn. The FTSE Eurotop 300 insurance sector fell by 12 per cent by close
of business on Tuesday.

A spokeswoman for the Association of British Insurers said that its members were
not heavily exposed to US property, and did not expect a massive loss from the
disaster. The biggest impact was expected on Lloyds of London.

While shares in British Airways and the Hilton group were each down by 21 per
cent.

Ironically, the beleaguered telecoms sector saw gains, as analysts predicted
that increased anxiety over flying would lead more people to rely on its
products.

In expectation of a Middle East crisis and consequent oil shortages, oil prices
rose in Europe on the afternoon of the attacks, falling back somewhat theday
after when Opec gave assurances about the security of world supplies.

As a minimum, UK investment companies reacted to events by freezing their trade
in funds with large exposure to the US.

Abbey National Asset Managers, for example, said that it had suspended trade in
its US funds.

Although Jason Hollands, deputy managing director of Bestinvest, argued that
"there is no case whatsoever for preventing investors dealing in UK funds, Far
Eastern funds or European funds," many fund managers disagreed.

Along with its US funds and high risk bonds, Royal & SunAlliance Investments
suspended its Far East funds as a result of the pounding those markets were
taking.

Credit Suisse Asset Management confirmed that it was suspending trade in all
funds with more than 15 per cent exposure to markets that were closed in
effect,US and the Far East. Ian Chimes, managing director, said that funds would
resumetrading when those exchanges reopened.

Artemis Investment Management went further, suspending all its funds last
Wednesday, after taking advice from the Association of Unit Trusts and
Investment Funds.

Such measures will be short-lived, almost by definition.

All fund managers, whatever their stance in the direct aftermath, though, will
have to contend with a much more uncertain landscape when their funds are
rolling once more.

If current trends hold, a massive churn away from travel and insurance, and
towards oil, construction, defensive stocks, cash and government bonds is
likely.

However huge the impact, the immediate reaction of the worlds market is just
that immediate. The situation will move on from this and, with US markets back
in action, move on quickly.

The danger is that an already ailing US economy will be pushed over the brink
into recession and, with it, the world.

The reaction from Europe was one of increased pessimism about the prospects of
US and global recovery. Pedro Solbes, European monetary affairs
commissioner,said that the US prospects had been set back by the attack.
Speaking the day after the attack, he said: "Yesterdays events will have a clear
incidence, at least on consumption in the US. Today we are more pessimistic than
a week back."

Mike Lenhoff of Gerrards said: "These events could postpone the recovery by one
or two quarters. It will put a major dent in cyclical stocks, which everyonewas
looking towards to lay the basis for recovery."

Commerzbank also highlighted the "serious impact on consumption" which it saw as
"the mainstay of the US economy".

However, it drew back from the more pessimistic predictions because of the lack
of precedents, and said recession was "unlikely".

RSAIs Richard Lehman took a more downbeat view, warning that the events could
propel the world into recession well into 2002.

He said: "Consumer confidence in the US, which we had anticipated would help
keep it out of recession, may well collapse.

"Americans will reduce their travel, both internally and externally, and change
many of their habits as a result of this. We will certainly see a greaterdegree
of risk aversion everywhere."

The investment house expects a further 50 basis point cut from the Fed before
its next meeting on 2 October, to be followed by the Bank of England and
European Central Bank. Mr Lehman added: "This, and the collapse in many share
prices, would ordinarily be considered a good buying opportunity. Before
Tuesdays events, we considered shares, particularly in Europe, to be cheap.
Now,normally, they would be considered even cheaper.

"But these are not ordinary conditions."

The standard tools of economic analysis seem of little use here. There is still
too much uncertainty outside the various models.

Fear will persist that the West has not seen the last of these catastrophes. And
there is the worry that the US response, when it comes, may heighten global
dangers, rather than remove them. Until some kind of pattern establishes itself
in world affairs, markets will remain on edge, with few likely to take any
risks. When that will be, for now, is anyones guess.

Dewi John is assistant features editor of Financial Adviser adviser

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Financial Adviser adviser

                            September 20, 2001 2001

Experts predict mortgage war after terrorist attacks; LENDERS HAVE REDUCED
INTEREST RATES IN RESPONSE TO falling money market rates rates

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276

LENGTH: 314 words words


BY GABRIELA POMEROY

EXPERTS believe the terrorist attack on America will lead to a resumption of the
"mortgage war" as lenders cut rates.

Money market swap rates fell swiftly after the hijacked planes crashed into the
World Trade Center and Pentagon, enabling some UK lenders to offer aggressive
fixed rates below 5 per cent.

Woolwich this week launched a one-year fixed rate of 4.69 per cent on its Open
Plan Flexible, for up to 95 per cent loan to value.  value.

It is also offering a two-year fixed rate at 4.89 per cent, for up to 95 per
cent LTV. For remortgagers these rates apply for up to 90 per cent LTV.

Portman Building Society also introduced a 4.75 per cent two year fixed rate,
for up to 75 per cent LTV. The rate is 4.95 for up to 95 per cent LTV.

Mike Dobson, spokesman for Portman, said: "The decision to launch these rates
was taken in response to the events in the US."

These moves will push other lenders to reprice downwards.

The US is expected to reduce interest rates, and the UK is expected to follow.

David Bitner, technical manager of Bradford & Bingley Marketplace, said: "There
will be another mortgage war. The only thing keeping the UK economy in the state
that it is, was high consumer confidence.

"After the attack, people are thinking is there going to be a war? which makes
them less likely to go out spending. So interest rates will be dropped to
stimulate consumer demand."

Mr Bitner predicts an increase in loss-leading products from lenders. He said:
"If there is not enough business out there, and lenders are going for growth,
they have to loss lead. Lenders like Alliance & Leicester, Northern Rockand
Woolwich will have to do so in order to keep their share price higher."

The move would reverse the recent trend where lenders such as Halifax have
pulled back from loss leaders, and slightly increased their margins.  margins.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 20, 2001

New computer virus fear;
 ACTIVE IN USA: but 'Nimda' is not thought to be linked to terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis

SECTION: News, Pg.13

LENGTH: 260 words


ORGANISATIONS and businesses in Bath are bracing themselves for attacks from a
virulent computer virus, feared to be the fastest-spreading of its kind yet.

'Nimda' is an offshoot of the Code Red worm which infected computer systems
worldwide earlier this year.

Most offices in the city have been warned and say they are fully protected.

A warning to all computer users at Bath and North East Somerset Council on
Tuesday evening told them not to open any suspicious-looking e-mails and
attachments.

Staff at Bath-based Future Publishing were also put on alert yesterday morning
after one person reported the virus on their machine.

The company's system is protected with a virus scanner which updates itself on a
daily basis.

The virus is at its most active in the UK, America and Hong Kong but is not
thought to be linked to last week's terrorist attacks.

The Home Office last night warned British businesses to be on their guard but
said those who downloaded the "patch" protection device to guard against the
Code Red worm would be safe.

The virus spreads through an e-mail attachment called readme. exe.

It works in the same way as the Code Red worm, which was predicted to cause
mayhem across systems worldwide over the summer.

Once the Nimda virus has successfully installed itself into a web server, it
will use that system to attempt to attack others by mass e-mailing.

Infected servers may then display a web page inviting visitors to download a
file containing the worm attachment which spreads the virus.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

LETTER: RID US OF TERROR;
 ATTACK ON AMERICA

BYLINE: B G Hilson

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 111 words


I WAS amazed at your political editor Shaun Connolly's observations on the
respective behaviour of George Bush and Tony Blair in the wake of the recent
atrocities in America.

It would have been fairer to George Bush to point out that he lacked the
experience of dealing with terrorists.

Our Prime Minister has shaken hands and taken tea with them and has presided
over a Government that has released countless murderers and thugs under the Good
Friday appeasement process.

Perhaps as a part of America's stated intention of ridding the world of
terrorism they could visit these islands and succeed where we have failed.

B G Hilson, Bromsgrove

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 20, 2001

GRAN'S TEARS;
 Bristol-born Julie Uman was living happily in America - then the terrorists'
attack on New York claimed her husband and devastated her family

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE STEVE GRANT

SECTION: News, Pg.1/ 2

LENGTH: 391 words


A BRISTOL woman was today grieving for her financier husband, believed to have
been killed along with 700 colleagues in the terror attack on New York's World
Trade Centre.

Julie Uman, aged 34, has had no news of husband Jonathan, co-head of corporate
development with financial services giant Cantor Fitzgerald. He was working on
the top floors of the first tower to be struck by the hijacked planes.

And today, Julie's grandmother, 81-year-old Hilda Buoy, spoke from her
Portishead home of how Jonathan's disappearance had devastated the family.

Julie's parents, Roger and Sakina Buoy, had moved to America from Bristol when
she was just two. They have since returned to Chew Magna, but Julie stayed in
America, living with husband Jonathan in Westport, Connecticut, where they have
two children.

Hilda, of The Deans, Portishead, said her granddaughter, whose children are
Alexander, three, and Anna, just 10 months, was coping amazingly well.

"She is so brave, " she said. "She has started up a benefit fund for all the
children of the people killed in the company."

Mrs Buoy said she watching television last Tuesday when there was a newsflash
about the attacks.

She said: "I knew Jonathan worked on the floor on top of the first tower to be
hit. I knew no-one could possibly survive that heat and smoke.

"You cannot imagine how shocking it was. I shook for almost an hour because I
knew he was there. It was dreadful, absolutely dreadful.

"Then of course, I couldn't find out anything, the phones went dead, all the
lines went down. I was just waiting and waiting. I stayed up all the night
watching the TV hoping I could see him running down the street."

Julie's father, Roger, has flown to America to be with his daughter.

Mrs Buoy said: "He flew over on the first flight that he could get on. He was in
Stockholm when it happened. He flew home, picked up some clothes, went to
Heathrow and spent two days in a hotel before he could get out.

"Sakina is devastated.

They were all together at Martha's Vineyard the week before and had a wonderful
holiday. They only came back on the Sunday."

Cantor Fitzgerald is a bond trading firm handling trillions of dollars every
year. About 700 staff are missing. None of the firm's staff at work last Tuesday
morning are believed to have survived.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 31 words


PALESTINIAN gunmen today killed an Israeli woman and seriously wounded her
husband in a West Bank road ambush today - seriously threatening the ceasefire
called by Yasser Arafat.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: WEST GO ON RED ALERT AS FBI FEAR SECOND ATTACK

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 495 words


THE FBI fear Osama bin Laden is planning another horrific terrorist attack this
Saturday.

They believe they have already successfully foiled two potential hijacks but are
very concerned there could be more.

Agents have made preventing further attacks their top priority.

And senior Washington politicians last night said they believed other countries
could also be hit by the terrorists.

The FBI were last night continuing to question more than 200 people they have
taken into custody. Many of them knew the 19 hijackers in the US atrocities.

The FBI learned that four key suspects - including a Texas-based Saudi doctor -
bought tickets for flights on United Airlines on this coming Saturday.

Two bought tickets on Flight 1429 from San Antonio to Denver and the other two
on Flight 1185 from Denver to San Diego. Those flights have been cancelled. The
people booked to fly were on an FBI list of associates of the 19 hijackers.

It's thought the hijack plot fell apart when Alader al-Hazmi, 34, a doctor from
the University of Texas Health Science Centre in San Antonio, failed to meet up
with two conspirators arrested at Fort Worth, Texas, on the day of the
atrocities.

Agents found Indians Ayub Ali Khan, 51, and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, were
carrying pounds 14,000 in cash and box-cutters like the ones used by the
hijackers. All three are being quizzed in New York.

As well as numerous ties to bin Laden, there is also some evidence that Iraq may
have been linked with the attack.

One of the hijack leaders, Mohamed Atta, met a senior Iraqi intelligence officer
earlier this year and may have got funding.

Security chiefs are convinced they are dealing with a massive terror network
which has been secretly built up across the US stretching back several years.

The FBI are hunting a dozen Arabs who, like the hijackers, went to the US, got
pilot licences or sought flight training. FBI sources also believe a flight,
from Boston to Los Angeles, was due to be hijacked on the day of the atrocities.
That was foiled when the flight was cancelled for technical reasons.

But most of the evidence remains secret by court orders - with one key witness,
an Orlando businessman, being whisked to a federal court in Florida at 4am.
Fifteen of the 19 hijackers lived in the state.

The FBI and police are also pursuing leads in Europe - Atta was one of three
hijackers to have lived in Hamburg - with several arrests in Belgium and
Holland.

British intelligence sources believe there may be more than 200 supporters of
bin Laden organised and living in Britain.

He runs his Al-Qaeda group along the very same lines as the multi-national firms
and finance institutions he so despises.

He has lucrative interests in a range of businessses from construction to
diamonds, from peanut farms to fishing, although the attacks were probably made
possible with money from Islamic charities, front groups and businessmen.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: IRON FIST OF JUSTICE;
 US MILITARY SENDS IN 150 WAR JETS AS ELITE BRITISH COMMANDOS FLY OUT TO DESERT
STATE

BYLINE: Ian Dow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 743 words


AMERICA sent more than 150 jets - many equipped with Cruise missiles - to bases
within striking distance of Kabul last night.

The deployment of Operation Infinite Justice coincided with 400 Scots-based
Royal Marines preparing to fly out to take up posts in and around the Gulf.

Within days the full might of the most powerful military force in history will
be in position to strike at Afghanistan where bin Laden is believed to be hiding
out.

The men of Arbroath-based 45 Commando - who are heading for Oman as part of the
scheduled Swift Sword military exercise - are specialists in mountain warfare
and will be the "eyes and ears" of British and US troops sent in to flush out
terrorist chief Osama bin Laden.

They are likely to be among the first troops on Afghan soil if Britain and
America give the go-ahead for strikes.

The Marines' role would be to mount hit-and-run raids and provide crucial
intelligence to guide US missiles and bombs to their targets.

Defence expert Major Charles Heyman, of Jane's World Armies, said: "The Royal
Marines are tailor-made for this kind of operation. There are no throats they
could not rip out."

The military exercise which will take place in the Gulf over the next few days
will involve 20,000 British troops.

Operation Swift Sword has been four years in the planning, but by co-incidence
places a powerful and highly-mobile British force in the Gulf at a crucial time
in the terror crisis.

Major Heyman added: "They are in the right place at the right time.

"The rough terrain in Afghanistan will hold no problems to them."

Last night, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld announced the air deployment in
the first major military response to the attacks on the World Trade Center.

They will join a massive American strike force of more than 200 US warplanes
already in position on two aircraft carriers in the Indian Ocean and at bases in
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain.

White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said it is time for action and not
negotiation with the Taliban.

Taking to the air will be fighters and bombers, including F-15s and F-16s, which
are among the most advanced in the world.

Stealth bombers, B1s - armed with deadly Cruise missiles - will also be part of
the force.

They will backed by U2 spy planes, flying tankers and AWACS reconnaissance
planes, as well as ground support staff.

The two aircraft carriers already in the area have a total strike force of 150
naval planes.

Meanwhile a flotilla of US warships left port in Norfolk, Virginia, yesterday.
Led by the USS Theodore Roosevelt and USS Enterprise - each of which can carry
75 aircraft including 45 attack planes - the flotilla was thought to carry
15,000 sailors and marines.

The force was headed for the Mediterranean. From there it would only have to
steam through the Suez Canal to reach striking distance of Afghanistan.

It's believed special forces troops are already operating in the area.

Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said last night: "The United States is
repositioning some of its military forces where required to prepare for and
support the President's campaign against terrorism and to support efforts to
identify, locate and hold accountable terrorists and those who support and
harbor them."

And last night, sources revealed that Britain and the US are drawing up secret
plans to launch a 10-year war on terrorism.

A defence source said that despite a build-up of American forces in the Gulf
there were will be no Desert Storm-style blitz on Afghanistan.

Instead it's claimed the powers are developing a new military and diplomatic
strategy to rid the world of terror cells and networks.

Defence sources say there is no "short-term fix" and Operation Noble Eagle -
America's initial response to the terrorist attack - will be a long-term
strategy that will not just focus on bringing Osama bin Laden to justice.

American Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said: "I think what you will see
evolve over the next six, eight, 10, 12 months, probably over a period of years,
is a coalition to help battle terrorists.

"This is a very new type of conflict or battle or campaign or war or effort, for
the United States.

"We're moving in a measured manner.

"As we gather information, we're preparing appropriate courses of action, and
they run across the political and economic and financial, military, intelligence
spectrum."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 20, 2001

Still wide open to terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 602 words


ONE truth is grimly apparent, as the EU plans a crackdown on terrorism: the
Western democracies are still wide open to attack.

The Prime Minister rightly describes the present crisis as a war, but Britain
and its neighbours have hardly begun to build their defences.

Yesterday, Home Secretary David Blunkett admitted that he is powerless at
present to act against poisonous agitators such as Abu Hamza and Omar Bakri
Mohammed, who have disgusted decent Moslems no less than the rest of the nation
by gloating over the slaughter in New York and Washington.

These enemies in our midst despise the traditions of liberal democracy, but are
happy to exploit them. And even now, free nations struggle to find an answer.

Welcome though Europe's tougher line may be, there is unlikely to be concerted
action until next year. But is that nearly fast enough?

Consider our vulnerability.

Today we report on attitudes in the refugee camp in Sangatte, just a stone's
throw from Europe's most tempting terrorist target, the Channel Tunnel. And
while it has to be stressed that the vast majority of asylum seekers are
horrified by last week's attack, there are some who openly crow with delight.

Perhaps they are just loudmouths, but it would be folly not to regard them as a
potential danger. And they will have little difficulty in exploiting our
shambolic asylum system to stay on in this country.

The truth is that London is widely regarded as one of the world's terrorist
capitals. And we have only ourselves to blame.

The GBP 1million legal aid bill for Khalid Al Fawwaz, who is said to be an
associate of Bin Laden and is fighting extradition to America, is only one
offensive example of a judicial system that seems to have taken leave of its
senses.

Today we reveal that no fewer than seven of the fanatical hijackers were free to
come and go in Britain as they pleased.

Yesterday, we reported how an asylum seeker accused by Egypt of killing a child
in a terrorist bombing supplied vital documents to the murderers responsible for
last week's outrage. He was able to do so only because Britain refused to send
him home to face justice, citing lack of evidence.

Four others are still awaiting extradition to America on accusations of being
linked to atrocities committed by Bin Laden.

Who can say whether they will ever face justice? Extradition has become a farce.
One of the consequences of human rights legislation is that courts are reluctant
to send suspects to countries such as the U.S.A., where they may face execution.

But then, this is the same 'human rights' legislation that compensates the
families of active IRA terrorists shot by the SAS. Again and again, our courts
interpret the law in a way that damages the most basic human right of all: the
right of law abiding citizens not to be murdered by terrorists.

David Blunkett's obvious frustration matches the public mood. Change there will
have to be.

His warning that tough new laws may be necessary to curb the apostles of hate is
welcome, but the Government will have to go much further.

Compulsory identity cards, the strengthening of our security services (probably
in a dreadful state, following the reign of the pathetic Stella Rimington) and a
thoroughgoing review of human rights laws these are only some of the measures
that must be urgently considered.

As Mr Blair has pointed out, we have been given a terrible warning.

The democracies have no choice but to ensure that their freedoms so cruelly
exploited by the terrorists are matched by an implacable resolve.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 20, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Footfall at UK shopping centres plummets

BYLINE: Andrea Cockram

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 177 words


Last week's terrorist attack in New York had a dramatic effect on the UK's major
shopping centres.

According to figures published by retail research group FootFall, visitor
numbers to shopping centres dropped by 7.9% compared with the previous week.

David Smyth, marketing manager at FootFall, comments: "The difference in
footfall last week compared to the same week in 2000 - which was in the middle
of the fuel crisis - is only 6%. The terrorist attack last week, therefore, had
almost the same impact on shopping centres as the fuel shortage which physically
prevented people from shopping.

"Looking at Wednesday 12th September, the day after the terrorist attacks,
footfall dropped 10.6% on the previous Wednesday, an unexpectedly significant
decrease considering the normal seasonal trends at this time of year.

"Towards the end of last week, however, shopper confidence was returning and, by
Friday, footfall levels were up almost 1% on the Friday before."

The FootFall Index covers over 50 shopping centres geographically spread
throughout the UK.

EGi News 20/09/01



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 20, 2001

Attack on America: Warnings: FBI arrests three in Detroit raid: Fears of more
terrorist attacks this weekend

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington, Paul Kelso , and Giles Tremlett in Madrid

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872 words


American investigators said yesterday they had uncovered a suspected terrorist
cell in Detroit, arresting three men in a raid on a house where diagrams of
airports and forged identity documents were found.

The FBI was meanwhile on alert for the threat of more attempted hijackings this
Saturday, as agents said that their sources had told them that a second wave of
terror could be under way.

America's Knight Ridder press agency quoted an investigative source as saying:
"We have information that leads us to believe that there could be more attacks
very soon. The same murky sources that indicated something might be happening in
the weeks before the attacks have indicated something may be happening this
weekend."

There have been a string of false alarms since last Tuesday's onslaught and
federal officials said yesterday there was no way of determining how well
founded the latest warnings were.

The three Detroit suspects were charged with possession of false documents,
misuse of visas, passports and other immigration papers, and were being
questioned about their knowledge of last Tuesday's attacks.

FBI agent Robert Pertuso said that he and officers on the joint terrorism
taskforce in the Michigan city found "handwritten sketches of what appeared to
be a diagram of an airport flight line, to include aircraft and runways".

The FBI had come to the house in a search for one of the 200 suspects on a
"watchlist" which has been circulated around the United States.

They found the name of the man they were looking for on the mailbox outside, but
the three men denied knowing him. In the house, the agents spotted
identification badges used by airport catering workers and the men said they had
previously been employed at the city's airport.

The arrests came as a federal grand jury was set up in White Plains, New York
state, to begin sifting through the evidence and suspects picked up so far by
the FBI.

The picture is still far from clear, and every day it seems to get murkier, with
arrests across the world and claims that some of those named by the US
authorities as among the 19 hijackers last Tuesday were misidentified.

Yesterday it was claimed that one of the leading hijackers, Mohamed Atta, had
been spotted meeting an Iraqi intelligence agent in Europe several months before
the attack. However, this was denied in a television report from Eygpt by a man
claiming to be his father, who said his son was safe and well and had telephoned
him on Thursday.

Despite the confusion, part of the vast investigation has focused on links
between the conspirators and Iraq or other states which may have sponsored the
operation.

"It is pretty clear that the networks that conduct these kind of events are
harboured, supported, sustained and protected by a variety of foreign
governments," the US attorney general, John Ashcroft, said.

Mr Ashcroft confirmed that the FBI was also investigating whether more flights
were targeted for hijackings beyond the four on September 11. One of the
additional flights is thought to have been due to leave from Boston on Tuesday
morning, but its departure was delayed because of mechanical problems.

President George Bush's administration has given the investigators far-reaching
powers to detain foreign citizens on grounds of immigration violations as a
means of holding them for questioning in the terrorist probe. Investigators can
hold foreigners with visa or document irregularities for 48 hours, or longer in
emergencies. Until this week, the maximum detention period was 24 hours. The
justice department has also drafted legislation to allow for the arrest and
deportation of suspected terrorists without presenting evidence in a court.

In Germany meanwhile, it was reported that as many as 30 terrorist cells
affiliated to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida movement are active. Stern magazine
cited a German BDN intelligence agency estimate that these "sleeper nests" of
Islamist terrorists were capable of launching 20 to 30 major attacks across
Europe.

The magazine also said that Germany's federal crime office had issued a warning
that an "unidentified group of Arab terrorists has been planning since
mid-September an attack on Nato headquarters in Brussels for some time around
October 1".

There are 3.1m Muslims in Germany, with around 31,000 affiliated to "Islamist"
organisations. The authorities have identified about 3,250 of these as
"potential extremists".

At least six associates with links to Bin Laden have been captured in Germany in
recent years, and three of the suspects in last week's suicide hijackings lived
in Germany.

There were also reports that the financial centre of Frankfurt may have been
used as a logistical bridgehead, both for operations and for the movement of
money that facilitates terrorist operations.

Meanwhile Spanish police are investigating possible sightings of Atta in the
eastern resort town of Salou in July, according to Barcelona's La Vanguardia
newspaper.

Police have been checking hotels and scouring credit card details and telephone
bills after two staff members at the Hotel Casablanca Playa, on Salou's
beachfront, identified him from photographs.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 20, 2001

Online: America under attack: Terror takes aim at the net: When freedom is under
threat, it's time to network, says New Yorker

BYLINE: Douglas Rushkoff

SECTION: Guardian Online Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1185 words


The attack on the World Trade Tower is no more an attack on the global economy
than it is an attack on the global network. That's right: the internet we've
argued over for the past 10 years has been targeted. Given the quality of a lot
of what I've read online since the attack, it's hard to be too upset. The
internet is at war with itself, when it should be coming to terms with its real
enemies.

I have watched as people on politically progressive mailing lists - from Nettime
to my own media-squat - have wrestled with the introduction of such a glaring
discontinuity into their conceptual narratives. Everyone is attempting to "make
sense" of the World Trade Centre tragedy. Unfortunately, as in any moment when
things do not make any real sense, many people are reaching for conspiracy
theories, or retreating into one brand of blind fundamentalism or another.

Let's entertain them for a moment.

Internet conspiracies range from a Bush-Bin Laden oil deal, to a joint effort by
Israel and America to earn support for the war against the Palestinians. These
ideas all stem from a sense of responsibility for what happened. Of course.
People who have experienced networking know that no one force is responsible for
such a catastrophe.

But we don't need an outlandish theory to see that we have been engaged in a cer
tain kind of war for a long time, and that the rules of that war are changing.
Throughout the cold war, we had an agreement with the Soviet Union to stay
within certain parameters. We maintained nuclear arsenals, generally stayed away
from one another, and supported insurgents with money.

Our tactics during this period included training and arming people like Bin
Laden. We also supported countries with resources or forms of government we
liked. (Our support of Jordan's intentionally repressive monarchy is much more
objectionable than our support of Israel's attempted democracy. Alas, the
Palestinians don't have any idea how hated they are by the so-called Arab
community). The concrete karmic result of US policy is that the monsters we
create eventually turn on us.

A few embassy bombings were not enough to show us what we had created. The World
Trade Centre was. We have made terrible mistakes in our ongoing war effort. And
the very people that the USSR and the USA were once fighting over are now
fighting against us.

But whatever role we played, and however ineffectual our strategy, what we have
been aiming to support over the past couple of centuries is creativity and free
will. All the angst and political critique expressed by highly educated
internet-literate computers users has been made possible by the Western system,
born in the Renaissance, crafted in the Enlightenment and enacted in the French
and US revolutions.

To maintain this system, we have done some very questionable things. And these
were not always the best solutions to the real and seeming threats to our
security and well-being. But they were better solutions than most societies
employed, and we are getting better all the time.

What other nation experienced a civil rights movement, or shifted from slavery
to affirmative action as quickly as we did? What nation developed an economic
system so robust that it is capable of helping almost any other nation out of
crisis? And what nation gives such aid?

Yes, we are crippled by our own brands of fundamentalism (to the point where we
can't even make our pledge to the United Nations) and our own economic extremism
(preventing us from signing Kyoto) to our own misunderstanding of global
relations (keeping us from the racism conference). We are addicted to oil, blind
to many of the plights of others, and spiritually confused.

But we are also the economy and military that has maintained this soft, cushy
society - from no-nuclear zones such as New Zealand, all the way across the
hated USA and over to Europe. We have been the military brunt behind a society
dedicated to Judeo-Christian ethical development and Hellenist idealism. You
want the truth? You can't handle the truth.

Call me jingoistic, but I'm on "our" side in this conflict. Yes, there are
sides. There is the side of pluralism, creativity, and free will, and there is
the side of intolerance, dogma, and repression. American idealism has its
problems, but it's meant to be about freedom, not decrees. The internet is one
of the best tools yet for extending this sensibility.

So far, the rhetoric against the United States has come from three main camps:

1 The extreme fundamentalists who perpetrated the attacks, as well as their
extremely under-educated and impoverished supporters

2 The extreme fundamentalists within our own borders, such as Pat Robertson and
Jerry Falwell, who blame the sins of females, homosexuals, and civil
libertarians for the attacks, and who - like the terrorists - suggest that we
are being punished by God.

3 The hyper-intellectual neo-communists of the internet (particularly, the
Nettime list from which I have now unsubscribed) who snicker at our losses, and
believe that America deserves such an attack as revenge for its actions in
Kosovo (saving a race from genocide), or the corporate policies of Gap. All
three groups are fundamentalists, who are clinging to a world view that
tolerance, interactive media, and - yes - capitalism tend to erode. We are all
in this together. Abortionists and mothers, Arab and Jew, libertarian and
communist.

Take a good hard look at who is attempting to create structures within which
everyone can live in peace, and who is not. Which looks more like pluralism to
you? Old Jerusalem or Jordan? New York or Tehran?

4 Introspection and self-loathing are extremely positive when they can be used
to make real changes to one's outlooks and behaviours. But they can be crippling
when taken too far, or when they're indulged at the wrong moment.

Similarly, fist-waving and hyper-patriotic rhetoric seems, to me, like a retreat
into the symbols of an ancient war rather than an expression of the values we
aim to defend.

This is an opportunity take our on-going struggle for plurality and human
creativity to the next level. For more consciousness, not less. For the
dismantling of a war machine that is, in part, our own creation. For the spread
of value like property ownership and democracy, which lead inevitably towards
rule of law and protection of human rights. People need to have something at
stake.

The war will be fought on a cultural and ideological level. We must come to
understand what conditions lead people to surrender their free will, and live by
decree instead of choice - and then we must fight to eradicate those conditions.
We must continue to develop cultural and spiritual tools that help people
appreciate the value of human life. We must encourage the notion of free will
and free expression, along with the resistance to social programming.

We must protect and extend an interactive mediaspace, which promotes
collectivism and creativity over isolationism and fundamentalism.

It is time to network.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

BA AXE 7,000;
 TERROR ATTACKS COST 60,000 JOBS WORLDWIDE

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 419 words


BRITISH Airways is to axe 7,000 jobs and ground 20 aircraft after the US
terrorist attacks, the company announced today.

The move brings worldwide job losses in the airline industry to 60,000.

BA also revealed it was reducing flying by 10%.

Chief Executive Rod Eddington said: "We face exceptional circumstances which
have forced us to take very tough decisions."

Last night, US-based United Airlines announced it is to lay off 20,000. Virgin
Atlantic has axed 1,800 and Boeing 31,000 staff.

Mr Eddington added:

"The tragic events in the USA will undoubtedly have a significant impact on the
demand for air travel in the months ahead."

Sir Ken Jackson, general secretary of the Amalgamated Engineering and Electrical
Union, said:

"This is a massive blow to an already beleaguered industry. Airlines are now in
their worst ever position.

"The government must play its full part because a great deal of financial
assistance is required.

Short-term job cuts are not the answer."

North-West regional officer for the AEEU officer John Hamilton called for "cool
heads" in the current climate.

He said: "We are monitoring the situation very closely.

"The terrible tragedy which unfolded last week in New York will obviously hav
consequences, but we are working very hard with BAe, local politicians and Welsh
Assembly Ministers.

It's time for cool heads and to ensure the future of the industry is
safeguarded."

Aerospace bosses have also sent an SOS to the government About 40,000 people are
directly employed in the industry around the Northwest and twice as many are
dependent on the sector.

Merseyside has more than 3,000 direct aerospace jobs.

Merseyside aerospace interests include components manufacturer TRW, formerly
Lucas which employs about 400 Wirral staff, Southport-based airplane seat maker
Garrick Engineering and Emphasys, a two-man St Helens business supplying
inventory software for British Airways.

Broughton-based Airbus unveiled plans this year for its A380 superjumbo, the
world's biggest passenger jet, and it could feel a backlash. Fortunately, says
the North West Aerospace Alliance, no Merseyside companies have direct exposure
to Boeing's cutbacks.

However, the Lancashirebased lobby group which boasts 800 member companies
including about 50 on Merseyside is still appealing to the government for help.

Chairman Dennis Mendoros said: "We urge active support from the government
through what is a very difficult phase."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GROUNDED: 20 of BA's aircraft GOD SPEED: The crew of the USS; Theodore
Roosevelt on deck as they leave their base at Norfolk Naval base,; Virginia,
bound for the Gulf BA JOBS BLOW: A row of BA 747s on the tarmac before today's
announcement

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

MORE TO COME?;
 FEARS OF NEW TERROR ATTACKS ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 113 words

HIGHLIGHT: WANTED: Bin Laden


TERROR chief Osama bin Laden plans more attacks on Saturday, the FBI fear.

A three-man death squad is being hunted in America. And other nations are now
believed to be on the hit list.

The FBI has learned that the three along with a fourth man, now under arrest,
planned to hijack two internal US flights this Saturday.

The leaders of Afghanistan's Taliban regime will decide the fate of bin Laden
today. They seem certain to refuse America's demand to give up the suspected
mastermind behind last week's atrocity - bringing massive military retaliation.

Tony Blair will arrive in Washington tonight for talks on the terrorism crisis
with President Bush.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: GIRL ATTACKED

BYLINE: Sue Castle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 142 words


EDUCATION chiefs in Swansea are investigating claims a 10-year-old Muslim girl
was assaulted by a teacher in the latest race incident in the city since the US
outrage.

Her family say she was verbally abused and had her headscarf pulled off at the
school entrance.

She has been left shocked and traumatised, her parents claim.

Police are also investigating the alleged attack plus death threats to local
Muslims and an attack on the city's only mosque. Omar Williams, spokesman for
Swansea-based Muslim welfare organisation Kafel, said they were in touch with
the girl's family.

He said he was not prepared to name the school, but added: "If the adult
concerned is a teacher as is alleged then we will want to see disciplinary
action taken."

A council spokesman said a complaint had been made and an investigation
launched.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 20, 2001

Blunkett whips up asylum scare;
 'Fortress Britain' policy follows terror attacks

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 495 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett introduced sweeping security measures yesterday to
block refugees fleeing war and terror in Afghanistan from entering Britain.

Conjuring up a "fortress Britain" atmosphere, Mr Blunkett boasted of a range of
high-tech devices to be used by police and security staff at ports and airports.

Mr Blunkett insisted that the measures would help keep illegal immigrants and
terrorists out of the country.

The clampdown was announced on the same day that both Mr Blunkett and Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw called for a halt to the hate campaign against the Muslim
community in Britain, in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks in the US.

The Home Secretary also promised tougher action by police and MI5 against
Islamist extremists in Britain who have spoken up in support of terrorism.

Far-right Tory MP Michael Fabricant reiterated his call for tougher curbs on
asylum-seekers to prevent Afghan terrorists from "sneaking" into Britain.

But a spokeswoman for the National Assembly Against Racism warned that the
government's clampdown would only force asylum-seekers into greater danger, as
they made ever more desperate attempts to reach Britain.

Almost 3,000 more places at detention centres are planned to ensure the "rapid
repatriation" of failed asylum-seekers.

Mr Blunkett, who visited Dover to promote the new measures, declared: "We need
to get message across that we simply can't take a flood of those people being
trafficked."

The Home Secretary added that efforts must be made to ensure that asylum-seekers
fleeing Afghanistan in anticipation of US military action remained in that area,
rather than coming to Britain.

Mr Blunkett said that new security measures would include five mobile gamma-ray
scanners to detect hidden immigrants trying to get through the Channel tunnel.

He boasted that a new acoustic machine, which could detect the sound of a
heartbeat inside a vehicle, was to be introduced at the tunnel.

Thermal imaging equipment will be used to detect stowaways inside railway
carriages.

In addition, new-style CCTV cameras will be installed at Heathrow airport.

Mr Blunkett will also urge the introduction of EU-wide arrest warrants for
terrorist suspects at a meeting of European home affairs ministers in Brussels
today.

Leaders of the Muslim, Sikh, Christian and Hindu communities met in Manchester
yesterday to discuss an upsurge of anti-Islamic racism in the area.

The meeting, which was also attended by police and council representatives,
followed a firebomb attack on a mosque in Bolton, Greater Manchester, on Monday
night.

Afterwards, the leaders urged that recent incidents should not mar the "good and
cordial relationship" between their communities.

Since the US tragedy, an Afghan minicab driver has been left paralysed after he
was beaten up in west London and an Asian woman was attacked by a gang with
baseball bats in Swindon, Wiltshire.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 20, 2001

Deadly crossroad;
 Voices of Scotland: Scottish National Party MSP SHONA ROBISON warns of the
concequences of waging war in a response to last week's terrorist attack

BYLINE: SHONA ROBISON

SECTION:  Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1099 words


THE tragic events of September 11 will be etched on everyone's minds for a long
time to come.

We will all remember where we were when we saw the apocalyptic events in New
York unfolding.

Having once stood at the top of the World Trade Centre - having spent a night in
the hotel between the towers - it is impossible to imagine the devastation
caused by this towering inferno falling to the ground.

The lives of ordinary men, women and children were cut short, mothers and
fathers never came home and many grieving families will never even have a body
to bury.

Many of our lives were touched by the pure injustice of what occurred.

Man's inhumanity to man was exposed in its darkest form that day.

What happens now must not continue this brutality, but I am very fearful that it
will.

As the world stands on the brink of the unknown, we are at a crossroads.

While human instinct may be to exact revenge and to punish, it is crucial that
the voices of reason prevail.

We need to look beyond the terrorists themselves to the complex mixture of
resentment, blame, ethnic division and poverty throughout the world which forms
the breeding ground for such fanaticism.

While the voices of war are calling for the serpents' heads to be chopped off,
noone is asking how those serpents came about in the first place.

And no-one knows whether the result of the war being talked up will result in
many thousands more serpents coming along to take their place.

While no-one yet knows precisely who ordered the dreadful attacks on the US, it
does seem highly likely that it was carried out under orders from the Middle
East.

It also seems likely that those who carried out the assault were from the Middle
East.

Even if this is true - and it explains very little - the Middle East is not all
Osama bin Laden or the Iraqi Republican Guards.

It is also the Kurds in northern Iraq, who are oppressed by Saddam Hussein and
pro-Western Turkey.

It is the Marsh Arabs in the south, who were encouraged by the West to rise up
and then abandoned to their fate.

The Middle East is also the pro-Western leadership in Jordan, the Sunni Afghans,
the Shia Muslims in Iran and the Ba'ath regime in Syria.

It is the ultra-undemocratic regime in Saudi Arabia, it is the Egyptian
government struggling against its own internal terrorists and every shade of
opinion in between.

We need to understand the Arab world and we need to begin to address the disease
not the symptoms.

The Middle East conflict is a complex one of which the Israel/Palestine fault
line is but one element.

What is clear is that the growing resentment toward the West - the US in
particular and its perceived partisan backing for one side - has provided the
ideal recruiting ground for those who will stop at nothing to exact revenge.

The new bogey man of Islamic fundamentalism - which, let's face it, is something
few of us understand - scares us in its manifestation in a country like
Afghanistan.

Yet the story of how the West was responsible for the arming and financing of
the Taliban when it suited has not yet been fully told or explained.

Even today, stories are emerging of how the West funded, trained and armed bin
Laden in its war against Soviet involvement in Afghanistan.

Behind the Taliban spokespeople, whose utterances are always as extreme as you
would expect them to be, are thousands of ordinary men, women and children
living in primitive conditions and ruled with an iron rod.

What will be the consequence to these people of an all-out attack on
Afghanistan?

Already, many have fled Kabul and other cities in terror of what is about to
happen.

When the Taliban go, I will be celebrating, but the way to achieve that is not
through the indiscriminate destruction of innocent people who have already
suffered 20 years of war and four years of drought.

Where has been the sympathy for these poor souls who have had to suffer the
mujahedin, a brutal civil war and then the Taliban for all these years?

Now the world's most powerful leader and the world's media are telling us about
the evil tyranny of the Taliban.

Many of us have been saying that for years, but no-one would listen.

Moreover, there has also been a lack of support for those who have fled the
Taliban regime.

Look no further than the treatment of Afghan asylum-seekers, who have been
pilloried in Britain as bogus and undeserving and have even been attacked here
on the streets of Scotland.

Australia has turned its back on the hundreds of asylum-seekers aboard a
Norwegian freighter, most of whom were Afghan.

The West seems to want to have it both ways, by attacking the regime but not
being prepared to help its victims.

If an onslaught is launched against Afghanistan, are we going to maintain the
same attitude toward those millions of refugees who will inevitably flow across
many states' borders - including every country in Europe?

For that is the price to be paid by such action.

Even now, with only the threat of an attack, hundreds of thousands of Afghans
are fleeing their homes.

While the Taliban are beating them back, the Pakistani and Iranian governments
have already closed the borders.

What is the British, US and Australian governments' view of these people?

Indeed, if the "West" is to root out terrorism in other countries, possibly
displacing millions of innocent people, how are our governments and peoples
going to respond?

There will be - there must be - a response to the attack on the US, but it must
be measured and it must be against those who have been shown to be responsible.

There must not be a knee-jerk reaction against Muslims in general.

This affects all of us - yesterday, a close relative in the US felt uneasy as an
Arab family entered a restaurant and were stared at as if they were guilty of
the New York attack.

In many countries, Asians, of all faiths, are being abused in the streets.

And, even here in Scotland, innocent Muslims are hiring private security guards
for their mosques out of fear of attack.

To root out the cause of anti-Western feeling and to remove forever the breeding
ground for the extremists, the answer must be to ensure that the West is seen as
fair in the Middle East and the governments of Arab states end the massive
imbalance of wealth and poverty which exist throughout the region.

And it is vital that we do not stand idly by, but offer our support, practically
and morally, to progressive forces trying to democratise the Arab world.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

GRAPHIC: WAR PATH: A New York police officer (right) guards the perimeter of the
area where the World Trade Centre once stood (above).

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Media Age

                               September 20, 2001

Internet companies count the cost of US terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 332 words


US Internet companies and their British counterparts have been left reeling by
last week's terrorist attacks on New York's World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

As soon as news reached Britain, a number of American companies, including AOL
and MSN, were forced to step up security as their US parent's warned that they
too could be potential targets.

Meanwhile several firms and agencies, including Agency.com, Razorfish and
Organic, with offices close to the disaster area, put holding pages on their
sites expressing their horror at Tuesday's events.

Agency.com said on its site that it was confident that all of its employees were
accounted for and safe but it still appealed for people to get in touch with
information.

The Wall Street Journal, which has offices in the financial district of New
York, dropped charges to access its site following the attacks.

WSJ.com did this to allow its users easy access to up-to-the-minute information
after the company's distribution network for its offline publication was
disrupted by the disaster.

The company returned the site to a charging model the following day after
sorting out distribution problems, though some of its content remains free.

Up to 40 independent victim support and survivor registry Web sites have also
been set up, in addition to the facilities provided on the official New York
City Web site, and those of most US newspapers.

The World Trade Center Survivors Database was launched as a standalone site but
had to be taken down due to the high response and linked instead to the
Newyork.gov Web site.

Meanwhile the German media giant Bertelsmann, which has over 5,000 staff based
in New York, has pledged to donate $1m (GBP 679,000) to the families of the US
rescue services who lost their lives when the towers collapsed.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos has also cancelled a trip to the UK, which was scheduled
for Tuesday this week, to celebrate the third anniversary of Amazon.co.uk

Magazine

LANGUAGE: English

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

                   Copyright 2001 Centaur Communications Ltd.

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

ROOM AT THE INN AS WEDDING CANCELLED AFTER TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


A COUPLE who booked every room at one of Cardiff's top hotels for their wedding
party have been forced to cancel as their American relatives cannot fly to the
UK following last week's terrorist attacks.

The groom, a banker from North America, and his Far Eastern bride hired all of
the 132 bedrooms in St David's Hotel and Spa in Cardiff Bay for their wedding
reception at a cost of at least pounds 40,000.

The couple, who do not want to be named, had invited relatives and friends from
all over the world, including America, to their wedding this weekend.

But following last week's attacks they were forced to cancel the booking at the
last minute.

None of their family members or friends was killed in the attacks but have been
unable to ensure flights to Cardiff this week.

"It was to be their weekend of a lifetime but the tragedy in New York and
Washington has forced them to postpone the celebration, " said director of sales
and marketing Paula Ellis.

"This decision by the wedding couple enforces the sadness caused by last
Tuesday's terrible events, " she added.

The couple, who are based in London, decided to get married in the hotel after a
visit to Cardiff last year.

"They hope that the event can now take place in the spring, " added the hotel
director.

"We fully understand the situation they are in and indeed the couple have now
allowed us to open the hotel for guests this weekend, " added Paula.

Due to the cancellation, the hotel is offering reduced prices of pounds 40 per
person per night, based on two sharing, for tomorrow and Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WEDDING CANCELLED St David's Hotel in Cardiff Bay.

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 20, 2001

TERROR ATTACKS MAY MEAN AER LINGUS SHUTDOWN

BYLINE: Julia Mahony

SECTION: TERROR IN AMERICA

LENGTH: 499 words


    Future not easy says Bertie

    AER Lingus could go bust in the wake of the US atrocities, it was predicted
yesterday.

    The state airline has already warned it will have to cut up to 700 jobs.

    But that figure could grow by 1,000 if the firm loses a quarter of its
trade.

    Aviation expert Paul Duffy said: "This is going to result in the survival or
death of Aer Lingus itself.

    "Management will have to keep the situation under tight review."

    Taoiseach Bertie Ahern admitted there could be possibly "grave consequences"
of the terror attacks and said it would not be any easy task to secure the
future of the airline.

    He said Public Enterprise Minister Mary O'Rourke would be working closely on
the crisis. Mr Ahern described the Aer Lingus situation as "an EU and global
problem".

    Dire

    Mr Duffy said the global recession had been biting at the heels of airlines
before the attacks, so the situation was now dire.

    Trade unions last night warned that the slimming-down of Aer Lingus could
result in disaster for communities around major airports.

    SIPTU general secretary John McDonnell fears that 10,000 jobs could be at
risk and said state aid was desperately needed.

    But Fine Gael MEP John Cushnahan explained that current EU policy blocks
state aid to national airlines.

    He vowed to approach EU Commissioner Mario Monti, who is in charge of the
policy. He said: "I am urging him to relax current restrictions, to permit
national governments during the current crisis to be able to assist state
airlines if it is deemed necessary to guarantee their survival."

    IMPACT chief Michael Landers backed the call saying: "It would be almost
inconceivable if the EU were not to allow European governments to do the same."

    Sinn Fein's Sean Crowe said the latest Aer Lingus cuts showed "the lack of
government interest in the livelihoods of the employees over many years.

    He said: "The problems that face Aer Lingus pre-date the current crisis that
has followed the attacks in the US."

    Meanwhile, Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary yesterday called off sniping at
rival airlines in the face of the terrorist threat to what he called the
"airline family" worldwide.

    Sniping

    "I think this is a time when everybody in the airline family generally
around the world needs to put aside for a period of time whatever sniping we may
go on with on a day-to-day basis," he told RTE yesterday.

    And in another move prompted by last week's outrages, Waterford Crystal
bosses are to meet with unions next week to discuss the possibility of
short-time working.

    Waterford is regarded as a prestigious brand leader in the glass crystal
industry, particularly in the US, where there has already been a fall in sales.

    Now there are fears the terror attacks will amount to a further blow.

    The firm, which has a 1,600-strong workforce at factories in Waterford and
nearby Dungarvan, is reckoned to have around Pounds 90million worth of
stockpiled goods.


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

Should I tell the truth about terrorist attacks?

BYLINE: Jeremy Swinson

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 405 words


Our panel of experts answer your questions.

Jeremy Swinson Senior educational psychologist with Liverpool City Council.

As a teacher in a primary school, I would welcome your advice on dealing with
pupils' questions about the terrorist attacks in America and their aftermath.
Every day the children come in with new questions and it is difficult to know
how honest to be.

S.L., London

Jeremy Swinson writes: You need to reassure children without lying to them. Keep
the facts simple. Some children will react by becoming anxious about their
personal safety, although not all will express it. Research from previous
disasters has shown that they may fear being caught in a similar attack.
Teachers should emphasise that this is extremely unlikely and that they need not
worry. A good way of letting children express their feelings is in class
discussions. Teachers may find themselves being asked difficult questions about
people jumping from buildings and the discovery of body parts. Teachers should
keep their answers straightforward and feel free to say: "I don't know."
Teachers could explain, in a matter-of-fact way, that in a disaster of this
scale, bodies are sometimes found in pieces but that the rescue services will
look after them. It is important that children are allowed to share in the
mourning. Many schools will already have held assemblies to remember the dead.
These are essential, as they help children to realise that they are not alone in
how they are feeling and this helps to reduce anxiety. At class level, teachers
could ask their children to draw pictures and write to the Mayor of New York,
expressing their feelings. Mourning does need to have an end, and an appropriate
way would be for some children to read out their letters at another special
assembly before they are sent off. If children ask whether there is going to be
a war, I don't think it is lying to say that whatever happens will probably take
place a long way away and is unlikely to affect them. At this stage, when none
of us knows what to expect, teachers and parents should aim to reassure.
Children in secondary schools will be able to rationalise what they have seen on
television and read about in newspapers, and are extremely unlikely to develop
an anxiety state. They do, however, need an opportunity, in school and at home,
to discuss the issues involved and their emotional responses to them.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               September 20, 2001

Brother's safe escape from terrorist attack.

BYLINE: Tony Snow (author email newsdesk@basingstokegazette.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: BASINGSTOKE



A BASINGSTOKE worker made frantic phone calls to New York as he watched planes
plunge into the World Trade Center - knowing his brother was on the 95th floor.

Calling from his desk at Motorola in Midpoint, Basingstoke, David Gould, 34, did
not know whether his 36-year-old brother Anthony was alive or dead.

"I had seen the pictures on television of the smoke and flames after the two
hijacked airlines had hit and I knew he worked high up in that twin tower
building," said Mr Gould, a financial systems programmer.

"I was desperately trying to ring his home to see if he was alright. I started
phoning about 2.15pm and for about 20 minutes I didn't know one way or the
other.

"It was just shocking. I was in a bit of a state and people around me at work
were wondering what was happening.

"I finally got through to his nanny - he has two children - and she told me he
had telephoned on his mobile to say he was okay.

"He is vice-president of a trading company on the 95th floor of the south tower
and he saw the first explosion when the first plane hit the north tower because
his office faces north.

"He immediately evacuated all his staff.

"They went down in the lift. It took about five minutes to get down and out of
the building - but it took him another three to four hours to get off the island
of Manhatten by ferry."

Mr Gould, who lives in Halesowen, in the West Midlands, is a computer consultant
currently working for Motorola. He stays in Basingstoke during the week and goes
home at weekends. He and his brother were brought up in Guildford. His brother
moved to America five years ago.

Basingstoke council has set up a link to the US Embassy website in the foyer of
the council offices for members of the public who wish to sign the embassy's
electronic book of condolences but do not have access to the internet.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                               September 20, 2001

Security tight after US terror attacks .

BYLINE: Wantage staff reporter (author email wantage@nqo.com)

SECTION: Suppsc

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: wiltshire



SECURITY at all military bases in south Wiltshire was intensified this week in
the wake of Tuesday's horrifying terrorist attacks in the United States that
left thousands dead or injured and stunned the world.


Land Forces headquarters at Wilton, a nerve centre for British Armed Forces
operations, was said to be on increased alert after the shocking kamikaze
attacks on New York's World Trade Centre and the Pentagon in Washington.


And camps at Larkhill, Bulford, Tidworth, Netheravon, Winterbourne Gunner and
Upavon were all put on amber alert as was Porton Down and Boscombe Down
airfield.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 20, 2001

Dow hit by bad economic news
 Following falls after the terror attacks...

BYLINE: Rick Johnson

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.4

LENGTH: 324 words


ECONOMIC fallout from last week's terrorist attacks sent stocks spiralling for
the second time in three days in New York yesterday. Only a late burst of buying
saved the Dow Jones industrials from their worst three-day point loss yet.

The Dow, down 423 points in mid-afternoon, recovered to a loss of 144 following
news reports that the Pentagon had ordered fighter aircraft and bombers to begin
moving to the Persian Gulf area, the first concrete sign of preparations to
retaliate for last week's terrorist attacks.

"I think that's what the market needed to see, they wanted to get rid of
uncertainty and this helped," said Charles White, portfolio manager at Avatar
Associates.

Despite the comeback, the market remained vulnerable after thousands of job cuts
at Boeing and other companies following the attacks heightened fears about the
already fragile economy.

Tom Galvin, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston, said: "If
you go back to the 1990 Kuwait invasion, the market fell 15% in the first three
months and its seems like we want to make that happen faster."

At its low, the Dow had accumulated a three-day loss of more than 1,100 points.
Its worst three-day loss was 984 points, in August 1998.

The Dow closed down 144.27, or 1.6%, at 8,759.13. So far this week, the Dow is
down 746.81, or 8.8%.

Broader indexes also fell. The Nasdaq composite index was down 27.42 at
1,527.66, a 1.8% loss, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 16.66, or
1.6%, at 1,016.08.

Boeing fell 53 cents, or 1.6%, to dlrs 32.61.

Eastman Kodak slid dlrs 2.22, nearly 5.6%, to dlrs 37.61 after it lowered
third-quarter expectations and said more job cuts are inevitable. The world's
largest photography company had announced in April it was cutting 3,500 jobs
from a global payroll of 78,400.

Tech stocks also took a hit, particularly in the semiconductor category. Intel
fell dlrs 1.19 to dlrs 22.28, a 5% drop.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: FBI NET TERROR ATTACK SUSPECT

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 384 words


The FBI has captured a Middle Eastern man they want to question about the terror
attacks on New York and Washington.

Nabil Al-Marabh (34) was arrested in a Chicago suburb, FBI spokeswoman Mary Muha
said yesterday. He is being held on a warrant issued in Boston in March for
assault with a knife.

Federal agents had been looking for him since at least Monday. That day, they
raided a Detroit house with Al-Marabh's name on the mailbox and arrested three
men after discovering false visas, passports and other identification, as well
as what appeared to be a diagram of an airport flight line.

During the raid in Detroit on Monday, federal agents found a cache of documents
and arrested Karim Koubriti (23) Ahmed Hannan (33) and Farouk Ali-Haimoud (21)
on charges of having false immigration papers. The men were identified as
resident aliens from Morocco and Algeria.

Agents also found a planner with handwriting in Arabic, according to court
papers. The planner included information about an American base in Turkey, the
'American foreign minister,' and Alia Airport in Jordan, the FBI said.

Investigators also found what appeared to be a diagram of an airport flight
line, including aircraft and runways, according to the court document, which did
not identify the airport.

The men are due to appear in court today , the first time anyone detained in
connection with the attacks has made a court appearance.

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that 15 people the FBI wants to interview as it
investigates last week's terror attacks are pilots with Saudi Arabian addresses.

Nine of the 15, who are part of a 220-strong 'watch list' issued by the
detective agency, are pilots for Saudi, the country's national airline.

The list includes a total of 37 registered pilots, five of them students, and 12
aircraft mechanics, all of whom are believed to be in America.

The list, which continues to grow, has so far resulted in 115 people being
detained, most of them on immigration charges.

Four are known to have been arrested as 'material witnesses', meaning
investigators believe they have information about the hijackings.

The moves in the investigation came as it emerged some of the hijackers may have
used other people's identities in the run-up to the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

TINY TERRORS ATTACK TEACHERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 164 words


FOUR out of five teachers believe children's behaviour has got worse since they
joined the profession - with pupils as young as three now being abusive, using
bad language or threatening them, a survey showed.

The poll of more than 2,500 in England and Wales for the National Union of
Teachers found that just 10 per cent of those who responded believed the conduct
had not deteriorated.

The NUT said many were "highly critical" of the support they got in trying to
deal with badly behaved children.

They called for in-school security to be beefed up, particularly for teachers
who had been assaulted by pupils.

It said all local education authorities should have enough special schools to
take children with emotional and behavioural difficulties.

Heads should have the right to refer such pupils for psychological assessment
before they allowed them into their school and teachers should have more
training on how to deal with bad behaviour, urged the NUT.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 21, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: UK agents present united front

BYLINE: Adam Coffer

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 241 words


The UKs leading agents and societies have joined forces to present a unified
analysis of the effects of last weeks terrorist attacks on the global property
market.

The RICS, Society of Property Researchers and Advanced Research
Institute/Technical Forecasts will attempt to hold a forum next week to
encourage debate among the main UK surveying firms researchers.

The idea of pooling research to forecast the effects of the attacks was the
brainchild of CB Hillier Parkers Nick Axford and ARI director Leonard Holihan.
The two were this week trying to contact their peers to organise the first
meeting.

Researchers from surveying firms including FPDSavills, King Sturge, DTZ,
Insignia Richard Ellis, JLL, Healey & Baker, GVA Grimley and Weatherall Green &
Smith will be invited to attend.

RICS chief executive Louis Armstrong said: "The property and construction
industry should react with a united voice to these attacks. By organising a
cross-industry meeting, we want to start a process that pools knowledge and
energy to make sure the right lessons are learned."

Holihan added that it is "strategically crucial for Londons property companies,
organisations and people in key roles to come together to think, talk and act
positively".

He added: "We hope to stimulate thought and present a collective view on what
impact this will have on the global property market."

See Saturday's Estates Gazette for the full version of this story.

EGi News 21/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 21, 2001

Police foil Paris gang's plan to attack US embassy;
The Terrorist Crisis: Arrests

BYLINE: Toby Rose;Patrick Sawer

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 602 words


SEVEN suspected Islamic terrorists thought to be planning an attack on the
American embassy in Paris were arrested today.

The men are being held by French anti-terrorist police after dawn raids in the
Paris suburbs of Val D'Ois and Somme. The arrests raise the spectre of the
spread of a terror campaign across Europe in the wake of last week's outrages in
New York and Washington.

Officers of the elite DST squad swooped when one of the men under surveillance
looked as if he might escape. The action was carried out without the knowledge
of the interior ministry - responsible for internal security in France.

The men are thought to have links with a suspected associate of Osama bin Laden
who confessed to a plot to strike at US interests in France after being arrested
in Dubai.

His information prompted arrests of suspected extremists in Belgium and the
Netherlands last week, yesterday's Le Monde newspaper reported.

A French judicial source said there are indications the man, who has dual French
and Algerian nationality and was arrested in the United Arab Emirates in July,
has links with Bin Laden The source said French officials plan to go to the Gulf
Arab state to interview him after he testified that US interests in France and
Europe were targets for attacks. A request for his extradition to France could
then follow.

The suspect's testimony led to the launch of a French investigation into the
threats the day before the suicide hijackers flew airliners into the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon.

Le Monde said the man belongs to a radical Islamic movement and has honed his
fighting skills on several visits to Bin Laden training camps in Afghanistan. It
said he had since lived in Germany and Britain.

Another dual French and Algerian national, Zakarisis Moussaoui, 33, is being
held in New York and is viewed as the "most significant" of 49 people in custody
in the US. He was arrested in Minnesota on 17 August for a passport violation.
He had flight manuals and technical information on Boeing aircraft but their
significance was not appreciated until after the attacks.

French police say Moussaoui has close links to Bin Laden, and had visited one of
his training camps. He also lived in Britain for several months.

His girlfriend is believed to be on the run in Britain after fleeing her flat in
Brixton before police raided it at the weekend.

It was while Moussaoui was living in London last September that he applied to
join one of the US flying schools attended by the hijackers. There he surprised
instructors by insisting on concentrating on level flight, showing no interest
in takeoffs or landings.

The French authorities have been clamping down on arms caches in deprived
housing estates, largely populated by North African immigrants, following a
bloody shootout in the southern city of Beziers. During the course of a manhunt
the chief executive of the town council was shot dead at the wheel of his car
after being mistaken for a policeman.

The prime suspect for the shooting , himself killed in a shootout, is believed
to have spent time in Bosnia at an Islamic training camp. In his possession was
a rocket launcher and assault rifles which had found their way into France from
the Balkans.

Police forces across France were put on a high state of alert to trace these
weapons and only this week at least two rocket launchers were seized in Paris.
French press reported that coach drivers driving into the French capital from
the Balkans are selling rocket launchers and other munitions on the French black
market.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 21, 2001

FOLLOW THE MONEY TO ATTACK THE TERRORISTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 176 words


LIKE most others I watched in horror at recent events in a city I love - having
once lived and worked there. In the aftermath, reprisal, retribution and justice
are words being used. Head of the list seems to be military action in which
innocent people will be killed. I think there is another way.

None of the terrorist organisations can function without funds. Governments
should make it illegal to process funds for any group connected to terrorism.
This would cut off their life blood and expose those countries unwilling to take
action.

We also need to remove the secrecy of the Swiss banking system, behind which too
many people have hidden for too long.

Bin Laden's reputed fortune of $ 300million is certainly not being kept under
his mattress. He must be using banks somewhere, and must have had access to
money in some high street banks in the US.

It is not beyond the capabilities of central bank auditors to establish an audit
trail for these transactions leading back to their source.

James McLachlan, East Renfrewshire

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 21, 2001

London Style: The shape of things: The terrorist attacks cut short the New York
shows, and this week's London shows have been far from normal. What's the future
for fashion, asks Charlie Porter

BYLINE: Charlie Porter

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 999 words


There was once a certain rhythm to fashion shows that now seems to have gone. At
even the dowdiest collections it was a given that there would be panic at the
door, a fight over seats, the tedium of waiting and incredible rush felt when
you finally see the opening outfit. But during London fashion week which
concludes tomorrow, there has seldom been a crush around the entrance, seats
have remained unfilled, shows often start on time and when they are over the
audience scurries out quickly, rarely stopping to linger.

London is doing the best it can to deal with the unwelcome new mood. Indeed, the
consensus appears to be that the British Fashion Council made the right decision
in carrying on with the spring/summer 2002 shows. But it is all so different
from last Monday, when the final fashion show of what you could call the old era
took place. We never got to report on the Marc Jacobs collection in this paper,
since we were preparing the piece the moment the first plane hit the World Trade
Centre. It was an incredible show full of optimism, seen best in the
romantically nostalgic jersey dresses and flared-trouser suits in deep, warm
colours such as blueberry and plum. As Jacobs took his bow, the wall behind him
slipped away to the astonishment of the audience, revealing an opulent party for
his debut fragrance.

Sarah Jessica Parker, Debbie Harry, Kim Gordon and Hilary Swank were there, all
enjoying what everyone felt was a quintessential New York experience. That the
world has changed since then does not make the show irrelevant. It is obviously
less important, but what the tragedy has done is cause a shift in the way we see
fashion. It is now the cultural implications that matter, not the commerce. It
is the fact that at their best, clothes reflect the mood of society, its belief
in itself and its hope for the future.

Now, the industry is having to decide how to reflect this. Finances are a major
worry, with businesses not sure how any future conflict will affect either
industry or consumer confidence. Stores in the US have reported an inevitable
fall in sales, but with the UK still in the grip of a shopping frenzy, it is
unclear what effect it will have here.

"The UK is in the middle of a boom that doesn't bear any relation to the
economic realities of the world at large," says Richard Perks, senior retail
analyst at Mintel's Retail Intelligence. "The big worry is that if something
awful does happen and it triggers a recession, the impact will be far worse in
the UK and we'll be back to how it was in 1989-91, when the overheated property
market went into reverse, and consumer confidence slumped."

For an industry that relies on escapism, necessary caution has already brought
an irrevocable change. In New York this week, the designers whose shows were
cancelled after the tragedy have been presenting their collections to small
groups of editors and stores. According to the industry trade paper, Women's
Wear Daily, those attending the intimate gatherings by Calvin Klein, Oscar de la
Renta and Michael Kors all agree they prefer this method of studying the de
signer's work. "This is the way we all used to see these clothes," Anna Wintour,
the editor of American Vogue told them. "This makes more sense than a runway
show, especially with American clothes which tend to be more simple, but also
with more detail that you need to see up close."

The underlying message is that it is the designers with pure skill who will
survive whatever is to come. Those that rely on the flashy coverage garnered by
skimpy dresses and front-row showbiz will appear too shallow to cope in a more
severe climate.

Meanwhile, on the advice of the US government, the all-important American
department stores are not risking the journey to the European collections. The
absence has not been so noticeable in London, which has never been a great
commercial draw for them, but for the big houses of Milan and Paris the
situation is grave. Those cities are now drawing up contingency plans to either
ship the clothes over to New York, or to offer video links of the collections so
buyers can watch the shows without stepping on a plane.

For years, journalists and stores have complained about the strain of attending
the shows. If this system of showroom appointments meets with everyone's
approval, it could be that the modern catwalk marathon becomes a thing of the
past.

While the bigger powers in the industry try to resolve how to deal with the
situation, London can only carry on in earnest. Thankfully, the shows have seen
none of the usual theatrics, which would have been in bad taste. New classics
appears to be the mood, whether at established brands like Margaret Howell or at
upstart labels like Blaak and Hamish Morrow. Audiences are focused on the
quality of the work rather than searching for the next subject of hype, and PRs
are finally disproving forever the lie that they are inhuman. Off the record,
many are questioning their old business practices, and all of them are worried
about their staff. If the industry has to downsize, jobs will inevitably have to
go.

Milan's fashion week is set to be sombre, with most parties and events cancelled
in respect for those still missing in the tragedy. Paris, the final city to host
shows, will become the focus of the season even more than before. The French
schedule was already overcrowded, with the first collections from Stella
McCartney's own label and Phoebe Philo at Chloe, and Paris debuts by Alexander
McQueen's own label, Hussein Chalayan and Helmut Lang.

Now names such as Clements Ribeiro are trying to find a place on the itinerary
after the cancellation of its planned show in London this week. They will all
become part of a crowded week that could prove to be the swansong of a certain
approach to fashion. Many believe that the shows will never quite be the same
again.

A full report on London Fashion Week will appear in G2 on Monday.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

TERROR IN AMERICA: EUROPEAN RESPONSE - EU OFFICIAL SAYS 'US TO BLAME' FOR TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: Stephen Castle In Brussels And Ian Burrell David Blunkett, the Home
Secretary, right, with his German counterpart, Otto Schily Gerard Cerles/Belga

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 849 words


A SENIOR EU official provoked controversy yesterday when he was quoted as
blaming American attitudes for inciting last week's terrorist attacks.

"There is no doubt that boastful behaviour is one of the reasons for the
frustration and hate against the US that have created the fertile soil for the
terror attacks," Politiken, a Danish paper quoted Poul Neilson, the European
Commissioner for Development, as saying.

The commissioner's spokes-man denied the quotes. He said Mr Neilson was talking
about globalisation and "would not dream of making a direct link between these
cruel attacks and the role of the US in the world."

Mr Neilson's comments came as the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, helped to set
up the first EU-wide anti-terrorist unit yesterday as part of a package of
measures to target terror groups operating in Europe. The new unit, based at
Europol offices in The Hague, will be required to produce an assessment of the
terrorist threat to EU states and the likely nature and location of attacks.

For the first time, Europol officers have been told to establish links "as
quickly as possible" with US intelligence and law-enforcement agencies to
exchange information on potential terrorist threats.

The new unit was part of a package of 37 proposals to fight terrorism that
received broad approval at a meeting of Europe's interior ministers in Brussels
yesterday. The UK also joined Belgium, France and Spain in proposing joint anti
-terrorist investigation teams for the first time. Comprised of magistrates and
police officers, the teams will co-ordinate linked criminal investigations in EU
states.

When Tony Blair joins other European heads of government tonight he will endorse
the EU-wide measures as evidence of a determination to defeat terrorists. The
leaders will be met by unprecedented security. The EU quarter of Brussels was
being sealed off from midnight last night and underground stations near the
summit venue will shut from midday today - even though the brief meeting does
not take place until the evening.

Some of the plans agreed yesterday had been in the pipeline already, including
key provisions for a European search-and-arrest warrant. This means that
suspects wanted for terrorism in one EU state will be pursued by police in all
15 countries and handed over to the country where they are wanted. This applies
to serious crimes that carry a penalty of at least one year in prison. While
such pan-European justice proposals would have been politically contentious for
countries such as Britain just a few months ago, the Government is now a firm
supporter.

Other measures include a common definition of terrorism throughout the EU to end
differences among the legal regimes of the 15 member states, only six of which
have specific anti-terrorism statutes. Guidelines for sentencing convicted
terrorists, including a minimum penalty of 20 years for murder, would also be
added.

Ministers did not sign up to the detail of the package, which must now be
negotiated, but set themselves a tight deadline of 6 December for that
agreement. All gave strong support to the need for closer co-operation.

Antoine Duquesne, the interior minister of Belgium which holds the EU
presidency, said: "We will all be asking our services to think the unthinkable
because the unthinkable has already happened. We are talking about the ultimate
threat. Perhaps we all have to acknowledge that, in the past, our services have
competed rather than co-operated."

He added that, if evidence of a specific terrorist threat emerged, members of
the Schengen free-travel area would re-introduce border controls temporarily.

Otto Schily, Germany's interior minister, said that international terrorism
should be fought "with all the means democracies have," and called on colleagues
to move quickly.

The speed with which the authorities have moved has alarmed some civil liberties
groups. The human rights organisation Amnesty International has demanded
explicit assurances that any measures which are taken to tighten up security
will not undermine civil liberties and the right of refugees to protection.

Proposals to allow counter-terrorism officers greater access to information
stored by the Schengen Information System, an electronic bank of personal data,
are likely to alarm some groups. They fear that anti-globalisation protesters
may be targeted.

Mr Blunkett said "the people we are dealing with are sophisticated, well
-organised and entirely ruthless". However, he insisted that none of the
measures adopted should breach the United Nations Convention of Human Rights,
which has been written into British law.

"There is a danger," said Mr Blunkett, "and all of us over the last week- and-a
-half have been cautious not simply to play to the gallery. The balance of
protecting and maintaining our freedom and democracy is a very delicate one."

Efforts to crack down on money-laundering will be discussed today and tomorrow
when EU finance ministers meet with central bank governors at Liege, in Belgium.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                               September 21, 2001

News Analysis: Terror Attacks Compound Fears Of Recession In The US

BYLINE: By CHRIS DILLOW

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 540 words


As rescue workers count the human cost of last week's terrorist attacks on the
US, economists have begun the mundane task of calculating the financial costs.

All agree that their immediate effect will be to reduce output. Philip Shaw, at
Investec, estimates that a 20 per cent fall in output in New York City alone for
the rest of this month would push third-quarter GDP down by 0.8 percentage
points, at an annualised rate.

Falls in air travel would also reduce output. This accounts for 1 per cent of
GDP, so every 10 per cent drop would wipe 0.1 per cent off output.

And on top of all this, consumer spending will fall. One reason for this is the
so-called CNN effect, whereby people stay at home to watch the news rather than
go shopping. If the US's 105m households each cut their spending by just $ 50 in
this way, September's retail sales will fall by 1.8 per cent.

Some economists, however, fear a longer effect than this. The sorrow caused by
last week's events may lead to anxiety, which will cause Americans to worry
about job insecurity and high indebtedness - problems they have hitherto
ignored. If so, spending could fall for a long time.

These effects are all quite small and may be partly offset by a patriotic
defiance to get on with business as normal. However, they come at a time when
the US economy was faltering anyway; the latest survey by the University of
Michigan found that consumer confidence was at an eight-year low even before
last week's attacks. As a result, says Bruce Kasman of JP Morgan, "the US will
experience a recession". He expects output to fall not only in the third
quarter, but in the two following quarters as well.

Not everyone is so worried, however. Peter Dixon, of Commerzbank, says: "One-
off disasters do not have as much impact on growth as is often supposed." He
cites the 1994 Los Angeles earthquake. That led to rebuilding work which was
widely credited with lifting California out of a four-year long recession. He
says: "It is likely that the physical rebuilding of large parts of New York will
result in a surge in public spending and private investment, which could offset
the short-term losses in spending and output."

Others are less confident. Mr Shaw points out that the highest estimate for
spending on rebuilding Manhattan is only $ 25bn - equivalent to just 0.25 per
cent of GDP.

What's more, even a war might give only a small boost to output. Giles Keating,
of Credit Suisse First Boston, says net military spending rose only $ 20bn
during the Gulf war. That's equivalent to 0.2 per cent of GDP now.

These, however, are not the only likely stimuli to activity. Most economists
expect the Fed to cut interest rates even more than it did this week. And they
are taking comfort from promises by OPEC ministers to raise oil output to stop
its price rising. This has reduced fears of a repeat of the 1973 Yom Kippur war
or the 1990-91 Gulf war, when soaring oil prices helped tip the US economy into
recession.

The full economic effects of last week's devastating events are, of course,
unknown. But there are reasons to think they may be small. As Commerzbank's Mr
Dixon says: "There is enough bad news around without economists adding to it."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2001 Financial Times Busines Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                               September 21, 2001

Dr Dre pledges Dollars 1 million to those affected by US terrorist attacks; Dr
Dre's Dollars 1 Million Gift To Us Terrorism Attack Victims

LENGTH: 224 words

SUMMARY: The hip hop producer and figurehead makes the promise on Los Angeles
radio station...



http:/drdre.nme.com has pledged Dollars 1 million to help those affected by the
terrorist attacks in the US.

The hip hop producer and figurehead made the promise on Los Angeles radio
station KPWR-FM. Their charity, the Power Of A Dollar Relief Fund, benefits the
American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.

Def Jam founder Russell Simmons and fellow hip hop stars Tyrese and Fat Joe are
others who have promised funds. The trio are getting behind the Hip Hop Has
Heart Foundation put together by New York radio station WQHT.

Meanwhile,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,165845,00.html and
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,126115,00.html are the
latest names to join the line-up for the remake of Sister Sledge's 'We Are
Family', set to be released as a charity fundraiser for the terrorist victims.
Veteran producer Nile Rodgers, the man who co-wrote and co-produced the
original, has also assembled
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,191067,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,117092,00.html ,
Steven Tyler of Aerosmith, Vanessa Williams, Joan Rivers, Macaulay Culkin, Kevin
Bacon and Sister Sledge themselves. Recording will take place this weekend - in
New York on Saturday (September 21) and LA on Sunday (22).


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Retail Week

                               September 21, 2001

Shoppers stay at home as US terror attacks rock confidence.

BYLINE: Rita David.

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 250 words


Visitor numbers to UK shopping centres plunged last week as people stayed at
home in the wake of Tuesday's terrorist attacks on the US.

Data from more than 50 centres, compiled by monitoring business FootFall and
disclosed to Retail Week, shows that visitor numbers fell by 7.9 per cent on the
previous week.

The impact was, however, less than that of the fuel crisis - which fell in the
same week last year - when shopper numbers plummeted by 15 per cent.

The most dramatic decline was on Wednesday, the day after the attacks, when
numbers were down 10.6 per cent on the previous Wednesday.

But, encouragingly, by Friday visitor levels were 1 per cent ahead on the
previous week.

FootFall marketing manager David Smyth said the upturn indicated the drop on
Wednesday might have been a sentimental reaction rather than a long-term loss of
confidence.

CSFB analyst Tony Shiret said the situation is still unpredictable: "The impact
of sudden weakness in consumer confidence could be significant. Logically, you
should expect people to hold fire on discretionary purchases."

Retailers remain wary. Laura Ashley said it is "cautious about the outlook for
the year". JJB Sports finance director David Greenwood said: "Every UK retailer
will be watching to see what happens."

Oxford Street Association director Sally Humphreys said the absence of US
tourists is being felt: "Hotels are already noticing the impact and the effect
will be felt over the next two or three months."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                           Copyright 2001 Retail Week

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Retail Week

                               September 21, 2001

Future bleak after US terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: Neill Denny, Editor.

SECTION: Pg.11

LENGTH: 374 words


It's impossible to write this column today without appearing crass, so our first
duty is to record our personal shock and revulsion at events in the US, and
extend our sympathies and support to our colleagues in the American retail
community.

With the rescue and recovery operation in full swing, it is nevertheless
important to ponder what the wider implications of the massacre of September 11
will be.

After the death of Princess Diana, British retailers reported a two-week lull in
sales. The nation's shoppers required something more substantive than retail
therapy, and buying anything more than the most basic items seemed frivolous,
tasteless and disrespectful.

Last week's outrages in the US, an event of far greater significance than
Diana's demise, have already provoked a similar reaction among Americans.

People in grief and shock are not about to go shopping. Here the effect has also
been discernible, if less pronounced, with trade throughout last week depressed.

The impact on consumer mood in the medium term is harder to judge. In Britain, a
golden confluence of economic factors has underpinned record spending, which
rose yet again last month.

But across the pond, consumer confidence was already waning before last week,
with the manufacturing industry already 11 months into a recession.

The immediate impact of the attack, in terms of people's reluctance to spend,
travel or invest, may well, in itself, tip the US economy into full recession.

So, British retailers with direct exposure to the US market - including WHSmith,
Marks & Spencer, Signet, Sainsbury's and GUS - will feel an immediate chill, as
will all airport retailers. A secondary factor will be the drag effect on the UK
economy of an increasingly slowing US.

The longer-term impact is the hardest to judge. The 'war on terrorism' declared
by President Bush implies a campaign rather than a single strike of retribution,
and raises the danger of a new cold war, this time between Islam and the West.
That presents a truly frightening prospect of retaliation and
counter-retaliation, and of the end of the growth generated by globalisation.

That is the big picture right now, and it is not a happy one.

- Economy: page 13.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                           Copyright 2001 Retail Week

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               September 21, 2001

US terror attacks: Net offer.

BYLINE: Andrew Frrench (author email affrench@nqo.com)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 26 words

DATELINE: Witney



Burford Stationery Store, in High Street, Burford, is offering free Internet
access to Americans who are anxious to stay in touch with loved ones.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

CARLOS PRAISES ATTACK;
 WAR ON TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 60 words


AN inquiry has opened in Paris after jailed terrorist Carlos the Jackal gave an
interview praising the attacks on New York and Washington.

The prosecutor's office said it wanted to look into how the interview in France
Soir newspaper was carried out and evaluate whether his remarks might constitute
a "justification of terrorism" - a crime in France.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

VINCI SILENT OVER TBI'S CHANGE OF TUNE;
 AIRPORTS: OPPOSITION TO HOSTILE TAKEOVER OFFER EVAPORATES IN WAKE OF TERRORIST
ATTACKS IN US

BYLINE: Sion Barry Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 615 words


THE future ownership of airports group TBI was hanging in the balance last night
after its management board dropped its opposition to a hostile takeover by
French group Vinci.

In the light of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington and on advice
from its financial advisers the board voted unanimously yesterday to drop its
opposition to Vinci's bid, which it had previously described as opportunistic.

In its defence document TBI had urged shareholders not to sell to Vinci, even
though the company's share price had surged to as high as 98p.

However, with the global airline industry in a state of uncertainty and
continuing job losses it was unclear last night whether Vinci would proceed with
its bid for TBI.

Next Monday is the first closing date for Vinci's offer. Under conditions of the
bid it must secure acceptances for 90pc of TBI's share capital.

It currently has 15pc, with agreement from the board of TBI to give up its 19pc
stake.

Last night Vinci was not prepared to comment on whether it would proceed with
its bid, despite the acquiescence of TBI's board.

If Vinci fails to get 90pc acceptances or declines to seek a 14-day extension
its offer will lapse.

TBI said it had received expressions of interests from a number of parties after
Vinci's hostile bid last month.

Australian investment bank Macquarie, which owns Bristol International Airport,
was tipped as a possible counter-bidder.

However, in the current climate acquiring an airport business would be unlikely
to feature in any company's acquisition strategy.

The Welsh-born chief executive of TBI, Keith Brooks said, "This decision is a
result of what happened in New York last week when things were changed
overnight.

"Although the majority of our earnings are from the UK and we have a small
amount of transatlantic business, these are still uncertain times.

"Considering this uncertainty we felt the cash offer should not be turned down.

"Our defence document set out our stall and we had a lot to say, but who could
have predicted what happened last week?

"There is a great deal of uncertainty in the sector but I believe the company
still has a great portfolio of assets.

"Personally I am disappointed, but the board has made an unanimous decision to
accept this offer and we will be recommending that shareholders do the same."

Although having its registered offices in London, TBI (Thomas Bailey
Investments) has strong Welsh roots.

The company, chaired by Merthyr-born Stanley Thomas, made its stock-market debut
seven years ago after reversing into property company Markheath Securities.

Its first airport acquisition was Cardiff International Airport and its
portfolio now includes London Luton and Belfast International airports.

One family holds 104m shares ONE of Wales's richest families, the Thomases,
stands to share a pounds 100m fortune if Vinci proceeds with its bid for TBI.

TBI chairman Stan Thomas, his brother Peter and their sister Mary have a
combined share stake of nearly 19pc in TBI, representing about 104 million
shares.

Stanley Thomas has 50 million shares and would receive more than pounds 45m for
his stake if Vinci proceeded.

His brother Peter, who runs property company Atlantic Properties and is chairman
of Cardiff Rugby Club, has 37.4 million shares, which based on Vinci's offer
would be worth pounds 33.7m.

Their younger sister Mary Case has a 17-million-share stake which is worth
pounds 15.7m.

The Thomas family made its fortune from its successful Bedwasbased food business
Peter's Savoury Products.

In 1998 the company was sold for pounds 98m to Grand Metropolitan.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: HOSPITALS ON RED ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jenny Hudson Health Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words


Every hospital in the West Midlands has been placed on red alert for dealing
with casualties of terrorist attacks as the West prepares for military
reprisals.

Germ and chemical attacks are the scenarios most feared by NHS insiders as
hospitals undertake unprecedented emergency planning exercises.

Stockpiles of chemical weapons are known to exist in Iran, Libya and Iraq which
could be acquired by Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the American
atrocities.

Bin Laden had been attempting to procure a canister of uranium and his al-Qaeda
group has been experimenting with the production of chemical weapons in a base
in Sudan.

Birmingham hospitals have already undertaken an exercise to test how they would
cope with a similar attack to the one which took place in Tokyo in 1995, when a
Japanese cult released the nerve gas sarin into the city's subway killing 12
people.

Biologists are working behind the scenes to ensure they are equipped with
antibiotics to deal with viruses. The NHS has also been told to make provisions
for freeing hospital beds for war victims based on the Paddington rail disaster
when 350 beds were cleared in just 90 minutes.

And the national Centre for Defence Medicine, based at Selly Oak Hospital in
Birmingham, will certainly play a key role treating casualties of any military
conflict.

Professor Rod Griffiths, director of public health and policy for the West
Midlands NHS Executive, is leading the emergency drive.

He said: 'A huge outrage has been perpetrated on a scale no one imagined,
breaking all the rules.

'We have been caught by surprise once - but we are not going to be caught by
surprise again.'

Last week, Prof Griffiths told every West Midland health authority to draw up
emergency action plans and their responses have now been submitted.

Prof Griffiths said Birmingham gained valuable experience during the G8 summit.
City hospitals' plans for responding to potential attacks had to be vetted by
the Americans and Russians before they agreed to attend. More recently, last
year's fuel crisis and floods provided further challenges for the NHS.

A team from the Centre for Defence Medicine has already flow out to the Gulf to
take part in Exercise Saif Sareea (Swift Sword) in the Oman. The exercise was
planned before the crisis erupted but the 20,000 British troops are likely to be
in the frontline of NATO action.

Mark Britnell, chief executive of University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust which
runs Selly Oak, said further military staff currently working in the hospital
could be called out to Middle East if Britain becomes deeply involved.

'We would then have to consider whether it is necessary to reduce some services
locally,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: POLICE MOVE TO PREVENT HATE ATTACKS

BYLINE: John Revill Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 331 words


A major operation has been launched by police in the Midlands to prevent hate
attacks against Muslims and to reassure them about their safety.

Patrols outside vulnerable buildings including mosques have been heightened
while thousands of letters have been sent out to reassure people that attacks
will not be tolerated.

The move comes after the Metropolitan Police drafted in 1,500 extra officers on
to London streets, mainly in Muslim areas, for holy days and religious holidays
over the weekend.

Commissioner Sir John Stevens said leave has been cancelled for hundreds of
officers in the capital and others are working their weekends off and putting in
overtime claims.

Meanwhile West Midlands Police has printed more than 40,000 letters and leaflets
and sent them out to people across the force area.

Security had been tightened at the airport, while intelligence gathering has
continued.

A police spokesman said: 'We have embarked on a major information project aimed
at members of the community who may be feeling vulnerable.

'We are distributing thousands of letters, leaflets and posters across the force
area to explain what we are doing and to offer reassurance to the public.'

The letter is being produced in nine languages and a freephone helpline is being
set up.

The spokesman said there had been several meetings between the force, community
leaders and a range of concerned parties.

'We have heightened the police presence on the streets throughout the force area
and paid particular attention to potentially vulnerable buildings such as
mosques.

'Intelligence gathering began from the day of the attacks in the United States
and continues on a significant level.

'The message from West Midlands Police is clear - anyone who thinks what
happened in the United States is an excuse for acting against other religious
groups will not be tolerated.'

'We will use every power at our disposal to bring such people to justice.'

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

IT'S YOUR SHOUT! FUTURE SECURITY: Could measures like ID cards help to prevent
terrorist attacks like that on the World Trade Centre

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 1090 words


An invasion of privacy or a secure future?

IN the wake of the terrorist outrages in America, there have been calls for the
introduction of ID cards. But would such cards improve security, or simply be an
invasion of privacy? GCSE students from Blue Coat CE School, Coventry, give
RICHARD PEARCE their views.

JULIE MWAKA, AGED 14

HOME: Julie lives with mum Dr Beatrice O Mwaka, who teachers law at Warwick
University.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: Graphic designer/start own business.

INTERESTS: Music, dance, singing, art.

JULIE'S VERDICT: As far as I'm concerned, identity cards are a good idea.

They will deal with situations that youth have to put up with time and time
again.

At first, I thought identity cards were terrible idea. But bad things have
happened recently that terrified and horrified me. People have suffered in New
York because of terrorists.

I know identity cards will change a lot of people's lives, but they will also
add a lot of security. Some people might see it as invading their privacy. What
have they got to hide? Surely nothing so important! If they have, someone is
going to find out sooner or later.

People will get used to them.

LAURA-JANE JOHNSON, AGED 14

HOME: Laura lives with mum Jane, a teaching assistant, dad Paul, who works at
Dunlop, and has a sister, Bethany.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: Lawyer.

INTERESTS: Singing, drama, music, dance.

BETHANY'S VERDICT: Anything that will prevent terrorist acts happening again,
like the one recently witnessed in America, should certainly be considered.

Before people start thinking about civil rights and privacy (all important) they
should first think about the world as a whole and what their input could do to
help it.

Carrying an identity card is a small price to pay, if it means we are helping
others and possibly yourself.

I think the terrorist acts upon America were wrong, but I do not think that war
is the answer. Inflicting more pain upon a world already suffering is definitely
not the right choice.

MATTY SANDHU, AGED 14

HOME: Matty lives with mum Jane, dad Jas, who works for Powergen, and has two
brothers Alex and Chris.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: Work for world peace as an architect.

INTERESTS: Badminton, women.

MATTY'S VERDICT: Well, the government think it's a good idea. They have their
reasons. Me, I think it's wrong.

Taking people's right to stay anonymous, taking the card everywhere, the hassle.
Imagine the scenario: On your way out the house, going to the shops, pay with
your money - and then being asked for your identity card!

You've obviously forgotten it! Oh well, back home with no food!

Maybe you lose your ID card. How will you go anywhere? Will you be able to go
and get another one?

Where will the money for all of them come from? Will the taxes rise? Will there
be offices to create employment?

These will be the questions I need to know. Will the identity cards be like a
credit card, so they swipe it, and record where you go - and how many crimes are
committed?

ADAM OUGHTON, AGED 14

HOME: Adam lives with mum Chris, a day-care assistant, dad Howard, a diamond
tool maker, and has one brother Richard, and a sister Rebecca.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: To earn lots of money!

INTERESTS: Football, basketball and computer gaming.

ADAM'S VERDICT: Identity cards are not a good idea because they would lead to
illegal copying of them, and Britain is suffering from enough illegal copying as
it is. Isn't credit card fraud enough for this country?

These cards definitely shouldn't be brought into modern life, because, 1) they
are an invasion of our privacy, which I'm sure would cause a fuss and 2) we
don't need them.

Although terrorism can and will happen, ID cards wouldn't stop if they really
wanted to perform an act of terrorism.

Although it would help to eradicate smaller acts of terrorism, the more violent
ones would still occur.

SURAJ VADGAMA, AGED 14

HOME: Suraj lives with mum Usha, a pharmacist, dad Jockey, a garage worker and
has a sister Mawisha.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: To be Bill Gates.

INTERESTS: Martial arts.

SURAJ'S VERDICT: There are many plus points for having personal identification
cards; for example, if someone is inquiring about your age when you are going to
watch a film to trying to get into a pub or club.

Also, personal identification cards can stop problems with crime, such as under
-age drinking and smoking.

But there is also a disadvantage. Because an ID card is very small, it is bound
to get lost sooner or later, and if it does and the wrong kind of people get
hold of your personal details, then they could target the person.

I believe that there are many views and opinions to consider, but there are more
advantages to having an ID card, so it is a good idea - but only if it contains
the vital information.

SARA BIGGS, AGED 14

HOME: Sara lives with mum Mandy, a child minder, dad Mark, an electrician and
has a sister, Katie and brother, Jack.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: Journalist/doctor.

INTERESTS: Cheer leading, dancing, writing.

SARA'S VERDICT: We should not have identity cards as they are yet another
invasion of our privacy. I think that the government is too concerned with our
private business. Although it would help track terrorists and control other
elements, it would be too much hassle on the majority of people who aren't
breaking the law.

I will stick to this viewpoint and protest if we are given ID cards.

They would also be lost and would end up being a total waste of paper and
laminated plastic. The government has every right to keep track of terrorists,
but the public who have not offended the law should be given privacy.

AARON ROSE, AGED 14

HOME: Aaron lives with mum Jan, an education assistant, dad Glenn, who works at
Peugeot and has a sister, Sian.

CAREER HOPES/AMBITION: Computer technician.

INTERESTS: Football, horseriding.

AARON'S VERDICT: I think identity cards are a good idea.

People need to feel secure when they are doing things like shopping, going to
the bank or drinking in a pub, knowing that criminals will not be allowed to do
the things that they would like to do.

They are also useful if people behind the bar in a pub want to check someone's
age.

On the other hand, I think that people deserve a little privacy, without needing
to give information that other people could get hold of.

This is dangerous, because people might attack others, or burgle them.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: AIRLINES BAILED OUT;
 BROWN MOVES AFTER INSURANCE THREATENS TO CANCEL ALL FLIGHTS

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 424 words


CHANCELLOR Gordon Brown has approved an emergency deal to bail out UK airlines
after bosses warned all flights could be halted on Tuesday.

Insurance firms said they would cancel cover for civilian flights from midnight
on Monday, ahead of any military retaliation for the US terrorist atrocities.

Brown ordered his top civil servant Andrew Turnbull and Chief Secretary to the
Treasury Andrew Smith into urgent talks with industry bosses.

Yesterday, a source close to the Chancellor said: "The deal means British
airlines will fly as usual next week."

Transport Secretary Stephen Byers is believed to be using old laws originally
aimed to protect the merchant navy.

They allow the Government to be the insurer as a last resort in times of
conflict.

Other European countries are expected to follow suit. American politicians have
approved a pounds 10.2billion package to bolster their airlines.

But a leading budget flight firm claims airlines are using the US terror attacks
as an excuse to beg for state aid.

Several big carriers, including BA and Virgin, have axed thousands of jobs amid
predictions of a down-turn in sales.

But Ryanair spokesman Michael O'Leary said: "We continue to take the same number
of bookings as we did before the tragic events."

He accused struggling firms of using the terror strikes to mask poor performance
and added: "There were going to be large job losses among airlines losing money
before last week."

And Green campaigners are furious that airlines may get aid. Nic Ferriday, of
Friends of the Earth, said the cry for help "smacks of opportunism".

He said: "The cash could be far better used to support the health service, boost
education or help the poor."

The controversy comes as a price war broke out among the budget airlines, a move
likely to put further pressure on struggling full-price operators.

EasyJet are cutting the prices of 150,000 seats by up to 60 per cent, offering
flights from London to Glasgow and Belfast for pounds 12.50, Barcelona for
pounds 20 and Athens for pounds 25.

All prices are singles and include tax, but are only available if booked on the
internet.

Ryanair are advertising fares from pounds 1 for "every seat, every flight",
excluding taxes and airport charges, on their website.

Meanwhile, Go, the no-frills airline sold by BA in a management buy-out earlier
this year, has slashed fares on some routes by a third.

Low-cost carriers said autumn sales were due to begin before last week's tragedy
in the US.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACK UNITED STATES: SHORT ON POWER;
 THE AFGHANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 200 words


THE Afghans cannot compete with the US-led coalition when it comes to military
hardware.

Their weapons are mostly Soviet-designed, captured from the Red Army during the
10-year Russian invasion.

The Taliban's biggest asset is artillery. They have several hundred guns, rocket
launchers and Howitzers.

They also have around 650 tanks and armoured cars. Many of the tanks are T-54
and T-55s, designed in the late 1940s and in poor repair.

The country's air force consists of around 15 old Soviet jets, 30 transport
aircraft and a dozen helicopter gunships.

There is also an unknown number of Russian-built Scud missiles. Some have been
spotted on launchers, but the Taliban appear to be adopting the Iraqi tactic of
moving them to hiding places.

What they lack in equipment, the Afghans make up for with what have been
described as the toughest guerrilla fighters on earth.

The regime has around 45,000 troops, including up to 10,000 foreigners,
representing practically every radical Islamic group in existence.

It is estimated Osama bin Laden has an army of 700 troops in the country, mainly
based at the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar to the south of the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

Skyscrapers in the shadow of terrorism Last week's attacks will cause architects
to reconsider the dangers of building tall towers, says Giles Worsley

BYLINE: By Giles Worsley

SECTION: Pg. 07

LENGTH: 661 words

In last week's devastating tragedy, it is astonishing that so many people
escaped from the twin towers of the World Trade Centre. That the towers stood
for over an hour after the collisions is, in its way, a testament to their
design. No building, whether a few stories high or a great skyscraper, can
survive a jet crashing into it and the World Trade Centre towers lasted long
enough for many to flee.

This, at least, is a crumb of comfort for the skyscraper enthusiasts. And yet it
cannot be denied that the reason so many died was because they were in such a
tall building. (If the Pentagon were a skyscraper, casualties there would have
been far higher than they were.) That has to have a profound impact on the
future of the skyscraper.

Until September 11, the skyscraper enthusiasts felt that everything was going
their way. In this country, they were confident of winning next month's public
inquiry into the proposed Heron Tower at Bishopsgate in the City of London and
of pushing through Renzo Piano's much higher tower intended for London Bridge.
Now they are nervous, as can be seen in a statement Norman Foster put out on
Tuesday this week, stressing the risks to all buildings with high concentrations
of people, not just towers, and calling for a period of calm reflection and
careful analysis.

The response of the Mayor of London, another keen advocate of the skyscraper, is
similar. As his spokeswoman explains: "There won't be any knee-jerk reaction.
You can't formulate policy on the basis of terrorist threats. The safety
implications have to be looked at, but not only for tall buildings. In general,
Ken Livingstone's line is that there is still an economic need for tall
buildings."

It is simply not good enough to evade the issue in this way. There is a specific
threat to very tall buildings that must be addressed. The question that has to
be asked is whether the economic benefits that towers are said to bring outweigh
the very real risk that now hangs over them. To put it bluntly, does the fact
that the City of London feels the need to compete with Canary Wharf by cramming
more office space into the Square Mile justify erecting more targets for
terrorists? For the truth is that we can never be certain that hijackers will
not crash another plane laden with aviation fuel into a tall building. Indeed,
the logic of terrorism means that, once the unthinkable has happened, it is
likely to happen again.

It is not just that tall buildings hold lots of people and therefore that any
disaster that occurs to one is likely to have very serious effects. Skyscrapers
have always been symbols, and it was as symbols of capitalism that the World
Trade Centre towers were attacked.

This should be no surprise. In the West, we have come to see buildings as
neutral objects, to be appreciated for their aesthetic merits, or demerits.
Elsewhere in the world, architecture retains its raw emotive power, making
buildings prime targets in recent conflicts. The National Library in Sarajevo,
symbol of the Bosnian people, was the Serbs' first target, followed by medieval
mosques and the ancient bridge at Mostar.

It was not mindless vandalism that lay behind Albanian attacks on Orthodox
churches and monasteries in Kosovo, or the attempt by fundamentalist Jews to
destroy the Muslim Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. In India, the destruction of
the Sikhs' Golden Temple in Amritsar led directly to the assassination of Indira
Gandhi. The World Trade Centre towers had a similar iconic power. The difference
was that they were full of people.

Skyscraper enthusiasts cannot continue as if nothing has changed, as if New York
was a one-off and that, with a few tweaks, we can go on as before. Canary Wharf
has already been the target of two bomb attacks. Terrorists have now worked out
a more effective way of destroying towers than the car or lorry bomb. Can we
honestly carry on building skyscrapers now?
[PS]Art and Books: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

Let the taxman do his bit for the US As a new charity is launched to help the
victims of the terrorist attacks, Melanie Wright looks at ways to make all
donations go further

BYLINE: By MELANIE WRIGHT

SECTION: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 423 words

TRAGIC events in America have prompted many people to contribute towards
disaster relief efforts - and it is possible to boost these donations through
careful tax planning.

The Charity Commission this week registered the World Trade Centre Disaster Fund
as a new charity. Simon Gillespie, director of operations at the commission,
said: "We have all been appalled by the events in New York and Washington. The
commission has acted quickly in registering this charity to ensure much-needed
assistance can be given as soon as possible."

The charity has been set up with the specific purpose of relieving the hardship
or distress of those who may have suffered as a result of the attacks.

Donors can make their money go further by giving in one of the ways that the
Inland Revenue treats most favourably. According to independent financial
advisers' group IFA Promotion, Britain's charities miss out on pounds 550m a
year because people do not donate money in a tax-efficient way.

David Elms of IFA Promotion said: "While people will always want to slip a few
coins into a tin or sponsor a fundraising event, the charities will benefit far
more by donations made tax-efficiently. We are urging people to give what they
can but ensure the taxman does the same on their behalf."

There are three main ways in which you can give tax-efficiently. First, there
are various schemes available through payroll deduction, of which Give As You
Earn is the largest. Employers who are members of this scheme can allow
employees to donate a tax-free sum of up to pounds 1,200 a year, or pounds 100 a
month. However, this scheme can only be used if your employer subscribes to it.

Second, you can set up a deed of covenant. This is a legally binding agreement
to give a sum of money each year to a named charity for at least four years.
There are no minimum or maximum donation limits.

Finally, taxpayers can use Gift Aid, a scheme by which you can donate money to
charity which can then reclaim basic rate tax on your gift from the Inland
Revenue.

If you pay tax at the higher rate, 40pc, then you can claim relief on the
difference between the basic rate and the higher rate of tax.

In order to use Gift Aid, you must make a written declaration to the charity so
that it can reclaim tax from the Inland Revenue on your gift. Usually, the
charity will provide a written delaration form.

You can make donations to The World Trade Centre Disaster Fund by credit card,
by telephoning 01622 778787 or via the internet at www.wtcfund.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

Britain is 'well prepared' for terror anthrax attack

BYLINE: By Roger Highfield

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 403 words

ANIMAL corpses seen by a spy satellite were cited by intelligence sources
yesterday as evidence that Osama bin Laden may have tested biological weapons at
training camps in Afghanistan.

Earlier this month, a former chief scientist, Sir William Stewart, warned the
British Association that a country that cannot get a grip on foot and mouth is
vulnerable to attack by biological weapons.

Britain, however, is well prepared to deal with bio-terrorism, the Public Health
Laboratory Service's annual scientific conference in Warwick was told this week
by Dr Nigel Lightfoot, the service's northern group director.

The conference discussed Exercise Misty Scene, a Home Office and Department of
Health exercise that studied a theoretical anthrax attack. Dr Lightfoot said:
"It looks at the diagnosis and identification of people affected, and how public
health laboratories would have to respond to the National Health Service and
support them during that time."

There has been nervousness over the threat of bio-terrorism since 1995, when the
Aum Shinrikyo cult attacked the Tokyo subway with the nerve agent sarin and
released anthrax spores.

Soviet scientists who have prepared weapons-grade anthrax and smallpox have
emigrated and may have sold their expertise to terrorist groups.

The first symptoms of anthrax, plague and many other agents resemble those of
flu - headaches, fevers, aching muscles, coughing - so it could take days,
depending on the agent, before officials realise an attack had been made.

The service's 49 laboratories would provide surveillance information. "These
laboratories and specialist reference laboratories at the PHLS headquarters in
north London would provide diagnostic experts," said Dr Lightfoot.

If bio-terrorists did release anthrax, the first job would be to decide how many
people had been exposed, said Dr Lightfoot, assuming an incubation period of
about two days.

"Doctors would be giving antibiotics to those people to protect them from
infection," he said.

Britain also resumed production of the anthrax vaccine at a new facility based
at Porton Down in Wiltshire.

However, a United States government sponsored bio-terrorism exercise earlier
this year concluded that America, which has also done much to prepare for this
threat, "lacks adequate strategies, plans and information systems to manage a
crisis of this type or magnitude".
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

Restoring their trust in the world Rebecca Abrams asks what can be done to help
children bereaved in the American terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Rebecca Abrams

SECTION: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 1278 words

Mortality has felt uncomfortably close in the past 10 days, and with it, comes a
heightened awareness of the preciousness of life, and its fragility.

The images of those jets gliding noiselessly into the twin towers of the World
Trade Centre with such pitiless intent have etched themselves on to the
collective consciousness of the entire world: how many parents have not held
their children a little more tightly than usual, kissed them goodnight with a
little more lingering tenderness?

Confronted with such ingenious barbarity, the mind buckles; words flutter
uselessly against the stark fact of such physical and emotional devastation.
Each new story to emerge from the dismal debris brings into focus not just the
thousands of innocent dead, but the many others left living on in a state of
acute sorrow. Of all these living victims, the most heart-rending are surely the
youngest.

Two thousand children at least, many of them British, lost a parent in last
week's terrorist attacks on America. It is not merely a lazy turn of phrase to
say that, for every one of those children, life will never be the same again.
The shock of such a loss is almost impossible to imagine. Not only have they
lost a person who was of fundamental importance in their lives, but the manner
of their parent's death will have robbed them of much of the security on which
happy living depends.

Innumerable other children will also have had their confidence in life severely
shaken by last week's events. There were 50 children in the day-care nurseries
of the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon when the first plane hit. All were
safely evacuated. Eight state schools in the vicinity also had to be evacuated.
The long-lasting effects on those children should not be underestimated. A
48-year-old British man, whose desk was directly in the line of the first
hijacked plane, but who was an hour late for work that day, spoke of utter
pandemonium among the teenagers at his children's school out in the suburbs when
they heard the news, knowing their parents or relations were working in those
buildings.

Even children untouched personally will have absorbed more images and
information than they can easily handle, as many teachers and parents around
Britain will already be aware. I came downstairs last Sunday morning to find my
four-year-old scrutinising the front page of the newspaper. "Are there people in
that plane?" he asked. My six-year-old has twice woken sobbing from upsetting
dreams about burning buildings.

Reassuring the mildly troubled is one thing; comforting the brutally bereaved is
quite another. From the past tragedies of Zeebrugge, Heysel and King's Cross, we
know something of what these bereaved children will have to go through. The
initial symptoms of shock are intensely physical: shaking, shivering, headaches,
nausea, dragging tiredness. Nightmares, panic attacks and phobias are also
normal reactions in the wake of violent death. In an effort to make sense of
what has happened, the mind replays events over and over again. The imagination
is remorseless. Inevitably, there will be terrible questions in the minds of
these children that will need clear and thoughtful answers.

Grieving doesn't happen all at once, however. It's a slow, unpredictable process
that takes place over many years. In all likelihood, many of the children whose
parents died in last week's attacks will go through highs and lows of feeling
over the course of many months. There may be long periods of numbness when they
feel very little at all, alternating with moments of acute agitation,
fearfulness and distress. Older children in particular are likely to feel
extremely angry at times, both that this has happened at all and that it has
happened to them. Children of all ages will inevitably experience intense bouts
of anxiety, depression and despair, although it may be many months before these
states of mind emerge.

Age, as well as personality, makes a difference to how these children will cope.
Very young children will be clingy, tearful, demanding. Older children are more
likely to withdraw into themselves. Awareness of the wider implications of the
attacks may leave many of them fearful about the world in general and what their
own parent went through in particular. Children over the age of five or six will
be highly conscious of the feelings of the adults around them and, if not
actively helped and encouraged to talk about themselves, will often go to great
lengths to conceal their own fears and unhappiness, rather than burden others.

As a result, depression is very easy to overlook, particularly in young
children. The rule of thumb is this: withdrawn, overly good children of whatever
age may make life easier for grown-ups, but they are a cause for concern, not
complacency. Bereaved children don't just cope - however much we want them to -
and that useful little myth of youthful resilience causes untold silent misery
in childhood and long after.

Even a relatively straightforward bereavement will take at least two years to
come to terms with. These children will need far, far longer than that. The
hardest task of all will be to restore these children's faith in the future.
Their trust in the world and in love has been dealt a terrible blow. I'm sure it
is a comfort to the pregnant widow of Todd Beamer to know that her 32-year-old
husband died wrestling the hijackers and that, with other passengers, he
succeeded in crashing Flight 93 short of its target, the Capitol. But is that
knowledge any help to his two sons, aged three and one, or to his unborn baby?
To find consolation in bravery such as Mr Beamer's, you need an adult's
understanding of the world. Mishandled, it may even become an obstacle to
recovery.

The viciousness and intent of the attacks - the cruel twists of fate that put
some people in the way of falling buildings and kept others safe in distant
traffic jams - will not make the task of recovery any easier. To have your life
devastated for no particular reason other than that your mother or father was in
the wrong place at the wrong time is hard at any age. To sit and ponder man's
inhumanity to man is hard at any age.

Even if, like Todd Beamer's sons, some of these children are too young to have
lasting conscious memories of their own, all of the bereaved will need time and
space to talk and remember. They will need information about the events
surrounding their parent's death, and crucially, help to process that
information by talking it through with other people. Attempts to protect
children from facts, however unpalatable, are nearly always the cause of nothing
but confusion and still more distress.

It used to be thought that grieving was a finite process that led up to a point
of letting go of the dead. It's now understood that grieving is an on-going
process that has nothing to do with learning how to forget the dead person and
everything to do with learning how to remember them. The particular challenge
for these children will be to wrest a beloved parent from the wreckage of the
American dream. However global the implications of last week's attacks in New
York and Washington turn out to be, we should not lose sight of what each of
these lost lives means to a still living individual.

Rebecca Abrams is the former bereavement counsellor at Cheltenham Ladies'
College and the author of 'When Parents Die: learning to live with the loss of a
parent' (Routledge, pounds 12.99).

The Twin Towers Orphans Fund is collecting money for the bereaved through its
website, www.ttof.org

CRUSE Bereavement Care in the UK can be contacted on 0870 167 1677.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Estates Gazette

                               September 22, 2001

INDUSTRY TO POOL RESEARCH ON TERROR ATTACKS' IMPACT

BYLINE: Adam Coffer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 475 words


    Adam Coffer

    The UK's leading agencies and societies have joined forces to present a
unified analysis of the effects of last week's terrorist attacks on the global
property market.

    The RICS, Society of Property Researchers and Advanced Research Institute/
Technical Forecasts will attempt to hold a forum next week to encourage debate
among the main UK surveying firms' researchers.

    The idea of pooling research to forecast the effects of the attacks was the
brainchild of CB Hillier Parker's Nick Axford and ARI director Leonard Holihan.
The two were this week trying to contact their peers to organise the first
meeting.

    Researchers from surveying firms including King Sturge, DTZ, Insignia
Richard Ellis, JLL, Healey & Baker, GVA Grimley and Weatherall Green & Smith
will be invited to attend.

    RICS chief executive Louis Armstrong said: "The property and construction
industry should react with a united voice to these attacks. By organising a
cross-industry meeting, we want to start a process that pools knowledge and
energy to make sure the right lessons are learned, and our sector's commercial
flair is harnessed for common good."

    Holihan said it is "strategically crucial for London's property companies,
organisations and people in key roles to come together to think, talk and act
positively".

    He added: "We hope to stimulate thought and present a collective view on
what impact this will have on the global property market."

    Axford said CB Hillier Parker is encouraging the move, but added that the
firm'sown view was that occupiers will now be less eager to take large
buildings.

    "There has been speculation that these events will adversely affect occupier
demand for space in tall buildings," he said. "We believe that any such impact
is likely to be only short term.

    "A longer-term effect may be that occupiers will be reluctant to take large
amounts of space in one building because of the perceived risk of having so
manykey individuals and resources in one location."

    Jones Lang LaSalle estimated that the property costs of last week's attack
on the World Trade Center in New York will be at least $ 10bn ( £6.8bn).

    A total of 2.33m m2 (25m sq ft) of property was destroyed or damaged, and
JLL said only a fifth of that total would be repaired and usable within the next
12 months.

    "A number of leading property consultants are in discussions over the
possibility of producing a joint statement containing their consensus view of
the likely impacts. These discussions reflect the concern of many firms who
wishnot to be seen to be attempting to profit from a human tragedy of
unimaginable proportions.

    "There is a major danger of over-reaction to recent events, but the truth is
that it is too early to tell what the full consequences will be."

    www.reedbusiness.com/comprop.htm

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

MONITOR: GREAT BRITAIN;
 THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS COMMENTS ON THE DANGERS FACING THE GLOBE AS AMERICA AND
ITS ALLIES PREPARE TO RESPOND TO LAST WEEK'S TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Research By Ben Chu & Allegra Stratton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 768 words


New Statesman

WE MUST somehow learn to globalise our compassion so that we can empathise with
millions of Africans, Arabs and Latin Americans. To them, the US is an imperial
power, and it is no less so because it imposes itself as least as much through
money as through arms. It has left a trail of grievances around the world.
American made weapons pound the Palestinians; an American- sponsored war creates
misery for Colombians; American-led sanctions caused the deaths of a thousand
Iraqi children; an American strategy, for heaven's sake, once built support for
Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden. Here in Britain we tend to see the best of
America, but to much of the rest of the world the charge sheet is long.

The Times

IN KABUL the Taliban are playing out a farce that takes no measure of this
momentum. They are acting, under the cover of a grand shura of clerics, as
though there were time in hand and bargains to be struck. Nothing could better
illustrate the intellectual and moral isolation of this cruel and obscurantist
regime than its apparent inability to comprehend the enormity of the outrage
that has been committed, or the deadly force of the express train that is in
consequence bearing down upon their land. If the Taliban protect bin Laden, it
will not only be because he is their banker, but because they share his enmity
to the non-Muslim world and the US above all. They would rather Afghans died
needlessly than admit that they share in the responsibility of all to fight
terrorism. Their stance demonstrates the utter necessity of this unwelcome war.

The Spectator

MR BLAIR'S Churchillian pose as the scourge of terrorism everywhere and in all
circumstances is not credible, for the reason that he has found it politic to
make very large concessions to the IRA, by which he implicitly accepts the
defeat of the British state by a handful of ruthless men ... In the light of
last week's events there is a certain prudence in Australia's recent refusal to
allow 400 Afghan refugees in. How could Australia be sure that among those 400
there were no agents of international terrorism? The liberal press both here and
elsewhere raised a clamour against the Australian government's sensible actions,
thus demonstrating that it has no grasp of the seriousness of the problem
confronting Western powers. Multiculturalism is a lazy, complacent refusal to
accept there can be irreconcilable conflicts between worldviews.

The Guardian

ONE SMALL way to express our admiration as a country would be for the Queen to
award one of our country's highest honours to the New York fire department and
the ambulance services, both of which lost many staff. However, such a gesture
would require a small modification to the original warrant made by King George
VI in 1940, which specified that the award was to be made to British nationals,
Commonwealth subjects or allies assisting specifically British nationals. This
slight stretching of the original remit (it would require the Cabinet Office to
make the recommendation to the Queen) would be a recognition of the much more
closely-knit global world where our responsibilities to each other transcend
global boundaries.

The Sun

WE MUST not allow the racist bigotry of those who have turned on British Muslims
to pervade our minds. We must stand firm in our belief that we have no quarrel
with the Islamic faith. Our enemies are the people that killed more than 5,000
people in America. For a country so vast, America feels alone. Britain is the
one old friend America can rely on. Blair embodies everything that Britain feels
for America. When he says: "America is our closest ally and friend," and pledges
that links have been strengthened between our two peoples, he speaks for us all.

Eastern Eye

WHEN THE terrorists attacked the World Trade Centre they made enemies of the
whole world. The terrorists were not Muslims. They were evil individuals trying
to distort one of the world's most respected religions for their own wicked
political agenda. This message needs to be uttered loud and clear, not just in
Britain but right around the world. The safety of Asians in Britain depends on
it. Our neighbours, work-mates and college friends must know that Islam is a
peaceful religion and that all Asians condemn the attack. They need to know that
extremists are trying to hijack the voice of the law-abiding Muslim community.
Muslims should not, and must not, become victims of racist abuse just because
some twisted fanatics have committed atrocities against American citizens in the
name of Islam.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

MONITOR: UNITED STATES - THE LONG STRUGGLE AHEAD;
 THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS COMMENTS ON THE DANGERS FACING THE GLOBE AS AMERICA AND
ITS ALLIES PREPARE TO RESPOND TO LAST WEEK'S TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Research By Ben Chu & Allegra Stratton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 909 words


The New York Post

WARS THAT entail a commitment to total - repeat, total - victory will have
casualties. On all sides. The key to this war will be to limit America's losses
without shying away from the task at hand. The American people can be made to
understand this. And they certainly realize, now more than ever, the casualties
they will suffer at the hands of terrorists in future if they fail to act now.
This is not going to be one of those "surgical strike" air wars which are won
just by dropping bombs from 15,000 feet and launching cruise missiles from
hundreds of miles away. It will mean muddy boots on the ground. And body bags.
Collateral damage is very likely. Abroad, for sure. And maybe here at home too.
America is tough enough to handle that bitter truth.

Los Angeles Times

PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH gave the speech that both Americans and the rest of the
world needed to hear. He balanced tough talk and restraint, telling the American
public and an international audience that the fight against terrorism will be
long and complex - and ultimately successful. With British Prime Minister Tony
Blair nodding agreement in the audience, President Bush said that other nations
"understand that if this terror goes unpun- ished, their own cities, their own
citizens, may be next." He set forth - in broad language that will have to be
fleshed out soon with some detail - the daunting military, economic and
diplomatic burdens that await. The strength of of the President's speech is that
he made shouldering those burdens seem possible.

Waco Tribune-Herald

MOST AMERICANS now know where Afghanistan is. That's where US authorities
assumed Osama bin Laden was when terrorists struck our shores. They probably
know Pakistan, where he might flee to. They probably know Sudan, where bin Laden
was before he was expelled under pressure from the United States. But do they
know Tajikistan? Uzbekistan? Chechnya, Dagestan, Kashmir, Azerbaijan, Eritrea?
They are among an estimated 34 countries or territories where bin Laden's
organization is said to have planted terrorist cells. Americans need to learn
their global geography and their world history. This nation has been snuggled in
a shell without a care about the world around them. Schools do not give
sufficient emphasis to matters overseas. We are citizens of the world. We need
to become informed citizens.

The Washington Times

THIS PAGE usually finds little opportunity to agree with liberal Prime Minister
Tony Blair, but his government has been a strong voice in the past week,
offering help that is a lot more than mere talk. Tommy Atkins, the British
soldier from Rudyard Kipling's famous poem, is readying for a fight. This is not
a fight the United States has sought; it is also not one we should rush into
without proper deliberation of our strategic goals. But neither is it a fight we
can shy away from. The next move belongs to President Bush.

The Philadelphia Inquirer

A HERO, too, is often a person forgotten nearly as quickly as was his or her
moment in the public eye. Who talks today about the rescuers in Oklahoma City.
Because of the scale of the 11 September tragedy, thousands of today's rescuers
face psychological devastation in the weeks, months and years to come. The word
"hero" holds little meaning for them. Their actions are heroic, but they really
are the front line's most endangered victims. America owes its newest heroes
whatever it takes - lifetime counselling; financial support; perpetual affection
from neighbors and friends - to keep them sane and safe.

The Dallas Morning News

IT IS heartening to hear leaders around the world asserting their solidarity
with the US in the wake of the events of 11 September. America's European and
Australian allies, in particular, were quick to voice support under treaty
obligations for joint defense. But once the condolences subside and a time for
action nears, will our allies be there? The war on terrorism is clearly
something the US cannot do on its own.

The Chicago Sun-Times

MOST FOUR-year-old boys look into their father's face and see bravery. In the
case of this boy's dad, a nation sees it too. Petty Officer 1st Class Bernard
Sampson Sr set out from Norfolk, Virginia, this week on the aircraft carrier USS
Theodore Roosevelt, one of thousands of sailors, soldiers and airmen who are
being readied for war. Like those who have served in uniform defending this
great nation throughout its history, these men and women have selflessly traded
the comfort of lives with their loved ones for a precarious existence in armed
conflict. Our nation owes them, like generations of warriors before, a great
debt. We salute them, one and all.

The New Yorker

OUR LEADERS are bent on convincing us that everything is okay. America is not
afraid. Our spirit is unbroken, although this was a day that will live in infamy
and America is now at war. But everything is not okay. We have a robotic
President who assures us that America still stands tall. The public is not being
asked to bear much of the burden of reality. The unanimity of the sanctimonious,
reality -concealing rhet-oric spouted by officials and media commentators in
recent days seems, well, unworthy of a mature democracy. Let's by all means
grieve together. But let's not be stupid together. A few shreds of historical
awareness might help us understand what has just happened. (Susan Sontag)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

MONITOR: THE REST OF THE WORLD;
 THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS COMMENTS ON THE DANGERS FACING THE GLOBE AS AMERICA AND
ITS ALLIES PREPARE TO RESPOND TO LAST WEEK'S TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Research By Ben Chu & Allegra Stratton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 348 words


The Melbourne Age

Australia

IT IS encouraging that a broad alliance has already gathered to pledge support
for President Bush. Unity is a sign of strength and the best way to combat
international terrorism is with a coalition of international and American
interests. Too much is at stake for the Americans to go it alone now and much
can be gained from garnering forces and intelligence from many quarters. What
happened in America last week affected not just the United States. Australians
too were killed in these terrible attacks. Dozens of our citizens are still
missing, feared dead. Australia's response cannot be to stand back and offer
sympathy, and little else.

Republika

Indonesia

WE ARE saddened to see so many civilians falling victim in the attacks. We
respect the path of peace and would never tolerate any form of terrorism, by
anybody, for any reason. In the US, the tendency to blame Muslim communities is
intensifying. Megawati is the president of the world's largest Muslim country.
The US should make Indonesia its closest Muslim ally in attempting to build a
democratic community far from terrorism.

Clarin

Argentina

NO ONE knows for sure what the fate will be for the new world which tragically
appeared in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks against the US. There is only
one certainty: no individual or collective behavior will be exempt from some
sort of involvement. Neither will Argentina be exempt. After the tragedy, some
priorities have irrevocably changed. The fear of a global financial crisis
unleashed by an emerging country has suddenly been replaced by the evidence of
defenselessness left by the attacks on the most powerful country in the world.
(Eduardo Van der Kooy)

The Daily Times

Nigeria

WE VIEW with distaste the reported jubilation in some parts of the country over
the attacks on the US. It is incredible that Nigerians of this century would be
rejoicing over the death of thousands of innocent people, in any part of the
world. It is un-Nigerian, unAfrican and we absolutely condemn such acts.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

MONITOR: THE MIDDLE EAST AND THE INDIAN SUB-CONTINENT;
 THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS COMMENTS ON THE DANGERS FACING THE GLOBE AS AMERICA AND
ITS ALLIES PREPARE TO RESPOND TO LAST WEEK'S TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Research By Ben Chu & Allegra Stratton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words


Nawa-e-Waqt

Pakistan

AFTER JAPAN and Iraq, the United States is bent upon destroying Afghanistan, and
instead of informing the world about US designs Pakistan has decided to co
-operate with it. We would know the ramifications of this co-operation only when
we became badly trapped in the quicksand. May God have mercy on Pakistan and
give it the capacity to take the right decisions.

Al-Jazira

Saudi Arabia

EVERY DAY since the New York and Washington events, the news has revealed the
limited vision of the FBI in spite of the information that points a finger
toward other groups, especially the Jews. It is reported that 4,000 Israelis did
not go to work last Tuesday at the World Trade Centre after a warning from their
government. What is obvious is that the investigations are clearly insufficient
and there is an determination to focus the accusations on Arabs and Muslims
rather than those that all the leads point to.

The Jerusalem Post

Israel

THE GULF War coalition was largely a cosmetic coating for US and British
military force. This coating, complete with a blessing from the UN Security
Council to reverse Saddam Hussein's swallowing of Kuwait by "all necessary
means", made sense because the US had not been directly attacked. The situation
now is different. America's war against terrorism is a pure case of self-
defence, for which permission is needed from no one.

Al-Jumhuriyah

Iraq

WE STRONGLY condemn all forms of international terrorism and its use as a form
of pressure in relations among countries. However, we must remind the US
administration that it was involved for many years in acts of state terrorism
when it provoked, directly or indirectly, local conflicts and war within this
region. It also intervened blatantly in other countries' domestic affairs. We
wish to remind it that it must abandon this policy that is an affliction to its
citizens at home and the nations of the world. (Salah al-Abd)

Kifah Al-Arabi

Lebanon

PRESIDENT BUSH last week declared a "crusade to rid the world of evil- doers".
As if he were ignoring (the fact) that European states spent centuries
forgetting these shameful acts (the crusades), which were an offence to human
history. President Bush did not specify what he is expecting from America's new
crusade - imperialistic objectives, or relig- ious goals? We hope that President
Bush's call for a "crusade" results merely from shallowness and improvisation
and does not reflect the thinking of the American establishment. (Walid
Husseini)

The Times of India

FROM THE White House down, America's leaders have reacted in language which is
liable to rouse the worst passions. From the Manichaean rhetoric of good and
evil to blanket invocations of "Islamic terrorism" official America has stoked
the fires of popular prejudice.

Al-Hayat Al-Jadida

West Bank

NATO IS still awaiting the US answer regarding the place, date and nature of the
planned retaliation. There is no final confirmation that Osama bin Laden is
behind the attacks, and there is no final confirmation on the identity of the
perpetrators and those who sent them. Today, the developed and civilized world
is committing the same horrific and grave mistakes in Afghanistan, which has
become a clear example of the harshness and cruelty of a world that only cares
about its own interests. So, will the Western countries globalize justice or
will they globalize terrorism? This depends only on the wisdom of the American
leadership. (Hafiz Barghouti)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: 4 HELD IN UK OVER TERRORIST ATTACKS;
 ALERT IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 235 words


FOUR people suspected of being involved in the World Trade Center atrocity were
arrested in the UK yesterday.

In two raids in the Paddington area of West London at 3am, two men aged 27 and
29, and a woman of 25, were held.

Later a house in the Sparkbrook area of Birmingham was raided at 7pm and another
man was arrested.

Last night all the suspects were being questioned about the New York attacks by
a joint team of Met police and FBI agents.

Officers removed several boxes from the addresses.

Meanwhile armed police stepped up patrols near London's landmarks last night as
Britain braced itself for possible terrorist attacks.

Fifteen hundred extra officers are on duty in the capital after Metropolitan
police chief Sir John Stevens warned "London could be next".

Scores of armed police with sub-machine guns and automatic pistols are
patrolling close to Buckingham Palace, Parliament, Whitehall and the City.

Hundreds of reinforcements are posted at Heathrow airport, in the West End's
shopping streets and on the Tube.

Undercover officers are watching more than 200 men believed to have links to
Islamic terror groups. A source said: "It needn't be a hijack. It could be a
bomb, chemicals or germ warfare."

Regional airports are on alert. And mosques in London, Birmingham, Leeds and
Bradford are under police guard.

Sir John said: "We must not drop our guard."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

Travel cover and attacks by terrorists

BYLINE: Antonia Senior

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 612 words


Holidaymakers tend to assume that their travel insurance is all-encompassing,
but, following the terrorist attacks in the US, it is now clear that policies
will not pay out in every eventuality. Here we examine the circumstances where
your travel insurance may fall short of your expectations.

Generally, travel insurance pays for a cancellation in three circumstances: if
you or a close family member dies, if you are made redundant, or if you fall ill
prior to departure. Cancelling a holiday through a heightened fear of flying
will not be reason enough to get your money back.

When the holiday is cancelled, not through your fault, but through failures on
the part of the operator or airline, or because the Foreign Office has issued a
warning about your destination, you should be able to claim a full refund.

If your flight is delayed, most insurance policies will pay out only if you have
been stranded for more than 12 hours. Once an outward-bound trip has been held
up for more than 24 hours, you should be able to abandon your trip and obtain a
refund.

You will render any insurance cover useless if you fail to declare any medical
conditions when buying it. Someone travelling abroad with a food allergy, for
example, needs to tell the insurer about the condition. The premiums will be
weighted to reflect it.

Travellers intending to take part in any dangerous sports must buy a policy that
covers risky pursuits. Otherwise, any injuries sustained in the course of the
activity will not be covered. Exclusions can cover everything from riding
powerful motorbikes to white-water rafting. Do not just assume that you are
covered.

Travel insurance will not cover acts of terrorism, which means that the insurer
does not have to pay out when flights or holidays are disrupted by attacks such
as those seen last week. Any misfortune as a result of terrorist activity,
including injuries and loss of luggage, are not automatically covered by the
insurance policy. However, in the recent crisis, some insurance companies, such
as Direct Line, provided a degree of cover on a discretionary basis, despite the
terrorism exclusion clause. This depends entirely on the insurer's stance.

There is a huge difference in price on insurance policies, so it pays to shop
around. About 70 per cent of holiday insurance is bought from travel agents when
a holiday booking is made. But a recent survey by the Consumers' Association,
published in Holiday Which?, found that buying cover from a travel agent could
cost up to four times more than buying the policy directly from an insurer.

For example, a family of four buying cover for a week-long trip to America would
pay Pounds 80.24 with Direct Line, but Pounds 203 with Thomson and Pounds 190
with Thomas Cook.

There are plenty of websites to trawl for the best rates, such as
www.moneysupermarket.com/travelinsurance and www.moneyextra-insurance.com. But
check the policies carefully -do not sacrifice comprehensive cover for slightly
cheaper premiums.

Another consequence of the attacks in America is the financial losses suffered
by airlines. The repercussions when an airline goes bust are nasty, as those
booked to fly with Ansett, an Australian airline that went into liquidation last
week, are finding out.

Sean Tipton, of the Association of British Travel Agents, says that if you have
booked directly with an airline that goes bust, you will not be covered unless
you paid by credit card. Standard insurance will not cover you. If you booked
through a tour operator, there may be some cover, depending on the company's
stance.

Antonia Senior See Travel section, page 4


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

SLOWDOWN EXPECTED SOONER;
 MONEY - HOUSING: FALLOUT FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS 'LIKELY TO WEAKEN MARKET'

BYLINE: Graeme Evans

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 399 words


BOOM-TIME in the UK housing market could end sooner than forecast following the
terrorist attacks in the US, a mortgage group warned yesterday.

The Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) believes the knock to economic confidence
will accelerate the expected slowdown in the market.

The prediction comes despite another record set of mortgage lending figures for
August.

Both the CML and the British Bankers' Association (BBA) said fears of an
economic slowdown failed to distract house buyers last month.

But CML director general Michael Coogan expects a cooling of the market next
year and warned last week's events could bring it forward.

He added, "If anything, the fallout on the economy and consumer confidence from
the terrorist attacks in the US may even tend towards slowing the market down
more than we have previously forecast."

However, CML said the picture prior to last week's atrocities showed continued
confidence among housebuyers.

Meanwhile, the BBA said net lending by its members for mortgages rose by pounds
3.98bn in August, a lift of 10pc on the rise achieved last month.

The latest figure is well above the underlying trend for the previous six
months, which showed an increase in borrowing of pounds 2.92bn.

BBA chief executive Ian Mullen said, "Fears over the direction of the economy
seemed to have little influence on individuals' demand for borrowing in August.

"Mortgage lending continued to grow apace, with lenders' expectations of slowing
growth not yet materialising."

Away from the housing market, borrowing was less rampant, with the amount put on
credit cards rising by just pounds 88m in August - about half the figure
recorded a year earlier.

The BBA added that fewer tourists may have led hotels and restaurants to
increase borrowing by pounds 274m, while a possible slowdown in the property
sector was shown by weaker lending to real estate companies.

Despite the problems in UK manufacturing, firms in the sector did not increase
borrowing requirements by as much as expected, the BBA added.

Record set of mortgage lending figures GROSS mortgage lending during August rose
to pounds 16.7bn from pounds 15.4bn the previous month and pounds 11bn in August
last year.

The figures, based on mortgage completions from both banks and building
societies, also showed loans for house purchases rose by 17pc.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               September 23, 2001

ITV advertising gloom deepens;
RATINGS SUCCESS FOR COVERAGE OF U.S. TERROR ATTACKS FAILS TO MASK REVENUE CRISIS

BYLINE: Tom Mcghie

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 639 words


INDEPENDENT television has rushed to claim that it was an immediate beneficiary
of the terrorist attacks in America.

Within a day of the attacks on New York and Washington, ITN boasted that more
people watched its news than turned to the BBC's 10pm bulletin.

But analysis by BARB, the independent audience monitor, showed that after 24
hours, the BBC resumed its role of being the station the nation turns to in
times of crisis.

But no matter what ITV claims about the attractions of its news output,
advertising is drying up.

Advertisers are not keen to see their products being promoted on screen,
sandwiched between images of death and destruction.

The economic slowdown on both sides of the Atlantic had already persuaded
advertising agencies to think twice about big campaigns.

Advertising as a whole is suffering, and the prospect of war can only make
matters worse. All big airlines pulled their adverts in the immediate aftermath
of the attacks.

This is the traditional response to a disaster, but, more worryingly, British
Airways, which spends GBP 20 million a year on advertising most of it on ITV is
reviewing its advertising strategy. 'We are looking at a number of strategic
decisions and the direction we take in our advertising will be part of that,'
said a spokesman.

But for ITV, there is a further problem unconnected to the slowdown or the
attacks. ITV's audience share has been declining, so its attraction to
advertisers has diminished.

There is still no consensus about the long-term impact of the attacks on
advertising spending .

Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP, the world's biggest advertising
agency, said: 'It is too early to judge whether we are looking at a long-term
trend. Don't forget, we believed there was a recession in the industry before
the attacks.' WPP believes the problems are the result of a long-term decline in
the number of ITV viewers. In 1987, it had a share of almost 45 per cent of the
TV market. By 2010, this could be nearer 25 per cent, according to Granada's
broker ABN Amro. ITV is losing advertising to Channel 4 and Channel 5, popular
with affluent younger viewers.

Granada and Carlton, which dominate ITV, acknowledge that there will be a price
to pay for the adverts that were pulled due to the continuous news coverage of
the tragedy.

But a senior source at Carlton said it was too early to say what the long-term
effect of the attacks would be. 'We only have a visibility of about six to eight
weeks we cannot predict any further,' he said.

But media agencies are expecting a huge fall in revenue over the next three
months. There is growing speculation that ITV revenues will plunge to about GBP
120 million more than double the drop predicted by the industry before September
11.

ABN Amro predicted last week that ITV revenues for the financial year to this
month would fall by 11.8 per cent. ABN also downgraded its 2002 forecast for ITV
advertising revenue, predicting a 5.6 per cent decline.

Analysts acknowledge that the golden days of ITV advertising will not return.
Instead, investors are being asked to pin their hopes on a merger between
Granada and Carlton, which would bring cost savings.

And, of course, there is a growing hope that England will do well in the finals
of the World Cup in Japan and South Korea next year. The tournament is being
screened by ITV.

The share prices of Carlton and Granada fell last week after a series of
analysts' notes warning of the sharp downturn in TV advertising.

Carlton was hit particularly badly and its shares closed on Friday at 156p a
10-year low.

Over the past month, the value of the company has been halved to GBP 1.1
billion.

Granada has fared a little better. Shares closed at 112p, a drop of 30 per cent
in the past month.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                               September 23, 2001

MOMENT I FEARED MY KIDS HAD DIED IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Tony Rees

SECTION: FOOTBALL; INTERVIEW; SAM HAMMAM

LENGTH: 1022 words


    Sam Hammam Opens his heart to Sport of the World

    SAM HAMMAM last night relived the hours of agony when he believed TWO of his
children had died in the terror attack on New York City.

    Cardiff City owner Hammam's 23-year-old daughter Samar and son Zayd, 24,
were in the heart of Manhattan's banking district when the two hijacked planes
exploded into the World Trade Centre, killing more than 6,000.

    Hammam believed banking executive Samar had perished in one of the twin
towers and endured an agonising FOUR-HOUR wait before discovering she was safe.

    He said: "I was certain Samar and Zayd were lost - it was a terrifying
situation, a moment which every parent prays will never arrive.

    "I was sure that Samar was dead. She'd only started work at Citibank - which
is housed in the World Trade Centre - seven days earlier.

    "I truly believed Samar's office was in one of the twin towers. I knew
banking organisations normally started work at 7.30am and when I'd heard about
the explosions, I just thought: 'She's gone!'

    But unbeknown to Hammam, Samar's office was in the 47-storey Salamon
Brothers building, which later collapsed, and she had been evacuated when the
first plane struck.

    Lebanese-born Hamman, a soccer Messiah in South Wales, drove east along the
M4 in a haze - bracing himself for the urgent rendezvous with his distraught
wife Nida.

    He said: "I was driving home on the M4 desperately attempting to remain calm
but my mind kept asking how Samar must have felt in her last few terrible
moments."

    Nida recalled: "I was shuddering. I just wanted to be by Samar's side - I
didn't want her to go alone in the darkness.

    "If I could have given up my life for hers at that very moment I would have
agreed to it."

    Hammam said: "We'd left the Lebanon to get away from terrorism. I couldn't
believe it had followed my family and struck innocent people in New York.

    "I was frantically trying to call America in a bid to discover if Samar and
Zayd had survived. It was a case of going through the motions - all the lines to
the United States were jammed.

    "Nida had been crying for hours. I felt so helpless and wanted to comfort
her so much."

    But Hammam's pain eased with two dramatic phone calls.

    Hammam explained: "First I discovered my son had made it. A pal in America
had sent word to a contact in Mexico - Nida and myself were overjoyed."

    The phone rang again later that evening and elder daughter Dina, based in
San Francisco, said Samar was miraculously safe.

    Hammam said: "I'll never forget that call, it was like a great weight had
been lifted off my shoulders. Samar had somehow managed to contact Dina to say
she was scared but OK - I'm still thanking God for that call."

    And Nida paid tribute to those whose love helped her through those desperate
hours.

    She said: "I'll never be able to thank the people who cared enough about us.
Sam and myself had telephone calls from friends all around the world. My
daughter's Citibank firm were wonderful. They gave great support."

    Hammam added: "My blood runs cold when I think how lucky both the kids were.
Zayd had been evacuated from his building, which was a block and a half from the
World Trade Centre.

    "He was in the street when a plane hit the second tower. My lad ran for his
life. Debris cascaded from everywhere, the dust shrouded him in a big, black
cloud, and he had difficulty breathing.

    "A giant steel window had become detached from a building, it flew over his
head missing him by inches.

    "He was in darkness and tried to go into a subway for shelter but decided at
the last moment not to proceed. When the dust cleared Zayd discovered all the
people down there had been lost.

    "Samar had been working in Building Seven of the World Trade Centre - the
third building to collapse three hours after the towers fell.

    "She stood just 40 yards away as the attacks began. She looked on powerless
to help as people leapt from the towers.

    "Sights like that must be etched in your mind forever."

    Hammam has immersed himself in his work at Cardiff in a bid to try and
forget the nightmare.

    But he admitted: "I'm still struggling to sleep. Two days after the attack
on New York, I signed Peter Thorne from Stoke City and then met a politician
about our proposed new stadium on the outskirts of the city. I got back to my
hotel very tired at 12.30am but got no sleep whatsoever. My mind was racing, my
body shaking. I finally gave up trying to sleep and got up at 6am.

    "It's been like that for days. But Nida and I were among the fortunate
parents - there have been so many people who have lost loved ones,and my
thoughts go out to them right now."

    Hammam lived in the States during the Eighties and he added: "I suppose I've
been Americanised since my days at an American university in Lebanon where I
studied to become a civil engineer.

    "Nida and I wanted to see the kids with an American perception - the three
of them obviously live in the United States now.

    "New York was my family base for a long period - I naturally feel for all
Americans at this moment."

    The shrewd business brain of Hammam has made a personal fortune in various
interests throughout many continents but he admits God - not wealth - is his
driving force.

    Hammam, a Christian, said: "I have my faith and belief in God. I carry his
home deep in my heart wherever I am in the world."

    Now Sam and Nida desperately want to see hope rise from the disfigured
Manhattan skyline.

    Nida declared: "Events over this terrible week make me all the more
determined to see the back of terrorism forever. I am ready to front any march
to show my feelings against it."

    And Sam added: "Goodness must emerge from this dreadful atrocity. I'm
praying that God will direct world leaders to eradicate the various sources from
which terrorism is rooted.

    "They must discover why it rears in the first instance - that's as important
as eliminating the perpetrators of it.

    "This must happen, otherwise all the thousands who have died will have lost
their lives in vain."

    Interview: Tony Rees


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                               September 23, 2001

BILLY'S TORMENT AT TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: BASKETBALL 2001-02

LENGTH: 632 words


    BILLY SINGLETON doesn't know how he will cope with the start of the new
British basketball season -just days after an agonising wait to find out if all
his friends and family had survived the World Trade Center atrocity.

    The Leicester Riders star (below), who helped his team to an unexpected
league and cup double last term, revealed: "I was devastated. I was unable to
get through on the phone.

    "I was trying to call for 14 hours non-stop until my sister, who works in
New York, finally rang me in the middle of the night to tell me everyone was all
right.

    "My heart goes out to the families of all those who lost their lives."

    Incredibly, Singleton's cousin Yolanda was working in one of the buildings
when the planes hit and was one of the lucky survivors.

    The 6ft 2in star added: "Our coach Billy Mims was great and told me to take
as much time as I needed to recover.

    "I can only hope that when our season starts on Thursday at the Birmingham
Bullets, I'll be fully focused on what is happening.

    "I'm just happy and grateful that we are all alive."

    In the wake of the tragedy, Singleton's fellow-American Donnie Johnson has
turned his back on a move to Leicester, opting to stay put in the States.

    BIRMINGHAM BULLETS -Coach: Lance Randall. Star player: Shawn Jamison. The
former Harlem Globetrotter returns to the team he led to 2000 play-off final.
Last season: 4th South. Odds (to win Championship): 8-1. BRIGHTON BEARS -Coach:
Nick Nurse. Star player: Randy Duck. Nurse brought the 26-year-old Texan guard
along with him from Towers this summer. Last season: 6th South. Odds: 14-1.

    CHESTER JETS -Coach: Robbie Peers. Star player: John McCord. Arguably the
best signing of the summer for last year's shock Trophy winners. Last season:
2nd North, Uniball Trophy winners. Odds: 3-1.

    DERBY STORM -Coach: John Spezia. Star player: Durrell Robinson. Played for
Spezia during his college years and promises to be very special. Last season:
6th North. Odds: 66-1.

    EDINBURGH ROCKS -Coach: Kevin Wall. Star player: Ted Berry. He may be a
returning hero but he will need to be much more of a team player this time
around. Last season: 7th North. Odds: 66-1.

    LEICESTER RIDERS -Coach: Billy Sims. Star player: Jermaine Brown. Derby's
big scorer joins the league's best offence. Last season: 4th North, Championship
winners, National Cup winners. Odds: 6-1.

    LONDON LEOPARDS -Coach: Chris Pullem. Star player: Rico Alderson. The
flamboyant crowd-pleaser is getting better as he matures. Last season: 2nd
South, National Cup runners-up. Odds: 3-1.

    LONDON TOWERS -Coach: Lino Frattin. Star player: Terrell Myers. A big winner
with Sheffield for four years, he has now made a move south in search of further
honours. Last season: 1st South. Odds: 9-4 (fav).

    MANCHESTER GIANTS -Coach: Mark Ingle. Star player: John Leahy. The former
Derby star will have to carry the load at new-look Giants in the coming months.
Last season: 5th North. Odds: 25-1.

    MILTON KEYNES LIONS -Coach: Nigel Lloyd. Star player: Jason Siemon. He
provides both consistency and experience in a towering 6ft 11in package. Last
season: 3rd South. Odds: 12-1.

    NEWCASTLE EAGLES -Coach: Tony Garbelotto. Star player: Malcolm Leak. Helped
Leicester to the double and Eagles will be looking for the same. Last season:
3rd North, Uniball Trophy runners-up. Odds: 10-1.

    SHEFFIELD SHARKS -Coach: Chris Finch. Star player: Nate Reinking. The
playmaker survived a big summer upheaval and will have to be at his best. Last
season: 1st North, Championship runners-up. Odds: 8-1.

    THAMES VALLEY TIGERS -Coach: Paul James. Star player: Eric Burks. Joined
from the Towers and will need to rediscover his League MVP form of years gone
by. Last season: 5th South. Odds: 20-1.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 23, 2001

Business: Europe forced to face its demons: Terror attacks prompted bankers to
act 'in sequence' to stabilise global economies , writes Faisal Islam

BYLINE: Faisal Islam

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1112 words


EUROPE'S economy has not escaped the long shadow of the terrorist attacks on the
other side of the Atlantic.

With economists now openly pointing to the possibility of a global recession,
finance ministers were desperately trying to calm these fears at the meeting of
European finance ministers that finished yesterday.

'We are not yet in recession and we do not expect to be in recession,' said
Pedro Solbes, EU monetary affairs commissioner.

The financial aftermath of the attacks has unhinged certainty about the economy
and economic policy in Europe. Most of the focus had been on keeping airlines
solvent. But the policy conundrums run far deeper.

From the hardline policies of the European Central Bank to strictness of limits
for fiscal discipline, from the timetable for any British referendum on euro
entry to the arcane details of airline competition policy. Everything is
affected, but economists are hedging their bets on exactly how.

The likelihood of slower growth, increasing unemployment, and bigger budget
deficits looms large. The euro may be nudging up a little against the dollar,
but growth prospects in the euro area have suffered dramatically.

Rational despondency seems to be the order of the day as stock markets across
Europe tumbled to four-year lows.

Economists are adjusting growth forecasts downwards, but few can pinpoint an
exact figure. UBS Warburg points out that, with Europe's largest economies
already running budget deficits, the European Growth and Stability Pact leaves
very little scope for a US-style fiscal stimulus. Germany, for example, will
have to restrict spending, and increase taxes, or allow the stability pact to
slip a little. This prospect spooked the ECB. September's monthly report gave
some countries a little more leeway to allow 'automatic stabilisers' to work.

The prospect of fiscal indiscipline could restrict the scope for interest rate
cuts. Last week, however, the ECB, and Bank of England were skirting the rules
of their monetary policy remit to ensure confidence in the financial system.

Central banks have adopted a Trappist vow of silence on the precise degree of
coordination that surrounded last week's rate cuts.

What we do know is that the senior central bankers have been in constant contact
since the terrorist attacks on the US. At first they pumped billions of dollars
of money into markets to maintain liquidity in the financial system, effectively
lowering overnight interest rates. The Fed also arranged multibillion-dollar
swap facilities with major central banks.

Duisenberg heard about the Federal Reserve cut at a press conference to promote
the new euro notes and coins in Helsinki, Finland.

He urgently arranged a secret teleconference of the ECB's Governing Council,
which ended with the announcement of a 50-basis- point cut as European stock
markets were closing.

The explanatory note said the cut was carried out 'in concert' with the Fed. It
went on: 'In the view of the Governing Council, the recent events in the US are
likely to weigh adversely on confidence in the euro area, reducing short-term
outlook for domestic growth.'

This took the markets, and the Bank of England, by surprise. Not least because
the ECB had already chosen not to cut after the New York attacks, but also
because the rationale for the cut seemed to be growth concerns rather than the
traditional rigid adherence to 'price stability'.

The Bank's Monetary Policy Committee met the next morning. At the last meeting
the committee had been split, with some members lobbying for a rise in base
rates to avert a consumer boom.

These splits appeared to endure, giving rise to a compromise cut of 25 basis
points. The cuts were not coordinated, in keeping with Bank Governor Eddie
George's previous comments, but they were 'in sequence'.

The exact manner of the coordination is important. Central banks are keen to
take decisive action, but they are loth to sacrifice independence, or act in a
way that would fuel any growing sense of financial panic.

'Until last week, these central banks had a doctrinal reluctance to use monetary
policy to deal with asset prices. That is now shattered,' says Charles Wyplosz,
an economist with the Centre for Economic Policy Research, who will soon publish
a report called Do Central Banks Talk?

The ECB's claims that the moves were 'in concert' were a 'face-saving
manoeuvre', to reconcile the reluctance to cut earlier with the subsequent move,
says Wyplosz.

'They want to be seen as only responding to their inflation or price level
targets. When you have a financial crisis like this, such targeting is
problematic.'

But adhering to these targets is also a symbol of the banks' independence:
staving off potential stock market crashes is not normally in their remit.
Sources say that the euro area finance ministers were comprehensively left out
of the loop on the discussions about response.

'The central banks' independence should be from their politicians, but not from
each other. Cooperation and coordination can work, especially in these
exceptional circumstances,' says Wyplosz.

Not everyone was convinced that all the central banks had passed with flying
colours. 'This week's experience shows that the ECB does not have to stick to
the meetings in the event of disorderly market behaviour. It also suggests that
the ECB remains very hard to predict given the current environment and that all
forecasts have to be treated with great caution,' says Holger Fahrinkrug of
Warburgs .

Some pro-Europeans point out that the framework for Bank of England operational
independence was 'ripped up' with last week's action, and that the actions of
the MPC in following the ECB show that it cannot be independent from Europe.
Those against British euro entry counter that the fact that the same shock
required different policy responses shows the value of British monetary
independence.

Either way, it is clear that the financial uncertainty following the attacks on
the US does not make the best launchpad for euro entry.

Some economists even display nervousness about the roll-out of euro notes and
coins. 'The ECB has been quick to reassure people that plans will go ahead, but
that doesn't rule out some disruption because of transport delays,' says Carmen
Nuzzo of Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.

A more tangible effect, says Nuzzo, might come from the introduction of the new
currency against a background of war and security concerns. This cocktail of
confusion and uncertainty could leave consumer confidence punch-drunk, just when
its sturdy resolve is most needed.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 23, 2001

Comment:The Observer Profile: The Prophet Muhammad: The man from Mecca: His name
has been invoked to justify the killing of more than 6,000 people in the 11
September terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. But who was the man who
founded a religion now claiming two billion followers?

BYLINE: Burhan Wazir

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1226 words


IN A COLLECTION OF sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, published almost two
centuries after his death by Islamic scholar Sahih Bakhari, suicide is clearly
proscribed: 'Do not kill yourselves, for indeed Allah is Most Merciful to you.
Whoever takes his or her own life by any means has unjustly taken a life that
Allah has made sacred. Its preservation is a duty incumbent on any individual.'

Muhammad's words ought to provide proof for those in any doubt as to the status
of suicide in Islam. But if more is needed, go no further than the Muslim holy
book, the Koran: 'A man was inflicted with wounds and he committed suicide, and
so Allah said: "My slave has caused death on himself hurriedly, so I forbid
Paradise for him."'

But just who was Muhammad, regarded by Muslims as Allah's last and most
important prophet in a procession that includes both Abraham - Ibrahim in Arabic
- and Jesus - Isa? Tradition has it that he was born in the dusty, then
war-torn, city of Mecca, just inland from the modern Saudi Arabian port of
Jeddah, in 570AD. His father, Abdullah, died several weeks before his birth.
When his mother died six years later, Muhammad was adopted and raised by his
father's brother, Abu Talib.

Groomed as a trader from an early age, he was just 12 when he accompanied his
uncle's merchant caravan as far as Syria. Such travels would become an important
part of most of his adult life. Regarded as a reliable and honest negotiator in
financial dealings, Muhammad was popularly known as 'Al-Ameen' - 'the
Trustworthy'.

His reputation as a truly honest broker spread rapidly at a time when Arabs were
feted for entrepreneurial skills. At 22, he was hired by a rich widower,
Khadijah, for a business trip to Syria. The young man was quick to impress, and
on his return received a marriage proposal from his employer via a rela tive. He
was 25 years old. She was 40 and already twice widowed. They were together for a
quarter of a century, producing six children - four daughters and two sons -
before Khadijah's death in 620AD.

ACCORDING TO HIS family, Muhammad was prone to dreams and visions, occasionally
falling into long, moody silences. An early indication of his spiritual calling
happened in 605AD during the reconstruction of the Ka'bah in Mecca, a site holy
to Arabs who at that time were followers of the prophets Ismail and Ibrahim. As
the work neared completion, the workers argued over who would place the famous
black stone - said to have originated from Allah - in its place. Someone
suggested the task should fall to whoever turned up earliest for work the next
day and, according to Islamic belief, this was Muhammad.

If this was an early sign of prophet-hood, his full awakening came much later.
He was 40 years old when, during one of his many retreats to Mount Hira for
meditation in the holy month of Ramadan, he received a revelation from the
Archangel Gabriel who commanded him to 'Recite in the name of your Lord who
created! He created man from that which clings. Recite, and thy Lord is most
Bountiful, He who has taught by the pen, taught man what he knew not'.

Terrified by the revelation, Muhammad rushed home and asked Khadijah to cover
him in a blanket. He explained the tale to her. She reassured him: 'Allah will
not let you down because you are kind to relatives, you speak only the truth,
you help the poor, the orphan and the needy, and you are an honest man.'
Convinced of her husband's greatness, she accepted the Angel Gabriel's visit as
truth and was the first convert to Islam.

In the first three years of his mission, 40 men and women accepted Islam,
becoming the first Muslims. Throughout, Muhammad was demonised by the ruling
Quraish tribes of Mecca - idol-worshippers - who offered him bribes of money,
land and even a kingship to abandon his teachings. Violence soon followed:
Muslim businesses were boycotted and attacked, and the Prophet was regularly
jeered on his way to Mecca.

Viewed today, historical circumstances - many of them favourable to the
development of Arabian culture - contributed to the expansion of Islam
throughout the region. They included social unrest between warring tribes in
Mecca and Medina; a global move towards monotheism; a reaction against Hellenism
in Syria and Egypt; and the declining fortunes of the Persian and Byzantine
empires. Muhammad's gifts as statesman and administrator were perfectly suited
to the needs and conditions of the day.

Muhammad received regular revelations from Gabriel over the following 23 years
in the form of verses, known as ayat , which were recorded on a variety of
materials, including leather, palm leaves, bark and the shoulder bones of
animals. As he memorised them, Muhammad instructed his scribes to record all of
God's teachings. The resulting text, which included the five pillars of Islam
(the declaration of faith, regular prayers, the distribution of wealth, fasting
and pilgrimage) was collated as the Koran.

WHEN KHADIJAH DIED, the prophet took Sawdah, a widow recently returned from
Ethiopia, and Aishah, the daughter of a friend, as wives. He would marry on a
further eight occasions - partly out of sadness after seeing all his sons die in
their infancy. All his wives, named the 'Mothers of the Believers', were
instrumental in spreading the teachings of Islam.

Slowly, the word of Islam began to spread, helped by religious envoys and their
armies being dispatched across the Arab countries to spread the word of Allah.
In 622AD, the leaders of the Quraish in Mecca, fearing the religion's ascent,
hatched a plan to assassinate Muhammad. It was foiled at the last moment and in
a defining moment that would confirm the religion's export throughout the world,
Muhammad marched to Mecca with an army of 10,000 Muslims.

They met with little resistance by the city's holders and after promising
forgiveness to the Meccans, the holy site of the Ka'bah was retaken by Muslims
and adopted as the spiritual hub of the global Islamic wheel. The site is now
host to the annual Haj festival - Islam's most important religious pilgrimage.
By the year 630AD, almost all of Arabia had embraced the religion. A triumphant
Muhammad performed his first and last pilgrimage to Mecca in 632AD. More than
120,000 men and women accompanied him that year. Two months later, aged 62, he
fell ill and died. He was buried in Medina.

In a lecture in 1840, titled 'On Heroes: Hero Worship and the Heroic in
History', the Scottish historian Thomas Carlyle believed history to reveal
Muhammad as 'a man rather taciturn in speech; silent when there was nothing to
be said; but pertinent, wise, sincere, when he did speak; always throwing light
on the matter'.

His last sermon, delivered on the parched heights of Mount Arafat in Saudi
Arabia just weeks before his death, , reiterated the need for tolerance to
people of all denominations: ' an Arab has no superiority over a non-Arab, nor a
non-Arab has any superiority over an Arab; also a white has no superiority over
a black, nor a black has any superiority over white except by piety and good
action.'

Muhammad Quraish

Born: 570AD Mecca, Arabia

Parents: Father Abdullah; mother Amina

Family: 11 wives; six children - Qasim, Zainab, Abdullah, Rukiyah,Kalsoom,
Fatima, Ibrahim

Career: Negotiator, trader and traveller


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 23, 2001

FINANCIAL EXPRESS : INDUSTRY BOSSES OFFER REASSURANCE THAT POLICIES WILL COVER
POSSIBLE ATTACKS,; IF TERRORISTS HIT BRITAIN INSURERS ARE LIKELY TO PAY

BYLINE: Tom Tickell

SECTION: Your Money; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 450 words


PEOPLE are beginning to wonder if insurers would pay out if terrorist attacks
and civil unrest struck Britain.

Malcolm Tarling of the Association of British Insurers said: "Most buildings and
contents policies cover terrorism. Riots would normally be covered too, so would
malicious damage.

"But war is usually excluded and some contracts add the phrase. . .'and similar
event'. Many policies also exclude hostilities but definitions of that will
vary.

However, while politicians might declare war on terrorism, most experts insist
war is when one sovereign state declares war on another."

Phil Davies of Cornhill Direct said: "You can have war against a country but not
against a concept such as terrorism.

We will pay out to the families of any customer who is killed by terrorist
attack, or whose house or property is damaged."

Direct Line, which insures almost a million homes in Britain, takes the same
line - and like most other groups will cover people whose property is damaged in
"riots, civil commotion or political and industrial disturbances". This applies
whether the damage is to a house or car.

Death or injury is another matter. Your family could apply to the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Authority if you are killed in any violent crime,
including terrorism in Great Britain. Your spouse or partner of either sex you
have lived with for at least two years, parents and children may each get GBP
5,500 - sole survivors may receive GBP 11,000. Children under 18 receive GBP
2,000 and those witnessing an attack on a loved one can apply for compensation
as a victim. What would happen if war was declared is unclear. Most company
pension schemes include "death-in-service" arrangements paying up to four times
your pre-tax salary if you die - or are killed - while the firm employs you. The
cash is tax free. You can always buy matching benefits on personal pensions,
though they usually cost extra.

But personal pensions should pay out to your widow or widower - or anyone else
you have named - the value of the pension you have built up, if you die early.

Travel policies exclude terrorism, even though a few business contracts cover
it.

In practice insurers have paid up until now. People who had to stay on in the US
as a result of the attacks and the temporary ban on flights over America, found
insurers extending the cover against theft and most other risks while they had
to remain there. Normally airlines or the tour operators pay for accommodation.

For the moment, rules covering terrorism and its consequences are far more
helpful than people expect. But if it started spreading, then insurers might
take a different attitude.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 23, 2001

FUND GROUPS REPORT SLUMP IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jenne Mannion;

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 807 words


F

UND management groups say gross sales have fallen by as much as 25% and
independent financial advisers say new investment business has almost halved in
the 12 days since the terrorist strikes on New York and Washington.

Ben Yearsley, independent financial adviser at Hargreaves Lansdown, says the
level of new business since the attacks is down by 40% - compared to the 10 days
before. Patrick Connolly, of Chartwell Investment Management, says new business
has fallen by 40%-50% over the same period.

Fund management groups were already struggling to sell funds as investors shied
away from falling stock markets. Additionally, August is traditionally a quiet
period, so the recent falls came from an extremely low base.

Although fund management groups should traditionally expect a pick-up in
activity in September after the August school-holiday period, the strikes on 11
September and subsequent heightened threat of recession have further dampened
investors' confidence.

Nick Wells, operations director at ABN Amro, and Steve Glynn, joint managing
director at Jupiter Asset Management, both say that since the attacks on the US
their new business has fallen by around 25% against that of the weeks before.
Likewise, Simon Wombwell, managing director at Newton, says new business has
dropped off by 20%-25%.

Susan Bell, public relations manager at Schroders, and Ian Chimes, managing
director of Credit Suisse Asset Management, say their new business has declined
by around 15%. Francis Gilhoni, marketing director at Britannic Asset
Management, says his new business has fallen 10%-15% since the attacks. Fidelity
was the only group surveyed that refused to reveal its declines in gross sales.

But the level of redemptions across all fund management groups has been
negligible, the fund providers claim.

Gilhoni says: "There is no sense of panic out there yet, but that may change if
markets continue to fall."

Chimes expects the lack of panic selling has resulted from a change in investor
psychology and the realisation that selling at the bottom of the market is not
the right thing to do.

He adds: "I worked in this industry during the stock market collapse of 1987 and
at that point every phone call I received was investors saying they wanted out
at whatever cost. Then, during the 1998 uncertainty caused by hedge-fund
problems, investors were asking what they should do. This time the phone calls
are about whether the current conditions present an opportunity. Investors now
recognise selling at the bottom and buying at the top is not the right thing to
do.

"Investors aren't, however, keen to throw all their cash at the market now in
the hope that there could be a bounce. Rather they want to take a partial
position and are putting a proportion of their money into the funds,
acknowledging the market may drop further, but not wanting to risk missing out
if there is a rally."

John Spiers, managing director at financial adviser BestInvest, says the
industry had already collapsed prior to the US strikes. Association of Unit
Trust and Investment Funds (Autif) figures for July show that sales were down
60% for the corresponding month in 2000. Although Autif's August figures are not
released until noon tomorrow, Spiers expects these will be down by 80% for the
equivalent month last year. He estimates that sales for September will be down
by 90% against September 2000.

"There had already been a total collapse of investment activity prior to the US
strikes," he says. "We were coming from such a low base that in relative terms
the decline in business over the past few months is not substantial in
comparison. Normally, we would expect to see business start to increase
following the August lull."

While business has slowed since the attacks, Spiers, like the fund providers,
says there has been a negligible increase in the volume of redemptions.

"People are probably too stunned by what's happened to do anything about their
investments," he says.

Both Spiers and Chartwell's Connolly says there is no particular asset class
that is being avoided more than usual following the attacks, however
fixed-interest investments suffered the least declines in sales as investors
flocked to safe havens (see page 27).

Connolly says investors are no more wary of US equity funds than they were prior
to 11 September. "US funds are not as popular as they should be in any case, but
investors are no more negative now than they have been in the recent past,
relative to other funds. Rather the lack of interest is in investing in stock
markets across the board," he says.

He adds that some investors who had undertaken to invest in the few days prior
to the US attacks had contacted Chartwell to postpone their investment until
they felt more secure about market conditions.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: LONDON ALERT AS FOUR QUIZZED;
 COPS' FEAR OF NEW ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 546 words


FOUR suspects arrested in Britain in connection with the atrocities in America
were still being quizzed by police yesterday.

Detectives were interviewing the three men and a woman amid high security at a
police station in central London.

Their arrests were part of a global round-up of suspected followers of Osama bin
Laden.

The four were being interviewed as 1500 extra police officers - some of them
armed - were poured on to the streets of London in response to fears of a
terrorist strike.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens triggered emergency measures
after admitting the next obvious target outside the US was London.

And he revealed some of the US suicide hijackers passed through London on their
way to commit the attacks.

There were reports that police had received intelligence concerning an imminent
attack.

Hospitals in England, Wales and Scotland have been told to update emergency
planning in readiness for any incident involving mass casualties.

A spokesman for the Scottish Executive said: "Whenever an incident of this type
happens we routinely notify our hospitals and ask them to make sure that their
plans are up to date."

Sir John said: "We are still at a high state of alert. What is necessary will be
done."

Scotland Yard stayed tight-lipped about the arrests after anti-terrorist
officers swooped on homes in London and Birmingham.

The properties were being searched as a spokesman confirmed a 27-year-old man
and a 25-year-old woman had been arrested in west London at 3am on Friday.

Officers detained a 29-year-old man at another address, also in west London.

A fourth person, a man, was arrested by anti-terrorist officers in Birmingham.
All four could be held for a week without charge.

In the US, the authorities rounded up nearly 50 people.

In one swoop, federal agents detained up to 25 people and carried out six
searches in northern Kentucky.

Those detained were held on possible violations of immigration law.

Officers were also following up possible leads in France, Belgium, Germany and
Mexico.

Seven terrorist suspects were held in France as Belgian investigators discovered
large quantities of chemicals that could be used to make a bomb.

They feature as ingredients in documents and formulas found at the home of a
suspect last week.

German police also arrested one man in Hamburg.

Meanwhile, Islamic militants may be targeting Britain's colleges and commerce in
a nationwide computer crime wave designed to undermine education and the economy

Detectives have now issued warnings to major firms and universities about an
organised crime syndicate which has been stealing sophisticated computer
systems.

British universities including Dundee, Essex and Bradford have already been hit
by the thefts which can cost millions and wipe out years of work and research.

Targets also include research centres, city banks in London and even the Royal
Observatory in Edinburgh was on the thieves' shopping list.

Detective Sergeant Ray Bigg, from Bishopgate CID in London, which is co
-ordinating the hunt for the crooks, said: "A company's ability to trade or
operate can be wiped out overnight by the theft of this high-specification
equipment."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WE MUST ENSURE MORE INNOCENT LIVES ARE NOT LOST;
 THE CHRISTIAN AID WORKER

BYLINE: Dominic Nutt Aid Worker, Peshawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 365 words


TUESDAY, September 11 was just like any other day in the Afghan city of Herat.

Those lucky enough to have a job went to work, people shopped at the local
market for what food was available and life, such as it is in the city, was
normal.

But after news came through of the atrocities in America, aid workers were
instructed to withdraw.

Yet this withdrawal could be infinitely more tragic and devastating than the
worst that a wounded America may now throw at this long-suffering country.

The real Afghanistan is one where 85 per cent of the population are subsistence
farmers. Most Afghans don't have newspapers, TV sets or even radios.

In isolated villages, families are down to their last few weeks of food and men
women and children in the bulging refugee camps are dying of cholera.

I have spoken to orphans with swollen bellies. I have spoken to men who have no
money to hire trucks to escape the drought and make it to the camps.

And I've met families who say they will wait in their villages for death.

Christian Aid has been helping supply food and seeds to communities in desperate
need. In a few weeks the winter snows will come, cutting off hundreds of
isolated villages whose only links to the outside world are rutted dirt tracks.

Without food aid, thousands could be dead before the spring. And that was before
the aid agencies were forced to withdraw.

No new food is coming in to the besieged country and only a few Afghan aid
agencies are left to deliver help.

Friends there have stressed the need for the world to adopt a comprehensive
approach.

The guilty must be brought to justice and the underlying causes of this
terrifying phenomenon must be addressed. Those must be our motives, not revenge
or blind retaliation.

Let me be clear. The murder of thousands of innocent Americans has shocked and
appalled us all. But any military action which prevents the flow of aid to
millions of equally innocent Afghans would also be immoral.

Christian Aid urges everyone involved to show restraint. Thousands of innocent
people have died in the United States.

We must now make sure that even more innocent lives are not lost.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: AFGHANS WHO ARE READY TO HELP THE WEST;
 THE ALLIANCE

BYLINE: Helen Rowe In Peshawar, Pakistan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 175 words


AFGHANISTAN'S Northern Alliance troops have been given fresh hope by the West's
war on the Osama bin Laden and the Taliban regime.

For years, the former Mujahedin battlers have been fighting a lonely struggle
against the fundamentalist Taliban.

Now they could be recruited by America to help bring bin Laden to justice.

Law and order has almost completely broken down in Afghanistan this week.
Society is starting to disintegrate, with armed gangs looting the capital,
Kabul. And refugees continue to flee by the thousand.

On Friday, the Northern Alliance launched a military offensive, firing artillery
against the Taliban. And the news that Allied warplanes will soon be flying over
their country has boosted morale.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfield said yesterday: "These folks, they know
the lay of the land.

"They know, in some cases, some targets that are useful. They have ideas on how
to deal with the Taliban.

"There are a lot of Afghans, who don't like the Taliban and would like them out
of there."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: TALIBAN WARRIOR V SAS SOLDIER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 394 words


WEAPONS

SAS: American-made M-16 automatic rifle firing 5.56mm ammunition. Austrian -made
9mm Glock handgun. Two knives, one for killing, one for survival. Grenades.
Constant air support.

TALIBAN: Kalashnikov AK-47 assault rifle firing 7.62mm ammunition. RPG-7 rocket
launchers captured from Russians. Some fighters equipped with grenades. Knife.
Some artillery support.

BATTLEDRESS

SAS: Goggles. Camouflaged "Shamag" Arab headdress. Windproof camouflaged smock
and trousers. Lightweight Gortex-lined climbing boots bought from specialist
mountaineering shops.

TALIBAN: Traditional Muslim turban known as a Lungee or "Pakol" woven hat.
Long-sleeved "Chapan" jacket and trousers. Thick blanket. Sandals made from tyre
rubber, which makes it easy to spot western treads in the desert.

EQUIPMENT

SAS: Webbing carrying spare ammunition, first-aid kit, "Go-Pack" - lightweight
running gear for emergencies, water bottle, survival pack including compass,
maps, rations.

TALIBAN: Shoulder bag carrying food and water. Assortment of old Russian trucks
and jeeps abandoned by Soviets.

TRAINING

SAS: The most highly-trained soldiers in the world. All have to pass strict
physical and psychological tests before being accepted. Most applicants are
refused. Trained to fight as a covert force in any environment in the world.

TALIBAN: Trained at camps in Afghan mountains. Taught basic shooting and rocket
skills. Some are veterans of Mujahedin war on Soviets and highly -skilled in
ambush techniques.

MOTIVATION

SAS: Professional soldiers who are accepted into regiment only if thought to be
the best and most committed in British military. First loyalty to comrades who
they will protect with their own lives.

TALIBAN: Many fervent Muslims who believe they are serving Islam in a Jihad or
Holy War and to whom death in battle is an honour. Desertions among less
committed fighters are increasingly common.

EXPERIENCE

SAS: Many veterans of combat in Falklands, Gulf, Northern Ireland, the Balkans
and Sierra Leone. Most have combat experience in Middle East, Africa, Central
and South America, South-East Asia.

TALIBAN: Older members are part of fierce Mujahedin who inflicted humiliating
and bloody defeat on occupying Soviets. After Soviets left, Taliban occupied
much of Afghanistan with little actual fighting.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: HOW THE FORCES OF WAR LINE UP;
 THE ARMY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 456 words


THE deployment of US and British forces to the Middle East means there is a
significant amount of firepower available to NATO military planners. Both
America and Britain have sent warships to the region to work alongside hundreds
of fighter planes and thousands of troops. Here is a breakdown of their military
might and the opposition they will face from the Taliban's soldiers.

THE US Navy has dispatched four battle groups to the region - the USS Theodore
Roosevelt, the USS Carl Vinson and USS Enterprise have a total of 42 aircraft
carriers, destroyers, frigates and attack submarines.They are armed with long
-range Tomahawk Cruise missiles and are capable of launching a bombardment on
the enemy from hundreds of miles away.

The US Air Force and Marine Corps has a total of 300 strike and support aircraft
in the area, including F-117 Stealth bombers, F/A-18 Hornets and F-16 Fighting
Falcons. Stealth fighters can avoid detection by radar, but Serbian forces
managed to shoot one down during the Kosovo conflict in 1999. B1 and B2 bombers
can also strike after flying from bases thousands of miles away.

The US Army has 5100 troops and marines on stand-by. They will work alongside
special forces soldiers from Delta Force, Ranger Battalion and Navy Seal units.

THE UK has sent aircraft carrier HMS Illustrious to the region, alongside
submarines HMS Trafalgar and Faslane-based HMS Superb. Four frigates, 11 support
ships and five anti-mine vessels make up the fleet. The RAF and Royal Navy have
15 Harrier jump jets and 14 Tornado bombers and fighters in the region, along
with two Nimrod radar planes and 35 Sea King and Lynx helicopters.

Britain has around 10,000 troops and Royal Marines on exercise in the Gulf as
well as units of the SAS already deployed in the Middle East.

THE Taliban has 60 old Scud missile launchers as well as shoulder-launched
anti-aircraft missiles last used to shoot down Soviet fighters and helicopters
during the Afghan invasion in the early 1980s.

The Taliban also has between 45,000-70,000 fighters ready to go into battle,
although intelligence sources say the number will be swollen by fanatics from
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan.

The Afghan regime is also said to have 13 decrepit Soviet Mig-21 fighter jets
and a fleet of Russian Antonov transport planes which could be used to ferry
troops. The Taliban also has a large number of tanks, personnel carriers and
artillery captured from the Soviets and supplied by Pakistan.

However, the Taliban has enemies from within Afghanistan. The Northern Alliance
claim to have 45,000 troops, a number of tanks and at least one attack
helicopter. They have appealed to the USA to help them overthrow the Taliban.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: CRACK SOLDIERS IN PLACE TO TAKE ON TALIBAN;
  THE TWO SIDES

BYLINE: Steve Mckenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 254 words


THE SAS and American Delta Force have infiltrated Afghanistan to strike the
first blows in revenge for the suicide hijackings.

The special forces will call on skill and experience honed in missions during
the Gulf War and other treacherous conflicts.

Backing them up is the awesome firepower supplied by the hi-tech US Navy fleet
and fighter jets.

Missiles will be guided to targets using lasers directed by the elite troops.
The Afghans know they are outgunned and will rely on knowledge of the terrain
and a lust for combat.

Ex-SAS man Tom Carew was secretly posted to Afghanistan in 1979 to help in the
country's battle against occupation by the Soviet Union.

Recalling his time with the ruthless Mujahedin, he said: "Because of the
doctrine that it's a great honour to die in a holy war, they were fearless and
took risks western soldiers perhaps would not."

Tom told how Russian troops were slaughtered in surprise attacks.

He said: "We trained the Afghans in the art of 'shoot and scoot' - they would
lay an ambush, let rip and disappear.

"Before long, they had learned to let Russian convoys get half way up a pass and
then blow a hole through their middle.

"The lucky ones died instantly. The unlucky were chopped to pieces in the
aftermath."

And Tom warned harsh winters in Afghanistan would make progress difficult.

He said: "By the middle of October the snow will be very deep, up to neck
height. A journey that takes three days in summer will take 10 days in winter."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: POUNDS 20M REWARD FOR ARREST OF BIN LADEN;
  THE HUNT

BYLINE: Lindsay Mcgarvie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 845 words


GEORGE BUSH raised the stakes in the hunt for Osama bin Laden yesterday by
putting a pounds 20million bounty on the terror chief's head.

The president's new reward for information leading to the capture of bin Laden
was announced as he released pounds 2billion to rebuild New York and another
pounds 2billion to fight terrorism, part of a pounds 28billion emergency fund.

Bush is spending the weekend at his Camp David retreat, 60 miles from
Washington, where he finalised a detailed list of terrorist organisations and
specific terrorists to be targeted around the world. There was already a pounds
3.5m bounty on bin Laden's head after the terrorist attacks on US embassies in
East Africa in 1998.

Critics claimed the reward echoed the president's previous Wild West rhetoric,
when he said bin Laden was "wanted dead or alive."

But New York Senator Charles Schumer was full of praise for Bush's release of
money from federal reserves.

He said: "We're in a new world, and we're going to have to employ new ways of
finding these evil people. And bounties, if they work - good."

NATO General Secretary Lord Robertson told the Sunday Mail that, after telephone
talks with Mr Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell, he expects America to
come to him in the next few days with firm plans.

He said: "I think they will bring us evidence in the next few days on who they
believe carried out this attack."

NATO are ready to lend AWAC early-warning planes and other military help on
behalf of its 19 members if needed.

Lord Robertson said: "America is gradually tightening the noose around the area
where the prime suspect is thought to be.

"But they should be commended for the way they are not simply acting out of
revenge, but in a measured attack on the roots of terrorism."

Meanwhile, there was speculation that bin Laden had escaped to China, using a
sliver of land created by the British to separate their empire from Russia.

The Wakham Corridor is a remote mountain pass and gateway to China's largest
Muslim province of Xinjiang.

But the reports were dismissed by by the US as a smokescreen to save the Taliban
from reprisals.

Last night, an official in the Afghan opposition yesterday denied reports that
the ruling Taliban's forces had shot down one of its helicopters.

Muhamad Salekh Registani, the military attache of the Afghan Embassy in Moscow,
said there was no truth to a report from the Taliban's official news agency in
Kabul that the aircraft was shot down in the Dar-e-suf district of northern
Afghanistan.

"We have not had a flight to Dar-e-suf in the past three days," Registani said.
"We have not lost a helicopter."

Dar-e-suf has been the scene of the heaviest fighting between the Taliban and
the opposition Northern Alliance this year.

The newly appointed commander of the Northern Alliance, General Mohammed Fahim,
arrived in Dushanbe, to discuss the military and political situation in the
region, Registani said.

The opposition forces named Fahim to replace Ahmed Shah Massood, who was
attacked by suicide bombers two weeks ago and died after nearly a week in a
critical condition.

The opposition is in a weakened state after the assassination of Massood, which
it blames on the Taliban and bin Laden.

No-one has been able to link the assassination and the US terror attacks, but
opponents of the Taliban say it was intended to weaken the opposition ahead of
an expected retaliatory assault against Afghanistan.

Yesterday, serious cracks began to emerge among countries sympathetic to the
Taliban.

The United Arab Emirates cut diplomatic relations, leaving them recognised by
only two nations.

By cutting links, the UAE leave only Saudi Arabia and Pakistan under the
international microscope as the two countries which recognise the Taliban.

An Emirates Foreign Ministry official said his country had tried to persuade the
Taliban to hand over bin Laden in line with a UN Security Council resolution.

The Saudi regime came under more pressure after reports in Washington suggested
they had refused a US request for a military command centre to be sited in the
Gulf state.

The military build up by the US continued yesterday as a constant threat to the
Taliban and bin Laden.

HOW THE ALLIES WILL HIT BIN LADEN'S BASES

1 Under cover of darkness a four-man SAS team, led by a Forward Air Controller,
find a position on a hill overlooking the camp. They've got a laser sight to
pinpoint individual buildings in the camp

2 The SAS team guides two pairs of American F-16 fighter bombers to the target.
The F-16s fly down the valley at almost 600mph and at 100ft drop their
laser-guided bombs

3 Terrorists get 20 seconds notice as they hear the aircraft fly in. Bombs are
guided down a laser beam on to buildings picked out by SAS team hiding 1000
metres away

4 As soon as the explosions rock the camp the SAS team escape over the hilltop.
In the next valley an American CH-53 transport helicopter protected by Apache
gunships is waiting for them

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: CIA GIVEN WARNINGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 130 words


INTELLIGENCE agencies uncovered plans to crash airliners into American landmarks
six years ago, it was claimed yesterday.

Computers belonging to Ramsi Yousef, who was arrested in 1995 for the bombing of
the World Trade Center two years earlier, had details of a plan to hijack 24
airliners.

Targets included the twin towers, the White House, the Pentagon, the
Transamerica Tower in San Francisco and Chicago's Sears Tower.

It was also claimed that a dummy run on Tokyo had been planned, but was called
off.

Last night, it was claimed America threatened military action against the
Taliban and bin Laden two months before the attacks on America.

It is feared the September 11 atrocities were a pre-emptive strike by bin Laden
in response to the threats.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: LEBANESE MADMAN LINKED TO US TERROR WAR ON TERRORISM:
PRESIDENT BUSH UPS THE STAKES

BYLINE: Steve Mckenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 246 words


A PSYCHOPATHIC terrorist who makes Osama bin Laden "look like a schoolboy" is
being linked to the suicide attacks on America.

Israel's military intelligence service, Aman, suspects Lebanese Imad Mughniyeh
may have had Iraqi support in planning the attacks.

The head of special overseas operations for terror group Hizbullah, Mughniyeh
has undergone plastic surgery to disguise himself and evade capture.

His hatred for the US is fuelled by the killing of his two brothers in
American-Israeli operations.

Mughniyeh and Egyptian Dr Ayman Al Zawahiri, a senior member of bin Laden's Al
-Qaeda outfit and possible successor, are reported to have had meetings with
Iraqi agents.

An Israeli intelligence source said: "We believe that the operational brains
behind the New York attacks were Mughniyeh and Zawahiri.

"They were probably financed and got some logistical support from the Iraqi
Intelligence Service."

Mughniyeh, 48, has a $ 2million bounty on his head for his alleged part in the
kidnapping of CIA chief William Buckley in 1984.

An Israeli source said: "Bin Laden is a schoolboy in comparison with Mughniyeh.
We studied him and reached the conclusion that he is a clinical psychopath.

"He has refined the art of terrorism to its utmost level."

In 1997, Mughniyeh was reported to be just two hours away from blowing up an
Israeli El-Al airliner over Tel Aviv.

But the bomber accidentally set off the device in a Jerusalem hotel.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ORPHANED TWICE.. THE TRAGEDY OF BRONCO'S 5 FOSTER
KIDS STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY;
 KIND HEART OF THE BRAVE DRUMMER OF FIRE RESCUE 4

BYLINE: Steve Mckenzie Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 367 words


FALLEN firefighter Durrell "Bronco" Pearsall became a second dad to five little
boys after their own fathers were killed.

Now the youngsters must come to terms with losing Bronco too.

The search for the New York Fire Department pipe band drummer among the ruins of
the World Trade Centre was continuing last night.

But hopes of finding him alive were fading fast.

Bronco, whose moving story was told in the Sunday Mail last week, was a tower of
strength to the five youngsters.

The 34-year-old and his colleagues from Rescue 4 were among the first to rush to
the aid of people trapped in the World Trade Centre.

They were reported missing shortly after the crippled towers crashed to the
ground.

Bronco spent a lot of his spare time looking after Harry, 12, and Gerard, 10,
along with Brendan Fahey, 8, and his four-year-old twin brothers Patrick and
James.

They all lost their dads in an explosion last Father's Day. Firefighters Harry
Ford, 50, and Brian Fahey, 46, were tackling a blaze in a hardware store when
propane tanks and paint exploded.

Brian's widow Mary, 40, said Bronco then became a father figure to the children.

She said: "He has been so incredibly helpful and kind to my children, taking
them everywhere and being a true presence in their life. What has happened has
broken my heart.

"I just remember him with this big smile on his face. I'm praying and praying."

Denise Ford, 50, said: "Bronco took the boys to meet the local NFL team, the New
York Jets. He was very supportive of my boys and my older daughter Janna. They
are taking this very badly.

"One of my sons told me Bronco was so strong he was going to push all of the
rubble off of him. He can't accept the fact that Bronco has probably died. I
can't accept it either. I keep praying for a miracle."

Bronco, who played for New York Fire Department Pipes and Drums, attended the
World Pipe Band Championships in Glasgow four years ago.

Band chairman Joe Murphy said last night: "Bronco's still missing. It's not
looking good."

The footage of the heroic rescue attempts by the NYFD has prompted a flood of
applications to join the firefighters from across America.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: ALIVE SCOT FOUND UNCONCIOUS IN HOSPITAL AFTER
FIREFIGHTER BROTHER-IN-LAW DIES IN RESCUE;
 WAR ON TERRORISM: ONE STORY OF HOPE FROM THE STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY
STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY STRAPLINEY

BYLINE: Brendan Mcginty And Natasha Weale Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 774 words


A SCOT who was missing feared dead in the World Trade Centre plane-bombing has
been found alive in a New York hospital.

And the mother of Andrew Sanderson wept yesterday as she told of how she had
willed him to live.

Ina Sanderson said she spent two days waiting for police to knock at her door
and tell her that Andrew, 32, was among the dead in Manhattan.

She said: "It was hard to watch those terrible pictures on TV and at the same
time believe Andrew could have escaped.

"But, at the bottom of my heart, there was a little flame of hope. It never went
out.

"I could not allow myself to cry while he was missing but wept for three hours
when he was found. It was overwhelming."

Andrew lay unconscious as his frantic American wife, Melinda, searched hospitals
across the city.

She finally found her husband alive two days after the catastrophe but
tragically her brother, a hero firefighter, remains among the 6000-plus people
still missing in the wreckage of the twin towers.

Andrew, a computer network systems manager, is now recovering in hospital after
suffering a broken leg.

Melinda knew that Andrew had been meant to arrive for an appointment at 9am on
the 40th floor of the North Tower.

What she did not know was that he was running 15 minutes late.

The delay might have saved his life but Andrew d can remember little about the
attacks the twin towers.

He recalls a huge roar and then blackness.

His family's joy at his escape has been tempered with the knowledge that his
brother-in-law Geoff remains one of more than 300 firefighters missing presumed
dead.

Ina, 52, from Kilwinning, Ayrshire, where Andrew was born, now lives in England,
where she works as a relationship counsellor.

She said: "Between the Tuesday at 4pm and Thursday at 8am, I honestly didn't
know if Andrew was alive or dead.

"I had been counselling throughout the day on Tuesday and I only caught up with
the news two hours after the first plane had struck.

"It actually took a moment before I thought to myself, 'Oh God that's where my
Andrew works.'

"I was immediately on the phone to my daughter-in-law but she didn't know what
had happened.

"Andrew had been due for an appointment in the centre at around the time it
happened.

"It was absolutely sickening and I was just waiting for a knock on my door from
a policeman to tell me my son was dead.

"Because the phone lines in New York were damaged, it made it all the worse. I
was constantly trying to get in contact for further news.

"I work as a counsellor but I just couldn't do anything. I couldn't listen to
other people's problems while this was going on.

"For the whole of Wednesday, we heard nothing. But at 8am the next morning, we
were told that he was alive, although we didn't know the details by that stage.

"I actually cried for three hours after hearing that.

"By that time, we were still only getting sketchy messages.

"Melinda couldn't contact him on her mobile. I was trying to be brave about it
but I was screaming inside." Ina added: "It was an incredibly frustrating wait
but words can't describe my relief when I knew it was over.

"I finally got to speak to him through a phone link to the hospital on Thursday.

"I know most mothers would probably say this about their sons: he is a very
gentle, sensitive boy.

"But every person in those towers was some mother's child."

Ina was still too upset to talk about the search for Andrew's missing brother
-in-law, Geoff Lewinsky.

She said: "The Mayor of New York has said that it looks unlikely that there will
be any survivors, which is tragic for the family.

"It's still very, very raw."

Ina moved to the Northamptonshire town of Corby with her late husband and son in
the early 1970s.

"They were among thousands of Scots tempted by excellent pay deals to work in
the local steelworks.

The town is now depressed following the decline of the industry but the high
Scots population is testament to its heavy industrial history.

Locals still nickname the town "Little Scotland" but more of the young
population are quitting to find pastures new.

Andrew emigrated to New York after experiencing difficulty finding work in
England.

He now earns $ 75,000 a year and has a dream home in upstate Union.

His mother, however, now wants him to come home following the tragedy.

She admitted: "Andrew and Melinda were trying for a baby before this happened.

"In the fullness of time, I'm sure they will be again. But after these terrible
events, I'd much rather that happened in Britain.

"I want him to come home."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: 6818;
 LOST OR DEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 264 words


THE number of people feared dead after the US terrorist attacks has climbed
towards 7000.

Eleven more bodies were found at the World Trade Center yesterday.

New York Mayor Rudi Giuliani said 6818 people were officially missing but
admitted hopes of finding survivors were fading. The confirmed death toll stands
at 252.

There are 189 confirmed victims from the Pentagon crash and 44 on the hijacked
plane which crashed in Pennsylvania.

The number of British and Irish people confirmed missing in the attacks
increased to 60 last night but the total is likely to rise to more than 200.

Survival experts say it is possible that people are still alive under the rubble
but Mayor Giuliani said: "The chance of recovering significant numbers of people
who survived is impossible."

At least three Scots are feared to be dead in the rubble of the World Trade
Center.

Computer consultant Gavin Cushny, 48, from Lewis, Derek Sword, 29, of Dundee,
and Christopher Newton-Carter, 52, from Moray, are still missing.

Strathclyde Police are working with the FBI to help relatives of the Scots.

Detective Superintendent Alex McAllister said the force was dealing with five
missing person cases.

Two other Scots reported missing have turned up safe and well, the Strathclyde
force have confirmed.

Yesterday, rescue efforts were continuing despite fading hopes.

One body found was that of John P. O'Neill, 50, who was the FBI's top terrorist
fighter, until taking a job in August as head of security for the WTC. He died
trying to evacuate the towers.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WAR ON TERRORISM: AMERICA'S BIGGEST NAMES FORGET EGOS
TO HELP RAISE CASH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 242 words


Personal memories: George Clooney and Julie Roberts recalled friends who were
killed

Proud words: Limp Bizkit's Fred Durst summed up the strong feelings of
patriotism felt by his fellow Americans.

Brits homage: Ally McBeal star Lucy Lui paid tribute to the 'brothers and
sisters' from the UK killed in the atrocities.

Generous Jim: Truman Show star Jim Carrey has donated $ 1million to help victims
of the terror attacks.

Peace talks: Will Smith and Muhammad Ali told the TV audience: "Killing is not a
Muslim thing. Islam is peace.

"Role model: Hollywood heart-throb Brad Pitt made an emotional appeal to the
telethon viewers.

Song of hope: Stevie Wonder joined the galaxy of stars who chose to pay a
musical tribute.

We won't give in: Singer-songwriter Billy Joel sang his hit New York State of
Mind in tribute to the brave spirit of the city's people in the face of the
world's worst terrorist outrage.

Show of support: Movie beauty Cameron Diaz joined the stars' moving tribute to
the terrorist victims.

Flying the flag: Celine Dion and Robert De Niro supported the telethon. The
Canadian songbird stirred Americans' patriotic feelings as she belted out God
Bless America.

Moving: Bono's haunting rendition of U2's anthem Peace on Earth had many people
in tears.-

CLINT EASTWOOD

The targets were not just symbols of America, they were the spirit of America.
But we will stand and we will not yield

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: REBORN IN THE USA;
 SPRINGSTEEN LEADS STARS' TRIBUTE TO TERROR VICTIMS

BYLINE: Annette Witheridge In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1276 words


IT WAS the night the world's biggest stars left their egos at home.

There were no glitzy touches of fame, red carpets or trumped-up introductions.

And, for once in their lives not one was plugging a latest film or record.
Instead, the giants of Hollywood joined the pop world in a two-hour live
telethon paying tribute to America's terror victims and raising money for their
families.

The show began with a performance by Bruce Springsteen, whose hit Born in the
USA is for many the unofficial national anthem of America. He sang a moving
version of his song My City of Ruins.

The lyrics include: "With these hands I pray for the strength Lord, I pray for
the faith Lord, pray for your love Lord, pray for the loss, Lord."

America's biggest stars, including Julia Roberts, Cameron Diaz, Calista
Flockhart, Lucy Lui, Sarah Jessica Parker, Robert De Niro, Jim Carrey, Robin
Williams, Clint Eastwood, Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt, Billy Joel, Stevie Wonder and
Celine Dion were among those queueing up to pay tribute.

Mariah Carey made her first public appearance just days after checking out of a
Los Angeles psychiatric hospital. She wore a black, strapless gown as she sang
her hauntingly beautiful hit Hero.

While, in contrast, Canadian Celine Dion dished out a belting rendition of God
Bless America.

Shown on 31 US networks and broadcast to 156 countries and 8000 radio stations
around the globe, the rally is expected to raise tens of millions of dollars.

The celebrities were dressed mainly in sombre black, while some opted to wear
New York baseball caps and fire department T-shirts.

There were no jokes or wisecracks as one after one they took to the stage to
applaud the thousands who lost their lives in the atrocities of September 11.

Actor Will Smith introduced the most famous Muslim in America - and the man he
is due to play in his next film.

Boxing legend Muhammad Ali, who can barely speak because of Parkinson's Disease,
said: "I am here because a terrible thing happened. I am a Muslim. I have been a
Muslim for 20 years.

"I think people should know the real truth about Islam. I would not be here to
represent Islam if it was really like the terrorists make it like. Killing is
not a Muslim thing. Islam is peace."

Throughout the telethon - America: A Tribute To Heroes - images of rescue
workers sifting through the World Trade Center wreckage flashed across the
screen.

At one stage Muslim schoolchildren in the Middle East read essays they had
written appealing for peace. The sheer number of stars who supported the
hurriedly-arranged show, filmed at studios in Los Angeles, New York and London,
stunned even the organisers. After the opening song, Tom Hanks appealed for cash
for The United Way charity.

The Saving Private Ryan star said: "The people here tonight are not heroes or
protectors of this nation.

"We are a group of artists who are here to raise a great deal of money and to
honour the real heroes."

Later, tribute was paid to the sheer volumes of lives lost. Footage of Britain's
three minutes of silence on Friday September 14 was also featured, alongside a
rendition of Bridge Over Troubled Water by Paul Simon, who wore a New York Fire
Department cap.

During the show, stars including Whoopi Goldberg, Jack Nicholson, Benicio del
Toro and Sylvester Stallone rolled their sleeves up to answer the phone lines,
which took a record number of calls.

Tom Cruise also helped man the phone lines and, for the first time, nobody cared
that he was arm-in-arm with new girlfriend Penelope Cruz.

Brad Pitt, Stevie Wonder and Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit also lent their support
to the event and musician Billy Joel sang New York State of Mind.

Irish rockers U2 brought tears to the eyes of many who watched with a rendition
of their song Peace on Earth.

There was silence as lead singer Bono sang: "I'm sick of sorrow, sick of pain,
sick of hearing again and again, there is never going to be peace on Earth."

Many stars paid tribute to individuals who had died in the disaster. George
Clooney honoured police officer John Perry, who was filling in his retirement
papers when he heard the first plane hit the World Trade Center and was last
seen helping evacuate the skyscraper.

Robin Williams remembered Rick Rescorla, and Englishman who fought for the US in
Vietnam and later helped rescue people when the twin towers were bombed in 1993.

He said: "Rick was last seen on the 10th floor helping others get out. He had
the courage to look fear in the face again and again."

A frail-looking Sarah Jessica Parker, who lives in Manhattan with husband
Matthew Broderick, said: "Some people may think New York is a city of strangers.

"Well, there are no strangers anymore. While the towers have fallen, we have
risen up."

Actress Julia Roberts recalled the heroes in Washington who pulled people out of
the blazing Pentagon.

Her eyes sparkling with tears, she said: "One young G.I. found a woman in shock
and unable to move. He slung her on his shoulders and took her to safety.

"Remember, before you save yourselves, you save each other."

Ally McBeal's tearful Calista Flockhart quoted from Anne Frank's diary: "In
spite of everything, I still believe people are really good at heart."

Her co-star Lucy Lui looked tense as she said: "Among the lost are people from
Great Britain, Germany, Canada and Japan. They are our brothers and sisters.
America's greatest enemy is hatred itself."

Jim Carrey, who has already donated $ 1million to help victims' families, read
the words of Britain's wartime leader Sir Winston Churchill. He said: "Churchill
told us courage is the first of all qualities."

America's favourite hero, Clint Eastwood, paid the final tribute. He appeared
shocked as he spoke of "the 21st century's day of infamy that will live on
forever."

He added: "The targets were not just two symbols of America, they were the
spirit of America. We will stand and we will not yield. The terrorists wanted
300 million victims but they have got 300 million heroes."

He ended with the simple words: "God Bless."

Sir Paul McCartney is the latest star to announce he will raise money for attack
victims, through a concert in aid of New York firefighters.

HOW YOU CAN HELP

MANY fundraising bodies have been set up to support the relief operation in New
York and help victims' families,.

More than pounds 135million has been pledged already and much more is expected.

In Britain, the Charities Aid Foundation has set up Helping USA to support the
work of rebuilding New York. Cheques should be made out to Helping USA Fund c/o
CAF Charities Administration Services, Kings Hill, West Malling, Kent, ME19 4TA.

The World Trade Center Disaster Fund accepts donations at branches of LLoyds
TSB, Bank of Scotland, Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest, HSBC and Halifax.

The Red Cross and Salvation Army have been providing help. Their addresses are:
American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund, PO Box 37423, Washington DC, 20013, USA
and World Trade Center Response, The Salvation Army, 440 West Nyack Road, West
Nyack, NY 10994, USA.

Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has set up the Twin Towers Fund to help the families of
emergency service and government workers. Send donations to: Twin Towers Fund,
General Post Office, PO Box 26999, New York, NY 10087-6999 USA.

The September 11 Fund aims to help families US-wide at: The September 11 Fund,
United Way of New York City, 2 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, USA.

And the New York State World Trade Center Relief Fund address is PO Box 5028,
Albany, NY 12205, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: POUNDS 20M;
 BUSH'S BOUNTY FOR THE HEAD OF BIN LADEN

BYLINE: Lindsay Mcgarvie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 96 words


GEORGE BUSH slapped a pounds 20million bounty on the head of Osama bin Laden
yesterday as the US prepared for war.

The cash forms part of a pounds 28 billion emergency fund for the battle against
terrorism revealed by the president.

He ordered pounds 2 billion to be given for the rebuilding of New York after the
terror attack on the World Trade Center.

The bounty on bin Laden was revealed just days after the president said he
wanted the terror chief "dead or alive."

His announcement came as the number of victims feared dead climbed towards 7000.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

Britons prepare for poison gas attacks Fear of biological terror boosts sales of
survival kits, hits the London property market and sends companies heading for
the bunker

BYLINE: BY JENNY JARVIE, RAJEEV SYAL AND CHRIS HASTINGS

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 775 words

THOUSANDS of gas masks, chemical warfare suits and Nato ration packs have been
snapped up over fears that terrorists could target Britain with biological
weapons. Shops selling such equipment have been inundated with orders in the 12
days since the suicide attacks on America.

The development came as it emerged that the Government had warned health,
education and local authorities to upgrade civil defence plans. Hospitals have
been ordered to prepare for a "mass casualty incident", to make sure they could
cope with a huge number of casualties from a bomb or biological attack. Fears
about such an incident have also had an impact on the property market. Some
specialists are predicting a fall in house prices in London and other urban
areas as people seek refuge in the countryside.

A spokesman for Knight Frank, an estate agency, said: "We all worry about
potential catastrophes. Some people will undoubtedly think of moving out away
from the city and more will reconsider living in high buildings."

Andrew Langton, of Aylesford, a Chelsea estate agent whose buyers include City
workers and wealthy American bankers posted to London, said: "The immediate
effect on London has been that sales have been put on hold. In the last week we
had had an international client asking us to put on hold a deal on three flats
when we were about to conclude and we have had two people renegotiating pounds 2
million bids."

Robin Thomas, a partner at Strutt & Parker in Exeter, Devon, said: "We have had
families who were moving to London and had agreed to a sale on their property
suddenly decide to put it all on hold because of the tragic events in America.
The terrorism has made them feel more vulnerable."

Sean Kerr, the owner of Surplus and Adventure, an army surplus store in Flyford
Flavell, Worcestershire, has sold more than 600 gas masks in the past week. He
normally sells about 25 a year. He also sold more than 300 protective suits, in
addition to Nato ration packs.

"We are receiving orders from across the country, particularly from the
financial world, and are selling out as soon as the stock comes in," he said.

Andrew Murray, 33, a solicitor from West London, ordered five gas masks and five
protective suits from Surplus and Adventure's website last week. He paid pounds
45 each for the kits and plans to distribute them to his family. He said: "The
West is dealing with an unknown terror. We do not know exactly which weapons
these terrorists have or when they will strike."

Scotland Yard and Government ministers last week acknowledged that their biggest
fear was the use by terrorists of biological or chemical weapons, which are
simple to manufacture.

The threat of an attack on London's financial centre has prompted businesses to
seek "safe houses" for their computer systems and servers.

Many leading companies are renting rooms for their computer systems in an ex-RAF
nuclear blast-proof bunker 300ft underground in Kent that is now owned and run
by A L Digital. It costs from pounds 250 a month for a basic server to more than
pounds 1 million a year for a dedicated room.

In another sign of nervousness, bookshops have reported an increase in sales of
books by apocalyptic authors. Two of the most popular books sold by Amazon, the
internet publishing company, have been Nostradamus: The Complete Prophecies and
Taliban: Islam, Oil and the New Great Game in Central Asia.

Clothing manufacturers are printing thousands of anti-terrorism T-Shirts. One by
T Designs, to be distributed next week in Oxford Street, London, has an image of
intertwined Stars and Stripes and Union flag; another has an image of the World
Trade Centre with the slogan "We Will Never Forget".

Ian Angell, the Professor of Information Systems at the London School of
Economics and the author of The New Barbarian Manifesto, said: "The mass
hysteria and gloom that we are witnessing is extreme and beyond reason.
Nevertheless, it is going to have an impact on real life.

"Prestige buildings will be seen as a target, so companies will spread their
talent all over the place. Employees will have to develop new bonding techniques
as they won't see their colleagues as much."

Andrew Roberts, the historian, drew parallels between the current panic and the
public hysteria at the beginning of the Second World War.

"The phenomenon has echoes of what happened in 1939 when people were terrified
by the absurd exaggerations made about German bombing," he said.

"People believed that 600,000 people would be killed by German bombers in the
first month of the conflict. In fact, only a tenth of that number died during
the whole war."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

US firms in Ireland on alert over risk of terrorist attack

BYLINE: Maeve Sheehan and Brian Dowling

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 577 words


AMERICAN multinationals in Ireland, including McDonald's, the fast food chain,
have been advised by gardai to step up security as the government backs
President George W Bush's campaign against terrorism.

Security forces have shortlisted the corporations most at risk of attack should
the United States take military action in Afghanistan. Plans drawn up to deal
with disasters are being re- examined, senior sources said. Although the risk of
retaliation in Ireland is relatively low, the prospect of an attack cannot be
ignored, said a security source. The garda crime and security branch has
contacted several companies thought to include Intel, the computer chip
manufacturer, Dell and Gateway.

Detectives will also be briefing McDonald's management in Dublin, whose outlets
are common targets of terrorists internationally. Its South African outlets were
threatened by Muslim extremists two weeks ago. Security has already been
tightened at the American embassy in Ballsbridge and at airports, and is likely
to be further stepped up in the wake of a military campaign.

A group of 15 to 20 sympathisers of extremist fundamentalist groups are living
in Ireland. The suspects, some of whom have been under surveillance for several
months, are not believed to have played a role in the terrorist attacks on
America.

They include a Libyan who holds an Irish passport and runs a charity thought to
be a fundraising front for supporters of Osama Bin Laden. He has not been seen
at his Dublin home since August. Detectives have circulated his details to other
international police forces. A senior officer said current intelligence
indicates that there are no active cells of fundamentalist terrorists in
Ireland.

The Irish government will offer America strategic and diplomatic support for its
campaign against terrorism, but will not provide military personnel. Brian
Cowen, the foreign affairs minister, will formally offer overflight and
refuelling facilities at Shannon airport to Colin Powell, the American secretary
of state, when they meet in Washington on Wednesday.

Government officials expect the American military would prefer to use refuelling
facilities in secure air bases in Britain and Europe. "The facility is there if
the Americans want it. The reality is that they are more likely to use dedicated
military air bases. The only military aircraft likely to refuel at Shannon are
transport and cargo planes and even that is unlikely," said one government
source.

More than 1,000 American troops on board civilian charter flights stopped over
at Shannon airport last week on their way to military bases in Europe and the
Middle East. The movement of troops through Shannon is expected to continue in
the coming weeks.

Cowen leaves for Washington on Tuesday for meetings with Powell and Irish
American politicians on Capitol Hill, mostly about the international crisis
sparked by the attacks on New York and Washington.

Cowen will tell Powell that the government will work with the Bush
administration in reaching an international agreement on a broad package of
measures to combat terrorism. The foreign affairs minister will also brief his
American counterpart on the Northern Ireland peace process and the growing
expectation that the IRA will start decommissioning its weapons in weeks.

He will have a separate meeting with Richard Haas, the special envoy appointed
by Bush to monitor the peace process.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: War on terrorism; Terror in America

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

Where were you when terrorists attacked the twin towers?

BYLINE: Sue Denham

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 119 words


Where were you when terrorists attacked the twin towers? Well, Conor Brady was
in San Francisco - and there the Irish Times editor remained, flightless. "It is
frustrating beyond belief to be sitting here, helpless, while the most important
news story of decades plays out on television in front of my eyes," he confessed
to staff in a transatlantic memo. "But from the website and from e-mail and
telephone contact with people ... The Irish Times has been at its very, very
best this week."

Really? No paper was published on the Friday and on the Wednesday, the day after
the attacks, page three was devoted to a full-page advertisement. It was
business as usual on pages 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7, too.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Diary

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERROR TRAIL TO BRUM...;
 US ATTACKS SUSPECT IS ARRESTED IN SWOOP ON 2 HOUSES

BYLINE: Emma Pinch NEIGHBOUR... Mr Thomas Nock FAMILY HOME... Police wearing
body armour on patrol outside the house in Highgate EXAMINATION... police take
away items in plastic bags TOWED AWAY... a silver BMW car is removed from the
scene ARREST SCENE... the house where the Saudi Arabian man was arrested, just
yards away from Birmingham's Central Mosque ON DUTY... a forensic officer

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words


One of the four people arrested in Britain in connection with the terror attacks
was tonight released without charge, police said.

The 29-year-old man was arrested at 3am on Friday in west London and was freed
after questioning.

Three other people, two men and one woman, remain in custody.

A MAN arrested in Birmingham by anti-terrorism police in connection with the US
atrocities is a Saudi Arabian compatriot of the world's most wanted terrorist,
Osama bin Laden.

The Sunday Mercury has learned that 44-year-old Abu Imard had recently moved to
Birmingham from the United States with his wife and three young children.

Mr Imard, said to be a mature student at Aston University, was arrested on
Friday night after anti-terrorist officers swooped on two properties just
streets away from each other in Highgate.

It is understood that he was eventually arrested under new terrorism laws at a
maisonette only yards from Birmingham's Central Mosque.

His detention came just hours after airline pilot Lotfi Raissa, 27, and his wife
Sonia, 25, were held in a police raid on an address in Berkshire.

Relatives of Mr Raissi, an Algerian national, said that he had flown jets in the
US for several years and was undergoing further training at nearby Heathrow.

It was reported that flying instruction manuals were seized in the 3am raid on
the Raissis' home in Colnbrook, Berkshire, on Friday.

But Mr Raissi's uncle Kamal insisted that the couple had no links with terror
groups, saying: 'Of course Lotfi has flying manuals at home - he is learning to
be a pilot.'

A 29-year-old old man was arrested at the same time at an address in west
London, but was last night released without charge.

All four were taken to police stations in central London where they were
questioned.

After the remaining three have been held for 48 hours, police will need to apply
to a magistrate for permission to continue questioning them in custody.

They can be detained, with extensions granted by a magistrate, for up a week.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said he could not say if the suspects would face
extradition to the United States.

A West Midlands Police source told the Sunday Mercury: 'The suspect is
definitely originally from Saudi Arabia, but we do not yet know if he has any
firm connections with Osama bin Laden or his Al Quaida organisation.'

Last night, three male and one female police officers guarded a semi-detached
house in Dymoke Street - two roads away from Highgate Street, where the man was
eventually found and arrested.

A police van was parked just feet away from the front door as objects in black
plastic bin liners were taken from the property. A maroon briefcase in a clear
plastic bag was seen being passed out of the house as a team of forensic experts
examined inside.

Flashing

Neighbour Thomas Nock, 52, said he had seen flashing lights and police outside
the house late on Friday night.

'My wife looked out because she saw lights flashing outside,' he said.

'We thought nothing of it and went to bed. At about 10.30pm we saw a silver BMW
car being put onto a car loader.'

Mr Nock said his neighbour lived with three school-aged children and a wife.

'We saw them coming and going from school and would exchange greetings,' he
said. 'But they kept themselves to themselves.'

Jason Holt, 18, a friend of Mr Nock's son, said: 'We were upstairs watching The
Bill when we saw lots of people in suits going in and out of the house.

'Police in uniform arrived shortly afterwards.'

Sanjeev Jaspal, 32, who owns a factory opposite the Dymoke Street property, said
the family had lived there for about six months.

'As I was going home last night there was a lot of cars parked outside,' said Mr
Jaspal, of Solihull. 'I thought it looked a bit dodgy because there were a lot
of people on mobiles.'

Meanwhile, more police officers wearing body armour watched over the three
-storey end-of-terrace maisonette in Highgate Street.

Landlord Bashir Khurran, who has owned the property for 10 years, said he
believed one of his tenants or former tenants had been detained but would not
comment further.

MIDLAND LINK

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TINY TERRORS ATTACK AND ABUSE TEACHERS;
 THE WORK STATION : WORK TALK

BYLINE: Rachel Mainwaring

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 619 words


FOUR out of five teachers believe children's behaviour has got worse since they
joined the profession - with pupils as young as three now being abusive, using
bad language or threatening them, according to a new survey.

The poll of more than 2,500 in England and Wales for the National Union of
Teachers found that just 10 per cent of respondents believed the conduct of
their charges had not deteriorated in recent years.

The NUT said many were "highly critical" of the support they got in trying to
deal with badly behaved children and called for in-school security to be beefed
up, particularly for teachers who had been assaulted by pupils.

It said all local education authorities should have enough special schools to
take children with emotional and behavioural difficulties.

Heads should have the right to refer such pupils for psychological assessment
before they allowed them into their school and teachers should have more
training on how to deal with bad behaviour, urged the NUT.

The union claimed the survey, conducted by Dr Sean Neill of Warwick University,
showed teachers worked in conditions of "continuous lowlevel harassment, in a
climate where senior staff, outside authorities and parents were frequently
unsupportive or hostile".

The resulting poor morale was driving many teachers out of the classroom and
into other jobs, fuelling the shortage crisis, it was warned.

Almost six out of 10 said behaviour had become "very much worse" while a further
fifth thought there had been a "fairly marked deterioration", giving a total of
more than 80 per cent.

The most common problem was the threat of pupil-on-pupil violence, not assaults
on teachers, however.

CAR hire firm Avis Europe has put a freeze on recruitment after seeing its
business hit by the impact of last week's terror attacks in the United States.

A sharp fall in air traffic, particularly from the US, has seen volumes at the
group's long haul arm drop 30 per cent to 35 per cent below last year's levels
in the past week.

Volumes in the business were down 15 per cent in the three months up to last
Tuesday as a result of the gloomy economic conditions.

Avis added that travel restrictions put in place by European companies have seen
corporate car hire volumes slump by 10 per cent since last Tuesday's outrages.

Both divisions make up just under half Avis' business and the group said the
balance, European and domestic leisure and replacement, was holding firm.

Avis, whose UK operation is based in Bracknell, Berks, said it would be reducing
the size of its fleet as well as freezing recruitment.

A pounds 100m contract to improve tidal flood defences in Britain's finest
wetland area, has been unveiled.

Flood Defence Minister Elliot Morley officially launched the Broadland Flood
Alleviation Project, which has entered into a 20-year contract with the
Environment Agency to design, maintain and improve East Anglian flood defences.

The work has been made possible through long-term grant aid from the Department
for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and county councils.

Broadland is a unique and environmentally sensitive area, being home to plants
and animals that are found in few other places in Britain.

Health minister Lord Hunt this week called for tougher reforms of the European
laws controlling medical equipment.

He said controls on medical devices such as pacemakers and x-ray equipment need
to be tightened if patients are to be diagnosed and treated properly. Lord Hunt
said it was essential that equipment is safe and effective. His comments follow
four incidents in which breathing tubes became blocked during preparation for
surgery.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Investment Adviser adviser

                            September 24, 2001 2001

Anger at mailshot cashing in on American terrorist attack attack

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593

LENGTH: 237 words words


FUND managers claimed a controversial mailshot from Hargreaves Lansdown
attempting to "cash in" on the US terrorist attacks has failed.

The mailshot, headed What Now? America Under Attack, arrived with clients a few
days after the attacks on New York and Washington.  washington. Signed by Peter
Hargreaves, managing director of Hargreaves Lansdown, it suggested people
shouldconsider more liquid investments than stock market shares, such as gilt
edged stocks or even cash, urging them to contact Hargreaves for more advice.

Louise Gedney, marketing manager at Rathbones, said: "Surprisingly this hasnt
affected our sales, we have had very few redemptions so it doesnt appear
investors are taking Mr Hargreaves advice yet."

IFA Torquil Clark attacked Mr Hargreaves, accusing him of "ambulance chasing" in
a statement. "Hes trying to dress up his mailing as advice hes suggesting
investors should switch to cash but he is really just trying to get them to
transfer to his own Isa product," it said.

Mr Hargreaves said although he had received a small number of complaints, there
had also been a 10 per cent response rate from people eager to get advice.

Mr Hargreaves said: "We spent a day agonising about how to do this. Were not
expecting to make a profit. Gilt edged stock has some of the lowest commission
around."

Paul Smee, director general of Aifa, said it was not a matter for a trade body
to discuss.  discuss.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 24, 2001

Not one survivor since day after terror attack

LENGTH: 565 words


THE number of people missing feared dead from the US terrorist attacks today
stood at 6,938, as rescue workers continued sifting through the rubble of the
World Trade Centre.

New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said the increase in the figure - up by 120 on
Saturday - was a result of list divisions.

"The number went up a little bit after they went through the lists, removed some
of the duplications and then added some names," Mayor Giuliani said.

The mayor's spokes- woman Sunny Mindel later stressed that the number is subject
to fluctuation as officials review missing persons lists from various sources.

Rescue workers have not found a survivor since the day after the September 11
terrorist attacks.

The hundreds of firefighters, police and construction workers combing through
the wreckage have still not found the flight recorders, or black boxes, of the
two hijacked airliners in New York. Pictures have been posted throughout the
site so rescuers can recognise them.

In lower Manhattan, more weary residents were allowed to return home yesterday
as relief agencies encouraged them to ask for government help.

More than 8,000 people have applied for aid, according to Mike Byrne, of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.

"I would encourage anyone who's suffered ... to get registered in the system,"
Mr Byrne said.

Many of those returning found neighbourhoods filled with tourists seeking
terrorist attack souvenirs. A parade of sightseers with cameras filled Broadway
in lower Manhattan, snapping images of rescue workers, debris and broken lives.

"It's sort of sick seeing these people standing there. I don't think much of
them," said Brendan Heneghan, 27, whose apartment escaped damage and who was on
the 79th floor of One World Trade Centre when the towers were hit.

Moshe Alfassi, a Broadway shop owner, said he didn't mind the sightseers.

"Let them take pictures. Let them take these pictures back home. Let the world
see what was done here," said Alfassi, who had to lay off 13 employees and may
not reopen until at least November.

In the ruins, volunteer Joe Savino, a carpenter, said the passing days have not
made the job easier.

"The smell is getting worse. You go in there and remember that (more than) 6,000
people are dead."

But others have not given up hope.

Firefighter Paul Mc- Guire said: "We'll just move little pieces as fast as we
can. I'm still waiting that cheer to ring out where they find someone."

Battery Park City resident Dan Borecki said he will not give up and will not
move away.

"I don't think any of those people would tell me not to go on," he said,
speaking for the victims. "So that's what we're going to do. We are going to go
on - make our community just as great as it was before."

The number of people missing at the World Trade Centre is 6,453.

The confirmed death toll in the World Trade Centre now stands at 252, plus 189
from the Pentagon crash and 44 on the hijacked plane which crashed in
Pennsylvania.

The latest confirmed figures are:

NEW YORK:

World Trade Centre: 6,453 missing; 252 dead

Encompasses those on hijacked planes:

American Flight 11: 92

United Flight 175: 65

WASHINGTON:

Pentagon: 189 believed killed

Encompasses those on hijacked plane:

American Flight 77: 64

PENNSYLVANIA:

United Flight 93: 44 killed


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

POLICE GIVEN MORE TIME TO QUESTION CITY MAN OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Sarah Probert And Campbell Docherty

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 503 words


Anti-terrorist officers were last night continuing to question a Birmingham man
about the terror attacks in the US after magistrates granted an extension to the
time he could be held in custody.

Abu Imard (44), who is of Saudi origin, was arrested on Friday when officers
swooped on his home in Highgate.

Imard, a father of three and a mature student at Aston University, who is
believed to have moved to Birmingham from the US six months ago, was arrested
along with three others as police officers moved in on terrorism suspects across
the UK.

Police were granted extra time to question Mr Imard until Wednesday along with
another man and a woman arrested in raids in Berkshire.

It is possible to keep them in custody for up to a week subject to approved
extensions from a magistrate.

The extension came as a fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, aged 29, of west London,
was released without charge.

His wife, Noor, yesterday angrily denied that he had anything to do with
terrorism and said the couple were awaiting news of her husband's 27-year-old
brother Lotfi, from Berkshire, who was being questioned by anti-terrorist
officers along with his wife, Sonia, aged 25.

In Birmingham a team of forensic officers were continuing to carry out a
fingertip search of Mr Imard's house in Highgate Street and another address in
nearby Dymoke Street to which it is believed he was about to move.

Several items were removed from the houses and a silver BMW parked outside was
towed away.

Mr Imard's wife, who asked not to be named, said they had no involvement with
terrorist organisations.

'My husband and I watched the terrorist attacks in America on television
together and we were as shocked and horrified as everybody else,' she said.

Neighbour Barbara Hall, aged 43, of Dymoke Street, said police had been at the
address since Saturday morning.

'There was a police van parked closed to the door and they were taking things
out of the house. They have actually ransacked the house.

'When he came to move in they arrested him. You just don't expect it to happen
on your doorstep,' she said.

As the investigation continued West Midlands Police denied a report that the
force was expecting a 'spectacular' terrorist attack.

Chief Insp Ellie Bird, head of West Midlands Police communications, said: 'There
is no intelligence whatsoever to suggest the West Midlands is under threat.'

She said people linking the arrest of Mr Imard with a wider terrorist menace in
the West Midlands should look to how quickly the police acted.

'Surely people can see that the very fact there has been an arrest means we are
more than ready to respond to any possible threat,' she added.

Chief Insp Bird denied further claims that the force's Birmingham HQ, Lloyd
House, was at an unprecedented level of alert.

'We have not cancelled officers' leave, but it is true there are extra patrols
in key areas, such as mosques, but that has been the case for the past week,'
she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

US SOON TO SHARE EVIDENCE IMPLICATING BIN LADEN IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words


The United States will soon share evidence with its allies that details how
Osama bin Laden and his terrorist network are tied to the attacks in New York
and Washington.

Secretary of State Colin Powell said: 'We will be able to put out a document
linking him to this attack.'

Mr Powell and Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's national security adviser, said
the administration had made contact with Syria and Iran, two countries the
United States has accused of sponsoring terrorism, about helping fight
terrorism. But both said that terrorist-sponsoring countries must end all
support or face more penalties.

'We are not going to declare that there are good terrorists and bad terrorists,'
Ms Rice said.

'If you sponsor terrorism, you're hostile to the United States.'

Mr Powell said dismantling bin Laden's al-Qaida network was the first goal. He
also indicated that any military action in Afghanistan, where bin Laden is
believed to be hiding, will not be on the scale of the Gulf War.

'I don't think we should consider a large-scale war at this point,' he said.

Mr Powell said the President's decision to lift penalties imposed against India
and Pakistan after the two nations tested nuclear weapons in 1998 was 'an
important signal that we will stand by our friends who stand by us'.

He expressed confidence that Pakistan's help in the fight against terrorism
would not spark internal conflict there.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

OLD COMRADES UNITE IN PRIDE AND DIGNITY;
 TERRORIST ATTACKS IN AMERICA ADD POIGNANCY TO REGIMENTAL EVENT

BYLINE: Sarah Portlock GENERATIONS OF PRIDE: Sasha Pimlock of Leamington stands
to attention as the parade passes, and (inset) some of the marchers; SHOW OF;
DIGNITY: Former comrades and current servicemen (right) gather for the event in
Warwick's Market Place. Pictures: CHRIS RADBURN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 281 words


WAR veterans and old soldiers paraded around Warwick yesterday as former
comrades of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers rallied for a reunion.

The parade included many members of the former Royal Warwickshire Regiment,
which was merged with other county regiments to form the Royal Regiment in 1968.

A service was held in St Mary's Church before the old soldiers joined with
serving soldiers to march around the town.

Regimental area secretary Major Richard Mills said the day had been excellent
and moving.

"I think the recent events in America have given the whole event extra
poignancy," he said.

About 750 former servicemen joined the march.

Among them was Private Alf Johnson, aged 77, of Henson Road, Bedworth, who
joined the regiment in 1943, aged 19.

"We trained at Budbrooke Barracks and it taught us to be proud. You never lose
that pride," he said.

"It is what keeps us turning up to events like this.

"I was with the Fusiliers for three and a half years, and served in Egypt, North
Africa and Palestine.

"They were not the best of times but I do have some happy memories."

The march past salute was taken by the regiment's colonel, Brigadier Roy Wilde,
and Warwick Mayor Marion Haywood.

She said: "It is a very moving event. The strength of feeling by everybody here
is quite impressive."

The ancient ceremony of Beating the Retreat was performed by the 2nd battalion
of the regiment at a supper and dance in Leek Wootton the previous day.

The three regiments which merged with the Warwickshire - the Lancashire, the
London and the Northumberland - take it in turns to stage the event. It is held
in Warwick every four years.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK PLEA TO WORLD LEADERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


NATIVE New Yorker Monica Mahoney told the Plaid conference how a school friend
was killed in the terrorist attacks on the United States.

But the Plaid Cymru delegate - who moved to Wales in 1993 - appealed to world
leaders to work for a peaceful resolution despite the "living Hell" of terrorism
"Those who committed this crime weren't acting on behalf of Islam, " she said.

And she warned: "When I hear Bush, I fear that the United States runs the risk
of becoming the Loan Ranger.

"This isn't the Wild West, it's not the time to get your rifle and form a
posse."

She urged President Bush and Tony Blair not to exercise "our own aggression and
barbarism" but to be "civilised and peaceful and just".

Ms Mahoney, now living in Bridgend, said that High School friend, Louis Fersini,
had been one of the victims of the World Trade Centre atrocity.

Other friends and family had been caught up in the aftermath of the devastation,
she told a hushed conference in Cardiff.

Her brother works for the US State Department while her niece's husband works at
the Pentagon, also a target for the suicide bombers.

The conference gave her speech a rousing reception as it accepted an emergency
resolution on the terrorist outrages.

It condemned the attacks, but urged world leaders to seek an international
coalition against terrorism and backed the establishment of an International
Criminal Court where those accused of crimes against humanity could be brought
to justice. Earlier, Plaid leader Ieuan Wyn Jones described the attacks as
"appalling crimes against humanity".

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: ANTI-TERROR COPS GET EXTRA TIME TO QUIZ 3 IN CUSTODY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 249 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police were yesterday granted more time to quiz three people in
London about the US terror attacks.

The two men and a woman were arrested in raids in Berkshire and Birmingham on
Friday.

Magistrates have granted police an extension to keep the three in custody until
Wednesday.

Algerian Lofti Raissi, 27, and his wife Sonia, 25, were picked up after a swoop
on their rented flat in the Berkshire village of Colnbrook, five miles from
Heathrow.

They were arrested after the FBI studied a list of phone calls made by one of
the 19 hijackers responsible for the atrocities. It is believed the pair
recently met one of th suicide mission hijackers.

Neighbours believed that he was a pilot and his wife worked for Air France.

Gary Hanley, 41, said: "As soon as Mr Raissi moved in, he put in a satellite
dish by himself. There was already a dish there but he said he needed to put
this one up because it was much more powerful.

"He said he did a lot of work in Germany and the States and needed to pick up
certain programmes. It was a bit weird."

Police have moved items from the Birmingham house of the third person, a man in
his 40s. A 29-year-old man earlier arrested in London, was released without
charge.

Home Secretary David Blunkett yesterday gave a clear indication that he is
considering compulsory identity cards in the UK.

He said his "instincts" were that beating terrorism must take priority over the
freedoms of a liberal society.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 24, 2001

LEADER - AS THE CIA REELS IN CRISIS AFTER FAILING TO ANTICIPATE THE TERROR
ATTACKS . . .; WHY AMERICA'S FEARED SPOOKS NOW RUN SCARED

BYLINE: RICHARD BENNETT

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 814 words


THE CIA is undoubtedly a big stick but the pointed, business end made up of
hardened case officers, experienced field operatives and expert analysts has
been blunted.

Years of uninformed political criticism and the side-tracking of operational
capability for the sake of political expediency and short term diplomatic gain
has left the Central Intelligence Agency desperately short of experienced
officers and the insight necessary for the world's only superpower.

The freewheeling, aggressive but often highly effective intelligence
organisation so beloved by the spy novelist hardly exists today. With few
exceptions, such as the growing involvement in the Colombian drug wars,
supporting Albanian insurgents in Kosovo and, of course, Osama Bin Laden, the
old days of agent running, assassination and "Air America" are gone.

The CIA's relationship with Bin Laden and his al-Qaida organisation dates back
to the support for his conflict with the Soviet occupation forces in
Afghanistan. The friendship turned sour in 1991 as US forces preparing to drive
Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait swarmed all over his beloved Saudi Arabia.

Bin Laden then embarked on a determined "holy war" to rid the region of the US
military presence.

The CIA, in partnership with other elements of the enormous intelligence
community, has spent vast amounts of money and man-hours trying to track down
Bin Laden.

For years he lived in the Pakistan capital of Islamabad; later he moved first to
Sudan and then to Afghanistan.

Many devices have been used in a bid to haul him in, all to no avail, in
collaboration with America's closest partners and their security agencies, such
as Britain's MI5, MI6 and GCHQ and Israel's Mossad. They have included satellite
surveillance of his training camps, photo-reconnaissance, telephone, fax and
e-mail monitoring, attempts at covert penetration of his organisation and checks
on frontiers and at sea ports and airports.

Bin Laden's international network has still managed to carry out a series of
bloody atrocities, from attacks within Saudi Arabia to embassy bombings in
Africa and the suicide attack on the USS Cole in Aden.

Members of the Clinton administration claimed recently that they had amassed a
huge body of information on Bin Laden's organisation and that somehow the new
Bush administration had managed to drop the ball. Whatever the truth, it has
become obvious that President Clinton targeted Bin Laden's group for destruction
as long ago as 1998 and that the new Bush administration has been taking a
distinctly more hawkish line. If it could not deal with Bin Laden in person, it
would take the war to the Taliban.

Details of possible US intentions are believed to have been leaked to the
Taliban leadership several months ago, and no doubt Bin Laden was quickly
informed.

Many analysts believe the attacks on New York and Washington were commissioned
by the Iranian-backed Hizbollah movement, based in the Beka'a valley in eastern
Lebanon, and were originally timed to coincide with the anniversary of the
slaughter of some 1,700 Palestinians by Christian militiamen in the Sabra and
Shatila refugee camps in Beirut on September 16 and 17, 1982.

Whether prior knowledge of a forthcoming US attack on Afghanistan was sufficient
to cause Bin Laden to bring forward, even by a few days, an already well planned
terrorist outrage may never be known, but what is very obvious is the
catastrophic failure of US Intelligence to detect the activities that must have
occurred during the planning of an international operation believed to have
involved more than 200 terrorists in as many as 20 different countries.

Intelligence sources have confirmed the shock and deep unease that quickly
spread through CIA headquarters at Langley, Virginia. They also confirmed that
much vital intelligence was simply missed or ignored. A steady flow of what was,
individually, unremarkable information was never collated and effectively
analysed. If it had been, it might have triggered off the security alarms in
time to prevent the catastrophe of September 11.

WHAT is evident is that US Intelligence is in urgent need of reform. The
National Security Agency trawls the world's airwaves from space and ground bases
and produces so much raw material that 40 tons of unread intercepts are said to
be dumped every day. Meanwhile, CIA officers have become chair-bound and out of
touch with field operations.

If Mr Bush is serious about pursuing a long term war on international terrorism,
the US Intelligence community which until now has remained blinkered to the
realities of a world beyond its once safe shores must provide the eyes and the
ears of the State.

Put your intelligence house in order, Mr President, there's a war to win.

Richard Bennett is a senior analyst at security experts AFI International.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 24, 2001

Dream cruise hit by US terrorism attacks
 QE2 TRIPPER WITNESSES NEW YORK TRAGEDY AFTERMATH

BYLINE: by Phillip Norton

SECTION: NEWS:people:events, Pg.5

LENGTH: 449 words


IT WAS supposed to be a luxury trip of a lifetime, and it certainly turned out
to be one nobody would ever forget.

Grimsby man John Moody and his friend Christine Gurnell were on board the QE2,
enjoying a cruise to New York, when the American attrocities unfolded.The
majestic liner had to be diverted to Boston after the berths at New York - which
were near to the World Trade Centre - were deemed unusable.

The liner, which left Southampton at 5pm on Monday, September 10, was less than
a day into the crossing of the Atlantic when disaster struck.

Mr Moody, president of Grimsby Hockey Club, said that the happy, jovial
atmosphere of the Monday evening disappeared as Americans and Britons were
united in shock.

"A lot of people saw what had happened on a television in the lounge which had
the CNN news channel on. After seeing it a lot of people went to their cabins to
watch it on their own televisions," he said.

Mr Moody said that during the afternoon, the captain of the ship announced that
it was doubtful if the vessel would dock in New York."One show on Tuesday was
cancelled. The disaster had a very sombre effect on the boat. We did not know
what to expect."Being on a boat you do feel quite vulnerable. After what had
happened in New York, everyone was very suspicious," he said.

By Wednesday and Thursday, the passengers and crew did not know where they would
be taken. The security operation meant that air and sea ports had been closed,
and rumours began to circulate that the ship was to divert to Mexico, Canada or
Boston."All the captain kept saying was that he couldn't tell us any more
information but that we definitely would not be going to New York."

Postcards and other items with images of the World Trade Centre including
puzzles were withdrawn from sale, and it was Saturday before passengers were
told they would be arriving at the port of Boston the next day.

"During Sunday, hundreds of smaller boats came out from the harbour to meet us.
Navy Seals surrounded the boat and some divers were seen going into the water
about 30 yards from us.

"A fleet of about 100 buses were laid on which took us to the Grand Central
Station in New York," he said.

Mr Moody, of Pelham Avenue, Scartho, spent a few days in New York before
returning on one of the first trans-Atlantic flights back to Britain.

He said: "We went to Times Square and it was desolate. It was like Grimsby
Market Place on a Sunday morning.

"The aroma of the smoke was absolutely rancid. It was an indescribable smell - a
mixture of paper and cardboard with a restaurant-type smell all mixed into one.

"I have never seen anything quite like it."

newsdesk@grimsbytelegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 24, 2001

Office Hours: High, or just high-risk?: After the terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Centre, many London office workers must be wondering how safe they are at
work. Bill Saunders reports

BYLINE: Bill Saunders

SECTION: Guardian Office Hours Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1071 words


Even those on the scene as the World Trade Centre burned and then collapsed were
struck by the resemblance to a disaster movie. Tuesday September 11 was a day
when nightmare became reality. Outside the US, some of the people who had the
most fellow feeling for those trapped in the twin towers were workers in
London's financial districts.

London's last major fire in a tall building was at Tower 42 (better known as the
Natwest Tower) more than five years ago. Fire broke out on the roof during
building works, but there were no casualties. A London fire brigade spokesman
recalls that when the brigade arrived, within 10 minutes of being called out,
the building was already largely evacuated. A spokesman for Tower 42, who does
not recall the incident personally, is not surprised, although he estimates that
it would take 20 minutes to half an hour to evacuate the tower, which has around
2,500 people spread over its 42 floors.

Offices are generally considered very safe from fire. All the same, they are
governed by a vast number of regulations, from the way they are built to the way
they are worked in. Two sets of laws govern the immediate safety of office
workers: the Fire Precautions Act (1971), which requires that all businesses
with 10 or more employees have a fire certificate, issued by the local fire
authority, and the Workplace Regulations (1997), which cover any space with one
or more employee. The introduction of the latter has greatly increased the work
of fire inspection carried out by fire brigades for the fire authority.

Before issuing a fire certificate the fire brigade will inspect the premises to
make sure it can be effectively evacuated in an emergency. Are the doors and
staircases wide enough? Are the ways to exits uncluttered? The number of people
in an office is also taken into consideration, but is a rarely an issue in
offices. When a building is densely occupied and the staircase narrow, the
problem can be solved by partial evacuation, allowing the people at the top out
first, before moving people from the bottom. Such manoeuvres require discipline
and attached to every fire certificate are schedules specifying that the holder
is obliged to hold regular fire drills and train staff to be aware of what to do
in the event of fire.

Best practice is to have fire marshalls, employees who have been trained to
direct colleagues and visitors to the nearest exit. Once issued, a fire
certificate will run until the building is altered, but the holder will be
inspected regularly.

What people most fear is fire breaking out on a floor beneath them. The London
fire brigade spokesman is reassuring. Modern buildings are built with the
possibility of fire in mind. Even large open- plan floors can be sealed off
entirely and staircases should be accessible. The brigade's first priority is
always evacuation. Its hydraulic platforms do not extend higher than 14 floors.
The option of evacuation by helicopter may appeal to film directors, but not to
firefighters. The blades fan flames. Even so, sometimes the use of police or air
ambulance helicopters would be considered.

If trapped above a fire , however, one should not underestimate the efficiency
of fire doors. In one notable incident at the old County Hall building a couple
were trapped in a small room in an area where an electrical fire had broken out.
The walls of the room were solid and the fire door protected them. It was no
doubt an emotionally difficult experience but the couple were unharmed. When
firefighters broke through to them they were not panicking as such, but
answering a very primal human need together.

The chances of a building collapsing while you are trapped inside is very
limited, too. According to John Knapton, professor of structural engineering at
Newcastle upon Tyne University, all buildings are built to withstand 10 times
the pressure they would normally expect. Even if this pressure occurs, there is
a back-up scheme, known to engineers as "redundancy". This means that if a
load-bearing pillar is fractured, the weight does not travel straight to the
ground but is redistributed. Tall buildings can stand on one leg if they have
to, and for some considerable time. Tall buildings have to stand up for as long
as it takes to get everyone out of them.

These days, structural engineers estimate that this can take as long as four
hours. "We have to take account of children, the elderly and the disabled," says
Knapton. To achieve this, the basic steel structures are shielded in concrete to
prevent them melting at high temperatures.

Given that one of the World Trade Centre's towers collapsed within three
quarters of an hour, and that rumour has it that some of London's tallest
buildings cannot be evacuated in less than an hour, a four-hour egress period is
good news. Knapton says the fact that the World Trade Centre's towers stayed up
as long as they did is a triumph for engineering. The Towers took impact,
explosion and fire at once and still remained intact long enough to allow many
people to escape.

Once a building has been evacuated, everyone should be persuaded to "run away",
says Knapton. With due respect to the courage of New York's Fire Department, he
thinks there is little to be gained from firefighters entering a tall building
on the verge of collapse. There is little chance of extinguishing a fire in a
tall building, since fire hoses do not have enough pressure above a certain
height. Tall buildings depend on their sprinker systems and if these are knocked
out, there is little that can be done.

The London fire brigade feels differently, you may be pleased to know, and if
nobody has seen you lately when a fire breaks out, they will go and see where
you've got to. They will also take a look around to see if an unaccounted
visitor is lying injured somewhere.

Above all, never attempt to escape in the lift. Firefighters will sometimes ride
up in one, for the sake of expediency, but never closer than two floors from
where they suppose the fire to be.

All sorts of problems can overtake a lift, from power cuts, to well-intentioned
safety devices. During the floods in Houston, Texas, earlier this year a
secretary was travelling in a lift when the power in the building gave out. The
lift lowered her gently to the basement as it was programmed to do. The basement
was full of water, and she drowned.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERRORISM: PEACE PROTESTS: THREAT OF US ATTACKS BOOSTS AILING MEMBERSHIP
OF ANTI-WAR GROUPS

BYLINE: Paul Peachey Protesters at USAF Lakenheath Andrew Parsons/PA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words


THOUSANDS ARE expected to join demonstrations across Britain as President Bush's
war on terrorism prompts a revival in the flagging fortunes of peace groups.

A weekend of protest saw many take to the streets of Britain as well as a
protest outside a US airbase.

Representatives from 20 organisations have held a crisis meeting in central
London to decide on their strategy in advance of the anticipated attacks on
Afghanistan.

President Bush's hardline rhetoric over the US National Missile Defence scheme
had already prompted membership for the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament to rise
by eight per cent in the past year and inquiries have increased sharply since
last Tuesday's attacks.

A strong recruitment campaign in the universities has resulted in a new
generation of peace campaigners, according to CND organisers.

The group had previously been forced to make cutbacks as membership fell to
30,000, less than a third of the total during the mid-1980s.

CND had focused on lobbying work and smaller protests but a spokesman, Nigel
Chamberlain, said the alliance of peace groups could again lead to mass
demonstrations.

"It has been an ageing membership," he said. "The Bush presidency has
transformed that and given us fresh impetus."

Further link-ups are being made with groups across Europe, the United States and
Asia for further demonstrations

CND is also involved with a march and rally for peace and justice on 13 October
in London. It was originally designed to be one of 85 protests worldwide against
the "son of Star Wars" programme but is now planned as a more broad peace
protest.

Thousands were involved in peaceful rallies and silent vigils throughout Britain
at the weekend, including 3,000 people in London. Other protests were in
Manchester and Glasgow. In Whitehall on Saturday, many wore black and stood
"shoulder to shoulder" in a protest against Tony Blair's description of
Britain's relationship with the United States. Others carried placards reading:
"Stand shoulder to shoulder for peace and justice. No more violence."

Britons and Americans protested yesterday outside the biggest US Air Force
installation in Europe, the Lakenheath airbase in Suffolk.

Craig Hickman-Havorson, who has dual English and American nationality, said: "I
have relatives in America and I have every sympathy with the relatives of people
who have suffered in these atrocities. I just don't think that a military strike
is the answer.."

The protests follow a candlelit vigil outside Downing Street a week after the
air strikes, organised by Arrow (Active Resistance to the Roots of War). Another
group staged a "Picnic for Peace" in London yesterday.

Kevin Mullen, spokesman for the Campaign Against Arms Trade, said: "The calls
for restraint seem to be coming from a lot of voices and a lot of
organisations." The group had protested outside an arms fair in London's
Docklands on the day the suicide hijackers struck.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

WALL STREET SMASHED?;
 JANE GALLAGHER FINDS OUT HOW THE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON AMERICA WILL DIRECTLY
AFFECT YOU

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 784 words


A stock market in chaos, thousands of job losses already announced, and more
being predicted.

The attack on America has sent the world's economies into turmoil.

But how does it affect YOUR mortgage, YOUR pensions, YOUR savings?

We asked David Tinsley, policy adviser at Liverpool Chamber of Commerce and Nick
Hawkins, a senior lecturer at Liverpool Business School to answer some of YOUR
questions.

I HAVE a few savings accounts and a pension scheme which are linked to the stock
market.

Should I take out my cash and switch my pension?

Be sure not to confuse what happened in New York with the general situation in
which the economy was slowing down.

All financial investment should be long-term. The only people who need to have
immediate concern are people who have to buy an annuity very soon if they belong
to a Money Purchase Pension Scheme.

What happens here is the sum of money you have saved has to be used to buy an
annuity which gives you an income. Obviously the general prevailing conditions
now means that any return will not be good.

The government is being urged to rethink this method and people concerned should
seek professional financial advice. DT I HAVE a small amount of shares with a
bank and insurance company. Should I sell now?

The insurance industry has been affected by the attack, but it is significant
that many experts believe insurance companies have reached a share price low,
and that they could recover given the very high level of security consciousness
that individuals and companies now feel.

We all hope that the situation in Afghanistan and the Gulf does not worsen, but
given the long term nature of any war on terrorism, and the time lag before a
recession can be reversed, we have to be realistic.

Always remember that, in the long-term, stock market investments tend to perform
well. NH I HAVE a mortgage and a family to support, but I am worried about
possible job losses?

If the American economy is pushed into a full recession many jobs in the UK will
be affected.

With Japan already in deep recession, American economic performance is the key
to the performance of the global market in which we are all involved.

The airline companies have already announced a reduction in jobs and the
companies which make airlines will be severely affected.

However, the share price of BAE Systems - which supplies the defence industry -
jumped 13% in the week after the attack.

Liverpool is a major port and there may be an effect on freight and shipping and
the businesses which service these industries.

The conference and exhibition industry will also be affected by tighter security
and cutbacks in budgets If people feel that there will be a deep recession, then
we could see people cutting back on expensive holidays, non -essential consumer
goods, eating out, and visits to the cinema or theatre.

Spending on home entertainment systems and holidays in the UK could rise
creating some much needed employment opportunities.

The insurance industry has been affected by the attack, but it will recover
given the very high level of security consciousness that individuals and
companies now feel.

Professional service companies such as engineers, surveyors, the construction
companies, risk assessors, accountants and lawyers will also be busier due to
the greater awareness of the need to limit risks of all kinds.

Security and surveillance will be increased everywhere and there will be a lot
more work around for people in these businesses. For example, new technology
companies will be keen to ensure that their database systems are protected
fully.

The film industry in Liverpool may prosper too. There will be little or no call
for gory, violent action films which America specialises in, and there may be a
return to the feel-good and period films which Liverpool's location is perfect
for.

IF THERE is a conflict in and around the Middle East, will we have another fuel
crisis?

There is always a fear over rises in petrol prices which have never really
materialised. Oil prices are already very high but if we are flying fewer planes
there will be less demand for fuel which may result in a lower price. DT

WHAT can I do to make a difference?

Speaking in general, people need to protect their assets and investments.

Another good defence against the threat of unemployment is to improve your
skills and gain extra qualifications. This can make a person highly valuable in
a recession as their skills command a price premium. Business schools could see
an increase in demand from mature students because of this, and University links
with companies could grow. NH

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPERT ADVICE: David Tinsley (inset, left) and Nick Hawkins; (right).
Also pictured (top, left to right): workers return to Wall Street; a British
Airways jet stands idle at Heathrow; the New York stock exchange re-opens

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 24, 2001

Hijack woman in sex attack terror

BYLINE: AMANDA KILLELEA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 217 words




WOMEN were warned today to lock their cars when driving after a man hijacked a
female motorist and subjected her to a terrifying sex attack.  The 45-year-old
victim was forced to drive more than 100 miles before being sexually assaulted
by the pervert, who jumped into the back seat of her car when she was waiting in
traffic.

Her ordeal began early on Friday morning as she drove towards Whitefield on Bury
New Road.  An Asian man aged between 20 and 30 got in the back seat and
threatened her.

He told her to drive on to the M60 motorway and then the M6 and the M5 at
Birmingham, police said.  The attacker then forced her to leave the motorway and
subjected her to a serious sexual assault.

He then made her drive back on to the motorway and stop on the hard shoulder,
where he fled.  Greater Manchester Police is worried the man could strike again,
either in Manchester or the West Midlands.

A spokeswoman said: We are warning women drivers to be extremely vigilant and
keep their car doors locked, particularly when travelling alone.  There is a
possibility this man could strike again.''

The woman is in hospital and is said to be traumatised by her ordeal.  Officers
expected to interview her today.

amanda.killelea@gmnews.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: CONFLICT EFFECTS: WARNING OF SUICIDE ATTACKS

BYLINE: Michael Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 197 words

HIGHLIGHT: AT RISK: Dublin Airport


IRISH airports could be used to launch suicide air attacks on London, it has
emerged.

The fears were raised by security experts advising a group of top military and
Garda personnel established by the government following the terrorist acts in
the US.

Their concerns are based on Ireland's lack of ability to defend its airspace -
an aspect which is seen as a serious liability.

The disturbing revelation places a serious question mark over the visit of
foreign dignitaries to Ireland while the current crisis continues.

A government spokesman said the high-level team of officials had met every day
since the US attacks and they were "looking at all aspects of security in the
light of the US events".

Fears that Ireland itself could become a target for Islamic fundamentalists if
Irish airports and airspace were opened to the US have also been discussed.

Such an offer is to be made by Foreign Minister Brian Cowen when he meets US
Secretary of State Colin Powell next week.

Mr Cowen defended the government's decision by saying: "We are simply expressing
and demonstrating our solidarity. We haven't given a blank cheque and no has
asked for one."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 24, 2001

Anti-war protests hit Europe's cities;
 Thousands oppose retaliation for terror attacks

BYLINE: by Our Foreign Desk

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 349 words


ANTI-WAR demonstrators marched through a number of European cities, including
London, Berlin and Budapest, at the weekend in opposition to possible US strikes
in retaliation for the devastating September 11 attacks on New York and
Washington.

Around 1,000 protesters marched through the Belgian city of Liege under banners
reading "Make love, not war" as European finance ministers discussed the
September 11 atrocities.

The organisers, a broad alliance of rights groups and left-wing activists dubbed
D14, staged a rally several hundred yards from the barricaded conference centre
where the ministers were meeting.

"Today, the first principle is to be anti-war and to refuse to participate in US
military action, " D14 activist George Robert said.

The rally broke up in the late afternoon after observing a oneminute silence for
those who died in the attacks.

Several thousand demonstrators took to the streets of Berlin and other German
cities, shouting "No third world war" and urging the US not to answer the
attacks on its cities with more violence.

Carrying banners reading "Enough deaths" and "No retaliation, " the
demonstrators gathered outside the Berlin city hall.

Police said that several thousand people were on the streets of Berlin, while
smaller protests were also held in Cologne, Bremen and Kassel.

In Budapest, hundreds of people marched through the city centre to voice their
opposition to possible US retaliatory strikes.

Police in Liege kept a low profile, with horses, water cannon and other
anti-riot gear positioned well out of sight to avoid raising tensions as the
protesters converged at a nearby crossroads to the sound of heavy drum beats.

The march moved from the town hall square to a rallying point near the
conference centre on a blockaded island in the middle of the River Meuse.

The demonstrators coupled calls for more jobs and democracy in Europe with an
anti-war message.

"We think that military action can only end in more deaths, " said D14 activist
Raoul Hebebouw.

"We want Europe to pull out of NATO."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

GRAPHIC: SAYING NO TO WAR: Demonstrators holding a banner demanding "Peace" in
Berlin at the weekend. Some four thousand people took part in the protest.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                               September 24, 2001

89 million watch the biggest names in rock do their bit for victims of US
terrorist attacks; Hero Worship

LENGTH: 510 words

SUMMARY: The likes of U2, Bruce Springsteen and Neil Young play while Hollywood
stars man the phones during the two-hour telethon...



An estimated 89 million people in the US watched some of the biggest names in
music and film come together on Friday (September 21) to raise money for the
victims of the terrorist attacks in NEW YORK and WASHINGTON.

http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,83260,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,97486,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,144962,00.html 's Fred
Durst, http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,23747,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,90730,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,96441,00.html , Pearl
Jam's Eddie Vedder,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,10069,00.html and Paul
Simon were amongst those who performed while Jack Nicholson, Al Pacino, Julia
Roberts, George Clooney, Tom Cruise, Cameron Diaz, John Cusack, Cindy Crawford,
Robert De Niro, Clint Eastwood and Muhammad Ali were amongst those who either
spoke between songs, or answered phones taking public donations during the
two-hour telethon 'America: A Tribute To Heroes'.

The show was broadcast across 35 networks in the US and beamed to over 200
countries in the world, with both ITV and BBC1 in the UK carrying it live.
During the first 15 minutes 300,000 calls were logged. Major organisations as
well as individuals donated cash. Microsoft has pledged Dollars 10 million,
while media company Vivendi have promised Dollars 5 million.

Performers avoided showcasing new material, focusing instead on tracks they felt
fitted the occasion.
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,83260,00.html opened
the show, dedicating his hymn-like 'City In Ruins' to all "our fallen brothers
and sisters". Later,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,97486,00.html played a
faithful version of 'Imagine' and Fred Durst and Wes Borland from
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,144962,00.html covered
Floyd http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,68542,00.html 's
'Wish You Were Here'.

Muhammad Ali, joined by Will Smith, made an impassioned plea for all Muslims not
be branded as terrorists.

Willie Nelson closed the show, and was joined by
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,97486,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,67976,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,14223,00.html ,
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,96441,00.html and all
of the Hollywood stars.

It will not be known until later on Monday (September 24) just how much cash was
raised.

The live special was broadcast from two studios in New York and Los Angeles,
with http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,90730,00.html and
http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/1,1226,84526,00.html
appearing in London. Producers refused to reveal the exact locations because of
security fears.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Pharma Marketletter

                               September 24, 2001

Terror attack impacts on Qiagen revenues

LENGTH: 220 words


Qiagen of the Netherlands says that the "impact of the logistics and
transportation services shutdown" following the terrorist attacks in the USA on
September 11 will hit sales and net income for the third quarter ending
September 30. The company now expects to report sales of approximately $ 63
million and earnings per share of $ 0.04.

The firm noted that within hours of the attacks on September 11, FedEx, UPS and
other air cargo carriers suspended overnight services and all flights were
banned, though some resumed on limited schedules later in the week. However,
Qiagen said that its customers typically do not keep a significant inventory of
its products and consequently require overnight delivery of purchases, so
therefore "suspended a significant amount of work requiring nucleic acid
purification."

While the impact was clearly more significant in the USA (which represents 60%
of Qiagen's sales), Europe and Japan were also hit by travel restrictions and
recorded lower order and shipment volumes. However, the company believes that
this drop is "strictly temporary," and business will soon return to normal.
Chief executive Metin Colpan said that the underlying demand for Qiagen products
remains very strong "and the markets for our products and technologies are
highly attractive."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 Marketletter Publications Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

DON'T KILL INNOCENTS;
 ZESHAN ZAFAR, 26, WHO WORKS WITH A NUMBER OF MUSLIM ORGANISATIONS IN CARDIFF,
TODAY OFFERS HIS THOUGHTS, WITH FELLOW MUSLIM COMMUNITY COUNCIL MEMBER HAIDER
ALI, ON THE RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS ON AMERICA AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 718 words


MUSLIMS utterly deplore the heinous and barbaric acts that took place on
September 11, 2001.

There is simply no cause that justifies the type of immoral and inhumane act
that has permanently affected so many innocent American lives. The attacks were
against both Divine and human laws, and we condemn them in the strongest terms.

All Muslim leaders across the globe condemned this act, along with the major
Arab and Muslim bodies. In the US, Muslims have been donating blood as well as
using their medical expertise to aid the mass operation that is ensuing in New
York to cater for Tuesday's victims.

Muslim relief agencies are working with their counterparts in the US to offer
their support in the recovery efforts.

Not only did the world take three minutes of silence to remember the dead, but
unknown to most of the Western world, on Friday, Muslims also offered prayers
for the innocent victims of this horrific event.

As much as some alarmists would have it, the terrorist attacks were not the
start of the Clash of Civilizations. It's not one civilization or one people
attacking another, but a group of murderers killing innocent civilians.

Bill Clinton knew it, so do George Bush and Tony Blair, but it seems that the
public often finds itself confused over the point, no thanks to the conflicting
images and headlines that the Press throws to the world.

Like Christianity and Judaism, Islam too has followers who violate the code of
morality and ethics, while invoking its name. Tagging terrorism with a religious
label simply because culprits invoke Islam is troubling to say the least.

Muslims themselves see this act of terrorism as a grotesque evil - one that has
no sanction in Islam. The violent extremists, representing a fraction of Islam,
have caught the attention of the West with violence because Islam's silent
majority has no medium to articulate its perspectives. In the case of Tuesday,
the transgressors should be placed on trial, and not the religion.

However, images and terminology influence public opinion. With 30,000 newspapers
carrying the same story worldwide, a bitter taste is left when Islam is
reported.

The unfortunate, but expected, backlash that the Arab and Muslim community is
now experiencing in the US and the world, is a dire consequence of the public
unable to distinguish between terrorists claiming to represent Islam, and those
who actually do.

Americans and the world have the opportunity now to turn this tragedy into
something of lasting value in exactly the same way the people of Ireland turned
the Omagh bombing into a bloody final step up to the plateau of peace.

In the modern world, there are many forms of terrorism.

It's not just hijackers - it's governments that bomb rebel or enemy towns and
villages, enact sanctions that rob children of food and medical supplies, starve
citizens, abet drug traffickers, torture political opponents, carry out capital
punishment, develop biological weapons, drop atomic bombs, and wage hi-tech or
low-tech wars.

The mistake the American people are about to make is to let their government
carry out reprisals in their name that will kill innocent people not connected
to these terrorist attacks.

President Bush said that the United States 'will make no distinction between the
terrorists who committed these acts and those who harboured them'. Yet
distinctions must be made: Between the guilty and the innocent;

between the perpetrators and the civilians who may surround them; between those
who commit atrocities and those who may simply share their religious beliefs,
ethnicity or national origin.

People committed to justice and law and human rights must never descend to the
level of the perpetrators of such acts. That is the most important distinction
of all.

Many thousands of Americans died on Tuesday.

The way to prevent more deaths is not to kill more people. The only way out of
this madness is to say, and mean, 'Enough!'- by refusing to participate, even by
passive consent in the continuing cycle of violence; to object, to speak out
against, all forms of terror. We must pull out violence from our world by the
roots, or no -one will be safe.

There are no excuses and there are no causes that justify any form of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 24, 2001

Airtours jobs fear in wake of terror attack

BYLINE: David Higgerson (author email dhiggerson@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall



TRAVEL operator Airtours has warned that job losses can not be ruled out in the
wake of the terrorist attacks in the US.

Chief executive Tim Byrne's comments come only days after the firm said the
attacks had already cost it GBP 10 million, including the expense of getting
staff and holidaymakers out of the US and having to ground a number of planes
when American airspace was temporarily closed.

Mr Byrne said the Rossendale and Accrington-based tour operator, travel agency
and holiday airline firm, which employs 29,000 people worldwide and more than
1,000 local people, is not planning any immediate cuts.

But he said: "I don't think you can rule out job losses -- we will do what we
have to in these difficult circumstances to tighten our belt."

Mr Byrne said it was too early to predict how bookings will be affected, but
said people had still gone on holiday during previous conflicts -- such as the
Gulf War.

He said: "People lose their confidence and bookings go down, but then people
come back and say 'I have got to get on with my life'. Of course there will be
disruption, and of course it will have an effect on our bookings, but we are
very financially robust."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

IRAQ PREPARES FOR ANTI-TERRORIST ATTACKS BY THE WEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 208 words


IRAQ is preparing itself for possible attacks from the US and its allies in
their campaign against terrorism.

Iraqi vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan insisted Iraq it is not related in any
way to the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington and he accused
America of only using force to impose its will upon others.

Asked if the United States may attack Iraq, Ramadan said in Baghdad, "Everything
is possible. Yet this is not a new matter to Iraq, which faced a more stronger
campaign led by the United States 11 years ago."

But he added, "We are confident that America is heading to its end."

Washington is strengthening its already formidable Gulf arsenal, sending more
than 100 aircraft, positioning naval ships and calling up thousands of troops
for an imminent strike against those it considers responsible for the recent
terror attacks in the United States that left more than 6,000 people dead or
missing.

Since 1991, US and British planes have patrolled Iraqi skies to enforce nofly
zones, using bases in the Gulf and Turkey to launch sorties against Iraqi
military installations.

The US considers Iraq, still shackled by economic sanctions 11 years after the
Gulf War, a state sponsor of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 25, 2001

Tourism industry fearing the worst;
 Terror in America: MORE UNCERTAINTY: terrorist attacks deal new blow to efforts
to woo back visitors

BYLINE: Kate Tarling

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 378 words


BATH'S lifeblood tourism industry faces further uncertainty following the
terrorist outrages in America.

The city had been winning the battle to woo back visitors following the foot
-and-mouth outbreak which devastated tourism in some parts of the country.

But it has been dealt another blow as nervous overseas visitors, particularly
Americans, cancel their holidays following the atrocities in New York and
Washington.

Peter Rollins, the tourism and marketing manager at Bath and North East Somerset
Council, said that it was difficult to predict what would happen.

He said that during the first week after the terrorist attacks, almost as many
North American visitors were unable to get home as there were visitors
cancelling their trips to Bath.

"But for the last week, ever since flights have returned to some degree of
normality, there's no doubt there have been reasonably widespread cancellations,
particularly from North America, " he said.

"But it's not just from the United States. There's a widespread fear of flying
and travelling at the moment."

He said this lack of confidence was affecting the tourism industry.

"Having spoken to the British Tourism Industry they're looking at a 25 per cent
downturn in overseas visitors, " Mr Rollins said.

"The most difficult thing I'm finding to judge is how long this slowdown will
last."

The expected military action by America and its allies would have an effect on
international travel and tourism.

"Back in 1991 when the Gulf War broke out there was an immediate drop of 20 to
30 per cent in overseas visitors, and it took the best part of three years for
it to get back up to the levels of 1990, " Mr Rollins added.

"Whatever the motives behind it, when you see British Airways and American
Airlines cutting staff, routes and capacity it doesn't take a business guru to
look at what the next six to 12 months will be like."

However, he added that the international crisis meant more British people were
beginning to book short breaks and holidays in this country.

"At the moment we can't say whether this upturn in the UK business will
compensate for the downturn in overseas visitors but it's something we're
keeping a close eye on, " said Mr Rollins.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: FOUR HELD OVER PARIS ATTACK PLAN

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words


FRENCH anti-terrorist police arrested at least four people today in connection
with a planned attack on the US embassy in Paris and other targets in France,
police said.

Officials said several people were detained in Paris and nearby Suresnes in
connection with an alleged plot to harm US interests in France.

Seven people are already in custody in connection with the alleged plot.

Meanwhile in America, Herbert Villalobos was charged in Virginia with aiding one
of the suspected hijackers to fraudulently obtain an identification card a month
before the September 11 attacks.

A second man who aided with the papers was cooperating and had not been charged,
prosecutors said. Court records disclosed as many as five of the hijackers
obtained Virginia cards in the month before the attacks.

Attorney General John Ashcroft disclosed that 352 people had been arrested or
detained in the investigation. Another 392 people were being sought.

In Florida, court records in Broward County showed one of the 19 hijack suspects
was wanted on an arrest warrant at the time of the attacks.

A warrant was issued on June 4 for Mohammed Atta for failing to appear in court
on a charge of driving without a licence.

In Britain anti-terrorist officers were today still questioning a Birmingham man
about after being granted extra time to hold him.

Abu Imard, aged 44, who is of Saudi origin and is thought to have moved from the
US about six months ago, was arrested at his Highgate home on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

SERVICE IN LONDON PAYS TRIBUTE TO VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 165 words


THE US ambassador was today marking two weeks since the terrorist attacks with a
ceremony to remember the victims and to thank Britons for their "overwhelming
support" during the crisis.

British relatives of those missing since the atrocities were expected to join
ambassador William Farish at Grosvenor Square in London.

Representatives from all faiths, including the Muslim council, were due at the
ceremony which takes place a fortnight after the first plane slammed into the
World Trade Centre.

Senior members of the police and fire service will also be at the service which
is expected to last 30 minutes.

A spokesman for the US Embassy said: "The ceremony will be held to honour the
victims of the September 11 attacks and to express appreciation to the people of
the United Kingdom for their overwhelming support."

Grosvenor Square has become a shrine to the victims of the attacks, with
thousands of people leaving flowers and signing the condolence books.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 25, 2001

New flights grounded by terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 214 words


A NEW air service between Scotland and Amsterdam is being suspended after the
terror attacks on America.

ScotAirways said yesterday that its fivedays a week flights from Inverness to
the Netherlands will stop from tomorrow, though flights from Inverness to London
are unaffected.

The Amsterdam service was introduced on September 10, the day before the U.S.
atrocity. Jerry Froggett, commercial manager of the Cambridge-based airline,
blamed the cutback on a dramatic slowdown in long-haul and international travel.

He said: 'Demand from the critical U.S.

market for flights via Amsterdam to the Highlands has been badly hit and many
existing reservations have been cancelled.

'Passengers booked to fly on the route will be contacted and offered full
refunds.

However, we will be looking at resuming the service, possibly in the spring.' Mr
Froggett said there would be no job losses among the 250 staff as a result of
the suspension, since the daily flights were fitted in around existing services.

He added that the news of the Amsterdam service's suspension was in direct
contrast to the success of ScotAirways' London City- Inverness route, where
advance bookings for the daily flights remain very strong and passenger feedback
highly positive.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 25, 2001

Is it time to make us all carry identity cards?;PERSONAL VIEW: Terror attacks in
the US reopen an old issue

BYLINE: John Mccann

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 788 words


The issue of identity cards for British citizens has divided politicians since
Winston Churchill abolished them in 1952 to increase freedom in postwar Britain.

But as the country faces going to war following the atrocities at New York's
World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, Labour Home Secretary David Blunkett has
given the strongest hint yet that compulsory ID cards could be introduced.

Here two campaigners with opposite views tell JOHN McCANN whether they think Mr
Blunkett should introduce a system which could send people to prison if they
refuse to carry a card.

YES

Glasgow MSP Bill Aitken, Tory justice spokesman in the Scottish Parliament,
outlines why the time has come for ID cards

I AM in favour of identity cards. I say that with regret and in the light of
recent circumstances.

I do concede that perhaps this is a loss of civil liberties to some people but
perhaps it is part of our duty as citizens that if we want to live in a free
country we need to be able to identify ourselves to authority.

In supporting these cards I am not not attempting to impose a "police state" in
Britain.

But sadly recent events make the present situation fairly dangerous and security
would be improved if people could be identified quickly and accurately.

Every other EU state has ID cards and they work well in identifying their
citizens.

I remember being stopped by the police in France and they were shocked I didn't
have my passport with me as people there have identity cards and see them as a
way of life.

I do not accept the argument that a sophisticated card can be easily forged.

It is possible to use fingerprint technology or even a scan of the iris of the
eye and that can't be swapped between users.

While new driving licences have photographs to stamp out the practice of several
people driving on one licence, a proper identity card can eliminate doubt over
who someone is.

There are also potential benefits in social security making sure that people are
not claiming benefits they are not entitled to or while working under a
different name.

Identity Cards can offer great practical assistance to people in our everyday
lives when we need to identify ourselves.

They are useful for instance for publicans when younger people enter licensed
premises who need to prove their age, to someone who forgets to buy a train
ticket and needs to prove their identity to a guard.

They can be useful in a range of situations where we need to prove who we are.

But the overwhelming case is to improve security at a time when we all feel that
is essential in the wake of what happened in New York and Washington two weeks
ago today.

NO

John Wadham, of the civil rights group Liberty, says why he thinks he thinks ID
cards are not the answer to terrorist attacks

THE most obvious argument against identity cards is simple - they wouldn't work.

They would not prevent attacks like the recent hijackings in America.

Terrorists often use people who have no criminal record or political background
and that is borne out by many of the people who were involved in these attacks.

Even if their identities were known to the authorities as they boarded the
planes, they would not have set off any alarm bells because there was no reason
to look out for them.

But it is not beyond any sophisticated terrorist group to forge or steal ID
Cards.

For an ID card to work you would have to know the person you were looking for
was carrying a card and that it was genuine. Then you would have to stop them to
examine the card.

America does not have an ID card system and many of the measures it is now
considering to fight terrorism are already in place here.

Access to aircraft and airport security are already far more tightly controlled
in Britain than in the US and we have many more CCTV cameras in place in our
streets.

Our police also have wide-ranging powers based around a disturbingly wide
definition of what terrorism is.

The danger now is that people are genuinely horrified at what has happened and
this has put pressure on the government to be seen to be doing something.

But if we bring in legislation that is unable to solve the problem we run the
risk of becoming complacent.

Inspecting ID cards would also put a huge drain on scarce police resources.

However you targeted people, thousands of British citizens would be stopped, and
many detained, with no worthwhile increase in security.

One of the great things about living in this country is the range of freedoms we
enjoy.

If you believe Britain is a free society, anything we do to change that will be
giving in to terrorists who want to attack that freedom.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE WAY IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN HERE: a sample of the ID card that was
rejected by legislators in Britain

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: IN THE HEARTLANDS, THEY FEAR THE ATTACKS HERALD THE
APOCALYPSE;
 CHRISTIANS

BYLINE: Andrew Gumbel In Los Angeles 'Desecration' and the prophecies of
Nostradamus feature prominently in the current US bestsellers list

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 873 words


LLOYD PULLEY took one look at the images of destruction unfolding on his
television set two weeks ago and had no doubt what it portended.

"The fact is, the kingdoms of this world cannot continue much longer," he wrote
in a stark message that has since been posted on the home page of a Christian
Coalition website. Look at Revelations, Chapter 18, he continued, citing from
the scriptures: "In one hour your judgement is come!" One might think it a touch
eccentric, or extreme, to view the attacks on New York and Washington as a
harbinger of the Apocalypse. But the thought is preoccupying the minds of tens
of millions of Americans.

Just look at the books the country is buying. The current top ten bestsellers,
as measured by Amazon.com and major retailers such as Borders and Barnes &
Noble, include a weighty tome about the dangers of germ warfare, two editions of
the millennial prophecies of Nostradamus, and Desecration: Antichrist Takes the
Throne, the latest instalment in a series of fundamentalist thrillers about the
end of the world.

Such reading material suggests the sort of imagined scenarios that evangelical
Christians - and there are an estimated 75 million of them in the United States
- have been debating for years. Even before last Tuesday, Nostradamus was
believed to have pointed to attack on New York as a portent of doom. Since
September 11, his prophecies (as well as countless hoax variants) have been
speeding their way around the internet with a very real urgency.

A new film deliberately seized on the apocalyptic gloom in its marketing.
"Revelation spoke of mankind's final days. That time has arrived," reads the
advert for Megiddo, a sequel to the surprise end-of-the-world hit of 1999, The
Omega Code. The movie, made by the fundamentalist Trinity Broadcast Network and
starring Michael York, did the briskest business of any US film released at the
weekend.

Clearly, in the current climate, one does not have to be a fundamentalist to
fear for the future of the planet. At churches up and down the nation, pastors
and preachers are reporting considerable angst about how much longer the planet
has got, and not all of them are discouraged.

"We are in an age where global issues are lived out in Book of Revelations- type
terms," said Scott Bauer, pastor at a vast Pentecostal church in Los Angeles
called the Church On The Way. "The Bible teaches us that every generation may be
the last one. I don't know if people are afraid of that as such, but there is a
sobriety that this is a different crisis from others we have faced." Pastor
Bauer was careful in his phraseology, partly because his particular church
believes that events can be altered by the power of prayer (and his
10,000-strong congregation has been praying a lot). Partly, too, there is a
desire not to alarm people further when they are alarmed enough by facts.

Privately, however, many rank-and-file believers are sure that the End Times are
upon us. "I have a couple of relatives who are fundamentalist Christians, and
they are convinced this is it, this is the end," said Joel Dyer, an author and
journalist specialising in heartland America and its frequently misunderstood
view of the world.

If discussion of the Apocalypse has not been more widespread, Mr Dyer says, that
is only because the shock of the attacks is still too fresh. "There is an
incredible sense of people being just stunned. Wait a bit, though, and it'll be
just like the heyday of The Late Great Planet Earth," he said, referring to a
surprise bestselling book from the 1970s that first introduced End Times
thinking to a mass audience.

The first attack on the World Trade Centre, in 1993, triggered a flurry of
interest in Nostradamus. Since then, Osama bin Laden has been alternatively
identified as the Antichrist of Revelations or the "little horn" that will bring
civilisation to its knees. American fundamentalists are divided broadly into two
groups: those who believe the real sign of Armageddon will come when all
pure-living Christians are transported directly to Heaven (a moment known as the
Rapture), and those who believe the world is in for seven years of indescribable
torment first, the period of Tribulation.

Among those who belong to the second, generally more radical group is Pat
Robertson, the erstwhile presidential candidate, key right-wing supporter of
President Bush and head of the Christian Coalition, which is posting Mr Pulley's
statement on its websites. Mr Robertson has not spoken publicly for a week about
his views on the day of judgement, but he did host a television programme in
which he and his guest, Jerry Falwell, agreed America had been punished for
turning away from God.

"We have insulted God at the highest level of our government. Then, we say, 'Why
does this happen?'," Mr Robertson said in a subsequent statement. "It is
happening because God Almighty is lifting his protection from us."

The comments by Mr Falwell and Mr Robertson provoked a wave of revulsion in the
media, forcing them to backtrack somewhat. Their sentiments, however, have been
standard fare in the American heartland - Kansas, say, or Oklahoma, or the
remoter Pacific Northwest - for years.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                           September 25, 2001 Tuesday

FEAR OF TERRORIST ATTACK CAUSES RUN ON GAS MASKS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 55  words



HIGHLIGHT: The government was yesterday accused of leaving the public in the
dark over the possible threat of a terrorist chem...


The government was yesterday accused of leaving the public in the dark over the
possible threat of a terrorist chemical or biological attack. Tony Blair's
warning last week that such weapons could be used has alarmed some Britons, and
eman for gas masks and protective chemical suits have soared, reports the
(p6).

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: FINANCIAL ATTACK: PEOPLE AND GROUPS FACING CASH BAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 121 words


Al-Qaeda/ Islamic Army

Osama bin Laden

Abu Sayyaf Group

Armed Islamic Group (GIA)

Harakat ul-Mujahidin (HUM)

Al-Jihad (Egyptian Islamic Jihad)

Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)

Asbat al-Ansar

Salafist Group for Call and Combat (GSPC)

Libyan Islamic Fighting Group

Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya (AIAI)

Islamic Army of Aden

Muhammad Atif

Sayf al-Adl

Shaykh Sai'id

Abu Hafs the Mauritanian

Ibn Al-Shaykh al-Libi

Abu Zubaydah

Abd al-Hadi al-Iraqi

Ayman al-Zawahiri

Thirwat Salah Shihata

Tariq Anwar al-Sayyid Ahmad

Muhammad Salah

Makhtab Al-Khidamat/ Al Kifah

Wafa Humanitarian Organisation

Al Rashid Trust

Mamoun Darkazanli Import- Export Company

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: FINANCIAL ATTACK: FREEZE ON FANATICS;
 BUSH AXES 27 BANK ACCOUNTS TO CUT TERROR LIFEBLOOD

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor In New York And Justine Smith In Washington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 584 words


PRESIDENT Bush yesterday froze the US assets of Osama bin Laden and his
terrorist network.

He signed an order suspending 27 bank accounts to choke off the money supply to
the sprawling al-Qaeda organisation.

He said details had been passed to governments around the world - and warned
that countries which did not back his actions would be punished.

The president said in Washington: "If you do business with terrorists, you will
not do business with the United States.

"Money is the lifeblood of terrorist operations. Today we're asking the world to
stop payment. We're putting banks and financial institutions around the world on
notice."

The British Government is planning a similar crackdown.

A Treasury spokesman said: "We are considering as a matter of urgency what
further steps we could take."

President Bush signed the order at one minute past midnight.

Those targeted include individuals, terrorist leaders, a corporation that serves
as a front for terrorism and several non-profit organisations.

Mr Bush declared: "This list is just the beginning. To follow the money is a
trail to terrorists."

On the list is the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, accused of murdering President Anwar
Sadat in 1981 and massacring 67 Western tourists at Luxor in 1997.

The Islamic Army of Aden was accused by the US of the bombing of the USS Cole
last October, which killed 17 sailors.

The president said some groups hid behind "nice-sounding" charities., Pakistan
-based Al Rashid Trust is said to distribute subsidised bread to homeless
families in the Afghan capital Kabul.

Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said trying to stamp out terrorism worldwide
for ever sounded a "pretty big task". The US goal was to deal with it so it
didn't "threaten our way of life".

Last night the House of Representatives approved a long-delayed $ 582million
(pounds 398m) debt payment to the United Nations in an effort to rally its
support.

Congressman Gary Condit, until a fortnight ago the biggest story of the year in
America over his involvement with missing intern Chandra Levy, has been
appointed to a Washington subcommittee on terrorism and security.

Two men were charged last night with helping obtain Virginia driving licences
for suspected hijackers of the jet that hit the Pentagon.

Herbert Villalobos and an unnamed man allegedly signed residency papers for
Abdul Aziz Al Omari and Ahmed Saleh Al Ghamdi.

In New York, Mayor Rudy Giuliani said it would be "a miracle" if anyone was
found alive in the ruins. But he added: "Miracles do happen."

Latest polls in America show that 90 per cent approve of the job President Bush
is doing - the highest presidential rating since polls started in 1938.

Ninety-two per cent of Americans said they were prepared for a long battle and
88 per cent backed military action against the terrorists.

In London, Tony Blair briefed senior MPs and party leaders on the crisis and
looks certain to call an emergency session of Parliament next week.

British detectives continued to question an Algerian pilot and his wife arrested
in connection with the terrorist attacks in America.

Lotfi Raissi, 27, and his wife Sonia were held on Friday at their home in
Colnbrook, Berks. Police successfully requested an extension of custody.

An Asian taxi driver, 49, who picked up three men in Kingston, Surrey, early
yesterday was subjected to racist comments about the US atrocity, then beaten up
and covered in paint.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: FINANCIAL ATTACK: IRISH FEEL ANXIOUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 73 words


THE US attacks have left most Irish people feeling anxious, according to a new
poll.

Two-thirds of those polled said that they were "somewhat anxious" while a
further 10 per cent described themselves as "confused".

However, 17 per cent of people said that they still had a "positive" outlook.

The survey by Irishhealth.com asked its 25,000-plus registered users what the
recent events in the US had on their outlook.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: FINANCIAL ATTACK: DUBYA PRAISES PUTIN

BYLINE: Steve Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 206 words

HIGHLIGHT: CALL: Russian leader Putin


PRESIDENT Bush praised Russia and Saudi Arabia yesterday for their cooperation
in his efforts to clamp down on Islamic militants.

Bush, answering questions during a Rose Garden event, said that during his 50
-minute conversation on Saturday with Russian President Vladimir Putin, they
discussed the former Soviet Central Asian nations that border Afghanistan.

The United States has been seeking support from these nations, such as air
transit rights, as it prepares for military action against those Islamic
militants linked to Saudi exile Osama bin Laden and believed hiding in
Afghanistan.

Bush said: "Vladimir Putin clearly understands that the Cold War is over, and
that the United States and Russia can cooperate.

"'We can cooperate with a new strategic arrangement. We can cooperate in the
battle against terrorism."

Bush said Putin's was the first phone call he received from a foreign leader
after the attacks, when he was on Air Force One and troops were on alert.

"He made it clear that he would stand down their troops. He knows the Cold War
is over," Bush said of Putin.

In the past when the United States would increase the alert status of its
troops, Russia would have responded accordingly.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

A NATION MOURNS WITH ITS HEART ON ITS SLEEVE;
 ANALYSIS: ECHO REPORTER MARGARET O'REILLY WAS ON HOLIDAY IN THE STATES ON THE
DAY OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS. IN THIS SPECIAL REPORT, SHE RECALLS THE AFTERMATH
OF THE TRAGEDY AND THE EFFECT ON ORDINARY AMERICANS.

BYLINE: Margaret O'reilly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 924 words


THE view across Chicago's skyscrapers from the top of the John Hancock Tower was
so good, we made the trip twice, once at night just to see the lights sparkle. A
few days later, tourists just like us were enjoying the view across the
Manhattan skyline when they paid for it with their lives in the world's worst
terrorist attack.

In the days following those catastrophic hijackings, I wondered how many years
would pass before tourists would be able to enjoy those same landscapes without
remembering September 11.

It was a strange experience being holidaymakers in a country in mourning. We
were in no mood for sightseeing and for six days we shared Americans' shock and
sadness while also feeling like guests who had stayed too long at a party.

Although we were miles from both New York and Washington, we still felt very
vulnerable. No one knew what target would be attacked next and we still had to
get on a plane home.

During those six days we were shown great hospitality and kindness by strangers
and were moved by how a tragedy inspired so much human goodness.

As the hijackings were happening, we were planning a trip along the Mississippi
in a paddle steamer to round off the holiday.

We had stopped off at the tourist town of Galena in Northern Illinois to buy
stamps. Once the world's lead mining capital, it's now a rather sleepy town.

It was there that our American dream came to an abrupt end. The postmistress was
almost incoherent as she told of her fear for her daughter living close to the
Pentagon, the third terrorist target.

We thought she was exaggerating as she spoke through her tears of terrorists
"taking out" the World Trade Centre. "Planes are falling from the sky. It's like
Pearl Harbor.

I have to get home, " she said.

We struggled to catch the newsreader's words from the radio behind her as she
asked us our plans. "I hope you're not planning to get on a plane soon are you?"
she said. "We're flying home tomorrow, " we answered. "You won't be going
anywhere tomorrow, " she warned.

"We're at war."

We turned on the car radio to hear the worst. It was one of those few events in
a lifetime when news has the power to stun, to make everything else unreal.

More than 50,000 people had been settling down to another working day as the
Twin Towers were hit. All thoughts of a boat trip forgotten, we headed back to
our hotel where we watched the unimaginable on television.

That night a shaken President Bush addressed the nation and streets were
deserted as people listened to his words. Amongst all the television coverage,
the worst for me was the sight of a man jumping from the top of the WTC in sheer
desperation. It seemed like a violation to sit there and watch someone jump to
their death.

Over the next few days, as we waited for airports to reopen, the papers were
full of the faces of those who had died. Some were newly married, others had
just had children, some were children.

We witnessed the spirit of New Yorkers who gathered as close to Ground Zero as
they could to cheer on rescue workers by candlelight.

While the rescue efforts continued in New York, we heard stories of how the rest
of America was coping.

People stranded at airports had slept on luggage carousels while travellers
unable to find hire cars had brought brand-new models off the forecourt or made
do with ageing "clunkers" to get them home.

Four men shared a two-day, $ 3,000 taxi ride.

The Governor of Illinois intervened when four garages cashed in by increasing
the price of a gallon of petrol from $ 1.80 to $ 4. One shamed owner donated his
profits to the rescue fund and the others were ordered to follow suit.

It was sobering driving around our bolt-hole, the uninspiring town of Rockford,
about an hour from Chicago's O'Hare Airport. Hundreds of flags were at half
-mast and the letters on advertising signs outside fast-food outlets, garages
and stores had been rearranged to read, Remember the Victims in Your Prayers or
God Bless America now with a new poignancy.

It was an emotional service at the Holy Family RC Church that weekend. The
priest said the hijackers had not been insane, they had been all too responsible
for their own actions and it was right to want justice. Mothers hugged their
children tightly, constantly smoothing their hair and stroking their faces.

At the end of the service the usual hymn was replaced by the patriotic America
the Beautiful and the sound filled the church. As it ended, everyone broke into
spontaneous clapping. The collection was sent to St Patrick's in New York.

Many people wore their emotions on their sleeves during those days.

Wherever our accents were heard, waiters, hotel staff and shop assistants urged
us to "take care, travel safely and get home soon".

We met retired widower Laurell Salberg three days after the attack and hearing
that we were stranded, he insisted on taking us to dinner.

As we got into his car the strains of Cwm Rhondda, performed by the Black
Mountains Male Voice Choir, came from his CD player. We couldn't quite believe
what we were hearing in a car park in Northern Illinois but there was something
comforting about the familiar sounds when we were feeling so very far from home.

As we reached the restaurant, Lowell looked into the sky. "Look, " he said,
"vapour trails. It means there are planes in the air again.

Isn't it good to see them back?"

America was taking the words of her president to heart. It was business as
normal.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SILENT TRIBUTE A passer-by pauses to admire a mural created in;
Brooklyn, New York, to the thousands who died in the US terror attacks.; GROUND
ZERO The shattered window of a Battery Park apartment frames the scene of total
devastation at the site of the World Trade Centre in; Manhattan. Residents of
the apartments were allowed back on Sunday to check the extent of the damage.
PICTURES: GETTY IMAGES, ASSOCIATED PRESS

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

Victims of the terrorist attacks in the United States

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 56 words


The Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea will be holding a memorial service
after the recent terrorist attacks in the United States. It will take place at
St Luke's Church, Sydney Street, SW3, on Monday, October 1, at 6.30pm. The
address will be given by the Dean of the American Cathedral in Paris. All are
welcome.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 25, 2001

Business fears the worst after terror attacks.

BYLINE: Bill Jacobs (author email let_editorial@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: Bolton



BUSINESS people in Bolton are fearing the worst after the terrorist attacks in
America.

The world's most successful capitalist economy could plunge into a full-scale
recession which would have a knock-on effect in the UK and other countries.

Shortages of orders and a lack of investment would inevitably lead to job cuts
in a number of sectors.

For the moment, the aviation and travel industries are the ones taking a
hammering.

Andrew Dickson, who runs St Andrews Travel, is president of Bolton and Bury
Chamber and chairman of ABTA in the North-west.

Ringing from London just before an ABTA crisis meeting, he said his company had
so far had to cancel about 60 holidays.

But it had been largely successful in rebooking alternative destinations.

He said: "Bookings have been down 50 per cent this week, but we think the mood
is changing."

On the wider picture, he believes Bolton will cope with any recession which hits
the town as a result of recent events and the American reaction.

But he thinks many firms will have to move up a gear and work harder than they
did before.

He said: "You cannot expect small businesses to survive a downturn unless they
work harder at marketing and promoting themselves and put in the extra hours."

Nigel Samuel, chairman and chief executive of Bolton paper-makers Charles Turner
& Co, admitted: "We are worried."

The company operates in a global market which was fragile before the outrages at
the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon in Washington.

"This throws everything into chaos," Mr Samuel said.

He thought this week's interest rate reductions would help in the medium term,
but nobody could predict the final outcome until the extent of military action
was known.

Paul Dickinson, managing director of Fluidair Compressors, moved his business
from Miller Street, Radcliffe to Kent Street, Bolton, earlier this year.

Having earlier moved most of his manufacture of air compressors and air pumps to
Turkey, he is watching the international situation with particular interest.

He believes the effects on the UK economy are difficult to predict, but he
thinks some degree of recession is more likely than a growth period.

He said: "But if we have a war it will change the whole thing."

Peter Weidenbaum at Trumeter in Radcliffe, chairman of the Bolton and Bury
Export Club, says business contacts in New York are "shell-shocked" and simply
want to be left alone for a week or two.

He believes the immediate effect of the attack has been to slow down exporters'
decisions on investments and projects.

"The long term depends on what the west does now," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 25, 2001

Cancer victm's hammer attack terror

BYLINE: Catherine Smyth (author email csmyth@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: Rawtenstall



A MAN in remission from leukaemia was attacked with a hammer after he was
confronted by a group of teenagers.

Rossendale police are appealing for witnesses to the incident which happened on
the busy Rochdale Road, Bacup.

Peter Warren, 48, who lives in Bacup and is in remission after chemotherapy for
leukaemia, was left covered in blood and ran to the nearby George and Dragon pub
on Rochdale Road, to raise the alarm.

Landlady Carol McLoughlin said: "He was in a right mess and was covered in
blood. He had been very poorly and he is only just recovering from that.

"He comes into our pub on a Friday night just to play a few games of cards and
dominoes and he is a very quiet and unassuming man.

"He is a very private person who would never look for trouble or do anything to
provoke someone into doing this to him."

She said together with another lady she patched him up as best she could and
called for the police and ambulance.

Det Con Jarron Sharp said: "It was a totally unprovoked attack on a man who was
just walking home.

"He was verbally abused by a group of possibly four or five white youths and
then one of them reached into a bag and produced a hammer and just started
hitting Mr Warren about the face and head.

"There was no reason for the attack, they had not made any requests or any
demands.

"It seems to me that this gang were just out looking for a fight."

He was taken to Rochdale Infirmary suffering from a deep cut above his right eye
which needed gluing back together and a bruised cheek and allowed home after
treatment.

There is no description of the youths.

Police are appealing for anyone who was in the area at 9.50pm on Friday. and
might have seen the gang to contact Rossendale police on 01706 237442.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               September 25, 2001

US terror attacks: Services held.

BYLINE: Philip Seton-Anderson (author email philip.anderson@nqo.com)

SECTION: Education

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: Oxfordshire



Schools and colleges held special assemblies and many churches opened their
doors for prayers and special services to remember the victims.

Jonathan Smith, assistant principal of King Alfred's Community and Sports
College, in Wantage, said: "We have held assemblies throughout the college at
various times to give the students an opportunity to think about what has
happened. Obviously there is a lot of anxiety. We have alerted members of staff
responsible for counselling as we suspect many students have family and friends
in America and will be worried.

"With Wantage being the place it is, and there being so many international
companies and scientific establishments nearby, it is inevitable students or
there parents will know people affected."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               September 25, 2001

Terrorist attacks may hit tourism.

BYLINE: Andrew Ffrench (author email affrench@nqo.com)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: Oxford



Oxford's special relationship with American visitors - both students and
tourists - may be put in jeopardy by last week's devastating events across the
Atlantic.

While the city's tourism and business community both agreed it was "too early
yet" to judge the long-term impact of the terrorist attacks on September 11,
they hoped Oxford's position on the tourist trail would not suffer.

But hotels and other services in the tourist industry in west Oxfordshire are
becoming anxious about the effect of the attacks, particularly following the
effect on trade caused by the food and mouth restrictions.

James Stewart, manager of the Randolph Hotel - traditionally popular with
visiting Americans - said he hoped Oxford would not feel the same loss of custom
as places like Stratford-upon-Avon, Bath and Edinburgh because of its more
cosmopolitan market.

However, he warned the long-term effects would depend on the type and length of
campaign waged against 'international terrorism' by the Bush administration.

Mr Stewart, who also heads the tourist group on the Thames Valley Chamber of
Commerce, added: "We had cancellations on the day of the disaster but we're
fortunate that the UK has held up, and what was cancelled has been replaced.

"The tourism market ends in October and we're fortunate this didn't come at the
beginning of the season. But if it is a long campaign, I think a lot of
Americans will be staying at home next year."

Jan Hull, the city council's tourism manager, said: "Long-term we're likely to
see the effects. Fewer flights, and higher prices will have an effect on British
tourism."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 25, 2001

FBI 'struggling' with terrorist attack probe
 Agency lacks modern computers and Arabic translators, says leading US newspaper

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: AGENCY: PA, Pg.5

LENGTH: 589 words


THE investigation into the US terrorist attacks is being hamstrung by outdated
computers and a lack of translators, it emerged yesterday.

Thousands of FBI agents have been assigned to the investigation into the attacks
nearly two weeks ago which left more than 6,000 missing presumed dead, but they
are facing major logistical problems, the Washington Post revealed.

Investigators lack modern computers with Internet access, Arab translators who
can sift documents for vital evidence and have a staff of analysts, who are
mostly retrained secretaries, who are being used to answer telephones.

The newspaper revealed that most of the FBI's computers are four to eight years
old, lack high-speed Internet access and are unable to deal with most
information on the Internet or even store photographs, graphs and diagrams.

Many documents crucial to the investigation are only available on paper, making
it difficult for agents in outlying offices to get immediate access to what
could be vital information.

The agency also lacks people who speak Arabic, Farsi and Pashtu, the languages
the hijackers are believed to have spoken, a fact which prompted director Robert
Mueller to appeal for people who speak the languages to volunteer to help.

The problem goes back to 1990, when a probe into the murder of a leading rabbi
uncovered documents which were not translated.

They were later discovered to include the plans for the first bombing of the
World Trade Centre in 1993, by a band of loosely-affiliated Islamic
fundamentalists.

Michael Cherkasky, who was head of investigations at the Manhattan District
Attorney's office during the investigation into the rabbi's death, said: "You
are getting these huge amounts of material and have no way to translate it. We
had one guy who spoke Arabic."

The newspaper reported the FBI now has only "a handful" of Arab-American agents,
and struggles to recruit more.

Robert Blitzer, former director of domestic counter-terrorism, said: "If you
don't have an Arab-American agent on your staff, how the hell do you recruit
Arabs? You don't even understand the culture."

The FBI made counter-terrorism a priority in 1998, and tripled its spending on
the area, increasing its number of intelligence gatherers by 500 per cent.

But it continues to employ in the vital position of analysts people who were
originally secretaries given some retraining, and who are expected to see
patterns in the behaviour of the people the agency keeps under surveillance.

The agency changed policy in 1993, and increased educational requirements for
analysts in the wake of that year's World Trade Centre bombing. But it has not
got rid of poorly-educated analysts, while its newer recruits lack experience,
and analysts are often used to do basic administrative jobs such as answering
telephones.

Terrorism expert Martha Crenshaw, of Wesleyan University, said the situation was
"like having five super-hard jigsaw puzzles mixed in together that you have to
figure out".

She added: "But that being said, you can't recognise patterns unless you gather
information to establish some standard of behaviour and then, how do you notice
a pattern if you don't have experience?"

A former FBI administrator said: "There is a caste system in the FBI that for a
long time placed more value on the agents who collect information than on the
non-agent analysts who have to put the pieces together."

DELICATE TASK: The clear-up at the World Trade Centre continues, while dust
still covers a nearby office

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

COUNTDOWN TO WAR: TERRORISTS 'PLANNED GERM ATTACK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 229 words


TERROR strike suspects tried to borrow money for a crop-dusting plane and had
chemical transportation licences, it emerged last night amid mounting fears of
chemical or germ attacks.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft said the FBI had information which "indicates
a potential for additional terrorist incidents".

His warning came just hours after it emerged that a suspected ringleader in the
hijackings, Mohamed Atta, had asked officials how to get a government loan to
buy a crop-dusting plane.

The spray planes have been grounded in America amid fears that the suicide
terror gangs were planning to use them to spray nerve agents or other chemicals.

Mr Ashcroft revealed that people suspected of having links with the terrorist
attacks had obtained "hazardous material transportation licences".

The licences, which are issued by states for as little as pounds 70, allow the
transportation of explosives and radioactive material.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) warned Western governments of the
risk of biological attacks.

WHO's director general, Gro Harlem Brundtland said: "We must prepare for the
possibility that people are deliberately harmed with biological or chemical
agents."

She said governments should be able to contain the spreading of agents such as
anthrax, botulism and plague by using counter-measures.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

LETTER: BULLYING TO BLAME FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Harold Nash Afghan refugee children play in a river in Peshawar.
Pakistan is home to nearly two million Afghan refugees and aid agencies fear a
devastating new influx

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 534 words


Sir, - While we share the profound grief of the relatives of the victims of the
awful atrocity in New York, there remains a question: Why did they do it?

For, make no mistake, there were reasons, right or wrong, that probably millions
of deprived, desperate, alienated and impoverished Arabs and Asians can explain.

America some time ago took over the role of the world's bully-boy from us.

They speak of freedom but they have destroyed and harmed democratically elected
governments they did not like: Chile, Grenada, Cuba for a start.

They have set up terrorists who ironically in the end have turned and worked
against them.

Mandate or not, they bomb Iraq daily and their and our sanctions are causing
hunger and a grave shortage of medicaments in that blighted country.

Their sanctions against Afghanistan are adding to the poverty, hunger and
suffering there.

Furthermore any country that adopts a policy stance hostile to the interests of
US multi-national corporations is subjected to de-stabilisation, coups and the
tender mercies of the CIA and its covert allies.

Unfortunately, they are not always very clever, I feel.

I still remember with anger how a few years ago an Asian airliner, with over 400
civilian passengers on board, was shot down by an American battleship in the
Mediterranean. Two retired American officers on that ship, four or five years
after the event, were overcome by their conscience.

They confessed in a Timewatch documentary on BBC 2 that the ship's records had
been falsified to give the impression that the course flown by the Asian
civilian airliner constituted a danger to the American battleship. It was, of
course, a cover-up.

Worse still, every man on that battleship was awarded a medal for his action
with high ceremony and the bands playing 'God Bless America'.

Even more upsetting than that were the American opinion polls published by
Timewatch which revealed that, when they knew that it was an Iranian airliner
they had shot down with total loss of civilian life, almost 70 per cent of the
American population rejoiced.

Were they, were we, asked to hold a minute's silence for the 400 innocent Asian
victims? Not on your life!

Did the Americans really think that Asian and Arab countries would accept this
atrocity and subsequent rejoicing without a murmur? No. Their reprisal shortly
afterwards was Lockerbie and the lasting grief of 1,000 innocent relatives in
the west.

Up until now, the Americans seemed to have acted with complete indifference to
the consequences of their acts of terror.

Others have paid the price for them. America was immune, they thought. No
longer!

It is no doubt a futile prayer, but I still hope they will act more responsibly
in the future.

So should we all. Why not for a start all share in a co-ordinated attack on the
great underlying world injustice, the consequences of which are visible at the
Channel Tunnel and in the waters around Australia as well as in New York and
Washington? I mean the crime that one-quarter of the world owns three-quarters
of the globe's wealth.

The atrocity in New York was not without its reasons.

HAROLD NASH

Wythall.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

TESTING TIME FOR PROPERTY GROUP;
 CAUTION OVER IMPACT OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Jon Griffin Business Editor

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 316 words


PROPERTY group Marylebone Warwick Balfour Group - owners of Star City and the
Five Ways redevelopment in Birmingham - today held its breath over the impact of
the US terror outrage on the market.

The group adopted a cautious approach to the future amidst an increasingly
uncertain economic outlook and a 33 per cent fall in first half pretax profits
to pounds 7.66 million.

The diversified property group, which has businesses ranging from serviced
offices and property development through to luxury hotels, leisure and asset
managment and the Liberty department store, said it was maintaining its final
dividend at 1.4 pence per share.

Pretax profits for the year to June 30 were down from pounds 11.42 million to
pounds 7.66 million whilst turnover rose from pounds 80.91 million to pounds
250.43 million.

The company said its group properties now amount to pounds 718 million, 61 per
cent ahead of the end of the previous year while gearing was marginally higher
at 101 per cent from 99 per cent.

Chairman David Marshall said: 'We have continued our strategic approach of
creating a growing operating income stream underpinned by real estate ownership,
combined with ring-fenced

financing.'

He said it was too early to accurately assess the impact of the terrorist
activities on 11 September on the prospects for business, in particular the
effect on the property market and valuations.

MWB currently has 44 centres and 14,797 workstations which will increase to 49
centres and 16,298 workstations by June 2002, it said.

Meanwhile, the Malmaison hotels have been revalued at pounds 91.5 million up
from pounds 81.7 million and a major expansion is underway taking rooms from 460
to 838 by end-2002.

Occupancy levels were maintained at 83 per cent throughout the year.

The division's pre-tax loss of pounds 1.7 million was in line with expectations.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 26, 2001

Vox Pop: In the light of the perceived risk of terrorist attacks on Britain,
would you buy a gasmask?

SECTION: Letters, Pg.11

LENGTH: 96 words


Christabel Linn, 24, Portishead "It has not even crossed my mind to buy a gas
mask. If it gets that bad I don't think a gas mask is going to be any good."

Steve Bentley,52, Downend "I have thought a lot about what is going to happen
but I don't think a gas mask is going to be very effective. Something designed
50 years ago would probably not stand up to modern germ warfare."

Mary O'Reilly , 6 4 , Kingswood "I'm not going to buy one because I don't think
it is going to get that bad. I think America is the main target so we will not
really need them here."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Carmarthen Journal

                               September 26, 2001

Girls escape terror attack; Exclusive: Cousins cheat death in New York

BYLINE: Rachael Misstear

SECTION: CRIME; TERRORISM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 363 words


A CARMARTHENSHIRE family is celebrating a double miracle after their daughter
and niece cheated death in the New York atrocities.

Trainee teacher Amy Howells was on her way to meet her cousin Emma Pennington
who worked in the World Trade centre, when the terrorist attack occurred two
weeks ago.

Stockbroker Emma was on the 49th floor of one of the twin towers and managed to
escape unhurt.

Amy flew home on the weekend for a tearful reunion with her parents Ian and
Carol, who run Achddu Post Office in Burry Port.

Amy saw the second tower collapse from Times Square and immediately rang her
aunt who lives nearby, for news of her cousin.

She was stuck in Manhattan while her terrified parents waited for news.

"We switched on the radio and didn't realise straight away the enormity of what
had happened," said dad Ian.

"As we realised just what was going on we were in sheer panic because we knew
Amy had caught the train from my sister's in Long Island into Manhattan.

"It was a nightmare not knowing just what was going on, and we realise what so
many people must have been going through," he said.

Amy who had been in America on a summer camp since June was able to contact her
parents through her aunt.

Ian said: "We were lucky because my sister found out that Emma and Amy were
okay.

"Long distance calls were getting through and Amy finally contacted us from mid
town Manhattan." The family says it was the most stressful experience of their
lives.

"I can't describe how I was feeling before I heard from Amy. When I heard the
news flash I felt sick," said mum Carol, whose brother Marc Phillips is the
former Carmarthen director of Voluntary Services and is now chief executive of
cancer charity Tenovus.

"Amy had been away for three months in summer camp but had kept in touch all the
time," added Carol.

"It was an experience that we will obviously never forget. We are just so
grateful because we were some of the lucky few.'' Amy has now enrolled at the
University of Wales College Cardiff for her teaching course.

"We are lucky to have so much support from the community and now this is
something we just all want to put behind us," added Carol.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2001 Carmarthen Journal

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Carmarthen Journal

                               September 26, 2001

Girls escape terror attack; Exclusive: Cousins cheat death in New York

BYLINE: Rachael Misstear

SECTION: CRIME; TERRORISM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 367 words


A CARMARTHENSHIRE family is celebrating a double miracle after their daughter
and niece cheated death in the New York atrocities.

Trainee teacher Amy Howells was on her way to meet her cousin Emma Pennington
who worked in the World Trade centre, when the terrorist attack occurred two
weeks ago.

Stockbroker Emma was on the 49th floor of one of the twin towers and managed to
escape unhurt.

Amy flew home on the weekend for a tearful reunion with her parents Ian and
Carol, who run Achddu Post Office in Burry Port.

Amy saw the second tower collapse from Times Square and immediately rang her
aunt who lives nearby, for news of her cousin.

She was stuck in Manhattan while her terrified parents waited for news.

"We switched on the radio and didn't realise straight away the enormity of what
had happened," said dad Ian.

"As we realised just what was going on we were in sheer panic because we knew
Amy had caught the train from my sister's in Long Island into Manhattan.

"It was a nightmare not knowing just what was going on, and we realise what so
many people must have been going through," he said.

Amy who had been in America on a summer camp since June was able to contact her
parents through her aunt.

Ian said: "We were lucky because my sister found out that Emma and Amy were
okay.

"Long distance calls were getting through and Amy finally contacted us from mid
town Manhattan." The family says it was the most stressful experience of their
lives.

"I can't describe how I was feeling before I heard from Amy. When I heard the
news flash I felt sick," said mum Carol, whose brother Marc Phillips is the
former Carmarthen director of Voluntary Services and is now chief executive of
cancer charity Tenovus.

"Amy had been away for three months in summer camp but had kept in touch all the
time," added Carol.

"It was an experience that we will obviously never forget. We are just so
grateful because we were some of the lucky few.'' Amy has now enrolled at the
University of Wales College Cardiff for her teaching course.

"We are lucky to have so much support from the community and now this is
something we just all want to put behind us," added Carol.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2001 Carmarthen Journal



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:09:53

