



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:32:57
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 20, 2015 Tuesday 12:41 PM GMT

Police prepare for threat of terrorist attack on shoppers

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Crime & Security Editor

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 503 words


Police are training to tackle a Mumbai-style terrorist raid as the home
secretary warned yesterday that the terror threat from Syria had created a "time
of very significant danger" for Britain.

Theresa May announced a series of new anti-terrorism powers on the eve of the
publication of the long-awaited report by a parliamentary committee on ­possible
intelligence failings before the murder last year of Fusilier Lee ­Rigby in
Woolwich, southeast London.

The committee's most detailed ­report ever is understood to acknowledge the
difficulty of thwarting a "lone-wolf" attack. However, it also criticises MI5's
response to signs that Michael Adebolajo - whom the agency tried to recruit as
an informant before he ­murdered Fusilier Rigby - was becoming increasingly
volatile.

The intelligence and security ­committee has questioned Andrew Parker, MI5's
director-general, and had access to hundreds of pages of ­intelligence as it
examined the agency's contact with Adebolajo before the murder.

The Times understands that dozens of specialist officers took part in an
exercise at the Metropolitan police ­firearms range in Gravesend, Kent,
simulating an assault by terrorists.

A shopping street has been mocked up and a source said that the exercise
simulated ­terrorists running through the area opening fire indiscriminately.
"It was intensive training and pretty shocking to watch," one source said.

The Met has conducted such exercises since 2008, when 164 people died in an
Islamist assault on Mumbai. This is thought to have been the largest training
session since the Westgate Mall attack in ­Nairobi last year and since a London
plot in which suspects had acquired a firearm was foiled last month.

Police will speak to shopping centre management companies and security industry
leaders as part of Counter-terrorism Week, which began yesterday. They are also
asking commuters to be alert on their journeys and report anything "out of place
or suspicious".

Mrs May marked the effort to raise awareness of the threat by ­announcing the
range of measures she will put before parliament tomorrow in the
Counter-Terrorism and Security Bill.

Schools, universities and probation providers will be required to prevent people
from being radicalised. People suspected of terrorist activity can have their
­passports seized, be kept out of the country while they are investigated, and
be moved away from their homes. Insurance companies will be banned from making
or reimbursing ransom payments.

Airlines and internet service providers will also be obliged to retain and share
data on customers. However, Mrs May warned that the new powers to collect data
were "limited" and she emphasised that it would be necessary to return to the
question of law enforcement agencies' access to communications data in the next
parliament.

Mrs May said: " When the security and intelligence agencies tell us that the
threat we face is now more dangerous than at any time before or since 9/11, we
should take notice."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 20, 2015 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

More troops stand by for terror attack

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes Sean O'Neill, Defence Editor

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 206 words


The number of soldiers on standby in Britain to respond to a Paris-style
atrocity is set to increase, a Whitehall source has told The Times.

A battalion of several hundred troops is already primed to react to any kind of
emergency, from floods to a terrorist attack. "We are probably going to expand
the amount of capacity we have got," the source said.

France deployed 10,000 soldiers to guard sensitive sites after the attacks
earlier this month against the Charlie Hebdo offices and a Jewish supermarket in
Paris.

General Sir Mike Jackson, a former head of the army, said the Ministry of
Defence could activate the same level of response if requested. "We have got an
army of 82,000 even after reductions," Sir Mike said.

Contingency plans are being drawn up to ensure that the military is prepared to
respond to any kind of attack on British soil should their assistance be
requested by the police, according to two Whitehall sources.

A spokesman for the army said: "There are no current plans to mobilise large
number of UK troops following the tragic events in France last week. As you
would expect, potential responses to threats are regularly reviewed as part of
prudent contingency planning but we wouldn't discuss the details."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Ukrainian military says stopped new attack by "Russian-terrorist troops"

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 21 January

[Presenter] The Ukrainian army has stopped an assault by Russian-terrorist
forces near the 29th and 31st checkpoints [in Luhansk Region]. At Donetsk
airport, a fierce special operation to liberate territory from Russian soldiers
and terrorists is being conducted at this moment. Antiterrorist operation
headquarters spokesman Roman Turovets has just told 5 Kanal about this.

[Turovets] The night in the antiterrorist operation zone was quite tense in the
areas of checkpoints 29 and 31. After a tough battle, our forces stopped the
Russian-terrorists forces. The battle at Donetsk airport continues, and a
special operation is under way to liberate airport facilities.

[The deputy defence minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic,
Eduard Basurin, has said that 120 Ukrainian soldiers were killed and seven taken
prisoner in the past 24 hours at Donetsk airport, the pro-separatist website
Russkaya vesna reported at 0500 gmt on 21 January.]

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0600 gmt 21 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Iranian foreign minister says Israeli air strike "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 245 words


Excerpt of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 21 January: Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif strongly
condemned Israel's Sunday [18 January] attack on the Syrian Golan Heights that
killed an Iranian military adviser and six Hezbollah members, saying that the
raid showed the close cooperation between Israel and the Takfiri [pejorative
term used to refer to extremist Islamists who brand other Muslim non-believers]
terrorists." The aggressive act of the Zionist regime in Golan (Heights) is
another sign of cooperation between this regime and the Takfiri terrorists,"
Zarif said in a meeting with secretary-general of the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) [Ahmad Jibril] in Tehran on Wednesday [21
January].

The Iranian foreign minister reiterated that Israel's terrorist attack was
carried out to aid Takfiri terrorists in Syria following their repeated defeats
and retreats in the battle against the Damascus army in recent months.

Jibril, for his part, condemned Israel's attack on the Hezbollah resistance
movement in the Golan Heights, and said, "The experience of the resistance
movement's victories, including the 22-day (Gaza) and the 33-day (Lebanon) wars,
shows that resistance is the only way to fully retrieve the Palestinian nations'
rights against the Zionist occupiers."

[Passage omitted: background]

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1655 gmt 21 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bristol Post

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

A terrorist behind bars cannot attack Britain

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 10-11

LENGTH: 169  words


IT is the duty of the government to ensure the safety of the British people at
all times is it not?

In the light of the dreadful happenings in France even more so.

The Government now proposes to remove the British passports from the people who
have gone off to join the Islamic terrorist war in the Middle East in an effort
to do just that.

A criminal locked up in prison cannot commit a crime. An Islamic terrorist kept
out of Britain cannot commit an act of terrorism in Britain. Or is that too
simple?

Yet there is a committee (there always is) who don't see it that way.

The Joint Committee on Human Rights and Civil Liberties, who else?

These people, led by Hywel Francis MP (pictured) oppose this common sense
measure, how any person who takes up arms against a state that Britain is not at
war with is committing treason.

Somebody in the Labour Party should remind Mr Francis of this. And less of the
human rights and more of the human responsibility wouldn't go amiss, would it
not comrades?

Mr J Knapp

Bristol

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Terror attacks take toll on economic growth

BYLINE: CUI JIA and GAO BO

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 543 words


Terrorist attacks in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region have harmed economic
growth, the regional development and reform commission said on Tuesday.

The tourism industry, especially in southern Xinjiang, was hit hard in 2014
because the fear of random terrorist attacks made some people choose not to
travel to Xinjiang a popular tourist destination in China.

Although Xinjiang's GDP grew by 10 percent in 2014, higher than the national
average of 7.4 percent, it failed to reach the 11 percent growth target.

This was mostly because of the slowdown in tourism, according to a report
released by the commission on the sidelines of the annual session of the 12th
Xinjiang Regional People's Congress, which opened on Tuesday.

Tourism brought income of 65 billion yuan ($10.5 billion) to Xinjiang in 2014, a
3.4 percent decrease year-on-year. The income from foreign visitors dropped by
15 percent compared with the previous year, said Yinam Naserdin, director of the
regional tourism bureau.

Sales in more than 70 percent of hotels in Xinjiang fell below last year's
levels.

Meanwhile, a campaign to reduce terrorist attacks and prevent them from
spreading to other parts of China has shown initial results, Shohrat Zakir, the
newly appointed acting chairman of Xinjiang, said in a report released on
Tuesday.

Both the central and regional government allocated special funds in 2014 for the
campaign to support legal departments in Xinjiang to step up efforts to prevent
and respond to terrorist attacks, according to the regional department of
finance.

The yearlong campaign, which also aims to prevent large-scale terrorist attacks
in the region, was launched the day after a terrorist attack at a morning market
in the capital Urumqi on May 22 left 39 people dead and 94 injured. The campaign
will be extended to at least the end of this year, Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang's
Party chief, said this month.

A series of terrorist attacks struck the region in 2014. On July 28, the
terrorist attack in Shache county, southern Xinjiang's Kashgar prefecture,
claimed 37 lives and injured 13 people. Fifty-nine terrorists were shot dead at
the scene and 215 arrested.

"Everyone, every department and every prefecture, should contribute to the
region's long-term, complicated and tough battle against separatism and
terrorism because it's an urgent mission in 2015," Shohrat said. "We must solve
the problems of tradition with respect and handle religious issues with the rule
of religion. Meanwhile, we must use the rule of law to crack down on terrorism."

Shohrat said increasing employment in southern Xinjiang, which is relatively
less developed, and giving priority to education are both key to ensuring the
region's long-term stability.

"The regional government will provide vocational training for all junior or
senior high school graduates in southern Xinjiang and teach them the national
common language of China so they can find suitable jobs," he said.

Xinjiang will also support Han Chinese students and students from other ethnic
groups studying together in the same schools, instead of going to segregated
schools. They are also encouraged to sit in the same classes and live in the
same dormitories, Shohrat added.

Contact the writers through cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 9:17 AM GMT

Gateshead burglar who was brutally attacked by a terrorist in jail is sent back
behind bars;
Malcolm Cruddas, once attacked with boiling chip fat by a bomb plotter in
Frankland Prison, has been locked up again for burgling a family home

BYLINE: By Rob Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 527 words


A serial burglar who was once attacked with boiling chip fat by a terrorist in
prison is back behind bars after raiding a family home.

Convicted robber Malcolm Cruddas was brutally attacked by fertiliser bomb
plotter Omar Khyam while the pair were serving sentences in high security
Frankland Prison in 2008.

That attack, following similar incidents, led to speculation about a race war
inside the Durham prison.

Now Cruddas is back in prison after a young woman found him in her home in
Gateshead piling valuables into a cat's blanket he had turned into a swag bag.

The 39-year-old had only been out of jail for a few months following a previous
break-in and has now been locked up for more than two years.

Sentencing him at Newcastle Crown Court, Judge Brian Forster told the crook:
"It's important that anyone reading about this case understands that anyone who
commits an offence in someone else's home commits a very serious offence and
they must expect a significant period of imprisonment.

"This was a shocking offence. You took the opportunity to go into someone else's
home. It is their home and they are entitled to choose who goes into it.

"You were in the process of collecting items to take when the householder's
daughter came back and saw you.

"On any view that must have been a terrifying experience for that person."

The burglary happened at a family home on Egremont Drive, Gateshead, on November
13.

The man and woman of the house went to bed around 9.30pm but left the back door
unlocked as their daughter was due home from work.

Prosecutor Simon Worthy said: "She came home around 11.15pm and was immediately
suspicious because there was a light on downstairs which was very rarely left
on.

"She went into the dining room and saw a cat's blanket had been moved and was
knotted and in a bundle. That was in fact his swag bag.

"She saw the kitchen door open and saw a male figure. On realising he had been
seen the defendant ducked and ran off."

Cruddas had put a stereo, speakers, keys, remote controls and a bottle of wine
into the knotted cat's blanket but left it behind when disturbed.

He also left his fingerprints on the stereo so was easily caught by police.

Cruddas, of Strathmore Road, Gateshead, who has more than 70 previous
convictions, pleaded guilty to burglary and was jailed for two years and 146
days.

He was jailed for 10 years in 2001 for robbery and had confrontations with
burglary victims in 2010 and 2012 . He also admitted an attempted burglary in
2013.

In the 2012 burglary, a 65-year-old victim came back to find Cruddas still
inside his house at Leam Lane, Gateshead.

In 2010 he was inside again after ransacking the Gateshead home of a young
couple. They had caught him cramming a suitcase with £3,000 worth of their
possessions.

Cruddas was serving the robbery jail term when Omar Khyam - on a life sentence
for planning fertiliser bomb atrocities in shopping centres and nightclubs -
poured boiling chip fat over his head at top-security Frankland Prison near
Durham in 2008.

He was given morphine and needed skin grafts while armed police kept a 24-hour
guard during his two weeks of treatment at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 4:25 PM GMT

Bus passengers stabbed in suspected terror attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 238 words


AT least 11 people have been injured after a suspected terror attack in Israel.

Police shot a Palestinian man who stabbed multiple people with a knife on a
packed bus in the city of Tel Aviv.

The suspect, understood to be a 23-year-old illegal worker, was wounded as he
tried to flee the scene.

Officers are on high alert to prevent further attacks.

Three of the victims were in a serious condition.

Israeli police

The incident took place during the morning rush hour in the city.

A police statement said: "The terrorist stabbed the bus driver several times but
the driver fought back until he [the suspect] fled on foot and was neutralised
by a guard from the prisons' service."

Witnesses reported the driver used pepper spray to fend off the suspected
terrorist.

A prisons' service officer known only as Benny described how the shocking attack
took place.

"We saw the bus swerve to the side... then stop at a green light," he said.

"Suddenly we saw people running out of the bus and when we saw them shouting for
help, we jumped out... and started running after the terrorist.

"At first we fired in the air, then at his legs."

Israel's Prime Minister has blamed Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas
for the bus attack.

Benjamin Netanyahu said the mass stabbing was "the direct result of the
poisonous incitement being disseminated by the Palestinian Authority against the
Jews and their state".

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 2:08 PM GMT

France boosts anti-terror measures in wake of Paris attacks;
Prime minister Manuel Valls announces greater surveillance and more police and
intelligence officers to combat terrorism

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 655 words


The French government has announced a (EURO)425m (£326m) programme to combat
terrorism, two weeks after a series of attacks left 20 dead, including three
Islamist gunmen.

Measures announced by the prime minister, Manuel Valls, include greater
surveillance to root out terrorist suspects, hundreds more intelligence
officers, gendarmes and police and better equipment for security services.

Three police officers died in the recent attacks in Paris, which started when
gunmen stormed the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The programme includes measures to prevent youngsters becoming radicalised, the
separation of religious fundamentalists in prisons and the prosecution of those
who spread or support terrorism on the internet.

Constitutional experts are also looking at whether convicted terrorists who hold
dual nationality can be stripped of their French citizenship.

Valls, who was flanked by the justice, foreign, interior and defence ministers
as he made the announcement, warned there could be no "zero risk" against
"determined individuals and well-organised networks".

However, he said the government would fight terrorism with "determination,
perseverance and coherent action".

France has been on its highest security alert since the terrorist attacks that
rocked the country and brought millions on to the streets in demonstrations of
support for republican values.

About 122,000 police and military personnel - including 10,500 troops - have
been deployed across France to protect public places.

"We are well aware that the combat against terrorism, jihadism and radical
Islamism will be a long battle," Valls said, adding that French security
services had about 3,000 people under surveillance.

Among these were about 1,300 French or foreigners living in France suspected of
links with terrorists networks in Syria and Iraq in the past year. The figure
had increased 130% in 12 months, Valls added.

Several hundred more were involved in jihadi networks or "cyber-jihadism" on the
internet.

"This upping of the [security] level is a tough challenge for our country and
our partners, especially those in Europe. It is clear we have to reinforce our
cooperation to identify the terrorists and track their movements, as well as
reinforce police and legal cooperation with third-party states, particularly
those that are transit countries for jihad zones."

Valls said nearly 2,700 extra people would be employed in the next three years
in the war against terrorism, 1,400 in the interior ministry, 950 in the justice
ministry, 250 for defence and 80 for the finance ministry, including 70 new
customs posts. A total of 1,100 of the new jobs would be in the intelligence
services.

The measures would cost (EURO)425m over the next three years, with an additional
(EURO)60m spent over the same time period on attempting to prevent youngsters
becoming radicalised.

Valls added that France had been hit by terrorism "as it has never been hit
before". "This terrible shock has reminded us of the gravity of the threat which
our country faces permanently," he added..

The prime minister said the battle including addressing racism and antisemitism
as well as what he described as "unacceptable inequality", a reference to parts
of the rundown banlieues with high migrant communities, high poverty rates and
rampant unemployment that are seen as breeding grounds for religious extremism.

Referring to the rioting that took place in many of these areas in 2005, Valls
said: "When you have such high levels of poverty, where people of similar
origins live in similar poverty ... it's not a great surprise that these areas
become real tinderboxes."

"We are determined to take measures to assure the safety of the French. We are
determined to fight against radicalisation ... we are determined to restate our
values and show in the best way possible that, faced with terror, democracy and
the state of law will not give in, will never give in."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 8:33 AM GMT

Several wounded in Tel Aviv bus attack;
Israeli police arrest Palestinian man reported to have stabbed at least nine
people in suspected terrorist attack in central Tel Aviv

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont in Jerusalem

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 605 words


At least nine people have been injured on a bus in central Tel Aviv - injuring
four seriously - in a knife attack by a Palestinian man who was then shot and
arrested while trying to escape.

The attack - which police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said was being treated as a
terrorist incident - took place at about 7.15am on a number 40 bus crowded with
commuters during the rush hour.

According to Israeli police, the man boarded the bus on Menachem Begin Road and
stabbed the driver in the chest after the vehicle had travelled about 400 metres
from the stop. The driver was identified as 55-year-old Herzl Biton.

Pictures of the weapon used in the attack showed a large kitchen knife. Its
blade had been bent and its wooden handle broken off. It was not immediately
clear if all of those injured in the attack suffered stab wounds.

"Shortly after he boarded the bus, the assailant stabbed the driver several
times but ... he resisted the attack and in this way the terrorist was
surprised," Tel Aviv police chief Bentzi Sau told reporters at the scene.

In their first comments after the incident, senior Israeli officials suggested
there had been no warning prior to the attack and that it was unclear if the man
belonged to a militant group.

A vehicle ferrying prisoners to a court hearing was following the bus and
officers pursued the assailant as he fled into a nearby street where he was shot
in the leg and arrested.

Speaking to army radio, one of the prison service officers involved, identified
as Benny Botershvili, said: "We saw the bus swerve to the side ... then stop at
a green light. Suddenly, we saw people running out of the bus and when we saw
them shouting for help, we jumped out (of our vehicle) and I and three others
started running after the terrorist. At first we fired in the air, then at his
legs. The terrorist fell, we handcuffed him and turned him over to police."

Moses Collins, a witness who was in a bus behind, described seeing the bus in
front swerving in the road and stop before a man ran out of it. As passengers on
Collins' bus got off, they could see injured passengers covered in blood.

Another witness told the Israeli news website Ynet: "We were in our car behind
the bus. Suddenly we saw people getting off and running, screaming, and crying
hysterically. We didn't know what to do. We were scared he was going to come
towards us. Several ambulances arrived and they just evacuated everyone."

Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls the Gaza Strip, did not claim
responsibility but praised Wednesday's attack as "brave and heroic" in a tweet
by Izzat Risheq, a Hamas leader residing in Qatar.

The stabbing was a "natural response to the occupation and its terrorist crimes
against our people", Risheq said.

The incident took place after period of relative calm following a summer and
autumn marked by violence in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories.

The stabbing is the latest in a series of "lone-wolf" attacks that have plagued
Israel in recent months. About a dozen people have been killed in Palestinian
attacks, including five people attacked with guns and meat cleavers in a bloody
assault on a Jerusalem synagogue.

Most of the violence has occurred in Jerusalem, though there have been other
attacks in Tel Aviv and the West Bank. In Jerusalem, the violence followed
months of tension between Jews and Palestinians in east Jerusalem, the section
of the city the Palestinians demand as their future capital.

The area experienced unrest and near-daily attacks by Palestinians after a wave
of violence last summer, capped by a 50-day war between Israel and Hamas
militants in Gaza.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 6:31 PM GMT

Tel Aviv bus attack: Israeli police shoot suspect who 'stabbed at least nine
people' in terror attack;
At least three victims are believed to be in a 'serious condition'

BYLINE: Victoria Richards

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 536 words


Israeli police have shot an attacker reported to have stabbed up to 12 people on
a bus in central Tel Aviv.

At least three of the victims are in a "serious condition", Israeli newspaper
Haaretz said.

The stabbing took place on the Ma'ariv bridge, police said, and the attacks
happened inside and outside of the bus.

Police spokeswoman Luba Samri said that the assailant - named as 23-year-old
Palestinian Hamza Mohammed Matroukh, from the West Bank city of Tulkarem, who is
believed to have entered Israel illegally - was shot and lightly wounded in the
leg after trying to escape. He has been taken into custody.

Officials are treating the incident as a "terror attack", police spokesman Micky
Rosenfeld said on Twitter.

In pictures: Tel Aviv bus attack

He said that the area around the bridge had been closed and officers were
patrolling the area to "prevent any further attack", which took place during
morning rush hour.

Police said Mr Matroukh had confessed to the stabbing. They claimed he said that
he carried it out "in response to last year's Gaza war" and tensions surrounding
a Jerusalem site holy to Jews and Muslims.

Officials said: "The terrorist stabbed the bus driver several times but the
driver fought back until he [the suspect] fled on foot and was neutralised by a
guard from the prisons' service."

"He had murder in his eyes," a bus passenger who gave her name as Orly, told
Israel Radio.

There have been conflicting reports of the number of casualties in the attack.

While Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported 12 people had been wounded, with three
in a serious condition, Associated Press reports said nine people had been
stabbed, with four wounded seriously.

A report from the Reuters news agency meanwhile claimed seven people had been
stabbed and wounded on the bus.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu blamed the Palestinian Authority for the
attack, saying it was a "direct result of the Palestinian Authority's venomous
incitement against the Jews and their state". He said in a statement: "The same
terror tries to hurt us in Paris, Brussels and everywhere."

Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman added: "It's all part of the same process of
undermining Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state."

Izzat al-Risheq, a member of Hamas' political bureau, described the attack as a
"heroic act," according to Haaretz.

"The attack carried out this morning is a bold, heroic act and a natural
response to the crimes of the occupation and terrorism against the Palestinian
people," he is reported to have said.

There have been a series of 'lone-wolf' terror attacks in East Jerusalem and the
West Bank since the end of the war in Gaza last summer.

Two weeks ago, a young Jewish man in Jerusalem was stabbed in the back with a
screwdriver, and in November, four rabbis and a policeman were killed in a
frenzied attack on a synagogue in Har Nof.

In the same month, an Israel Defense Forces soldier was stabbed and killed in a
terror attack near the Haganah train station in south Tel Aviv.

Additional reporting by Reuters

Read more: Synagogue attack: Israeli PM Netanyahu vows to won 'battle for
Jerusalem' Read more: Israeli PM vows to respond with a 'heavy hand' after four
killed

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 4:58 PM GMT

French Prime Minister announces 736m euros to combat terrorism in wake of
Charlie Hebdo attacks;
France estimates the number of jihadist activists, sympathisers and
fellow-travellers in the country at '3,000 people'

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 747 words


France today unveiled a 736 million euro plan to avoid its anti-terror defences
being "submerged" by a rapidly expanding jihadist threat.

Two weeks' after the Charlie Hebdo massacre, the Prime Minister, Manuel Valls,
said that 2,680 new anti-terrorist judges, security agents, police officers,
electronic eaves-droppers and analysts would be hired and trained over three
years.

The government will also ask parliament to consider reviving the official pariah
status - or "national disgrace" - which was imposed on collaborators' after
World War Two. Anyone convicted of terrorist acts or jihadist propaganda could
be stripped of civic rights and banned from jobs in national or local government

A register will be created to monitor the addresses and movements of known
jihadist sympathisers. Rules governing phone-tapping and monitoring of social
media will be relaxed. An extra 736m euros will be spent over three years -
including 480m euros on new weapons and protective equipment for police.

"Without a massive and rapid reinforcement of our means, our services will be
submerged" by the most serious terrorist threat that France has ever faced, Mr
Valls said.

He said that intelligence officials now estimated the number of jihadist
activists, sympathisers and fellow-travellers in France at "3,000 people" -
double the figure previously given.

More than 1,000 of the new posts will be for internal intelligence and security
- and especially for phone-bugging and the surveillance of emails and social
media. At present, France has the capacity to "bug" only 2,000 people at one
time.

The plan was announced exactly two weeks after the attack on Charle Hebdo
magazine which began three days of terrorist mayhem in Paris which killed 17
people. Earlier, the Paris chief prosecutor, François Molins, confirmed that
preliminary charges of "associating with terrorists" had been brought against
four young men from the southern Paris suburbs.

The men, aged between 23 and 28, were neighbours and childhood friends of Amédy
Coulibaly, the gunman who murdered five people in the days following the attack
on the magazine. They were named only as "Willy P., Christophe R., Tonino G. and
Mickael A."

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo shooting

The European first names appeared to confirm leaks from the investigation that
the young men were not jihadist sympathisers but petty criminals who helped
Coulibaly to assemble his arsenal of guns and explosives.

The Paris prosecutor Mr Molins admitted yesterday that the investigation into
the related attack on Charlie Hebdo by the Kouachi brothers had made little
progress.

There was also embarrassment for the French authorities  yesterday in the
revelation that Coulibaly was questioned by a routine police patrol 10 days
before the terrorist attacks. The officers reported that he was behaving
suspiciously and should be monitored but their advice was ignored.

Mr Valls has already admitted that there were "failures" in French intelligence
in the weeks before the attacks. Hence, in part, his concentration today was on
reinforcing the numbers and powers of security services.

Hundreds of new surveillance officers are to be trained. The rules for official
eavesdropping will be relaxed to allow "express"  decisions on phone-taps. A
proposed new surveillance law is to be fast-tracked to extend existing
phone-tapping powers to social media and the internet.

Mr Valls insisted however that all bugging decisions would have to be approved
by an independent judge. There was no question, he said, of France abandoning
the civil liberties that it was fighting to protect.

Mr Valls and President François Hollande have been under pressure from
right-wing politicians to introduce a French equivalent of the repressive and
intrusive US Patriot Act imposed after the 9/11 attacks in New York and
Washington in 2001.

The former President Nicolas Sarkozy has spoken of "stripping" French
nationality from anyone who travels to Syria or Iraq to fight with Islamic
State. Mr Valls said that he would not go down this route  but he would ask
parliamentary leaders to consider the re-introduction of the status of "national
disgrace" which was abolished in 1951.

To try to prevent the radicalisation of young people in prison, five separate,
holding centres within French jails are to be created for jihadist convicts.
Chérif Kouachi, one of the Charlie Hebdo killers, and Amédy Coulibaly, the man
who attacked a Jewish supermarket in Paris, were both radicalised in prison.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 9:03 AM GMT

Paris attacks: Four men charged with links to terrorist attacks by Amedy
Coulibaly;
The four men have been charged with offences including helping to plan terror
attacks and possession of weapons

BYLINE: Roisin O'Connor

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 392 words


Four men have been charged with links to the terrorist attacks in Paris that
occurred earlier this month, the prosecutor's office has said.

Paris Prosecutor Francois Molins said that the men were handed preliminary
charges overnight of association with terrorism. The men are 22, 25, 26 and 28
years old and are suspected of providing logistical support to Amedy Coulibaly,
one of the terrorists killed by police. They are being held in custody until
further investigation.

Three of the four had criminal records while at least one met Coulibaly in
prison, M. Molins said.

He said that authorities in France are working with other countries to search
for other possible suspects, and added that investigators are trying to uncover
who was responsible for the posthumous video of Coulibaly, which was edited and
released days after he and the Charlie Hebdo gunmen Said and Cherif Kouachi were
killed by police.

In the video, Coulibaly pledges allegiance to the Islamic State group and
details how the attacks were coordinated by the three men.

Police probing the attacks on the Charlie Hebdo headquarters and a kosher
grocery in eastern Paris arrested 12 people on the night of 15 January and in
the early hours of the following day.

Under French law, they will be held in custody while an investigating magistrate
builds a case. The other suspects have all been released.

Nine men and three women were questioned on suspicion of providing logistical
support to the killers, the Interior Ministry announced at the time of the
attacks.

France is currently still on the highest alert and has deployed over 120,000
police and soldiers across the country to protect vulnerable buildings such as
schools and train stations.

Anti-Charlie Hebdo protests around the world

Police said that the DNA of one of those arrested was found on a weapon used by
Amedy Coulibaly: who killed a police officer in a Paris suburb on 8 January and
then murdered four hostages at a kosher grocery store in the Porte de Vincennes,
eastern Paris, the next day.

DNA of another man was found in the car Coulibaly drove to the grocery, Europe1
radio reported.

The three gunmen were killed in almost simultaneous assaults by the police on 9
January.

Police are still investigating the degree of coordination between the two
attacks.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 7:26 AM GMT

US Senator Chuck Schumer wants to change bomb-making law he says could prevent
terrorist attacks;
Current law does not outlaw making bombs at home, only storing and transporting
them.

BYLINE: Payton Guion

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 338 words


Senior American politician Chuck Schumer said he was surprised to find out there
was a loophole in a US law that allows people to make bombs in their homes and
has proposed closing that loophole to help prevent future terrorist attacks.

"It is shocking to learn that it is not illegal for an individual to build an
explosive device at home," Mr Schumer said while speaking at a recent event in
New York. "There's absolutely no good reason to build an explosive device in
one's home."

Homemade bombs were used in three infamous terrorist attacks in the US over the
last 25 years: the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the 1995 Oklahoma City
bombing and the 2013 bombing at the Boston Marathon. Such bombs have also played
a small part in other notorious events, such as the 1999 massacre at Columbine
High School.

A variety of readily available substances can be used to make explosives in the
home, and Mr Schumer mentioned fireworks and instant ice packs as an example of
those substances.

"It's critical we criminalize homemade explosive making," Mr Schumer said at the
event.

As the law is written, it is illegal for any business to make a bomb without
paying the required fees and obtaining the proper licensing, according to the
website for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.

The law also says it's illegal for people to store and transport explosives,
Jennifer Cicolani, spokeswoman for the bureau, told The Independent. But it does
not explicitly say that making a bomb at home is illegal.

It is unclear how popular bomb-making is in the US, as there appear to be no
such hobby groups on the internet. An internet search turned up several websites
with instructions on how to make bombs, however. Recently, both al-Qaeda and the
Islamic State have published bomb-making manuals.

Mr Schumer said he is planning to introduce a bill that would allow the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and other agencies to arrest people
caught making homemade bombs.

Follow Payton Guion on Twitter @PaytonGuion.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Secretary condemns terrorist attack in Israel

LENGTH: 134 words


January 21, 2015

Following a knife attack on a Tel Aviv bus this morning, which left several
injured, the Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said:



I strongly condemn the terrorist attack on passengers on the bus on Begin Road
in Tel Aviv this morning. This was a cowardly and senseless attack. Violent
attacks of this nature only undermine the cause of peace.

My thoughts are with all those who were affected in this attack; and I wish
those injured a swift recovery.

Every Israeli and Palestinian has a right to live in peace and security. We call
on all to ensure calm.

Further information

Follow the Foreign Secretary on twitter @PHammondMP

Follow the Foreign Office on twitter @foreignoffice

Follow the Foreign Office on facebook and Google+

Media enquiries

Email newsdesk@fco.gov.uk

News Desk 020 7008 3100

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                    January 21, 2015 Wednesday 11:28 AM GMT

9/11 play unites Manchester's faith communities in wake of Paris terror attacks;

Religious leaders gathered for a preview performance of the Towers of Babel, by
Bolton playwright Nick Yardley

BYLINE: By Emily Heward

LENGTH: 590 words


September 11, 2001, is a date forever scarred on all our memories and the recent
Paris terror attacks were another bleak reminder of that fateful day.

It's against this backdrop that an award-winning drama inspired by the events of
9/11 will be staged at a Manchester Jewish centre, which is opening its doors to
the city's other faith communities in the hope of spreading the play's message
of tolerance.

Religious leaders gathered at Manchester Maccabi Community and Sport Centre in
Prestwich for a special preview of The Towers of Babel ahead of a string of
performances in March.

The play, by Bolton plasterer-turned-playwright Nick Yardley, tells the story of
a Jewish father, Vince, and his son, Justin, who is a New York radio presenter
on a station that sits in the shadow of the World Trade Centre when the atrocity
unfolds.

Nick, 47, a creative writing graduate from Bolton University, said the idea came
to him from encounters with clients during his day job as a plasterer and tiler.

He said: "My day-to-day work means I meet different people all the time and one
particular day I was speaking with a Jewish lady, who was telling me how the
media was biased against Jews - then half an hour later I was in a different
house with two Muslim guys, who were saying the exact same but opposite thing.

"I thought 'they can't both be right', and that's the point at which it occurred
to me that people are all very similar.

"All these people are going around in conflict feeling they are very different
but actually they are all very similar in their hopes and dreams and fears.

The play has already been performed at Bolton Octagon, where it won an award for
outstanding achievement in drama, and Manchester's 24:7 Theatre Festival.

But its message now has an added resonance in the wake of the bloodbath at the
offices of satirical French magazine Charlie Hebdo and the murders of four
Jewish hostages in a kosher supermarket in Paris two days later.

Jewish communities on both sides of the Channel have been on high alert over
potential copycat attacks since, while Muslims have been left fearing
Islamophobic reprisals.

Tensions between the two groups were already running high in Manchester, with
angry clashes between Palestine and Israel supporters during last summer's Gaza
protests, and a reported surge in antisemitic crime around the same time.

Nick, who is from a Jewish background, said: "I think it's nice that Manchester
Maccabi is offering what is, in effect, an olive branch.

"The message at the heart of the play is one of tolerance between all faiths so
the idea is to try to get as many different ethnic and religious communities to
come along and watch.

"Having the backing of all these interfaith groups, it now sits into something a
little bit bigger than I originally intended and that feels like a positive
thing, the idea that a piece of fiction can help towards making the situation
between faiths better.

"Of course not everyone is going to come away thinking they are going to make
the world a better place, most people will just enjoy a heartwarming story about
a day in history that all of us remember.

"But hopefully they'll also take away the message that we're all pretty similar,
irrespective of culture, religion, colour or creed. Most of us want the same
things."

The Towers of Babel runs from Saturday March 14 to Sunday March 22, with
performances at 8pm every night except Friday. There will also be two matinee
performances at 1.30pm on Wednesday March 18 and Thursday March 19. Tickets cost
£9 and are on sale now.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    January 21, 2015 Wednesday 10:14 AM GMT

Pakistan announces it will arm TEACHERS so they can 'engage terrorists'
following Taliban attack that left 134 children dead

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 681 words



     ·    Officials say it will allow teachers to fight off militants while
          waiting for help
     ·    About 40 schools have been granted licences and hundreds are waiting
     ·    But critics say the move will put children at even greater risk of
          attack


Teachers in the province of Pakistan where more than 150 people were killed in a
terror attack on a school last month will be allowed to carry guns to 'engage'
terrorists.

Officials in Peshawar, capital of Khyber Pakthunkhwa province, said the move
would allow teachers to fight off terrorists 'for [an] initial five to 10
minutes' before back-up arrives.

It comes after Pakistani Taliban militants killed 134 children and nine staff in
an attack on a military-run school in the city on December 16, Pakistan's
bloodiest massacre in years.

But critics are warning the move to arm teachers could put children at even
greater risk, as well as affect teachers' performance at work.

Dr Shahid Iqbal, head of the Department of Psychology at Urdu University
Karachi, told World Bulletin he thought it was one of the 'most stupid' school
security ideas he had ever seen.

'One does not have to be genius to figure out the psychological impact on a
student who knows that he is being taught by an armed person. He will feel
threatened and insecure,' he said.

He speculated that arguments between students and armed teachers, particularly
in colleges or universities, could spark another bloody tragedy.

'This is a well-known fact that the people of KP province are more stressed and
scared than people of any other province because of a long spell of terrorism
there,' he said. 'In these circumstances, a panicked or distressed teacher may
take any unpleasant and undesirable action.'

Imtiaz Gilani, vice-chancellor of Peshawar Engineering University, also opposed
the move.

'A teacher's job is not to engage himself in security related issues but to
teach students,' he said. 'Students of colleges or universities may not feel
threatened by an armed teacher but definitely it will have highly negative
impact on school children.'

North-west Pakistan has been gripped by a raging Islamist insurgency for more
than a decade, and Khyber Pakthunkhwa borders both the country's
militant-plagued tribal belt and Afghanistan.

Local government officials said some 40 schools have already been issued with
firearms licences and hundreds more are awaiting them. They insisted the
licenses were being issued only to private schools for them to hire private
security guards, in line with official guidelines.

But that claim contradicted the words of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa information minister
Mushtaq Ahmad Ghani in a press conference last week.

He told reporters on January 13: 'The provincial cabinet has decided to allow
teachers and other staff members to keep their licensed weapons with them so
that in case of any eventuality they could engage attackers for initial five to
10 minutes before personnel of law-enforcement agencies will show up to respond
to the attack.'

The 35,000 educational institutions - including schools, colleges and
universities - across Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have been ordered to beef up security
following the brutal attack on the Army Public School in Peshawar.

Mr Ghani also announced earlier this month that authorities would build walls at
least 8ft high around government-run education institutions, and would also
introduce community policing systems whereby civilians with experience operating
weapons would be trained and paid to guard educational facilities.

Private sector schools, colleges and universities have meanwhile been issued
with strict guidelines with requirements including having guards, Mr Ghani said,
adding that schools' licenses could be revoked if they did not follow the rules.

In response to the Taliban attack, Pakistan's parliament last week passed a
constitutional amendment approving the establishment of military courts to hear
terrorism-related cases.

Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif also lifted the country's six-year-old moratorium on
the use of the death penalty, reinstating it for terror cases in the wake of the
slaughter at the school.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AFTER all the terrorist attacks [...]

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 192 words


AFTER all the terrorist attacks in recent years, I can't believe the anti-terror
laws have not been amended to overrule the Human Rights Act.

Our failure to deport al-Qaeda fundraiser Baghdad Meziane shows how antiquated
and unfit for purpose our terror legislation is.

ASHLEY SMITH March, Cambs

POPE Francis, pictured, is totally wrong to say that people should be punched
for mocking religion. The terrorists making their way through the killing fields
of the Middle East will feel vindicated.

SEAN SPILLANE Luton

THE answer to the Calais problem of immigrants is simple. Our inspectors must
search every lorry before it is allowed on a ferry. It would cause a huge
tailback. Then the French would act.

DAVE SMALL Redditch, Worcs

SUN columnist Lorraine Kelly is right about Miley Cyrus.

Why does Miley, pictured, think she looks attractive with her tongue often
hanging out in photos, and the outrageous clothes and twerking?

YVONNE BURDON Leeds

THE pictures of homosexual men in Iraq being thrown to their death are horrific.
These "religious" animals also stone women to death. How many did Tony Blair's
government allow in with zero checks?

ROGER LACK Swindon

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    January 21, 2015 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Terror attack is inevitable, says former head of MI6

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes, Defence Editor

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 388 words


Terrorist atrocities such as the attacks in Paris will increasingly become a
part of daily life unless spies are empowered to access all forms of
communication, the former head of MI6 said yesterday.

Sir John Sawers called for a new deal between technology companies and security
agencies that satisfied the desire for privacy and enabled intelligence officers
to keep Britain secure.

Sir John also supported comments by the Pope in the wake of a decision by
Charlie Hedo, the satirical magazine, to publish new cartoons of the Prophet
Muhammad after the attack on its offices in the French capital.

"There is a requirement for some restraint on the side of those of us in the
west," Sir John said. "Of course the attacks in Paris were completely
unacceptable and cannot be justified on any basis whatsoever but respect for
other people's religion is also an important part of this. If you show
disrespect of others' core values, then you are going to provoke an angry
response."

Sir John, who spent five years as "C" in MI6 after a long career in the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office, stressed the need to prevent "no-go areas" in the real
and virtual worlds where "evil doers can ply their trade".

The breakdown of an informal co-operation between technology companies and the
security services after the Edward Snowden revelations about US and British
surveillance capabilities had been of great concern to him, he said in his first
public speech since leaving MI6 at an event organised by Edelman, a PR firm.

The prospect of the vast majority of voice calls and emails becoming encrypted
was also a concern. "If technology companies allow to be developed areas which
are simply impenetrable, you are inviting problems," he said.

"There needs to be some new compact . . . if we are not going to see events like
Paris last week become more and more features of our lives."

Echoing comments made by Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, Sir John said that
another terrorist atrocity in Britain was inevitable even though security
officials, police and staff at GCHQ were doing a "fantastic job" at thwarting
scores of potential plots.

"If I was to sit here and say, 'Will the goalkeepers of the security service and
the police keep [out] every single attempt to get the ball into the net?' No.
Some of these threats will get through."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    January 21, 2015 Wednesday 2:10 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAMMOND CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN ISRAEL

LENGTH: 143 words


LONDON, Jan. 21 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Secretary strongly condemns bus attack in Tel Aviv and calls on all
parties to ensure calm.

Following a knife attack on a Tel Aviv bus this morning, which left several
injured, the Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said:

I strongly condemn the terrorist attack on passengers on the bus on Begin Road
in Tel Aviv this morning. This was a cowardly and senseless attack. Violent
attacks of this nature only undermine the cause of peace.

My thoughts are with all those who were affected in this attack; and I wish
those injured a swift recovery.

Every Israeli and Palestinian has a right to live in peace and security. We call
on all to ensure calm." For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                     January 21, 2015 Wednesday 8:12 PM GMT

'The attack was ferocious and I thought they were going to kill me - they were
like men possessed': Attack terror after night out;
Anthony Ashmore and Mohammed Naser, both 22, from Cardiff, have been sentenced
for robbery and assault occasioning actual bodily harm

BYLINE: By Liz Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 587 words


A man who suffered a "ferocious" attack following a night out at a popular
Cardiff nightclub is still experiencing flashbacks, a court has heard.

Darryl Griffiths told police officers he thought he was going to die when two
men started kicking and punching him after a night out at the Pulse nightclub
last October.

In a victim impact statement read out at Cardiff Crown Court, he said: "The
attack on me was ferocious and I thought they were going to kill me. They were
like men possessed."

The court heard that Mr Griffiths has been enjoying an evening out with his
family on October 4 before heading to the club on Churchill Way.

He worked for his uncle, who had paid him £750 in cash that he took with him.

Prosecutor Tony Trigg told the court that Mr Griffiths had fallen asleep in a
doorway and remembered being woken up around 4am by a group of men inviting him
to a party.

He got into a taxi with them and went to Pengam Green. The taxi driver later
told police that one of the men was being "aggressive".

Mr Trigg said: "When they got out, Mr Griffiths paid from a big wad of notes."

Two men - Anthony Ashmore and Mohammed Naser - then took him to Pengam Park,
where the attack happened.

The court heard the pair stole possessions worth £1,170, including his pay
packet, iPhone, keys and T-shirt.

Mr Trigg said: "They kicked him in the ribs and the face and stepped on his
head."

He told the court that Naser had ordered the victim to reveal his PIN number,
but when he gave a false number, kicked him repeatedly.

One witness told police he had heard a man shout: "Tony, you have got to break
his arms to get the money - do it."

He then reported hearing a man being kicked, punched and dragged along the
ground.

The court heard Mr Griffiths rolled up into a ball and eventually managed to run
away to a nearby Tesco petrol station.

Staff called the police and he was taken to hospital, where he spent 12 hours in
A&E.

Judge Eleri Rees described photographs of his injuries as "truly shocking".

In his victim impact statement, Mr Griffiths said: "I can vividly remember the
attack and I am still getting flashbacks."

He added: "I thought they were being friendly by inviting me to a party, but
looking back, I think they knew I had money.

"I had done nothing wrong."

He was unable to work following the attack and estimates his lost earnings
amounted to £1,000.

A local police officer recognised the defendants from CCTV footage filmed in the
city centre and they were arrested.

Ashmore, 22, of Taymuir Road, and Naser, 22, of Cumrae Street, Splott, both
pleaded guilty to robbery and assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

Thomas Trobe, defending Ashmore, said his client had a "supportive girlfriend"
and a young daughter.

He added: "There is another side to Mr Ashmore and when he is able, he does
support his young family.

"He is still a very young man and there is significant remorse expressed by his
early guilty plea."

Andrew Taylor, defending Naser, said: "My client was horrified when he woke up
the following day, sobered up, and was told the allegations.

"He has done all he can to apologise, not only to the victim, but to everyone
concerned."

They were each sentenced to five years for robbery and received a concurrent
sentence of 12 months for assault occasioning actual bodily harm. They will
serve half in prison.

Judge Rees said the men had used "a gratuitous amount of violence".

She added: "This was a prolonged and sustained assault - it was two on one.

"The memory of this dreadful night will be with him for many years."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday

Pakistani envoy to US rejects Indian terror attack report

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on 21 January

Pakistan Ambassador to the United States Jalil Abbas Jilani on Tuesday [20
January] rubbished reports of any warning issued to his country by US ahead of
President Barack Obama's India visit.

"The Indian media has a tendency to invent and exaggerate things," said the
Ambassador when asked to comment on reports that the US had warned Pakistan
against any terror attacks on the Indian soil during Obama's visit.

An Indian news agency on Sunday [18 January] reported from Washington that
Pakistan had been subtly warned of the "consequences" of any terrorist attack
during President Obama's trip if that is traced back to their country.

The media reports said that the US had asked Pakistan to ensure there is no
cross-border terror incident during President Obama's visit to India.

Defending Islamabad's stand on terrorism the envoy said: "As a matter of fact,
John Kerry had deeply appreciated the steps taken by Pakistan against
terrorism."

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 21 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday

Belgian prosecutor says security services had information on terror attack

LENGTH: 327 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 15 January

[Report by "jvt": "Attack Was Imminent"]

The security services had "clear information that an attack was imminent." The
Federal Public Prosecutor's Office said so at a news conference on the
antiterror operation in which two jihadists were killed.

Some 10 house searches were carried out in an investigation on the part of the
Prosecutor's Office, Eric Van Der Sypt of the Office said. According to him, the
investigation had been in progress since before the attacks in France and last
week it had rapidly picked up speed. There is possibly no connection between the
two terror cases.

Because an attack was imminent, the security services stepped in. The targets
were police officers and police stations - but the Office will not state which
locations were targeted. The terror level has been raised from two to three on a
scale of four for all police stations and courthouses.

The house searches had taken place in Verviers, Brussels and Halle-Vilvoorde and
been aimed against an operational cell of people a number of whom had come back
from Syria, Van Der Sypt continued. They were planning "significant terrorist
attacks in Belgium."

'Opened Fire for Several Minutes'

In the raid in Verviers, for several minutes, the suspects "opened fire with
combat weapons and automatic guns before they were neutralized." Two jihadists
were killed; one of them was arrested. No police officer or civilian was wounded
in the operation. "We allowed for a firefight. Luckily we were well prepared,"
says Van Der Sypt.

For the time being, the Office is not giving further details. At the time of the
news conference around 2030 hours [1930 hours GMT], the house searches were
still in progress. More house searches would perhaps follow, the Office also
stated. A new press conference will follow at 1100 hours [1000 hours GMT]
tomorrow.

Source: De Standaard website in Dutch 15 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French terror attacks: four charged

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 160 words


PARIS: Four men with ties to one of the gunmen responsible for three days of
terror are the first to be charged in connection with the attacks that left 20
people dead, the chief city prosecutor has said.

Francois Molins said four men were handed preliminary charges of association
with terrorism.

They are suspected of providing logistical support to gunman Amedy Coulibaly,
who killed a policewoman and then four hostages at a kosher supermarket.

The attacks started with the January 7 massacre at the satirical newspaper
Charlie Hebdo. Three of the four charged men have criminal records and at least
one met Coulibaly in prison, Mr Molins said.

He added that authorities in France were working with other countries to search
for other possible accomplices.

Investigators are trying to uncover who was responsible for a posthumous video
of Coulibaly, which was edited and released days after he and the Charlie Hebdo
gunmen, Said and Cherif Kouachi, were killed.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 22, 2015 Thursday 10:18 AM GMT

When I told a colleague;
Teacher Cassie Flint, who was working near Peshawar when a terrorist attack on a
school killed more than 100 students, reflects on her experience of Pakistan and
its schools

SECTION: TEACHER NETWORK

LENGTH: 843 words


When I told a colleague I was going back to work in a Pakistani school, he gave
me a funny look. He couldn't understand why I would want to go to a place where
in recent years terrorism has been so destructive.

There have been attacks in Swat valley, a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province, in the north west of Pakistan, where I am based. In 2008 a suicide
bomber set off explosives in a police station, killing 20 people, and in
December more than 100 children were murdered by gunmen, some of whom were
wearing suicide vests, at the army public school in Peshawar.

My work in Pakistan started as part of a British Council-run programme called
Connecting Classrooms. Five Durham schools teamed up with others in the city of
Abbottabad in Khyber Pakhtuntwa to help students learn about international
issues and become responsible global citizens. My school, Teesdale School, is
partnered with a girls' school in the region.

In 2012 I arrived in Abbottabad for the first time with two other teachers. No
visitors had been there in an education capacity since Osama Bin Laden's death
in 2011, and local headteachers wanted to know what the West thought of their
home. This visit was high profile and we were accompanied by the Pakistan
military because tensions were running high in the region.

After a reciprocal visit to the UK, we were granted more funding, but of the
original five schools involved in the programme only Teesdale School's
partnership continued.

On my latest visit, I had been in Pakistan for just a few days when the attack
in Peshawar happened. When I arrived at my partner school, I saw the usual
scene: girls walked about, their black dupattas tight around their heads. They
smiled as they went to their lessons and I visited an English class where they
discussed the difference between direct and indirect speech. When the teacher
spoke, students chanted her words as a reply. It's the way they learn and I was
humbled by what was going on; a safe and settled atmosphere permeated the
classroom.

As I watched these children learn, those in the Peshawar school, just 90km away,
were being killed. When the news broke everyone was stunned. There was no panic,
just a few phone calls, and then an outpouring of grief. I cried with teachers,
parents and pupils for all the children and their families.

I felt like the whole country was crying in the darkness.

That evening my partner, who is also a teacher, and I watched the news in a
little guest house, accompanied by two eminent school principals. At one point
the principal of the school was reported as missing and there was hope. But then
news came that her body had been found and they mourned.

On the Wednesday morning I woke up at 5am in the pitch dark of my simple room.
Through the air I heard the voice of the man calling people to prayer. Though
this happens every day, on that morning it was chilling. I felt like the whole
country was crying in the darkness.

The reaction was a level of outrage that makes people rise up and say "no more".
There have been candle-lit vigils and gatherings on the streets, three days of
mourning and schools being closed. The politicians and the army seem to be
working together and issues of the school security are high on everyone's
agenda.

A man in Islamabad who knows the country well hopes this tragedy could be a
game-changer. Pakistanis are leading their lives and bringing up their families
the best they can. The country has a beautiful landscape, is rich in resources
and is making progress.

The new political commitment I have seen to schools is also impressive and the
literacy rate is now getting close to 60%, a considerable increase from 43% in
2000. More teacher training is happening, and more students are staying on to
secondary education. Significant issues are being addressed in relation to
teacher absenteeism and this is making a real difference in some of the more
remote communities.

By targeting schools the Taliban acknowledge the power of education. The work
these teachers do is incredible and I will be back there next year taking ideas
from my school; learning and supporting those in Pakistan who are working to
educate their young people.

Cassie Flint is a teacher in the UK. She was visiting Pakistan as as part of the
British Council's Connecting Classrooms's global education programme.

Follow us on Twitter via @GuardianTeach. Join the Guardian Teacher Network for
lesson resources, comment and job opportunities direct to your inbox. By
targeting schools the Taliban acknowledge the power of education Teacher Cassie
Flint, who was working near Peshawar when a terrorist attack on a school killed
more than 100 students, reflects on her experience of Pakistan and its schools
false theguardian.com true
http://static.guim.co.uk/sys-images/Guardian/Pix/pictures/2014/12/23/14193541177
12/Aftermath-of-Peshawar-sch-006.jpg 778 false 453864185 false
54999bffe4b0b52189cd6fa5 9921462 false Cassie Flint 2214756 UK false
2015-02-06T16:30:00+00:00

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Express

                                January 22, 2015

TD page 3 - single issue page on Homewood School cancelling French trip in wake
of Paris terrorist attacks, Al

LENGTH: 307  words


by Tricia Jamieson

tjamieson@thekmgroup.co.uk

@triciajamieson1

A trip to Paris has been cancelled by Homewood School in the wake of the
terrorist attacks.

Some 50 Year 8 pupils were due to spend a day in the city studying language and
culture.

They were going on Monday, February 9, but that has been called off after
terrorists killed 17 people in attacks on the offices of satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo, a supermarket and police.

Homewood principal Sally Lees said there were a number of school trips to France
planned for the next few weeks.

She said: "We are keeping a close eye on the situation following the recent
terrorist activity in France and Belgium and are taking advice from the French
Tourist Board and the Kent outdoor education department.

"We have decided to cancel the day trip to Paris planned for February 9 but are
awaiting further advice before deciding what action to take with regards to
trips planned.

"These include our annual French exchange visit. All decisions will be taken in
line with advice. The safety and security of our students is always our primary
concern."

Brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi killed 11 people at the Charlie Hebdo offices
and gunned down and killed a policeman on Wednesday, January 7.

They went on the run for three days before being cornered and killed by police
in a shoot-out.

On Friday, January 9, Amedy Coulibaly killed four people at a Jewish supermarket
in Paris in an attack thought to have been linked with the Kouachis.

Coulibaly is also suspected of killing a French policewoman.

Ashford MP Damian Green described the murders as "barbarous and disgusting".

He said: "It reminds us of the permanent terrorist threat."

In Paris, about 1.5 million people took part in a march through the French
capital on Sunday, January 11, to demonstrate their solidarity in the wake of
the terrorist killings.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday

Lancashire Council of Mosques: Terror attack in Paris also attack on Islam

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 216 words


THE Lancashire Council of Mosques has condemned the Paris killings over
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo's publication of pictures of the prophet
Mohammed.

Three Islamic militants murdered 17 people, including eight journalists, in a
killing spree last week across the French capital before they died in gunfire
with security forces.

MORE TOP STORIES:

A statement issued by chairman Abdul Hamid Qureshi said: " LCM reiterates that
it condemns and opposes all acts of violence against innocents for whatever
reason they may be carried out.

"The attack in France was also an attack on Islam and the Muslim community, and
to claim such brutality and inhumanity was in any way defending the prophet is
the greatest of disrespect to him.

"We are lucky to live in a society where people can speak their minds without
fear of repression, and a free press is needed to ensure that people continue to
live in liberty.

"Yet the power to speak directly to millions also comes with greater
responsibility and to ignore this responsibility is wrong.

"The LCM calls on all Muslims to exhibit the qualities of the prophet that we
love so dearly - the qualities of patience, courteousness, respect, peace, love
and mercy."

"These are the qualities of a Muslim, and these are the best ways to deal with
disrespect shown."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 22, 2015 Thursday 5:06 PM GMT

Melanie Griffith shows support for Paris by wearing 'Je suis Charlie' T-shirt to
workout session following terrorist attacks

BYLINE: REBECCA DAVISON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TV&SHOWBIZ

LENGTH: 264 words


Hollywood actress Melanie Griffith made a political statement when she headed to
the gym to meet her personal trainer on Wednesday.

The 57-year-old chose to wear a 'Je suis Charlie' T-shirt in support of France
following a series of terrorist attacks earlier this month.

'I am Charlie' is a statement of solidarity with Charlie Hebdo, the satirical
magazine where eight journalists were murdered - along with two policemen and
two bystanders - by Islamist fanatics.

Scroll Down For Video

Melanie teamed the T-shirt with blue marl leggings and trainers and took off her
zip-up top, draping it over her shoulder, so that the slogan on her top was in
full view.

The outing follows a host of stars who chose to show their support for France at
the Golden Globes on January 12.

Amal Clooney pinned a 'Je suis Charlie' button to her Dior purse and husband
George had one pinned on his jacket.

Helen Mirren, Diane Kruger and Kathy Bates all held up signs with the phrase in
solidarity with the journalists killed in Paris.

Meanwhile, Melanie's also been showing her support for her daughter, Dakota
Johnson, who is set to star in highly anticipated movie, Fifty Shades Of Grey,
slated for release on February 13.

Proud mother Melanie shared her latest Vogue cover and several posts about her
upcoming role.

The Working Girl star has been forbidden from seeing it by her daughter.

'No, I will not be seeing it,' Melanie recently said. 'Because my daughter
doesn't want me to.'

The Hollywood vet whose early gigs were nude roles in a string of '70s films
added: 'I don't think it'll be appropriate.'

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 22, 2015 Thursday 12:51 PM GMT

Britain faces a 'very significant risk' of an ISIS-inspired terror attack,
Foreign Secretary warns security summit

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words



     ·    Hammond warns against complacency in the fight to disrupt terror plots
     ·    Foreign ministers from across the globe fly into London for talks
     ·    They will discuss plan to take on jihadis and prevent Paris-style
          attacks
     ·    David Cameron promises the UK will do 'everything we can' to help Iraq




Britain is at 'very significant risk' from a terror attack by extremists
inspired by ISIS jihadis, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond warned today.

Speaking ahead of a counter-terror summit in London today, he warned against
complacency in the fight to 'disrupt these plots before they come to the stage
of an attack'.

As foreign ministers from across the globe fly into London to discuss strategy
to take on the jihadis and prevent Paris-style atrocities.

Scroll down for video

David Cameron met Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi in Downing Street, where
he vowed the UK would do 'everything we can' to stop the flow of foreign
fighters who were travelling to join ISIS and cause 'mayhem'.

Speaking in No 10, Mr Cameron said: 'The threat from extremist terror you face
in Iraq is also a threat we face here in the United Kingdom... We will do
everything we can to help stop foreign fighters coming to your country and
creating the mayhem we see today.'

Later Mr Abadi will join representatives from 21 countries, including US
secretary of state John Kerry and French foreign minister Laurent Fabius, for
talks which will focus on military support for fighters battling against ISIS -
also known as Isil, as well as by its Arabic acronym Daesh.

Ahead of the meeting, Mr Hammond stressed the danger of terror attack in the UK
by people inspired by events in Iraq and Syria.

'We have to regard Isil as probably the greatest single immediate threat to
Britain's national security at the moment,' the Foreign Secretary told BBC1's
Breakfast.

'There's a very significant risk of an Isil-inspired attack being planned and,
if we are not successful in intercepting it, executed by Isil sympathisers who
live in the UK but are inspired by what is going on in Iraq and Syria.

'Of course, our security and intelligence agencies, our police forces are
working tirelessly around the clock to monitor, to identify, to intercept and to
disrupt plots of this nature, and we've been very successful in doing so, but we
mustn't be complacent.

'We know there are people out there who wish us harm and we have to be vigilant
and we have to work extremely hard to make sure we identify and disrupt these
plots before they come to the stage of an attack.'

But he warned that Iraq's security forces will not be ready for months to take
on ISIS fighters who have seized large swathes of the country.

The Foreign Secretary acknowledged that despite huge sums spent by the United
States and Britain on Iraq's security forces in the years following the ousting
of Saddam Hussein, they had fallen back into a 'state of disarray'.

'There is a big challenge ahead of us,' he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

'We are renewing and regenerating the Iraqi security forces - re-equipping them,
retraining them, reorganising them - but it will be months yet before they are
ready to start significant combat operations against Isil.'

Air strikes by Britain and its allies had 'very effectively' contained ISIS
while action was taken to 'rebuild' the Iraqi armed forces to enable them to
drive the militants out of their country, he said, adding: 'They will be able to
do it, the question is when they will be ready to start that process.'

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SECURITY ALERT IN JEWISH COMMUNITY;
Patrols increased over fears of a Paris-style terror attack, while leaders warn
of heightened sense of alarm.

BYLINE: Charlotte Dobson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 358 words


SECURITY has been stepped up in Manchester's Jewish communities amid fears of a
Paris-style terrorist attack.

Police have increased patrols around schools, shops and synagogues.

GMP insist there is no 'specific risk' to Jewish people in Greater Manchester
but are asking residents to be vigilant. Extra patrols are being carried out in
Salford, Bury and north Manchester which together are home to the second biggest
Jewish community in the UK.

Jewish schools in the area, which are already protected by private security,
have strengthened security measures.

The Community Security Trust, a Jewish charity, has also upped the number of
volunteers guarding synagogues and schools in the area.

Dave Rich, a CST spokesman, said: "There is tension at the moment because of the
terrible things that happened in Paris.

"It has been extremely upsetting and caused a lot of worry among Jewish people.

National figures from the CST, due to be released on February 5, are expected to
show a record total of anti-Semitic attacks and hate crimes in 2014.

Previous data revealed there were 52 anti-Semitic attacks across Greater
Manchester in July alone.

Tensions surrounding the Gaza conflict last summer are said to have resurfaced
following the attack on a Jewish supermarket in Paris.

Rabbi Arnold Saunders, of the Higher Crumpsall and Higher Broughton Synagogue,
said: "There is a heightened sense of alarm, clearly.

"Some people have started to question whether Jewish people have a future here.

"I don't want to exaggerate and make it seem like people have their bags packed.

"There's a long way to go before people resort to that. Most people want to stay
in this country."

Raphi Bloom, who has organised rallies in Manchester against anti-Semitism,
said: "We must remain vigilant but we cannot be cowed or live our lives in fear.
The Jewish community can remain proudly British and yet be Zionists as well.

"As Jews, we have always contributed greatly to the fabric of society in Britain
and we should not be punished for events that happen thousands of miles away in
Israel.

Home Secretary Theresa May has warned the UK must redouble its efforts to wipe
out anti-Semitism.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rabbi Arnold Saunders said some people were starting. .to question
whether Jewish people had a future in Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 4:36 PM GMT

Islamic community to fight against radicalisation of Irish Muslims;
Top Imam says there has been a surge in Islamophobia since terror attacks

BYLINE: By Ralph Riegel

SECTION: REPUBLIC OF IRELAND

LENGTH: 480 words


Ireland's Islamic community is to spearhead the fightback against radical
fundamentalism after a top Imam admitted there has been a surge in Islamophobia
nationwide in the wake of recent terror attacks.

Shaykh Dr Muhammad Umar Al-Qadri launched a website for Irish Muslims aimed at
helping youngsters to avoid radicalisation and to allow those concerned about
so-called 'Jihad messages' from radical preachers at Irish mosques to raise the
alarm.

The website - www.jihad.info - was launched at Waterford Institute of Technology
(WIT) where Dr Al-Qadri warned that Irish people needed to realise that Islam
was a religion of peace and tolerance and not violence.

He admitted it was a particularly difficult time for Irish Muslims who were fast
becoming a target of hate attacks.

"People feel very isolated and very worried," he told the Irish Independent.
"Just this week I had a woman, the wife of a very senior Dublin doctor, call to
me at my home because she had missed me at the Islamic Centre," he said.

"She was very upset because she had received a letter from a neighbour and it
was truly shocking.

"She has been here for 20 years with her husband, they live in a nice estate,
they are very well integrated and are very quiet, peaceful people. But this
letter told her she was 'a neighbour of hell' and to go back to where she came
from."

Dr Al-Qadri confirmed that he had personally been the subject of abuse just
outside the Al Mustafa Islamic Centre in Dublin.

"It is very important that people understand that Islam is a religion of peace.

"The true meaning of Jihad is actually very noble - it is a personal struggle
for good. But that has been hijacked by radicals for their own purposes."

The new website aims to help prevent young Irish Muslims from being brainwashed
by radical fundamentalists and from seeking to join the flow of fighters to
Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Afghanistan.

Dr Al-Qadri said that groups such as al-Qa'ida and Isil skilfully exploited the
potential of the internet and social media to spread the message of radicalism
to vulnerable youngsters.

Source: Irish Independent

Read more:

Migrants must respect our values or we face constant civil war

What militant Islam needs to learn from Martin Luther King

It's vital we grasp roots of terrorism

'Small few' extremists monitored

Charlie Hebdo: Ugly truth is that our tribal instincts sustained terror

Belfast Muslim leader sorry for Isis remark about Mosul

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

PLA strengthens Xinjiang forces to foil terror attacks

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Urumqi and Zhao Lei in Beijing

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 441 words


China is strengthening its military power in its northwestern frontier region
bordering Afghanistan and Central Asia.

The military reinforcement comes against a backdrop of United States troops
pulling out of Afghanistan and extremists launching terrorist attacks on
civilian targets.

People's Liberation Army troops based in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region
will vigorously enforce border controls, according to their chief.

Peng Yong, commander of the PLA Xinjiang military region, said the army will
continue to carry out "realistic combat training" and increase its ability to
carry out a variety of military missions this year.

The Xinjiang military region is a regional command that covers Xinjiang and the
Ali area in the west of the Tibet autonomous region. "We have the responsibility
to stay on high alert and strike hard against terrorist activities in the
region," Peng said.

Peng, a lieutenant general, made the remarks at the annual session of the 12th
People's Congress of Xinjiang in Urumqi.

Three more PLA generals have been appointed to the Xinjiang military region,
including Li Wei, a major general, who will serve as its commissar. The two
other appointees, Ye Jianjun and Han Bingcheng, are also major generals.

Sources familiar with the Chinese military system said Xinjiang is the largest
provincial-level military region in China. It has four deputy commanders and
four deputy commissars, while other military regions normally have only one
deputy commander and one deputy commissar.

Xinjiang shares a border with Pakistan and Afghanistan. The Xinjiang military
region increased the number of routine patrols last year to guard against
infiltration by terrorist cells after the planned withdrawal of US troops from
Afghanistan.

Li Wei, an expert on anti-terrorism studies at the China Institute of
Contemporary International Relations, who shares the same name as the major
general, said, "The PLA troops in Xinjiang will deal with large-scale terrorist
forces.

"They will concentrate especially on those carrying firearms smuggled from
Pakistan and Afghanistan, rather than on individual terrorist attacks.

"They also need to keep an eye on the combat forces formed jointly by
international and domestic terrorist groups."

Li said that following a series of terrorist attacks in Xinjiang, the situation
there remains serious.

On July 28, a terrorist attack in the region claimed 37 lives and injured 13
other people. Fifty-nine terrorists were shot dead at the scene and 215 suspects
arrested, in one of the deadliest attacks in Xinjiang in recent years.

Contact the writer at cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 1:23 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: fifteen-fold increase in number of UK copies;
French satirical magazine's UK distributors to make up to 15,000 copies of new
issue available after first issue since terror attack sold out within hours

BYLINE: Mark Sweney

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 466 words


As many as 15,000 copies of Charlie Hebdo are to go on sale in the UK over the
coming days - a fifteen-fold increase over last week - as newsagents and
bookshops continue to struggle to meet demand for the French satirical magazine.

Queues formed through the night when last week's edition went on sale in the UK
early on Friday, the first since the terrorist attack on the magazine's offices
in Paris, with most customers missing out as only about 1,000 copies were
available.

However, this week more than 3,500 copies of Charlie Hebdo's second issue since
the attack will be available in newsagents specialising in foreign language
publications and independent bookshops across the south-east of England from
Friday morning.

Potentially as many as 12,000 further copies will be made available across the
country in the next few days.

It is understood that demand is still outstripping the number of copies supplied
to the UK, with most of the 15,000 run going on sale over the coming days
earmarked for customers who had ordered or reserved a copy last week.

It is thought that Charlie Hebdo is still only available in independent book
stores and specialist newsagents. Major retailers such as WH Smith, Sainsbury's
and Morrisons have said they do not intend to start stocking the title despite
the upsurge in popularity.

It had been indicated to wholesalers that an English language version of this
week's edition of Charlie Hebdo might be made available, however it is
understood that that only the French language version has been supplied so far.

Comag, a joint venture distribution business jointly owned by magazine
publishers Hearst and Condé Nast, normally distributes a few dozen copies of
Charlie Hebdo in the UK each week. However, given the upsurge in demand Comag is
working with wholesalers Smith News and Menzies Distribution to get more copies
into shops.

Smiths News is in line for a total of 7,500 copies this week, and expects to
start distributing them from Saturday, compared to just 100 last week.

Menzies Distribution, the other major UK wholesaler, said that it had received
3,550 copies which it distributed on Friday morning. The company said that it
expects to receive additional supplies to put out in the next few days.

While Menzies did not give an estimate of how many additional copies it expected
to receive, the company is of a similar size to Smiths so it would not be
unreasonable to assume a similiar that it could end out distributing a total of
almost 7,500 as well. Like Smiths, Menzies only received 100 copies last week.

In the US, 20,000 copies of this week's issue are being distributed in cities
including New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Chicago from Friday,
according to Time magazine. Just 300 copies are reported to have reached the US
last week.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 6:37 PM GMT

Britain open to terrorist drone attacks due to lax aviation rules, experts fear;

Exclusive: There are fears they may target nuclear plants or attempt to bring
down passenger aircraft

BYLINE: Jamie Merrill

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 686 words


Terrorists could use swarms of drones to bring down passenger aircraft, disperse
chemical or biological weapons and target a nuclear power plants in Britain
because of our lax aviation rules.

The stark warning comes from former Labour security minister Lord West, who is
urging tougher laws to stop jihadists taking advantage of the "march of drone
technology" to pull off a low-cost, high-impact attack using drones available
for just £300 on the high street.

In particular, security experts fear that terrorists could use small drones to
bring down an airliner over the centre of a British city.

Lord West has tabled an amendment to the Government's Counter-Terrorism and
Security Bill to create a specific offence of using a drone for "the purposes of
terrorism". The respected Labour peer and former senior Royal Navy commander is
also calling for the establishment of more stringent "no-fly zones" for drones
over sensitive sites, including nuclear plants and airports.

Lord West, who is a member of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Drones, told
the Independent: "The march of increasingly affordable and sophisticated small
drone technology means that we do really need to think about how we protect
ourselves.

"These drones are so cheap that terrorists will be able to buy many of them,
practise and make repeated attacks. Airline pilots are worried, and the fear is
that a 20kg drone from a the high street packed with 20lbs of explosive could
easily bring down a jumbo over east London on its approach to Heathrow."

An unmanned drone attack would have huge symbolic value to Islamic extremists
because of their use by the US and the UK in countries such as Pakistan,
Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria.

Lord West's amendment, which will be debated on Monday, follows a Birmingham
Policy Commission report by Prof David H Dunn and Sir David Omand, the former
head of the GCHQ, which warned that drones could be used by terrorists as flying
bombs to take down passenger aircraft.

In July, a drone flew within 20ft of an Airbus A320 as it landed at Heathrow
Airport. The drone was not picked up on radar and its operators could not be
traced in an incident that Prof Dunn said exposed a "gaping hole" in Britain's
security.

The Civil Aviation Authority can prosecute people who fly drones into aircraft,
crowds of buildings, but experts including the British Airline Pilots
Association (Balpa), want it to be more rigorous  in enforcing the rules. They
have also called for drone no fly zone near airports.

Lord West said: "Small drones under 20kg are barely regulated by the CAA. As the
Birmingham Policy Commission report says, existing regulation is driven by the
UAV market and designed to be enabling: but there is a serious risk drones can
be equipped with improvised explosive devices or used as a means of dispersing
chemical or biological agents."

The warning from the Labour peer comes as concerns have been raised by drone
campaigners of an alleged "culture of secrecy" in the Government's working group
setting policy on drones.

Tom Watson MP, chair of the APPG, said: "Lord West has raised a very important
issue that needs to be addressed. The government must now respond in full to
this proposal for specific criminal offences and no-fly safe havens. The
Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems Cross Government Working Group cannot
determine the risk posed by misuse of drones, or response to it, in secret."

The working group has refused requests for information from MPs, prompting a
complaint to the Information Commissioner's Office. Dan Carey, a solicitor with
Deighton Pierce Glynn representing the APPG on Drones, said: "Not only has the
APPG's Freedom of Information request to the RPAS Cross Government Working Group
been refused, but we have had to argue with the Information Commissioner to
receive even a summary of the Government's reasons for refusing to disclose
them. The APPG's FOIA appeal will continue, but it is clearly time for public
debate, not just debate in secret."

A Home Office spokesperson said: "We will respond formally to the amendment when
it is debated in the House of Lords next week."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 4:28 PM GMT

London policing chief demands extra £20m for anti-terror policing in wake of
Paris attacks;
Stephen Greenhalgh claimed police's ability to protect the capital will be
diminished without funds

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


Boris Johnson's policing chief is demanding an extra £20 million of government
funding to protect London in the wake of the Paris attacks.

Stephen Greenhalgh, the Deputy Mayor for Policing and Crime, told the Evening
Standardthat the amount currently earmarked for the capital was a "scandal" and
insufficient to cope with the threat from home-grown extremists and fighters
returning from Syria.

"We are having an arrest nearly every day, 50 per cent of the undercover
counter-terrorism work is here in London and half of the people returning from
Syria are in London so there is a huge volume of activity that needs to be
carried out," he said.

"The police's ability to keep us safe will be harmed if they are not getting the
money to do the job. The pie doesn't seem to have been split fairly and the cops
are unhappy about it."

A spokesperson at City Hall said only £5 million of the £35 million granted to
the Home Office was originally earmarked for police but the figure was pushed up
to £9.4 million after complaints from Boris Johnson and Mr Greenhalgh.

The Home Office said it had not yet finalised how its £130 million anti-terror
funding will be divided up. It was granted in the wake of the Paris attacks by
the Prime Minister to be given to security and intelligence agencies and police
over the next two years.

More than half a billion pounds is already spent on counter-terrorism policing
annually.

Read more: Four major UK terror plots foiled in a yearDavid Cameron vows action
after Paris attacksBritish security services 'on high alert for beheading
attack'

Mr Greenhalgh is expected to outline his proposals at the London Assembly's
Police and Crime Committee meeting on Friday, which will consider the
Metropolitan Police's response to the events in France.

 "In the wake of the Paris attacks, London is facing heightened concern about
the threat posed by terrorists and I have been fully briefed on the measures
being taken to keep Londoners safe," he said in a statement ahead of the
meeting.

"The police have reviewed security arrangements for their own officers and the
support they provide to London's Jewish community in response to the attacks in
France and they will continue to keep such measures under review."

A kosher supermarket in Paris was deliberately targeted by Isis-inspired gunman
Amedy Coulibaly for his shooting spree, when four hostages were killed.

He attacked the shop two days after associates Said and Cherif Kouachi massacred
12 people at the offices of satirical paper Charlie Hebdo, claiming they were
"avenging the Prophet" after cartoons depicting Mohamed were published.

Mark Rowley, Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said
anti-Semitic rhetoric from extremists had led to a "heightened concern" about
the risk to Jewish people living in Britain.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

The "deliberate targeting" of police in France and in a foiled plot in Belgium
raised fears about the dangers faced by officers.

The head of MI5 revealed earlier this month that four major terrorist plots had
been foiled in Britain in the last year.

"We know, for example, that a group of core al-Qaeda terrorists in Syria is
planning mass-casualty attacks against the West", said Andrew Parker. "It was
primarily the rising threat from Syria that led the Joint Terrorism Analysis
Centre to raise the threat level for international terrorism from 'substantial'
to 'severe', an evidence-based judgment that an attack on the UK is highly
likely."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 23, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

French children to learn 'republican values' in the wake of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: JOHN LICHFIELD IN PARIS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 271 words


French children are to receive intensive training in democratic values and
respect for religions and the media in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo and other
terrorist attacks this month.

A 10-point Euro 250m (£190m) plan was announced yesterday by the Education
Minister, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, to train children from six to 18 in
"republican values" - and especially the separation of religion and state, which
has been a jealously defended principle of French society for more than a
century. Pupils will be given new courses in the importance of democratic
institutions and symbols. They will, for the first time in state schools, be
taught about the differences, and similarities, between the principal religions.

They will be taught how to differentiate between objective news-gathering and
propaganda or conspiracy-theorising. Each school will be expected to start its
own newspaper, radio station or news website.

Most of all, intensive new civics lessons will try to explain why the principle
of "secularity" - or separation of church and state enshrined in French law
since 1905 - should not be seen as an attack on religion but a guarantee of
equal rights for all religions. Each 9 December - the anniversary of the church
and state law - will be celebrated in schools as "secularity day".

The programme has been cobbled together to respond to a rash of disturbing
incidents after the three days of terrorist bloodshed which killed 17 people in
Paris two weeks ago.

Some Muslim teenagers disrupted a nationwide two minutes' silence for victims.
Other pupils insisted that the killings were "justified to defend the Prophet".

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

Security Council strongly condemns terrorist attack in eastern Ukraine

LENGTH: 330 words


January 22, 2015

The United Nations Security Council has condemned 'in the strongest terms'
today's shelling which resulted in the deaths of more than 10 civilians in
eastern Ukraine amid intensifying clashes between Government and opposition
forces.



According to reports, as many as 15 civilians were killed and more than 20 were
injured when shelling hit a public transport stop in the eastern city of
Donetsk.

In recent days, Donetsk has been the scene of bitter fighting as the two sides
clashed over the city's heavily contested airport.

"The members of the Security Council expressed their deep sympathy and
condolences to the families of the victims and wished a swift recovery to those
injured," the Council said in a press statement, adding that the Members
underlined the need to conduct and objective investigation and bring the
perpetrators of the 'reprehensible act' to justice.

In late February 2014, the situation in Ukraine transcended what was initially
seen as an internal Ukrainian political crisis into violent clashes in parts of
the country, later reaching full- scale conflict in the east. Despite the Minsk
cease-fire, the situation in Ukraine has since continuously deteriorated, with
serious consequences for the country's unity, territorial integrity and
stability.

From mid-April to 12 December, at least 4,707 people were killed and 10,322
wounded by fighting. Since the tenuous ceasefire began, at least 1,357
fatalities were recorded. Moreover, the UN has recently reported that since
March 2014, more than one million people have been displaced from the
conflict-affected areas, including nearly 530,000 people within Ukraine, of who
at least 130,000 are children.

In their press statement, the Council Members also underlined the need for the
'full implementation' if the Minsk protocol and welcomed yesterday's joint
statement issued by the foreign ministers of France, Germany, the Russian
Federation and Ukraine amid attempts to broker a peace.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 5:08 PM GMT

ISIS sets up English-speaking battalion to plan and carry out terror attacks in
countries which use that language

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 439 words



     ·    ISIS has formed a new fighting unit with orders to attack Western
          targets
     ·    The 'Anwar al-Awlaki Battalion' is composed of English-speaking
          fighters
     ·    It is named after American-born cleric killed by a drone strike in
          2011
     ·    News of the battalion's creation comes from informants based in Raqqa


Islamic State has formed a new fighting battalion composed entirely of
English-speaking militants with orders to carry out attacks in the West.

The 'Anwar al-Awlaki Battalion' has been created to focus solely on carrying out
attacks abroad and is working to export its fighters after they've attended
training camps, it has been claimed.

Anti-ISIS group Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently said its informants in the
organisation's self-proclaimed capital of Raqqa notified it of the development.

According to one of the informants, a foreigner fighter proclaimed: 'Finally,
the orders have been issued to implement an armed operation within my country.

He added: 'I am now ready to return to my town and carry out operations, now I
am able to Jihad in Europe.'

The new battalion was said to have been formed to make good on ISIS' threats to
carry its jihad to Europe after a U.S.-led alliance began its bombing campaign
in September.

Its name is a reference to Anwar al-Awlaki, the American cleric who was killed
in Yemen in a 2011 CIA drone strike who remains hugely popular with the
militants.

Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently is a small activist collective which
secretly documents the shocking violence and oppression ISIS has brought to
their home city.

Using a network of informers kept anonymous to protect their safety, it leaks
details of the ISIS occupation to the world.

The Home Office says over 550 individuals of interest to the security services
have travelled to the region from the UK since the start of the conflict. It is
estimated around half of these have returned.

It comes just a day after Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond warned Britain was at
'very significant risk' from extremists inspired by ISIS.

Speaking ahead of a counter-terror summit in London yesterday, he warned against
complacency in the fight to 'disrupt these plots before they come to the stage
of an attack'.

David Cameron also met Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi in Downing Street,
where he vowed the UK would do 'everything we can' to stop the flow of foreign
fighters who were travelling to join ISIS and cause 'mayhem'.

He said: 'The threat from extremist terror you face in Iraq is also a threat we
face here in the United Kingdom... We will do everything we can to help stop
foreign fighters coming to your country and creating the mayhem we see today.'

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 11:52 PM GMT

Theresa May accused of starving the Met Police of vital counter-terrorism cash;

The Home Secretary has pledged to make preventing terror attacks her top
priority but there are claims the Met needs an additional £20million

BYLINE: By Jack Blanchard

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 147 words


Theresa May has been accused by London's Tory police boss of starving the Met of
vital counter-terror cash.

The Home Secretary has pledged to make preventing terror attacks her top
priority.

But Deputy Mayor Stephen Greenhalgh, who in charge of policing the capital, said
Scotland Yard needed £20million extra to keep the public safe.

He said: "The police's ability to keep us safe will be harmed if they are not
getting the money to do the job. I think that's a scandal.

"We are having an arrest nearly every day, 50% of the undercover
counter-terrorism work is in London.

"Half of the people returning from Syria are in London. There is a huge volume
of activity that needs to be carried out."

Mr Greenhalgh is a close ally of Mayor Boris Johnson, widely seen as the main
rival to Mrs May for the Tory leadership when David Cameron departs.

Is enough being done to stop terrorism in the UK?

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 2:05 PM GMT

Life and death of Alberto Nisman: what we know so far;
The death of Alberto Nisman - the prosecutor heading up an investigation into a
1994 terrorist attack, who pointed the finger at Iran and President Cristina
Kirchner - has caused a political earthquake in Argentina, but left many serious
unanswered questions

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1382 words


We know how Alberto Nisman died

The 51-year-old prosecutor died inside the bathroom of his 13th floor Buenos
Aires flat on Sunday Jan 18, between the hours of 3pm and 4pm, according to the
autopsy.

He died from a gunshot wound to the head, from a Bersa Thunder .22 calibre
handgun.

He had borrowed the gun on Saturday Jan 17 from Diego Lagomarsino, a 35-year-old
IT technician he had contracted to help him with computing tasks such as copying
folders and backing up archives.

We know what he was working on

Since 2004, Nisman had been investigating the 1994 bombing of a Jewish centre -
the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA) - which killed 85 people and
wounded 300. It was the worst ever terrorist attack in Argentina, and the worst
attack on the Jewish diaspora since the Holocaust.

Nisman was appointed to the post by Nestor Kirchner, the then-president, after
the previous investigation into the bombing collapsed in chaos. The judge
leading the investigation, Juan Jose Galeano, was removed from the case and all
his findings dismissed, after he was accused of bribing witnesses and covering
up evidence. Galeano will go on trial this autumn, alongside former president
Carlos Menem - also accused of covering up responsibility for the bombings.

In 2006 Nisman concluded that Iran was behind the attacks - something long
suspected in diplomatic circles. Iran, through Hizbollah, was behind an attack
on the Israeli embassy in Argentina in 1992; at that time they were attacking
"soft" Jewish targets around the world, and carrying out a campaign of
assassinations against anti-Iranian figures. Argentina had also just announced
that it would no longer cooperate with Iran on nuclear technology.

Since 2006 Nisman has continued his investigations.

But since the election of the current president, Cristina Kirchner, in 2007
Nisman had increasingly focused on her government's role in the bombing - and
accusations that she covered up Iranian guilt.

In 2013 she announced that Argentina and Iran would jointly investigate the
bombing - something which angered some, but was welcomed by others as a sign of
progress. The joint investigation has never begun, because it was challenged in
the courts.

We know who he had accused

Nisman on Wednesday Jan 14 accused Ms Kirchner and several of her officials of
colluding with Iran to cover up their responsibility for the bombing. He said
she had agreed that Iran would be let off the hook, in return for favourable oil
deals. Argentina would then sell wheat to Iran.

Nisman at the same time accused Hector Timerman, the foreign minister, of
assisting in this.

He accused Jorge Alejandro Khalil, a high profile member of the Islamic
community in Argentina, of being the main go-between for Iran and Argentina.

He accused Ramon Allan Bogado of being a spy, and Mr Khalil's contact in the
secret service.

He accused Hector Yrimia, a former judge, of easing the deals between Iran and
Argentina.

He accused presidential allies Fernando Esteche, leader of the far-Left
Quebracho movement, and Luis D'Elia - both known Hizbollah supporters - of also
acting as go-betweens.

And he accused Andres Larroque, another pro-Kirchner politician, of relaying
messages of support to the Iranian intermediaries.

We know who supported his work, and who dismissed it

Nisman worked in close cooperation with a former senior officer in the Secret
Intelligence (SI) - Jaime Stiuso. He is thought to be the source of much of the
information. He was very close to Nestor Kirchner, but was pushed out by the
current president in December.

Matthew Levitt, an American expert on Hizbollah who wrote a book about the
group's Latin American network, has written in support of Nisman's research
methods and rigour.

But some of the associations of the victims of the bombing - 18J and Memoria
Activa - have criticised Nisman for diverting the investigation from its
original purpose: to find out who carried out the attack.

The government of Ms Kirchner has, not surprisingly, poured scorn on his work.

Nisman is long rumoured to have been influenced by contacts in the American
embassy - something he was asked about frequently and denied repeatedly, saying
that he spoke to many people but that it did not cloud his judgment.

But Ronald Noble, former director of Interpol, said that Nisman was wrong to
suggest that Argentina, under Ms Kirchner, had sought to annul the Red Notices
issued for the six Iranian suspects named in 2006.

We know who is cooperating with the judge

Ms Kirchner has stated that all his accusations are demonstrably false, and her
government said it was "ridiculous".

Mr Khalil and Mr Yrimia have expressed bemusement at being cited.

Mr Esteche and Mr D'Elia have told the prosecutor investigating Nisman's death,
Viviana Fein, that his assertions were untrue.

Mr Larroque has said that now is not the moment to discuss Nisman's accusations,
but that he hopes it will be resolved soon.

Mr Bogado has not yet been seen. Neither has Mr Stiuso.

We don't know who pulled the trigger

Nisman was last seen by Diego Lagomarsino, who brought the gun to Nisman's flat
on Saturday night at around 8pm.

Nisman was alone. He had reportedly told his 10 federal bodyguards that they
were not required, and were dismissed until Sunday.

The front door to Nisman's apartment was locked when his bodyguards arrived at
11am. They are unable to contact him by telephone. They try again at 1.30pm, and
- failing to do so - rang his mother.

Nisman is thought to have died between 3pm and 4pm.

His mother arrived, and found the main door locked. The tradesman's entrance was
not bolted shut, but had the key in the door so Sara Garfunkel, his mother, was
unable to use the spare key. A locksmith was called at 10pm and swiftly managed
to dislodge the key and open the door.

There was no one else in the apartment when Mrs Garfunkel arrived, accompanied
by firemen.

But investigators have since found a third door - linking Nisman's apartment to
the neighbouring one, which was rented by a Chinese person who was on holiday at
the time of Nisman's death. Fingerprints were reportedly found on the air
conditioning unit which blocked the small passageway between the two flats.

We don't know whether anyone was steering his inquiries

Ms Kirchner has alluded to this, writing in a lengthy post on her website on
Thursday that "they used him while he was alive, and then they needed him dead."

She does not state who she thinks "they" are.

We don't know who is telling the truth about the spies

Oscar Parrilli, the head of the SI, stated on Tuesday 20 that Mr Bogado and Mr
Yrimia had never worked for the secret services - in any capacity.

Nisman, however, said they did.

And some of those accused - Mr Yrimia, Mr Esteche, Mr D'Elia, Mr Khalil - said
that they had, at one time or other, met Mr Bogado, under varying aliases.

We don't know whether anyone will ever prove how he died

Nisman's AMIA case has been taken over by Alberto Gentilli, as Nisman himself
requested before he went on holiday in early January.

Nisman's death is now being investigated by Viviana Fein.

Iran has not commented officially on the case.

We don't know how this will affect Argentina's relations with other countries

Nisman was known to have contacts with the American embassy, and said to be
close to Israeli officials too.

But this does not necessarily mean that his death will harm relations between
those countries.

Iran and Syria, however, may be another matter.

We don't know how this will affect Ms Kirchner politically

Immediately after Nisman's death, hundreds took to the street with placards
proclaiming: "Cristina - Assassin!"

But she has been quick to lay the blame on other, unnamed, sources.

She is standing down from the presidency after two terms in October.

Her political rivals are yet to make much capital from Nisman's death.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      January 23, 2015 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Argentina's terrible truth may stay in the dark;
The Buenos Aires elite has plenty to hide as rumours grow of a high-level
cover-up of Iran's role in a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 879 words


'I could come out of this one dead," Alberto Nisman remarked darkly last
Saturday. Three days earlier the Argentine prosecutor investigating the bombing
of a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires in 1994 had accused Argentine officials,
including President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, of plotting to hide Iran's
role in the terrorist attack in exchange for lucrative trade deals.

Last Monday Nisman was due to testify about those accusations. On Sunday he was
found dead in his locked apartment with a bullet in his head and a .22 calibre
pistol lying alongside him.

The body was barely cold before officials declared this a suicide. Kirchner
herself now says it was not, and that Nisman was murdered by people who had fed
him false information pretending to be state intelligence agents: "Spies who
were not spies." This theory, of course, conveniently undermines Nisman's
accusations against Kirchner.

Whether Nisman killed himself or was murdered by one of his many enemies, this
brave man was undoubtedly the 86th victim of the 1994 bombing, the bloodiest
attack against Jews since the Second World War - a crime for which no one has
ever been convicted. The attack on the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association
(AMIA) and its aftermath is an astonishingly nasty tale of murder, corruption,
terrorism and diplomatic intrigue. But more than that, it is an object lesson in
the way a state can be fatally undermined by its failure to confront the past.

Imagine if the attacks of 9/11 in America or 7/7 in London had been left
unsolved for two decades, its perpetrators unidentified, the families of the
victims left uncertain, and you have a sense of the moral outrage sweeping
Argentina today.

The elderly Jewish-Argentine occupants of the AMIA building were quietly
chatting and playing cards when a 600lb car bomb exploded in front, reducing the
structure to rubble, killing 85 people and injuring more than 300. The attack
came two years after the bombing of the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires, in
which 29 died.

Argentina's large Jewish community had little doubt who was behind the attack.
Argentine prosecutors, Jewish groups, the state of Israel and Interpol have all
accused Iran of orchestrating and financing the bombing, and Hezbollah of
carrying it out. Tehran was enraged by Argentina's decision to cease nuclear
co-operation over fears that Iran's programme was not limited to peaceful
purposes. Hezbollah was keen to avenge the Israeli assassination of its leader
Abbas al-Musawi in 1992 and send a message that no Jewish community was safe.

Yet the investigation from the start was a travesty, a fatal combination of
corruption and unwillingness to confront reality. The Argentine political
establishment showed little interest in the case. As with Argentina's Dirty War,
many preferred to look away and forget. It was not until 2005 that the former
Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, now Pope Francis, became the first public figure
to sign a petition calling for justice in the AMIA case.

That year seemed to mark a change of government attitude. President Néstor
Kirchner (late husband of the current president) condemned the failed
investigations as a "national disgrace" and appointed Alberto Nisman as a
special prosecutor to root out the truth.

Nisman set to work with vigour and courage. A year later prosecutors formally
accused Iran and Hezbollah of carrying out the bombing and indicted seven
Iranians and one Lebanese-born member of Hezbollah. None has ever been captured
and some are still believed to hold government jobs in Iran.

In 2013 the Argentine government announced it had signed an understanding with
Iran to set up a "truth commission" to investigate the AMIA bombing. Mrs
Kirchner (who succeeded her husband in 2007) claimed it would "advance knowledge
of the truth about the attack". Jewish groups were outraged. Inviting the
Iranian regime to a truth commission, said one, was like "asking Nazi Germany to
help establish the facts about Kristallnacht".

The indefatigable Nisman set to work once more, and last week dropped his
bombshell. The joint agreement, he claimed, was a sordid secret cover-up: former
Iranian officials would be absolved and in return Argentine grain would be
exported to Iran and Iranian oil would flow to Argentina to aid its chronic
energy deficit.

The talk of justice was a sham, Nisman claimed, aimed at "faking Iran's
innocence to serve geopolitical and commercial interests". The government
dismissed the allegations as ridiculous and now claims that Nisman was the
target of a murderous conspiracy to smear Kirchner's name.

For many in Argentina, the smell left by cover-up, denial and violent death is
all too familiar. As the country emerged from the brutal years of dictatorship,
those in power chose to hold their noses. Unlike Germany and South Africa,
Argentina has never embraced a full reckoning with its grim history.

"We are used to things in Argentina remaining in the dark," said one opposition
politician. Darkness has become a habit. Argentina vowed to establish the truth
about the 1994 bombing and never did. Nisman set out to uncover the truth behind
that failed promise and died as a consequence. The truth has been abused,
degraded and suppressed for so long in Argentina it may never be found.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 23, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Argentina's terrible truth may stay in the dark;
The Buenos Aires elite has plenty to hide as rumours grow of a high-level
cover-up of Iran's role in a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 901 words


'Icould come out of this one dead," Alberto Nisman remarked darkly last
Saturday. Three days earlier the Argentine prosecutor investigating the bombing
of a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires in 1994 had accused Argentine officials,
including President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, of plotting to hide Iran's
role in the terrorist attack in exchange for lucrative trade deals.

Last Monday Nisman was due to testify about those accusations. On Sunday he was
found dead in his locked apartment with a bullet in his head and a .22 calibre
pistol lying alongside him.

The body was barely cold before officials declared this a suicide. Kirchner
herself now says it was not, and that Nisman was murdered by people who had fed
him false information pretending to be state intelligence agents: "Spies who
were not spies." This theory, of course, conveniently undermines Nisman's
accusations against Kirchner.

Whether Nisman killed himself or was murdered by one of his many enemies, this
brave man was undoubtedly the 86th victim of the 1994 bombing, the bloodiest
attack against Jews since the Second World War - a crime for which no one has
ever been convicted. The attack on the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association
(AMIA) and its aftermath is an astonishingly nasty tale of murder, corruption,
terrorism and diplomatic intrigue. But more than that, it is an object lesson in
the way a state can be fatally undermined by its failure to confront the past.

Imagine if the attacks of 9/11 in America or 7/7 in London had been left
unsolved for two decades, its perpetrators unidentified, the families of the
victims left uncertain, and you have a sense of the moral outrage sweeping
Argentina today.

The elderly Jewish-Argentine occupants of the AMIA building were quietly
chatting and playing cards when a 600lb car bomb exploded in front, reducing the
structure to rubble, killing 85 people and injuring more than 300. The attack
came two years after the bombing of the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires, in
which 29 died.

Argentina's large Jewish community had little doubt who was behind the attack.
Argentine prosecutors, Jewish groups, the state of Israel and Interpol have all
accused Iran of orchestrating and financing the bombing, and Hezbollah of
carrying it out. Tehran was enraged by Argentina's decision to cease nuclear
co-operation over fears that Iran's programme was not limited to peaceful
purposes. Hezbollah was keen to avenge the Israeli assassination of its leader
Abbas al-Musawi in 1992 and send a message that no Jewish community was safe.

Yet the investigation from the start was a travesty, a fatal combination of
corruption and unwillingness to confront reality. The Argentine political
establishment showed little interest in the case. As with Argentina's Dirty War,
many preferred to look away and forget. It was not until 2005 that the former
Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, now Pope Francis, became the first public figure
to sign a petition calling for justice in the AMIA case.

That year seemed to mark a change of government attitude. President Néstor
Kirchner (late husband of the current president) condemned the failed
investigations as a "national disgrace" and appointed Alberto Nisman as a
special prosecutor to root out the truth.

Nisman set to work with vigour and courage. A year later prosecutors formally
accused Iran and Hezbollah of carrying out the bombing and indicted seven
Iranians and one Lebanese-born member of Hezbollah. None has ever been captured
and some are still believed to hold government jobs in Iran.

In 2013 the Argentine government announced it had signed an understanding with
Iran to set up a "truth commission" to investigate the AMIA bombing. Mrs
Kirchner (who succeeded her husband in 2007) claimed it would "advance knowledge
of the truth about the attack". Jewish groups were outraged. Inviting the
Iranian regime to a truth commission, said one, was like "asking Nazi Germany to
help establish the facts about Kristallnacht".

The indefatigable Nisman set to work once more, and last week dropped his
bombshell. The joint agreement, he claimed, was a sordid secret cover-up: former
Iranian officials would be absolved and in return Argentine grain would be
exported to Iran and Iranian oil would flow to Argentina to aid its chronic
energy deficit.

The talk of justice was a sham, Nisman claimed, aimed at "faking Iran's
innocence to serve geopolitical and commercial interests". The government
dismissed the allegations as ridiculous and now claims that Nisman was the
target of a murderous conspiracy to smear Kirchner's name.

For many in Argentina, the smell left by cover-up, denial and violent death is
all too familiar. As the country emerged from the brutal years of dictatorship,
those in power chose to hold their noses. Unlike Germany and South Africa,
Argentina has never embraced a full reckoning with its grim history.

"We are used to things in Argentina remaining in the dark," said one opposition
politician. Darkness has become a habit. Argentina vowed to establish the truth
about the 1994 bombing and never did. Nisman set out to uncover the truth behind
that failed promise and died as a consequence. The truth has been abused,
degraded and suppressed for so long in Argentina it may never be found.

Imagine if the attacks of 9/11 or 7/7 were left unsolved for 20 years

Asking Iran to help was like asking the Nazis to help over Kristallnacht

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 24, 2015 Saturday 9:00 AM GMT

Patrick Cockburn: 'An effective terrorist attack requires the complicity of
governments';
The prizewinning reporter talks about his famous father, writing with his son
and his new book about Islamic state

BYLINE: David Shariatmadari

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 2095 words


The morning I meet foreign correspondent Patrick Cockburn is, appropriately
enough, one that will reverberate in world politics for some time to come. As I
step off the train in Canterbury, news has just broken of murders at the offices
of Charlie Hebdo. Such is the seriousness of the attack, the location and the
nature of the target, it's immediately clear millions will be drawn into the
drama: western governments and their Middle Eastern counterparts, Muslims living
unexceptional lives and, indeed, journalists everywhere. A web of reaction and
counterreaction, of just the kind Cockburn has spent his life examining, will
extend from Washington to Lahore.

Events are still unfolding as I reach his ancient house, half a mile or so from
the cathedral, and I explain breathlessly what has happened. "Let's watch the
news for five minutes, and then we'll talk," he suggests, wondering whether Sky
or the BBC will be better, and settling on the latter. "Of course, there's often
very little to say at times like this, so you end up with a certain amount of
speculation." We watch in silence as video of what appears to be a shootout on a
Parisian street is played over and over again. Cockburn sits impassively,
absorbing what information there is, then asks me to press the mute button. He
calls the newsdesk at the Independent and leaves a message offering to weigh in
as needed, particularly if it emerges that there are links with Isis, the
subject of his latest book.

My head is swimming, but Cockburn is matter-of-fact. This is, after all, the
grim stuff of his trade, albeit a little closer to home than usual. He has
reported from the Middle East, with interludes in Moscow and Washington, for
40-odd years. He witnessed the civil war in Lebanon, the first and second Gulf
wars, the Afghan war and, more recently, Syria's descent into bloody chaos. His
work includes in-depth studies of Saddam Hussein and Muqtada al-Sadr, and of the
US occupation of Iraq. His reporting has earned him the Martha Gellhorn and
James Cameron prizes, among others. Quick to size things up, to put them in
context, he is precise, methodical, almost detached. I wonder out loud whether
the attack on Charlie Hebdo will be treated as a question of law enforcement,
rather than an existential challenge to be met with an overwhelming political
response. Perhaps it's a forlorn hope? "It is forlorn," he says. "Actually this
sort of thing is geared towards making sure it's forlorn. To have an effective
terrorist attack, you require the complicity of governments - through creating
an overreaction, the collective punishment of communities that are deemed to be
responsible, torture, wars and so on. This is true whether it's the American
government after 9/11, or the tsarist government at the end of the 19th
century."

That flash of history - Russian history, no less - reminds us of Cockburn's
roots in a tradition of learned but politically engaged reporting. His father,
Claud, was a foreign correspondent for the Times before leaving to found the
Week, an anti-fascist newsletter that ran from 1933-41. He was a communist who
fought in the Spanish civil war, and sent dispatches to the Daily Worker back in
London.

"He was always amazed that other people didn't take [a radical] position,"
recalls Cockburn. "He left Oxford, he went to Germany in the late 1920s, then
went to New York to be the Times correspondent at the time of the great crash.
Then the Nazis came to power. He used to say: 'If you didn't have some radical
thoughts after that, you must be pretty intellectually inert.' I agree."

Though less parti pris than his father - he tells me he has never been a member
of the Communist or any other political party - Cockburn's formative years also
led him to some radical conclusions. "I was brought up in Ireland, which was
still very conscious in the 1950s of being a conquered country," he says. "And
my first political experiences and the first time I started writing were in
Northern Ireland." If any overarching insight emerges from his work, it is that
the interests of small countries rarely coincide with those of the big countries
that seek to dominate them. This does not seem to be an article of faith, but
something born out of years of observation. In fact, Cockburn's views on the
question of western military engagement are surprisingly flexible. "There are
occasions when you could say that it was a very good thing the Americans
intervened. Let's say, when Kobani was under siege, or when Isis was approaching
Erbil and massacring and murdering and raping the Yazidis. Or in Libya, you
could say Benghazi. But," he continues, "the interests of the people in a
country are very unlikely to permanently coincide with the occupying power."

Can such assumptions end up getting in the way of impartial reporting? Here,
Cockburn summons up his father's concept of the "factual heresy". The idea that
journalism can ever be completely free from the prejudices of its practitioners
is a fiction, and the way to deliver trustworthy reporting is to be honest about
what those prejudices are. "Everybody has an agenda in that they have things
that they think are true and things that they think are important, and vice
versa," he says. "There's a sort of pretence that it's not so, and that's fine,
but one should also make clear in writing where one's coming from. That should
be apparent."

A slightly mischievous question tends to hang over writers drawn to the Middle
East, for which we could blame Richard Burton and TE Lawrence, among others. Are
they intoxicated by it? Do they harbour romantic ideas of the Arab world, all
coffee houses and colourful bazaars? It's a little unfair, but I'm curious to
know the nature of Cockburn's interest, aside from that of being a witness to
history, which could equally have taken him to other places. His answer seems a
little bloodless at first. "The niche sort of found me. I happened to be in the
niche. It was rather accidental." But then: "I liked cosmopolitan societies.
They're more fun, they're more interesting, a place like Beirut ... the people
speak three or four languages. They're never pacific places, but they're
attractive and there aren't so many of them now - there used to be Smyrna, in
Turkey, there used to be Alexandria, and Baghdad, actually, was rather like
that." I get him to admit that his Irish upbringing - by the rootless son of a
diplomat and the daughter of an Ascendancy family - might have given him a taste
for the variegated.

Had Cockburn not become a reporter, I suspect he would have been a novelist, or
more likely, a historian. Writing is an ingrained habit. He tells me that his
father was at his desk by 5am every day. His mother wrote an autobiography, and
his brothers became journalists too. As a result, his work encompasses more than
just his professional life. In The Broken Boy  (2005), he turned his attention
not only to postwar Irish public health and the 1956 Cork polio epidemic, but to
his family and himself. At six he was a victim of that outbreak, the last before
Jonas Salk's vaccine was introduced in 1957. He suffers the effects of the
disease to this day: he cannot run, and walks with a stick, a fact you might
imagine would make war reporting difficult. He brushes off the suggestion,
joking that lying flat on his face when someone's shooting at you doesn't
require much physical agility.

Ill health was the spur for another, more devastating family memoir in 2011.
Interweaving sections written by Cockburn and his eldest son Henry, it tells the
story of the latter's psychotic breakdown and treatment for schizophrenia.
Cockburn was in Kabul when, down a dodgy satellite phone line, his wife Jan told
him that Henry had been rescued after swimming across the River Ouse in East
Sussex. He was trying to return home from Brighton, at the urging of the
"brambles, trees, and wild animals".

The book is extremely frank about the depredations of an illness that is still
poorly understood and highly stigmatised. Cockburn describes his son running
away, only to be found hiding in a quarry having soiled himself, and his wife's
desperation and bewilderment at the lack of improvement after the first
breakdown. It was a brave decision to lay all this out in public, but also an
act of kindness - a way of allowing Henry to make his own contribution in the
family tradition. Cockburn tells me the idea came to him when sitting with his
son after a clinic appointment. Henry told him he felt a complete failure. His
friends all had jobs, degrees, spouses. "So I thought, why not turn this into an

 asset from his point of view and also give him something to do? And I thought
he must write his stuff so it has the authenticity of an eyewitness." Henry's
doctors didn't object. "Lots of things he never told me came out when he was
writing it. And it was sort of an achievement [for him] as well."

Henry's Demons                      won plaudits for both its authors and was
shortlisted for the Costa book award. With it, Cockburn's reputation as a writer
of extraordinary range was cemented. It introduced a new audience to his
literary skill and powers of investigation. Since then, however, he has returned
to more familiar territory - and universal critical acclaim is likely to give
way to time-worn journalistic rows about partiality, blame and sympathy for
dictators. In The Rise of Islamic State, Cockburn attempts to disentangle the
most recent mess in the Middle East - the semi-collapse of the Syrian and Iraqi
states and the renaissance of violent jihadism in the form of Isis, a group he
was writing about months before their extraordinary gains in summer 2014
captured the world's attention.

The story is difficult to unpick: a genuine revolt in Syria against a brutal
dictatorship becomes intertwined with a broader sectarian struggle. The problem
is compounded by interventions from western powers, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Russia
and others. Turkey refuses to shut its borders to extremist adventurers, and the
Iraqi army, essentially a machine for corruption, disintegrated at its first
real test. But the complexity of the situation should not be used as a get-out
clause. "If you emphasise [that], and say everybody's responsible, you let
people off the hook," argues Cockburn. "I think that one should be very specific
as to what's gone wrong." He cites the Turkish border, the decision to turn a
blind eye to whether support for anti-Assad rebels went to jihadists or
non-jihadists, the insistence at the Geneva II peace conference that any
solution must involve Assad's exit. Putting his clear animus for the Syrian
president to one side, he believes that demanding he step down is effectively
asking for the war to continue. Instead, he thinks every effort should be made
to de-escalate, with ceasefires brokered where possible between the government
and non-jihadist opposition groups.

As we saw vividly that morning, continued violence in the region has
international consequences. Six wars in the Middle East and North Africa - Iraq,
Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia and Libya - provide an "ideal breeding
ground" for attacks like those in Paris, Cockburn says. It has since emerged
that the Charlie Hebdo killers had been trained in Yemen, and that the partner
of the gunman who murdered four at a kosher supermarket two days later has taken
refuge in Syria. "It is inevitable that sparks from these conflicts land in
western Europe and other parts of the world," he says, "leading to
assassinations, bombings and kidnappings," of which we can only expect more. A
longer-term solution will involve the west reconsidering its relationship with
those regional actors who have done more than any other to nurture extremist
ideologies: Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

In the aftermath of a massacre, many will be deaf to Cockburn's pleas for a
critical eye over foreign powers' actions and alliances. "This often happens at
times of high emotion. An explanation of the roots of some ghastly atrocity such
as Charlie Hebdo [is seen] to dilute the degree of evil involved and justify the
actions of the perpetrators. This response is understandable but it is not very
useful. Asking who is to directly to blame for Charlie Hebdo and explaining why
it happened are two different things."

This is typical Cockburn: politically charged, but not impassioned.
Characteristic of a man who, as he turns 65 this year, will continue to report
simply "because one's interested in history, in why things are happening".

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Luton Today

                           January 24, 2015 Saturday

Luton's Council of Faiths condemns Paris terror attacks and defends free speech

LENGTH: 357  words


Luton Council of Faiths has issued a statement regarding the Paris terror
killings and the issues it has raised around the freedom of speech.

"We wish to unite in expressing our deepest regret and indeed anger at the
recent murders in Paris, and completely condemn any ideology that supports such
atrocities.

"We find it utterly abhorrent and outrageous that hideous crimes such as these
are justified in the name of religion by the perpetrators. These killings are,
of course, an offence to Islam itself: the sanctity of life is central to Islam,
as to all religions.

"On the other hand, it is a matter of shame and a challenge for us all that in
the name of freedom of expression and free speech the response to these
atrocities has caused deep and grievous emotional hurt to over 1.5 billion
Muslims and those of other faiths or no particular faith affiliations.

"Pope Francis speaks for us all in condemnation of both murders and the
responses.

"Respect, dignity, mutuality, and of love for each other are fundamental values
and principles of all faiths and societies.

"It is therefore a matter of great regret that periodically we are confronted
with acts of wilful provocation that are bound to cause deep offence.

"We recognise that freedom of expression and free speech are important and MUST
BE DEFENDED.

"However such a freedom must be exercised with due care and responsibility, and
cannot be considered as unconditional or as a licence to denigrate, ridicule,
offend and insult people's religious beliefs and leaders.

Luton Council of Faiths has always responded to issues, however extreme, which
cause concern, distress and anguish, by calling for restrained and unity.

"An attack on one's beliefs is an attack on us all.

"Our strength lies in our unity.

"We therefore, remain committed to challenge and condemn all hatred and
prejudice in our community - Islamophobia, anti-Semitism to anti-Christian or
bearing any other name - by promoting mutual understanding, respect, love and
affection for each other irrespective of cultural and religious differences to
make our town and world a beacon of harmony, tolerance and acceptance."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MBLN


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 25, 2015 Sunday

Indian agency warns of possible terror attack from air during

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of report published by Indian news channel Zee News website on 25 January

New Delhi: Hours after US President Barack Obama left for his three-day visit to
India to witness Republic Day celebrations here, Intelligence Bureau on Saturday
[24 January] night issued an alert to the Delhi Police of possible terror
attack.

The agency warned of a Mumbai-style terror attack during Obama's visit and also
alerted that the terrorists have already entered the Indian territory through
Jammu and Kashmir border and are at the moment present in the national capital,
where the US President is due to land on Sunday.

The IB, in its alert to the Delhi Police, said that the terrorists are likely
planning a terror strike using paragliders.

The police have also been asked to checked with those buying chemicals which
could be used to make explosives.

Unprecedented security arrangements are in place for Obama's visit with around
15000 CCTV cameras being installed and a seven-layer security ring turning the
national capital into an impregnable fortress.

To avert any possibility of a terror strike, over 1,000 NSG snipers and 44,000
Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel will guard the capital on Republic Day
putting it into a virtual lockdown.

The White House on Saturday announced a last minute change in Obama's scheduled
India visit by cancelling the tour to iconic Taj Mahal, where for the past
several days, scores of workers have been working tirelessly while thousands of
security personnel stepped up vigil all along the national highway and the
Yamuna Expressway.

Obama will head to Saudi Arabia on January 27 to pay his respect to new King
Salman and offer condolence after the death of King Abdullah.

The US President has been invited by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be
the chief guest for Republic Day celebrations on January 26.

Source: Zee News TV website, Noida, in English 0000gmt 25 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 25, 2015 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT

IS calls for 'lone wolf' terror attacks in UK

LENGTH: 268 words


ISLAMIC State is appealing for lone wolf terrorists to carry out atrocities in
Britain and has posted tips online on planning a Paris-style rampage in London.

GETTY

The appeal demanded gunmen-led attacks in London, Madrid and Sydney

It advises would-be attackers to blow themselves up rather than face arrest and
to avoid phone conversations to prevent security services listening in.

The lone wolf message, posted on Monday and taken down a few days later, came as
IS looks to step up its operations in Syria and Iraq. Tweets in Arabic reveal it
is offering top Al Qaeda fighters millions of pounds and mansions to switch
allegiance.

Last night Haras Rafiq, managing director of anti-radicalisation organisation
the Quilliam Foundation, said: "The calls for an attack in Britain and the West
have to be taken with utmost seriousness.

"The message is from the Al-Khilafah Media Foundation, the media arm of IS.
There are thought to be 600 British fighters among IS ranks in Iraq and Syria
and most likely hundreds more supporters in this country."

In its appeal to fanatics all over the West, IS justifies a lone wolf attack as
revenge for military intervention in the Middle East.

It calls for bombs to be planted in San Francisco and Belgium and for shooting
sprees in London, Madrid and Sydney by gunmen using silencers.

The group also speaks of poison gas attacks at railway stations in Russia,
Boston, Dallas and Amsterdam.

Related articles Sinister side to snooping: Don't sacrifice the freedom the
Islamists want to destroy Spanish police arrest four 'Islamic State militants
who were planning Paris style attack'

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Sunday Herald (Glasgow)

                            January 25, 2015 Sunday

Police are put on Ulster-style terror alert after deadly Paris attacks

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 823 words


POLICE are using tactics pioneered during the Ulster Troubles to try to prevent
Jihadi terrorists killing frontline officers on Scotland's streets, the Sunday
Herald can reveal.

Police chiefs have warned officers in the wake of the Paris attacks that they
are at a heightened risk of being targeted by Islamic extremists.

There are fears terrorists plan to "wipe out" police with deadly car bomb plots,
according to senior security sources.

Police insiders say that Scottish officers are now checking under their vehicles
for explosive devices after being urged to be "vigilant for their personal
safety".

The new security measures  mirror precautions taken by the  RUC in Northern
Ireland during the Troubles, when officers searched their cars, avoided taking
the same route to work, and did not wear their uniform to and from the station
in order to hamper IRA assassination plots.

A police source, based at a Glasgow station, said: "When I'm leaving the house
for work, and after my shift, I've taken to checking under my motor.

"I don't climb straight in, I get down on the ground and have a good look at the
underside of my car for  anything that looks dodgy or suspicious.

"We're at the stage where we can't be too careful."

Tensions are running particularly high among Scots officers as they fear they
may be the target of an attack similar to that which was narrowly averted in
Belgium.

Authorities said a dozen searches in Verviers led to the discovery of four
military-style weapons, including Kalashnikov assault rifles.

Several police uniforms were also found during the raids, which could have
allowed the suspects to pass themselves off as police officers to launch an
attack.

The insider added: "I know colleagues who have adopted some of the practices
used by police in Northern Ireland during the 1980s.

"Some won't hang out their uniform on the washing line for fear of 'advertising'
that they are police, others are leaving their own cars at home and travelling
to work on public transport.

"Meanwhile, others are making a conscious decision to mix up their daily
routine, maybe taking a different route to work, or taking the bus instead of
the train."

There is also growing concern  that a terror attack carried out  in Scotland
would be perpetrated  not by an organised cell but a "lone wolf".

But senior officers admit the job of identifying individuals is "extremely
challenging".

Internal advice has been issued to officers across Police Scotland, including
warnings about putting personal sensitive information on social networking sites
such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Another officer, who did not wish to be named, said: "We've been told to make
sure we know exactly who we are accepting friend requests from on Facebook,
ensure the profile with your pal's name is really your pal  and not someone on a
fishing expedition.

"The raised threat level means officers have to be extra vigilant in everything
they do.

"We have to be aware of who is around us at all times, whether its making your
way home from work or picking the kids up from school - we have to be careful.

"It's also about challenging people you don't recognise at stations and asking
for ID.

"Most colleagues I've spoken to are being extra cautious.

"We have to take the threat seriously."

More than 300 full and part-time police officers were killed during the Northern
Ireland Troubles.

Many were targeted while off duty, or killed going about their daily routine.

Deputy Chief Constable Iain Livingstone, said: "Our officers are used to
confronting risk and are highly trained to protect both the public and
themselves.

"However, policing can be a dangerous job so it essential that in keeping people
safe we also ensure we keep our officers and staff safe.

"We have therefore updated our advice on their personal safety."

The warning to police comes amid MI5 fears that extremists are planning an
attack similar to that of Fusilier Lee Rigby, killed in 2013 by two fanatics as
he walked near his Woolwich barracks.

Officers are being advised to keep a low profile outside of work, and be aware
of anything that could put them at risk.

Drummer Rigby was not wearing his uniform when he was attacked, but a Help For
Heroes hooded  jumper.

Livingstone added: "Police Scotland will continue to work with our partners in
the community  and in the counter terrorism  network across the UK to keep
people safe.

"While there is no specific threat to Scottish communities we must not be
complacent, as Scotland is not immune from the threat posed by terrorism.

"Dialogue is ongoing with community and faith leaders.

"There are strong community relations in Scotland and the links between the
public and the police are excellent.

"I would urge all communities to remain alert."

Head of Europol, Rob Wainwright, said the need for tightened security across
Europe highlighted the terrorist threat.

He said: "We're dealing with  multiple thousands of potential terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SHE


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                January 25, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IS calls for 'lone wolf' terror attacks in UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 224 words


ISLAMIC State is appealing for lone wolf terrorists to carry out atrocities in
Britain and has posted tips online on planning a Paris-style rampage in London.

It advises would-be attackers to blow themselves up rather than face arrest and
to avoid phone conversations to prevent security services listening in.

The lone wolf message, posted on Monday and taken down a few days later, came as
IS looks to step up its operations in Syria and Iraq. Tweets in Arabic reveal it
is offering top Al Qaeda fighters millions of pounds and mansions to switch
allegiance.

Last night Haras Rafiq, managing director of antiradicalisation organisation the
Quilliam Foundation, said: "The calls for an attack in Britain and the West have
to be taken with utmost seriousness.

"The message is from the Al-Khilafah Media Foundation, the media arm of IS.
There are thought to be 600 British fighters among IS ranks in Iraq and Syria
and most likely hundreds more supporters in this country."

In its appeal to fanatics all over the West, IS justifies a lone wolf attack as
revenge for military intervention in the Middle East.

It calls for bombs to be planted in San Francisco and Belgium and for shooting
sprees in London, Madrid and Sydney by gunmen using silencers.

The group also speaks of poison gas attacks at railway stations in Russia,
Boston, Dallas and Amsterdam.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                            January 25, 2015 Sunday

Increased police patrols in Bushey following terrorist attacks in Europe

BYLINE: Jyoti Rambhai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 119 words


With the recent terror attacks in Europe, Hertfordshire Constabulary, has
increased patrols in Bushey.

The increase in patrols comes in line with the rest of the police service across
the UK, which they believe will act as a deterrent.

As Bushey has a big Jewish community, patrols within the area have been
particularly visible with police patrol cars being parked at the synagogue.

A spokesperson for the police said: "Hertfordshire Constabulary continues to
work to protect and reassure our communities, as well as taking sensible
measures to enhance the security of police officers given the recent events in
Europe.

"Our community officers are in contact with schools and other partners to help
counter any concerns."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            January 26, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

POLICE 'NEED NEW NET LAWS TO BEAT TERROR';
PSNI chief plan to stop attacks

BYLINE: JILLY BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 357 words


THE PSNI'S anti-terror chief wants his officers to have better powers to access
private online messages in a bid to prevent attacks.

Detective Superintendent Kevin Geddes said the police are finding it
increasingly difficult to monitor the communications of suspects.

He added technology has rapidly out-paced the laws which allow officers to
collect intelligence in this way.

Det Supt Geddes said terrorists can "go dark" or communicate privately to
discuss operations in the knowledge they are out of reach of investigators.

He added: "Going dark is really when we lose the ability to see what's happening
communications-wise and that's a real challenge. I think there is a real need
for new legislation around the internet, the going dark.

"It is practically impossible to discover the origin of messages.

"You lose the ability to work out the other pieces of the puzzle.

"The balance is around privacy because the more you open the legislation
potentially the less privacy people have and that's always going to be the
debate.

"So anything that would be done would have to be with oversight and the proper
legislative process.

"But it's an area I would have worked in for some time and capturing of
communications data for policing purposes is becoming harder and harder and
without new legislation it is going to be really difficult."

Det Supt Geddes said the PSNI's Terrorist Investigation Unit is working on
almost 70 cases of dissident republican activity, the majority of which have
been undercover operations.

The main focus of the unit has been the activities of the so-called New IRA, the
Continuity IRA and Oglaigh na hEireann and their pattern and capability of
carrying out increasingly sophisticated attacks.

Det Supt Geddes confirmed his squad of almost 80 specially trained male and
female officers regularly works with MI5, the FBI, Garda and the Northern
Ireland Office to try to unravel the terrorists' plans.

He added the PSNI is on high alert for increased terrorist activity ahead of the
1916 Easter Rising centenary.

j.beattie@mgn.co.uk

Without changes it's going to be really difficult to access data DET SUPT KEVIN
GEDDES yesterday

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CALL Det Supt Geddes yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 26, 2015 Monday 5:37 PM GMT

Islamic State call on Muslims in West to carry out terror attacks and 'shed
blood'

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 383 words


TERROR group Islamic State have today called on Muslims in the West to carry out
terror attacks.

AP

Islamic State have called on Muslims in the West to carry out terror attacks

The jihadists said if any of their followers had the opportunity to "shed a drop
of blood" in Western countries then they should do so.

Spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani also praised recent deadly terror attacks in
Australia, Belgium and France.

The latter left 20 people dead, including 12 people who were massacred at the
offices of Paris-based satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.

Al-Adnani said: "We repeat our call to Muslims in Europe, the infidel West, and
everywhere to target the Crusaders in their home countries and wherever they
find them.

"We will be enemies, in front of God, to any Muslim who can shed a drop of blood
of a Crusader and abstains from doing that with a bomb, bullet, knife, car, rock
or even a kick or a punch."

AP

Islamic State called on supporters to "shed blood"

The IS spokesman, in a nine-minute recording released today, also praised the
gunman who shot and killed a soldier in October at Canada's national war
memorial.

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, a Muslim convert born in Quebec, went onto storm the
Canadian parliament building before being killed by security forces.

Al-Adnani said: "You all saw what one Muslim did in Canada and its infidel
parliament."

In the address the IS spokesman added that the terrorists were "happy" about
last week's death of Saudi King Abdullah.

He claimed Muslims "are happy for the death of the tyrant of the peninsula".

The news comes as Kurdish fighters, backed by US air strikes, took full control
of the Syrian town of Kobani.

REUTERS

The Islamic State spokesman also praised the France terror attacks

The British based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Kurdish soldiers have
driven out IS fighters in the area.

The extremists planted mines before fleeing.

Turkish Kurd Tevfik Kanat said: "People are dancing and singing, there are
fireworks. Everyone feels a huge sense of relief."

Kobani has become a symbol in the battle against the hardline Sunni Muslim
insurgents who have captured large areas of Iraq and Syria.

US led forces have carried out almost daily air strikes on IS positions around
the town.

The terror group launched a campaign to capture the town in July.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 26, 2015 Monday 3:58 PM GMT

Isis spokesman calls for terror attacks around the world while praising Charlie
Hebdo massacre;
Abu Mohamed al-Adnani said any opportunity to "shed a drop of blood" should be
taken

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 484 words


Isis has issued another call to arms for jihadists around the world to carry out
terror attacks in their home countries.

Abu Mohamed al-Adnani, the spokesperson whose previous statements may have
inspired gunmen in Australia and France, said any loyalist who has the
opportunity to "shed a drop of blood" should do so.

In an audio recording released on Monday, he also praised the Paris attacks,
Sydney siege and a failed plot to murder police officers in Belgium.

The lone gunman who shot a soldier at Canada's national war memorial dead before
storming the parliament building in October was also held up as an example to be
followed.

Al-Adnani also spoke about the death of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, saying
Muslims should be "happy for the death of the tyrant of the peninsula".

His relatively moderate stance would have been an offence to Isis' violent brand
of Sunni extremism.

Read more: Britain on high alert for beheading attackIsis urges more attacks on
Western 'disbelievers'UK faced 'four major terror plots' last year

In September last year, al-Adnani issued another bloody decree to followers,
telling them to kill "a disbelieving American or European - especially the
spiteful and filthy French - or an Australian, or a Canadian, or any other
disbeliever from the disbelievers waging war, including the citizens of the
countries that entered into a coalition against the Islamic State".

His address continued: "Smash his head with a rock, or slaughter him with a
knife, or run him over with your car, or throw him down from a high place, or
choke him, or poison him."

Security services were reportedly on "high alert" for a beheading attack in
Britain earlier this month after online "chatter" by jihadists discussing plans
to murder soldiers, police and intelligence operatives.

It was feared that extremists want to copy Isis' killing of James Foley, David
Haines, Alan Henning and other hostages last year by abducting a target and
posting footage of their death on the internet.

The emergence of Isis in Syria and Iraq was one of the factors causing the UK's
terrorist threat level to be raised to "severe" in August, meaning that an
attack is deemed "highly likely" but not imminent.

In pictures: Reaction to Charlie Hebdo attack

Amedy Coulibaly, who killed four hostages at a kosher supermarket in Paris, had
pledged allegiance to Isis, while Charlie Hebdo gunmen Said and Cherif Kouachi
claimed to represent al-Qaeda in Yemen.

Britain has faced four major terrorist plots in the past year, three of them in
the past few months alone, the head of MI5 said, while warning that the lethal
threat from Islamist extremists, including those home-grown, continues to grow.

Security services and police in the UK and across Europe continue to be on high
alert for plots and a wave of anti-terror arrests has recently swept the
continent.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 26, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Do not call Paris attackers 'terrorists', says BBC executive;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: ADAM SHERWIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 412 words


The Islamists who committed the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris should be not be
described as "terrorists" by the BBC, a senior executive at the corporation has
said.

Tarik Kafala, the head of BBC Arabic, the largest of the BBC's non-English
language news services, said the term "terrorist" was too "loaded" to describe
the actions of the men who killed 12 people in the attack on the French
satirical magazine.

Mr Kafala, whose BBC Arabic television, radio and online news services reach a
weekly audience of 36 million people, told The Independent: "We try to avoid
describing anyone as a terrorist or an act as being terrorist. What we try to do
is to say that 'two men killed 12 people in an attack on the office of a
satirical magazine'. That's enough, we know what that means and what it is."

Mr Kafala said: "Terrorism is such a loaded word. The UN has been struggling for
more than a decade to define the word and they can't. It is very difficult to.
We know what political violence is, we know what murder, bombings and shootings
are and we describe them. That's much more revealing, we believe, than using a
word like terrorist which people will see as value-laden."

Of the Paris case, Mr Kafala said: "We avoid the word terrorists. It's a
terrorist attack, anti-terrorist police are deployed on the streets of Paris.
Clearly all the officials and commentators are using the word so obviously we
broadcast that."

While Mr Kafala's comments may surprise some, they are in line with the BBC's
editorial guidelines on reporting terrorism. The guidelines state: "[The BBC]
does not ban the use of the word. However, we do ask that careful thought is
given to its use by a BBC voice. There are ways of conveying the full horror and
human consequences of acts of terror without using the word 'terrorist' to
describe the perpetrators.

"The value judgements frequently implicit in the use of the words 'terrorist' or
'terrorist group' can create inconsistency in their use or, to audiences, raise
doubts about our impartiality. It may be better to talk about an apparent act of
terror or terrorism than label individuals or a group."

When reporting an attack, the BBC guidelines say it should use words which
specifically describe the perpetrator such as "bomber", "attacker", "gunman",
"kidnapper" or "militant".

BBC Arabic, part of the World Service, which is now funded by licence-fee
payers, broadcasts radio, online and a 24-hour news channel, throughout the
Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            January 26, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorist attack blacks out 140m;
in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 68 words


A BLACKOUT across most of Pakistan was triggered when a single transmission
tower was damaged in an Islamist attack.

The sabotage in Baluchistan province caused a power surge that cut off about
140million of the country's population of 180million.

Half of customers had power restored within hours as engineers worked to
reconnect the rest.

Blackouts are common in Pakistan because of the ageing infrastructure.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                     January 27, 2015 Tuesday 12:25 AM GMT

EU Ministers Tackle Terrorist Financing In Wake Of Paris Attacks

LENGTH: 491 words


Brussels (Alliance News) - EU finance ministers discussed ways Tuesday to crack
down on the financing of terrorist activities, following deadly attacks in Paris
and a foiled plot in Belgium this month.

The ministers, who were meeting in Brussels, have been asked to approve a new
anti-money-laundering proposal, aimed at curbing corruption as well as
restricting sources of money for criminal or terrorist groups.

The parliament's justice and home affairs committee was also due Tuesday to vote
on the package, which was agreed in principle with member states last year. The
full plenary must give its approval for the measures to pass into law.

The ministers will also look at further steps to detect "all those small
movements that are at the root of the financing of terrorist activities," French
Finance Minister Michel Sapin said ahead of the talks with his 27 counterparts.

"We stay united with France in the effort against terror," added Danish Economy
Minister Morten Ostergaard. "Stopping the financing of terror is a crucial
point."

"I hope that we get some concrete results today," said Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem.

The fight against terrorism is first and foremost a responsibility for
individual member states, but the EU's executive has been looking at ways of
beefing up measures across the bloc.

The debate has focused in particular on European-born foreign fighters who join
jihadist groups in Syria and Iraq and are seen as a security threat once they
return.

The Paris attacks were a "stress test of our system," European Commission
official Matthias Rutte told EU lawmakers on Tuesday. He said the commission is
now working to identify any gaps in EU legislation that make it easier for
terrorists to operate.

This includes checking whether external EU border controls are strong enough;
cracking down on the availability of firearms; focusing on the risks presented
by the internet; and improving the exchange of intelligence at the European
level, Rutte said.

Many of these issues will be addressed in the coming months, when the commission
presents a new security strategy, based on "action but not activism," he added.

But many proposed anti-terrorist measures have met with resistance in the
European Parliament, mostly due to concerns over privacy and data protection.
Last year, the legislature blocked a controversial plan on the exchange of
airline passenger data.

Efforts to approve the so-called Passenger Name Record (PNR) system have been
revived in the wake of the Paris attacks.

"By experience, it's one of the few, or even the only way for our member states
to detect suspicious movements of candidates for jihad," EU Counterterrorism
Coordinator Giles de Kerchove told EU lawmakers.

But Timothy Kirkhope, who oversaw the PNR file in parliament, warned against
acting in "haste" after three years of work on the proposal, stressing the
importance of taking the legislature's concerns into account.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday

Pan-Arab TV debates causes of Paris terrorist attacks, link to French policy

LENGTH: 1550 words


Al-Jazeera Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1105 gmt on 16 January
carries live a ad hoc talk show on the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attacks in Paris,
moderated by anchorman Abd-al-Samad Nasir, in the Doha studios, featuring a
studio session bringing together Hasan Bin-Hasan, "an adviser at the Scientific
Research Institute at Qatar University; and Hasan Abu-Haniyah, "an expert in
Islamist groups affairs; as well as a live satellite interview with Alain Bauer,
"an expert in security affairs and terrorism and former adviser to former French
President Nikokay Sarkozy," in Paris; and a live satellite interview with Dr
Khattar Abu-Diyab, "a researcher at the International Institute for Geopolitical
Studies," in Paris.

The talk show discusses the perceived causes and repercussions of the Paris
terrorist attacks, and whether they have anything to do with the French foreign
policy and military interventions.

Before the discussion is started, the TV channel airs a video report by Walid
al-Attar, who, after relating the details of the recent Paris terrorist attacks,
says: "The accelerating repercussions of these incidents have not prevented some
from raising important questions on what is attracting French-born youths who
were also raised in France to the ideas of Al-Qa'idah or ISIL. The attempts to
provide answers to these questions lead one to the contours of the French
domestic and foreign policies.

In France, millions of Muslims, such as the Kouachi brothers and Coulibaly, are
complaining about the aggravation of the policies of discrimination, which have
failed to heed the calls for integration made by the French State. This
coincided with the rise of the National Front [FN], which is spitting a hardline
rightist rhetoric against foreigners, particularly the millions of French
Muslims. Meanwhile, the French State has obviously tried to pander to this trend
by taking some measures and enacting some laws, such as the hijab ban law.

The Charlie Hebdo magazine, which was the target of the attack on Wednesday [7
January], has bragged about ridiculing the sacred taboos of heavenly faiths
within the framework of the so-called freedom of expression, which is not
condoned when, for example, it comes to issues such as the holocaust and
anti-Semitism." He adds: "The retreat of the wave of Arab change in favour of
the counterrevolutions seen in Yemen and elsewhere has not taken place away from
the view of the West. At times, this might have happened with the blessings of
the West. Many people have pinned hopes on the Arab revolutions, hoping that
they would, logically and realistically, neutralize the expansion of the
phenomena of violence and extremism."

Asked to identify the political failings that stand behind the Paris attacks,
Bauer, speaking in French, with superimposed translation into Arabic, says: "The
situation is too complicated. It is difficult to explain it before the relevant
officials are able to express their viewpoints and relate their sides of the
story." He adds: "We still think that the perpetrators of the initial attacks;
namely, the Kouachi brothers, met with Awlaki in Yemen; and that he ordered them
to carry out a retaliatory operation against the Charlie Hebdo magazine. With
regard to Coulibaly, his action was a reaction to the Western intervention in
Iraq and Syria. He thinks that this intervention is unacceptable; and that he
was conducting a military retaliation. Why do youths from France, youths who are
of Islamic descent, or with Islamic culture, decide to carry out such actions?"

Asked to comment on Bauer's remarks, Abu-Diyab says: "With regard to the
historical chronology of the terrorist acts carried out in France, France is
connected, one way or another, to what is happening in the Middle East. It saw a
wave of attacks associated with the Palestinian-Israeli conflict." He adds that
"terrorism is a global phenomenon," arguing that the occurrence of these
terrorist acts "is not indicative of a failure of the French model of
integration, secularism, and multiculturalism."

Commenting further on this issue, Abu-Diyab says that "France has a colonial
history. There is a certain residue here, not to mention the marginalization of
the youth. But with regard to the two young Kouachi brothers in particular,
their parents left them as small children, and they were raised by the French
State, which offered them everything. However, they have been unsuccessful in
their lives." He adds that "they might have particularly suffered insufficient
upbringing," and that they might not have understood Islam properly. Concluding
his argument, Abu-Diyab says that "marginalization, in addition to the
incitement unfolding on social media websites, satellite TV channels, and all
other products of globalization" might have prompted the Kouachi brothers to
feel that they are lacking a sense of identity.

When engaged in the discussion, Bin-Hasan says: "Since Napoleon Bonaparte's
invasion of Egypt, the Arab world has suffered a systematic destruction of all
the attempts at renaissance that it made. These attempts at destruction impacted
Muhammad Ali Pasha and the regime of the beys of Tunisia, which enacted the
first Arab constitution and introduced far-reaching military, political, and
administrative reforms." He adds: "If we go back 300 years in history, we will
find that each and every attempt at renaissance made by the Arab world was
systematically destroyed by the West and its tools. The last such attempt was
made during the Arab Spring. The Syrian revolution was destroyed. Iraq was
destroyed, and people are now longing to the days of a dictator; namely, Saddam
Husayn. Similarly, the Yemeni revolution was destroyed. As for the Tunisian
revolution, it is being blown away by the wind. Libya is in a deplorable
situation. So, these repeated psychological frustrations undoubtedly create a
motivation; they create psychological emotions; they create the psychological
yeast for such actions. However, there is something that should be said about
France; namely, that the model of tolerance [preceding four words also provided
in French] is suffering big deficiencies compared to the other models of
tolerance." Bin-Hasan goes on to say: "I would say that with regard to these
cartoons, I have never browsed the website of the Charlie Hebdo magazine.
However, I browsed the Internet and had a look at these cartoons. First of all,
God forbid, these cartoons do not represent the prophet, may God's peace and
blessings be upon him. They cannot be further removed from such a thing.
Nonetheless, they paint a sick imagination. They paint their illusions, as well
as a deep residue embedded in the unconscious of a category of Western
intelligentsia. As a matter of fact, these cartoons are extremely provocative."

Commenting further on this issue, Bin-Hasan says: "France boasts freedoms and
tolerance. However, the French model of tolerance is the most deficient and
worst model when it comes to dealing with other cultures and civilizations." He
adds: "The wagers of the offensive cartoons and those of terrorists are the
same. That is, they want to kill the opportunity for a profound communication
between the Arab and Islamic culture on the one hand, and the Western culture on
the other."

When engaged in the discussion, Abu-Haniyah argues that there has thus far been
no agreed definition of terrorism. He adds that it is mighty countries which,
based on their national interests, determine who is a terrorist and who is not.
Abu-Haniyah continues: "The Palestinian situation might explain this. All
resistance movements have been designated as terrorist groups even though they
were unanimously viewed as liberation movements. "

Commenting further on this issue, Abu-Haniyah contends that France suffered the
1995 train attacks mounted by the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) of Algeria after
France had intervened to support the military regime in Algeria. He adds: "Now,
the situation is the same. France is intervening in Africa, in the countries of
Sub-Saharan Africa and the Sahel, in Niger, in Cameroon, and in northern Mali.
It is now moving battleships, and it wants to go too far in other
interventions." Abu-Haniyah goes on to say: "It is true that a terrorist
phenomenon has emerged. However, a set of objective reasons and conditions
stands behind the emergence of this phenomenon."

Concluding his argument, Abu-Haniyah says: "With regard to the Charlie Hebdo
magazine attack, just as happened in the 9/11 attacks, the objective reasons,
conditions, and circumstances are being circumvented, and a jump is made to
embrace the theme [preceding word in English] that Muslims are plagued with
terrorism." Concluding his argument, Abu-Haniyah says that the handling of the
Arab Spring by Western countries has been unfavourable.

When reengaged in the discussion, Bin-Hasan argues that the designation of the
MB as a terrorist movement by many Arab regimes radicalizes Muslim youths. He
then wonders: "What is the meaning of the arrest warrant for Shaykh Yusuf
al-Qaradawi issued by the International Criminal Police Organization [Interpol]?
What is the meaning of designating the International Union of Muslim Scholars as
a terrorist organization?"

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 1105 gmt 16 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday

Greek vote results may affect EU more than Paris terror attack - Russian senator

LENGTH: 392 words


The results of the 25 January election to the Greek parliament may have more
serious consequences than the recent terrorist attack on the editorial office of
the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, the head of the Committee for
International Affairs of the Russian Federation Council, Konstantin Kosachev has
said, as quoted by privately-owned news agency Interfax on 26 January.

"The election to the Greek parliament, which to all appearances the Coalition of
the Radical Left SYRIZA is firmly winning, may have far more serious
consequences than the recent Charlie Hebdo tragedy," he said.

"Even if the winners do not have enough seats to get a sole right to form the
government, a coalition, for instance, with the Independent Greeks party equally
radically and decisively set against the European Union, will one way or another
give them an opportunity to turn their most radical election promises into
reality," Kosachev continued.

According to Kosachev, SYRIZA party's plans to revise relations with the troika
of international lenders and strive for the cancellation of a significant part
of the Greek external debt are a "very alarming signal" for the EU. The
"reassuring" expert estimations that the new authorities will hardly succeed in
getting the debts written off, Kosachev said, show that they are underestimating
the situation. "It would be wrong to underestimate the scale of the Greek case,
particularly taking into account the growing influence of Eurosceptics in other
countries as well as other signs of a systemic crisis that the European Union
may face in the future," he said.

"Many should draw a lesson from the Greek case. First of all, Brussels and the
leading countries of the EU," Kosachev continued, adding that some non-Eu
countries should also look at what is happening in Greece. "Especially those
[countries], that, like today's Ukraine, are overwhelmed with idealistic
euro-excitement." he said. Ukraine's "confidence" that the EU will render
assistance to it, according to Kosachev, is becoming "increasingly more
dangerous for the entire Europe and, all the more so, for Ukraine which is not
doing anything to stabilize its own economy but with manic stubbornness is
spending 5-6m dollars a day on the continuation of war with its own population".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0939 gmt 26 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hostages taken in terror attack on Libya hotel;
world in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 149 words


FIVE masked terrorists attacked a hotel in the Libyan capital Tripoli today,
taking hostages and killing at least three guards.

The attackers, believed to be part of Islamic State and wearing bulletproof
vests, stormed the Corinthia, shooting in the air, the hotel's corporate sales
manager Hassan al-Abey said. He added that the hotel was evacuated before the
attackers clashed with the guards and blew up a car bomb in the car park. Mr
Al-Abey was among those evacuated. He said the hotel had Europeans and Turkish
guests. The attackers were reportedly trapped on the upper floor. The attack
happened at about 9.10am at the Malteseowned five-star hotel, which is used by
diplomats.

Since the ousting and killing of dictator Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has been torn
between competing militias and tribes. The country's eastern and western regions
are now ruled by two rival governments.

@MICHAELRHOWIE

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Five killed in terror attack on Libya hotel;
world in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 149 words


MASKED terrorists attacked a hotel in the Libyan capital Tripoli today, taking
hostages and reportedly killing five foreigners.

The attackers, believed to be part of Islamic State and wearing bulletproof
vests, stormed the Corinthia, shooting in the air, the hotel's corporate sales
manager Hassan al-Abey said. He added that the hotel was evacuated before the
attackers clashed with security guards and blew up a car bomb in the car park.
Mr Al-Abey was among those evacuated. He said the hotel had Europeans and
Turkish guests. The attackers were reportedly trapped on the upper floor. The
attack began at about 9.10am at the Maltese-owned five-star hotel, which is used
by diplomats.

Since the ousting and killing of dictator Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has been torn
between competing militias and tribes.

The country's eastern and western regions are now ruled by two rival
governments. @MICHAELRHOWIE

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 27, 2015 Tuesday 6:03 PM GMT

Front National family feud? Marine Le Pen and her relatives clash over French
far-right party's response to Paris terror attacks;
France's recent ordeal at the hands of jihadists might have been expected to
provide an electoral boost to the FN. Instead, the crisis seems to have
increased tensions at the top of Europe's most powerful far-right movement

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 851 words


The three-day jihadist rampage in Paris has claimed an unlikely collateral
victim - the façade of unity and moderation in the far-right Front National.

In the wake of the Charlie Hebdo massacre and other attacks, the FN president,
Marine Le Pen, has been confronted in recent days with undisguised Islamophobia
in the highest reaches of her supposedly "de-demonised"  party.

Three senior figures - her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, her increasingly powerful
niece, Marion Maréchal-Le Pen, and her international adviser, Aymeric Chauprade
- have openly challenged Ms Le Pen's guarded response to the terrorist attacks.

The complex relationships within the Le Pen family recall the plot of King Lear.
A newly powerful daughter is seeking to curb an unruly father who has
surrendered responsibility but clings to authority. The comparison has become
even closer in recent days.

The FN's 86-year-old founder and patriarch was slightly injured in a serious
fire at his home on Monday. He has been forced to move back into the family
mansion in Saint Cloud, south of Paris, a house now occupied by his youngest
daughter Marine - with whom he is said to be barely on speaking terms.

The jihadist mayhem in Paris might have been expected to provide an electoral
boost to the FN. Instead, - so far at least - the crisis seems to have widened
the deep family and political rifts within Europe's most powerful far-right
movement. In an attempt to evade what she sees as the electoral trap of
extremism or overt racism, Ms Le Pen has blamed radical Islam, immigration and
open EU borders but she has not attacked Islam or France's 4,700,000 Muslims.

Mr Chauprade, head of the FN group in the European parliament, directly
challenged this cautious approach. He posted a video online which claimed that
up to 1,000,000 French Muslims represented a "fifth column" of "potential
terrorists". He said that France was "at war with Muslims, possibly not with all
Muslims, but with Muslims".

Marine Le Pen disassociated herself from the video and dismissed Mr Chauprade as
her foreign adviser and group leader in Strasbourg. Marion Maréchal-Le Pen, one
of only two FN deputies in the National Assembly, tweeted a link to the video
after it had been rejected by her aunt. Ms Maréchal-Le Pen, though only 25, is
increasingly seen as a hard-line rival to Marine, under the influence of the
grumpily unreconstructed Jean-Marie.

Marion insisted that she had sent the tweet as a "personal" gesture rather than
a challenge to the party line. She was nonetheless slapped down very publicly by
auntie.

A source close to the FN president - quite possibly Marine Le Pen herself - told
the right-wing newspaper Le Figaro that Marion was "still vulnerable" (in other
words a young girl, who was easily influenced). "She is being used by hardliners
who are trying to use personal quarrels to change party policy," the source
said.

For "personal quarrels", read the increasingly wide chasm between Marine Le Pen
and her father. Jean-Marie Le Pen also tweeted an approving link to the "fifth
column" video. He told Le Monde that he found its contents "entirely
intelligent".

In recent months, Jean-Marie Le Pen has angered his daughter by making a joking
reference to the Holocaust. Marine has infuriated her father, and other
hardliners, by bringing a gay-rights activist into her wider far-right movement,
Le Rassemblement Bleu Marine.

Much of the ill-feeling centres on the influence of the party's de facto No 2,
Florian Philippot, who was recently outed as gay. Far-right websites complain of
a "gay mafia" surrounding the FN leader.

"The Front National is not a totalitarian or Stalinist party where everyone is
obliged to say exactly the same as Marine Le Pen or Philippot," Jean-Marie Le
Pen said last week.

He has also repeated remarks giving credence to conspiracy theories about the
Charlie Hebdo and other attacks. Mr Le Pen suggested that they might be the work
of a Western intelligence agency. These comments provoked Florian Philippot to
make his most insulting attack on FN's founder so far. He suggested that
Jean-Marie must have taken a "little vodka" before giving the interview. He also
said that the old man was "harmless".

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

Mr Le Pen retorted in another tweet: "Presumption. I take no advice from
Philippot on my politics or my diet." A party official commented: "Jean-Marie
will tolerate being called many things but he will not tolerate being called
harmless."

The claim that the FN has "evolved" under Marine Le Pen into an odourless,
non-racist, nationalist party has often been exposed as a façade. Most outbreaks
of old thinking have occurred, however, among relatively obscure local officials
and candidates. Marine's efforts to reposition the party have now been
challenged by her father, her niece and her chief foreign adviser.

While she continues to ride relatively high in the opinion polls and make gains
in elections, Ms Le Pen is untouchable, party officials say. Much will depend on
how well the FN fares in a parliamentary by-election this weekend and at local
elections in March.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 27, 2015 Tuesday 10:51 AM GMT

'ISIS' kill eight in terror and car bomb attack on four star hotel;
Terrorists in masks and bullet proof vests stormed the hotel today before
security forces responded

BYLINE: By Alex Wellman

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 440 words


Suspected ISIS gunmen have killed eight people including five foreign nationals
after they stormed a four star hotel and set off a car bomb.

Gunmen in black masks and bullet-proof vests fired their guns as they raced into
the Corinthia hotel in Tripoli this morning.

The men made their way into the hotel after a car bomb exploded in the car park
outside killing three guards this in the Libyan city this morning.

A senior Libyan security officer later told local TV news that five foreigners
had also been killed by the terrorists - although it was not clear if they were
guests or staff.

Mahmoud Hamza, director of Libya's special deterrence force, told al-Naba
television that the five foreigners, including two women, as well as a security
officer and two of the gunmen, died in the attack.

There has not yet been any confirmation on the nationalities of the foreigners
killed.

The situation was reported to be under control this afternoon, but there has
been no confirmation that the gunmen have been captured or killed.

The five-star hotel is popular among government officials, some of whom reside
there.

As gunfire could still be heard inside the hotel, there were confused reports
about the unfolding events.

Local television reported that the prime minister of Tripoli's rival government
and three foreign nationals had been evacuated from the hotel that is often used
by senior officials and overseas delegations.

"The security forces are evacuating the guests floor by floor. There was
shooting between the gunmen and the security forces," Essam Naas, a spokesman
for Tripoli security forces,told Reuters.

"It is more than likely that there are hostages held by the gunmen on the 23rd
floor."

One gunman has been arrested, security spokesman Essam Naas said, adding that
security forces were surrounding the seaside hotel. Two Filipino women were
wounded by smashed window glass.

An online group that supports ISIS said online that the attack was carried out
in the name of Abu Anas al-Libi

Tripoli-based al-Nabaa television channel said "senior officials" were inside
the hotel. No more details were immediately available.

Libya is in turmoil, with two governments and parliaments vying for legitimacy
and control four years after the ousting of Muammar Gaddafi.

Tripoli is controlled by a group called Libya Dawn, which seized the capital in
August by expelling a rival force. It reinstated the previous parliament and
forced the internationally recognised government to operate out of the east of
the country instead.

The Corinthia Hotel in the Libyan capital. The hotel was reportedly attacked by
Islamist gunmen today and gunfire was heard

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

shoot to kill;
TOP COP'S PLEDGE ON DEALING WITH GROWING TERROR THREAT ; 'We're ready to face
attacks' ; 'Think worst ..hope for best'

BYLINE: DAVID WYNN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


EXCLUSIVE by DAVID WYNN ARMED police will shoot to kill terrorists who attack
Scotland, the country's top cop vowed last night.

Sir Stephen House said officers were ready to face down the "severe" threat from
jihadis.

The Police Scotland Chief Constable said: "We hope for the best but prepare for
the worst."

Full Story - Pages Four and Five

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 27, 2015 Tuesday 2:38 PM GMT

Death of Alberto Nisman: Timeline of an Argentine scandal;
Alberto Nisman's death follows two decades of scandal over the worst terrorist
attack in Argentina's history

BYLINE: By David Lawler Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


When Alberto Nisman was found dead only days after accusing President Cristina
Kirchner of conspiring with Iran, the story seemed to have unfolded incredibly
quickly.

In fact, it dates back twenty-one years, to a 1994 terrorist attack on a Jewish
community centre in Buenos Aires.

What followed was two decades of allegations, cover-ups and now, possibly,
murder.

The following timeline traces the key events:

July 18, 1994: Eighty-five people are killed and hundreds more injured when a
van packed with explosives detonates at a Jewish community centre in Buenos
Aires. It is the worst terrorist attack in Argentina's history, and comes only
two years after another mass-casualty bombing, on the Israeli embassy in Buenos
Aires.

The Jewish Mutual Association of Argentina after 1994 bombing. Photo: AFP

September, 2004 : Prosecutor Alberto Nisman takes over the investigation into
the attack. He is tasked with cleaning up an inquiry that had been plagued by
allegations of evidence suppression and bribery.

July, 2005: Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, now Pope Francis, joins other
high-profile figures to call for justice for the victims of the bombing.

Cardinal Bergoglio. Photo: AP

October, 2006: Nisman brings formal charges alleging that the government of Iran
directed the attack, and that Hezbollah militants carried it out. The motive of
the attack is thought to be Argentina's refusal to share nuclear technology with
Iran, though some have questioned whether this was the attackers' true
motivation.

March, 2007: Interpol issues arrest warrants for nine people in connection with
the attack, including eight Iranians. No arrests have been made.

May, 2008: Nisman calls for the arrest of former Argentine president Carlos
Menem for attempting to obstruct the investigation into the attack. Menem and
the judge who led the investigation prior to 2004 are later charged with
corruption but have yet to stand trial. Four police officers have faced separate
charges for suppressing evidence.

February, 2013: President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announces a joint
Argentine/Iranian inquiry into the attack. It is vehemently opposed by Jewish
groups and the Argentine judiciary, including Nisman, and is later struck down
as unconstitutional.

President Kirchner. Photo: AFP

January 14, 2015: Nisman accuses Kirchner of conspiring with Tehran to protect
Iranians involved in the bombing. He alleges that Kirchner agreed to the deal in
exchange for increased trade with Iran, which would ship oil to Argentina and
purchase Argentinian grain.

January 19, 2015: Nisman is found dead in his apartment from a gunshot wound to
the head just hours before he is scheduled to testify before the Argentine
congress about Kirchner's involvement.

Alberto Nisman. Photo: Reuters

January 20, 2015: After public demonstrations over Nisman's death, which the
government declared a suicide, Kirchner posts a rambling letter on Facebook
arguing that Nisman had attempted to "sidetrack, lie, cover up and confuse" the
investigation and weaken her government.

January 22, 2015: Kirchner reverses her poisition and says she believes Nisman
was murdered by rogue Argentinian intelligence agents who had fed him false
information when was was compiling his report and then "needed him dead."

Post by Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner .

January 26, 2015:                     Damian Pachter, the journalist who broke
the story of Nisman's death, reports that he has fled to Israel because he was
being followed and feared for his life.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Egypt condemns "terrorist" attack on Tripoli hotel

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 28 Jan: [Egyptian] Foreign Ministry Spokesman Badr Abd-al-Ati expressed
Egypt's denunciation of the terrorist attack on Corinthia Hotel in Tripoli which
left 12 people killed and five others injured.

In statements here on Wednesday, the spokesman expressed Egypt's condolences
over the victims and wished the injured a speedy recovery.

The spokesman called on the international community to confront terror which
threatens security and stability around the world.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0918gmt 28 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Latvian paper views European response to "terrorist" attack on Ukrainian city

LENGTH: 548 words


Text of report by Latvian newspaper Latvijas Avize

[Commentary by Maris Antonevics: "Mariupol Not Paris?"]

If we choose politically correct designations such as "militants,"
"separatists," and so on, then the attack against the Ukrainian seaside town of
Mariupol, which has not been involved in the active war so far, is hard to
understand. Bombarding residential areas of a city with heavy artillery and
without any warning is no longer a war of any kind. Instead it means that those
who did so should become defendants at the war tribunal at the Hague. If,
however, we use the appropriate word -- "terrorists," then there is nothing
surprising, I am sad to say. Terrorists do not care whether they attack military
objects or civilians. Even more, if the reason is to frighten people and create
chaos, then it is precisely unprotected local residents who are a good goal for
the attack.

Situation in Ukraine, Europe

Of course, a recognition of facts does not mean that the situation in Ukraine
will calm down, but it really seems to me that spears will be broken over this
issue. After the attack in Mariupol, there was much activity in the diplomatic
"kitchen" of the European Union, but differing interests once again appeared. As
we know, plans to lift sanctions against Russia were already wandering around
the halls of Brussels, as if Russia had stopped providing moral and material
support for terrorists in Eastern Ukraine. These thoughts also influenced
announcements from officials in "presiding" Latvia. Sometimes these were
bemusing, particularly in terms of deciding whether or not our president should
travel to Moscow on May 9. Now the answer is supposedly clear, and plans to
improve relations will have to be kept in a desk drawer for some period of time.
True, that does not mean that interests disappear, but right now discussions
apparently will not focus on whether to lift the sanc! tions, but instead on
whether new ones should be implemented. Some European officials have been quite
harsh in what they have said. Thus, for instance, the president of the Council
of the European Union, Donald Tusk from Poland, had this to say: "Once again
kindness encourages the aggressor toward greater violence. The time is here to
strengthen our policies on the basis of cold facts, not illusions. (..) Our
policies are not effective in achieving goals, i.e., finding a peaceful
political solution. This escalation also sheds different light on debates over
the past few weeks about the possibility of improving relations with Russia.
This escalation shows the need to review EU policies vis-a-vis Russia."

The attempt to react quickly failed, and an emergency meeting of EU foreign
ministers will be held not on Monday [26 January], as had been proposed, but on
Thursday. Behind-the-scenes information suggests that France is largely to blame
for the delay. To be sure, France has its interests in relations with Russia, as
symbolically embodied by the well-known Mistral ships. How can we forget,
however, that two weeks ago all of Europe joined hands to demonstrate solidarity
toward Paris and to protest against a terrorist attack against that country's
citizens. The terrorist attack against Mariupol is no less an important reason.

Source: Latvijas Avize, Riga, in Latvian 27 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Israeli official blame Iran for "heinous" terrorist attack along Lebanon border

LENGTH: 351 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 28 January

[Report by Tova Lazaroff: "Israeli officials blame Iran for northern border
attack"]

Sources in Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's bureau blamed Iran for
Wednesday's [28 January] attack on the northern border.

"Iran is behind this heinous terrorist attack. The same Iran which the world
powers are forming an agreement with, that would allow it to maintain its
ability to acquire nuclear weapons capacity," the sources said.

This is the same Iran that tried to build a terrorist infrastructure in the
Golan Heights, similar to what it has in Syria, Lebanon, Gaza, Iraq and Yemen,
the sources said. This is the same Iran that supports terrorism around the
globe, the sources said.

"We must not give such terrorism a nuclear umbrella. We must not let the most
dangerous regime in the world to arm itself with the most dangerous weapons in
the world," the sources said. They spoke as Netanyahu held security
consultations in the Defence Ministry in Tel Aviv.

Earlier in the day, the premier said that the IDF was responding to an anti-tank
missile attack against an army vehicle on the Lebanon border. Speaking at a
cornerstone laying ceremony for new apartments in the southern border city of
Sderot, the prime minister said, "At this moment, the IDF is responding to
events in the North."

Netanyahu added: "I suggest that all those who are challenging us on our
northern border, look at what happened in Gaza, not far from the city of Sderot.
Hamas suffered the most serious blow since it was founded this past summer and
the IDF is prepared to act on every front."

Netanyahu's comments came after an IDF vehicle was attacked by an anti-tank
missile on the Lebanon border on Wednesday. In addition, mortar shells were
fired at Israeli communities in the Lebanon border area.

Arab media reported that the IDF responded with artillery fire into the southern
Lebanese village of Kfar Shouba. Hezbollah took responsibility for the
multi-pronged attack.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 28 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

FIREBOMB TERROR AT TD'S OFFICE;
PETROL ATTACK OUTRAGE Arsonists target Fine Gael's Mulherin days after
(EURO)2,000 phone bill revelation ARSON ATTACK ON FINE GAEL TD'S OFFICE

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 239 words


by GARRETH MACNAMEE THE constituency office of Fine Gael TD Michelle Mulherin
was petrol bombed in a sinister arson attack last night.

The building in Ballina, Co Mayo, was targeted two days after claims she ran up
a (EURO)2,000 bill on phone calls to a mobile number in Kenya between 2011 and
2013.

In a statement, Ms Mulherin said: "Gardai are investigating an incident at my
office.

"Thankfully nobody was injured  and I await the outcome of the Garda
investigation. I will be making no further comment at this stage."

Emergency services went to the scene and found a broken window and smoke coming
from the building.

Gardai last night described the damage as "minimal". A spokesman said: "Officers
were called to a building at 7pm on John Street in Ballina, Mayo. They
discovered a broken window and small fire inside.

"The flames were put out by the fire service and there was minimal damage. The
scene has been preserved for a full technical examination."

The Fine Gael TD had come out to defend herself over the phone bill and admitted
making the calls to Danson Kole, who had previously worked on her campaign. Ms
Mulherin said: "Yes, I made some calls to Africa. None were personal.

"I didn't act outside the jurisdiction or what I'm allowed to do as part of my
job of a politician.

"I've had communications with Dan over a period of time. He's somebody I would
have dealings with in relation to political situations."

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE Emergency services at scene in Co Mayo last night and, right,
Michelle MulherinALERT Fire crew at office in Co Mayo last nightCOLLEAGUES
Michelle Mulherin and Enda Kenny

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

EU interior ministers discuss counter-terror measures after Paris attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 111 words


EU meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers to discuss counter-terrorism
measures after the Paris terror attacks earlier this month, with UK Home Sec
Theresa May attending tomorrow. Delegates are expected to discuss reported
European Commission plans for data storage that would affect all passengers
flying into and out of Europe. Apparent proposals - understood to so far be
opposed by the European Parliament - are for police to collect and store for up
to five years details of bank card details, home address and information on any
religious diets being observed

Event Start Date: 2015-01-28

Event End Date: 2015-01-29

Event URL: http://www.consilium.europa.eu

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 28, 2015 Wednesday 5:56 PM GMT
                              Correction Appended

Europe calls for swift passage of law to collect flight passengers' data;
European commissioner for justice ordered to redraft PNR legislation after
terror attacks as counter-terror discussions loom

BYLINE: Ian Traynor in Brussels

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 793 words


The European executive on Wednesday called for the prompt passage of new
legislation to collect and retain information on anyone flying into or out of
the EU as part of a package of counter-terror policies following the jihadi
attacks in Paris and alleged foiled terrorist murders in Belgium.

Dimitris Avramopoulos, the European commissioner for justice and home affairs,
told the European Parliament that the storage of data on all air travellers
would not clash with safeguarding civil liberties in Europe.

The so-called Passenger Names Record system or PNR, collecting and storing
scores of pieces of information on air passengers, is controversial and has been
blocked by the parliament since 2013.

Avramopoulos has been ordered to redraft the legislation as a result of the
recent terror attacks but also because European governments are alarmed at the
more than 3,000 EU citizens fighting in Syria, hundreds of them returning home.

"A European PNR directive is necessary to enhance the security of all people
living in Europe," he said.

A European Commission note seen by the Guardian calls for the swift adoption of
the collection of passenger name records, including bank details, mobile numbers
and meal preferences, for those flying in and out of the EU and their retention
for up to five years for access by the police and security services.

Avramopoulos said it was wrong to suggest, as the Guardian did in an article on
Tuesday, that the proposals would be published on Wednesday, saying they had not
yet been discussed within the commission.

He said it was wrong to suggest, as he claimed the Guardian had done in an
article on Tuesday, that he had gone as far as settling on a new draft law,
declaring that it had not yet been discussed within the commission.

EU interior and justice ministers are to meet in Latvia on Thursday and Friday
to come up with a menu of counter-terror measures that are to be presented to an
EU summit in two weeks that is to focus on what to do about jihadism in Europe.

Last year the European court of justice struck down an EU law on data retention
and ruled that "blanket" storage of EU citizens' data violated their human
rights. The proposal to collect the data of all travellers flying into or out of
Europe could fall foul of the court's ruling, argue opponents of the PNR system.

Britain already has its own PNR system and a dozen other EU countries are
preparing similar systems. Supporters say it would be better to have a European
PNR system rather than 28 national regimes.

The 28 governments meeting on Thursday support the European system and are
pushing the commission to come up with a new draft that will pass muster with
the parliament.

While coming in for strong criticism in the chamber on Wednesday, there were
also strong signs of a cross-party consensus building behind a PNR system.

The biggest caucus, the European People's Party (Christian democrats), called
for swift passage and the Liberals' leader, Guy Verhofstadt, the former Belgian
prime minister, also supported it.

The leader of the second biggest grouping, the social democrats, was critical,
but afterwards signalled he was open to persuasion.

"We are ready to discuss improving PNR. However, we demand an approach which
fully respects individual rights, with a clearly defined scope and clarity on
the retention period, said Gianni Pittella.

British Labour MEPs broke ranks with their social democrat colleagues,
supporting the PNR regime.

"Labour MEPs have never been opposed in principle to EU PNR. Today, Labour MEPs
believe that an EU PNR which is comprehensive and strikes the right balance
between security and privacy is one which should be negotiated as quickly and
effectively as possible," said Claude Moraes, the Labour MEP who also chairs the
parliament's civil liberties committee which will play a key role deciding the
issue.

Timothy Kirkhope, the Tory MEP who is parliament's rapporteur on the issue,
appealed for support for PNR and pledged to shape the legislation so that it
would survive any challenges at the European court.

Tory MEPs, while supporting an EU system, also warned against transferring any
further national powers to Brussels in the effort to boost counter-terrorism
efficacy.

Marine Le Pen, the leader of France's anti-EU and anti-immigrant National Front,
said the answer to terrorism was to end free travel within the EU and reinstate
national borders.

The strongest criticism of the proposals came from the Greens whose expert on
data privacy, Jan Albrecht, a German MEP, said the PNR system would be
counter-productive and would constitute illegal "blanket surveillance".

"We already know who's on the planes."

Other critics said PNR would not have stopped any of the terrorist attacks
staged in Europe since 9/11.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2015



CORRECTION: Dmitris Avramopoulos is the European commissioner for migration,
home affairs and citizenship, not the commissioner for justice and home affairs
as we had it (MEPs urged to back terror law to keep data on all EU air
travellers, 29 January, page 4). Vĕra Jourová is the commissioner for justice,
consumers and gender equality.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Security Council Press Statement on terrorist attack in Libya

LENGTH: 308 words


January 28, 2015

NEW YORK /African Press Organization (APO)/ -- The members of the Security
Council condemned in the strongest terms the terrorist attack on 27 January
against the Corinthia Hotel in Tripoli, Libya, resulting in several deaths and
injuries. They expressed their deep sympathy and condolences to the families of
the victims of this heinous act and wished a speedy recovery to those injured.



The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with their responsibilities under the Charter
of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with relevant regional authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their full support for Special
Representative of the Secretary-General, Bernardino León, and urged all parties
in Libya to engage constructively with his efforts to resume an inclusive
political process aimed at addressing the political and security challenges
facing the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Baird Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Libya

LENGTH: 134 words


January 28, 2015

OTTAWA, Canada /African Press Organization (APO)/ -- Foreign Affairs Minister
John Baird today issued the following statement:



"Canada is outraged at today's terrorist attack on the Corinthia Hotel in
Tripoli, Libya, which left several people killed and others injured.

"This cowardly and reprehensible attack illustrates the readiness of extremists
to capitalize on the instability in Libya and their firm opposition to a p
eaceful, secure and prosperous Libya.

"As UN-led talks continue this week in Geneva, Switzerland, Canada urges all
parties to come together, to reject terrorism and to commit to dialogue and
reconciliation.

"On behalf of all Canadians, I offer my condolences to the families and friends
of those killed in this attack and wish a speedy recovery to the injured."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Security Council strongly condemns terrorist attack on hotel in Libyan capital

LENGTH: 628 words


January 27, 2015

The United Nations Security Council today condemned in the strongest terms the
deadly terrorist attack against the Corinthia Hotel in Tripoli, Libya, and
underlined the need to bring the perpetrators, financiers and sponsors of such
"reprehensible" acts to justice.



In a statement issued to the press in New York, members of the Security Council
strongly condemned the incident and expressed deep sympathy and condolences to
the families of the victims of this heinous act, and wished a speedy recovery to
those injured.

Press reports suggest that at least three people were killed and half a dozen or
more were injured today in a car bomb explosion and gun attack against the
Corinthia Hotel, which is located in the heart of Libya's capital, Tripoli.

The deadly attack comes as the second round of political talks among Libyan
parties wrapped up in Geneva in what the UN described as a "positive atmosphere"
where, as part of the discussions, the participants "called on all Libyans to
stand united against terrorism."

For its part, the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

Further, Council members reiterated their determination to combat terrorism and
urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with relevant regional
authorities in this regard.

The Council also reaffirmed full support for Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, Bernardino LeÃ³n, and urged all the parties in Libya to
engage constructively with his efforts to resume an inclusive political process
aimed at addressing the political and security challenges facing the country.

The Council's call for constructive engagement comes as participants in the
Libyan dialogue facilitated by the UN Support Mission in Libya ( UNSMIL ), which
Mr. LeÃ³n heads, concluded two days of discussions held at the Palais des
Nations in Geneva.

According to a press statement from UNSMIL, the discussions were conducted in a
positive atmosphere reflecting the sense of national responsibility and a
sincere determination to find solutions to end the political and military
conflict buffeting their country.

Participants, continued the Mission, discussed the issue of the formation of a
consensual national unity government to ensure the unity of the country and
State institutions. This includes the government's mandate, program, the
decision-making process as well as the criteria for selecting its members.

"Participants also discussed how this government could benefit from UNSMIL
support to carry out its tasks and the guarantees the international community
could provide in this regard and in dealing with anyone who obstructs the
political and security process," said the statement.

In addition, UNSMIL notes that the parties to the talks were unanimous in
rejecting terrorism.

"They strongly condemned the attack that targeted a hotel in Tripoli...causing a
number of casualties among Libyans and foreigners, as well as other terrorist
attacks against civilians across the country," said the Mission, adding that the
parties emphasized that such attacks would not derail the political process and
would in fact create an incentive for all the Libyan sides to forge ahead with
efforts to stabilize the country.

"The participants called on all Libyans to stand united against terrorism and
send a clear message that terrorism has no place in a new Libya for which the
Libyans have sacrificed so much," said UNSMIL in its news release.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 28, 2015 Wednesday 3:45 PM GMT

Philippe Saint-Andre believes Six Nations can bring France together after recent
terrorist attacks

BYLINE: TOM ALLNUTT, PRESS ASSOCIATION SPORT

SECTION: RUGBY UNION

LENGTH: 360 words



     ·    France face Scotland in opening game of RBS 6 Nations on February 7
     ·    Philippe Saint-Andre hopes tournament can bring nation together
     ·    17 people were killed following terrorist attacks on Charlie Hebdo
          office


France head coach Philippe Saint-Andre believes his team's RBS 6 Nations
encounter with Scotland will give the country a chance to come together
following the spate of recent militant attacks.

Seventeen people were killed in France across three days earlier this month
after attacks on satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, police officers and a kosher
supermarket.

Les Bleus host Scotland at Stade de France on February 7 in the team's opening
game of the tournament, and Saint-Andre expects the fixture to be a 'very
emotional' occasion.

'I am definitely sure the Marseillaise against Scotland will be very emotional,'
Saint-Andre said.

'It was a very, very tough time, but everybody stuck together and demonstrated
how proud we are of our country and very proud of our different cultures.

'All the crowd and French public will be 150 percent behind the French team.'

Saint-Andre continued: 'I am always proud to sing the national anthem.

'French society has people from different origins. It is nice to see the team
working like this in a good way and and the team is representative of French
society.

'It will be a nice moment to enjoy being together, to show our pride in being
French.

'Sport is nice in this way. It allows us to take this moment to share and to be
part of the community.'

France have not won the Six Nations since 2010 and have finished fourth or lower
in each of the past three competitions.

Saint-Andre, however, reckons his team are one of four sides capable of lifting
the trophy this year.

'I think our front five is as strong as England and Ireland,' he said.

'But, as we get closer to the World Cup, it looks like all the countries get
closer.

'It is very difficult to say who will win the Six Nations. Four countries can
win the tournament.

'We need to be more precise with our set-piece. Last year we missed a penalty
against Ireland and that was the difference between finishing first and fourth.

'It shows how tight things are at the top level.'

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Pakistan court seeks details of cases against Mumbai terror attack accused

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 29 January

Islamabad: Justice Noor ul Haq N Qureshi of the Islamabad High Court (IHC) here
on Wednesday [28 January] issued notices to the secretary Ministry of Interior
directing him to provide a list of all the cases throughout Pakistan pending
against Mumbai terror attack accused Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi.

IHC bench has issued these directions in the Lakhvi's Omnibus bail application
where he has been seeking from the court to be apprised by the federal
government of the number of cases pending against him throughout Pakistan.
Further, he may not be arrested in any new case without court's prior
permission.

Previously it was on 20 January when the IHC bench had disposed the same
petition after federal government had told that Lakhvi was required in only two
cases, one Mumbai attack case and second kidnapping of a citizen.

Federal government had told that Mumbai attack case is registered with Federal
Investigation Agency while the case of kidnapping a citizen is registered with
Golra police station and the two cases were pending adjudication before the
courts.

Now Lakhvi through his counsel Raja Rizwan Abbasi advocate has contended before
the IHC that he may be apprised of all the cases in Pakistan. IHC bench after
issuing above said order put off the case with date in office.

Lakhvi is chief of the banned militant outfit Lashkar-i-Toiba and an alleged
mastermind of the 26 November 2008 attacks in Mumbai.

Federal government after grant of post arrest bail to Lakhvi on 18 December had
immediately issued his detention orders for 30 days under section "3" of the
maintenance of public orders (MPO) those were further extended on 18 January.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 29 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Austria sees "reason for caution, but not panic" in Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 193 words


Excerpt from report by Austrian newspaper Die Presse on 29 January

[Unattributed report: "Mikl-Leitner: 'Take Threat Very Seriously'"]

Vienna - "Terror has finally arrived in Europe with the attacks in Paris. We
must counter such acts of terrorism with determination and, above all, also with
by standing together." This was sated by Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner
in a chat on diepresse.com on Wednesday [28 January.

The Austrian People's Party politician said that she takes threats from Islamist
circles against Austria "very seriously." Austria has "reason for caution, but
not for panic." "Everybody returning from the jihad to Austria is reported to
the public prosecutor's office. Everything else is matter of evidence," the
minister aid.

At the same time, Mikl-Leitner stressed that Islam, "just like any other
denomination, is also part of Austria." [passage omitted]

One user wanted to know what kind of plans there are "to prevent espionage by,
for instance, the NSA." Mikl-Leitner's answer: "Our authorities try to prevent
this." "Nevertheless," espionage can "never be prevented 100 per cent."

Source: Die Presse, Vienna, in German 29 Jan 15 p 10

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Bolton must work together in fight against racial tensions following terrorist
attacks in France

BYLINE: Jeremy Culley

SECTION: COMMENT

LENGTH: 385 words


The recent atrocities in France have unfortunately increased tensions for some
communities here in Bolton and across the country, putting the issue of
Islamophobia and anti-Semitism high on the agenda.

Our response has to be one of cohesion. We have to work together and send a
strong, united message that hatred and ignorance are not welcome in Bolton or in
Britain.

The strongest and best communities are those built on tolerance and respect.
That is the message I want to send out across Bolton as we mark Hate Crime
Awareness Week and commemorate the Holocaust, when hate crime turned to
genocide.

There is a sense of community spirit running throughout Bolton, where the
majority of people respect and look out for one another, irrespective of
background.

But there are a number of individuals who seek to divide us by spouting hatred
and targeting people simply because they are different.

In the twelve months to March 2014 there were 379 reports of hate crime in
Bolton. That's 379 victims, targeted because of their race, religion, gender,
sexual orientation or disability. This should make shocking reading and spur
each and every one of us to stand together against this abhorrent crime.

Hate crime can never be acceptable. It is destructive and hurtful, blighting
people's lives.

Earlier this week I met Sylvia Lancaster, whose daughter Sophie was killed for
being a Goth. She is now raising awareness of hate crime and encouraging other
victims to come forward.

And that is what this week is about - shining a light on hate crime and
encouraging people to stand up and speak out.

If you have been a victim of hate crime or know someone who has, do come
forward. If you don't feel comfortable speaking directly to the police there are
more than 20 third party reporting centres in Bolton where you can speak to
someone in confidence.

Visit my website at gmpcc.org.uk/hatecrime for more information.

Greater Manchester Police, Bolton Council, faith and voluntary groups and local
communities have made great strides in raising awareness of this crime, giving
victims the confidence to take that brave first step and report it, but we still
have a way to go.

In the end it is for you and me as citizens, as decent members of the human
race, to challenge the purveyors of hate and make hate crime a thing of the
past.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 29, 2015 Thursday 12:50 PM GMT

Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor;
Intrigue swirls around the late Alberto Nisman, who was set to implicate the
government in attempting to cover up the country's deadliest terrorist attack
before his death. Answers are still difficult to come by in this story that
traces two decades of allegedly unchecked intelligence operations

BYLINE: Jonathan Watts in Buenos Aires

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 2094 words


The CCTV images are both familiar and sinister: the recordings show Buenos
Aires' Ezeiza international airport on the day that prosecutor Alberto Nisman
flew home for the last time.

Nisman looks like any father might after interrupting a family holiday for a
work emergency. He seems tired, busy and bored as the cameras track his progress
through immigration, beyond the luggage carousel, into the arrival lounge and
out to the street.

But he appears to be treated as more than an ordinary traveller. The security
cameras dwell on Nisman more than anyone around him. He comes across as a marked
man.

The footage, which has aired on Argentinian TV this week, captures a moment of
calm before the storm that has left Nisman dead, threatened a president and
plunged Argentina into an espionage scandal.

Days after his return, Nisman publicly accused President Cristina Fernández de
Kirchner of conspiring to cover up Iran's alleged involvement in the deadliest
terrorist attack in the country's history: the 1994 bombing of the Asociación
Mutual Israelita Argentina (Amia), a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires,
that killed 85 people. Within a week, he was dead.

Nisman was returning to the frontline of a battle for power inside Argentina's
intelligence and justice communities, where friction had been quietly building
for more than a year as a result of President Fernández's efforts to build
closer ties with Iran.

The 2013 signing of a memorandum of understanding with Tehran had outraged the
chiefs of the Intelligence Secretariat (IS), Argentina's all-powerful domestic
and foreign spy service.

The agency has long had close ties to the CIA and Mossad, and one of its primary
roles in the modern era has been to help prosecutors, led by Nisman, to build a
case against Iranian diplomats for the Amia bombing. When political leaders
suddenly told them their old enemies should now be considered friends, they
started to question their loyalties, according to a senior law enforcement
source.

Related: Alberto Nisman's death: the unaswered questions

For years Antonio Stiuso, the general director of operations, had been the
president's eavesdropper-in-chief, helping Fernández use the state intelligence
agency as a weapon against opposition politicians, journalists and critics,
according to human rights monitors.

Now, though, he and Nisman had begun plotting to indict the president. It was a
move worthy of a novel by John Le Carré or Michael Crichton - the equivalent of
the NSA conspiring with a district attorney to accuse Barack Obama and John
Kerry of treasonous dealings with al-Qaida over 9/11, or of MI6 building a case
against David Cameron and William Hague for colluding with Libya to cover up the
Lockerbie bombing.

The plot did not remain secret long. When Fernández found out last December, she
fired Stiuso. It is thought that Nisman rushed back from his holiday to file his
indictment because he was tipped off that he, too, was about to be replaced.

In the days after his return, Nisman jumped on to the offensive with a series of
TV interviews. "The president and her foreign minister took the criminal
decision to fabricate Iran's innocence to satisfy Argentina's commercial,
political and geopolitical interests," Nisman told reporters in TV interviews.

Nisman clearly knew that he was taking a risk, and even told one journalist: "I
might get out of this dead." The day before he was to due to present his
evidence to Congress, he was found in his bathroom with a Bersa handgun by his
side and a.22-calibre bullet in his brain.

Investigators have yet to determine whether it was suicide or murder. Nisman was
supposed to have been protected in his upscale 13th-floor apartment by a 10-man
security detail. He had borrowed the gun that killed him a day earlier after
receiving warnings that his daughters were in danger - and that he could not
trust his bodyguards. His body was not found for more than 10 hours because
guards said the door was locked from the inside, though a locksmith later
declared access was relatively easy and there were two other ways inside.

Few Argentinians expect the case to be satisfactorily solved - a cynicism that
seems etched in the character of a nation where politics and conspiracy are
taken, with or without evidence, to be as synonymous as football and
match-fixing.

Related: Argentinian president accused of covering up details about the
country's worst terrorist attack

But this scepticism has not stopped a flood of speculation on who might benefit
most from Nisman's demise. Competing theories present an array of suspects and
motives: the president and her aides (who wanted to silence a critic); Stiuso
(who wanted to make the president look bad); a foreign intelligence agency
(scheming to turn the world against Iran); the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah
(executing a man who secured Interpol warrants against leading officials from
Tehran); or the prosecutor himself, who may have taken his own life after
finding the pressure too much to bear (a suggestion rejected by family and
friends) or being blackmailed that it was either him or his children.

The head of Nisman's security team, Rubén Benítez, was suspended on Wednesday -
the third protection officer to come under investigation over the death.

The mystery has brought protesters on to the streets holding "Yo Soy Nisman" (I
am Nisman) banners, but it has more importantly thrown the spotlight on three
key issues: Argentina's international allegiances, the country's weak oversight
of its intelligence agency - and the prosecutor's allegations of a government
cover-up involving Iran.

Nisman, a member of Argentina's large Jewish community, was close to the United
States. US diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks show he frequently visited
the US embassy, shared advance information with diplomats and sometimes amended
his strategy according to the suggestions of US officials. US diplomats
considered him someone who was unlikely to go it alone.

In one leaked cable, the former US ambassador E Anthony Wayne in 2008 expresses
to the CIA rare dissatisfaction with Nisman, after he publicly recommended that
the former president Carlos Menem be detained for trying to cover up the Amia
bombing. The ambassador assumed he had been ordered to do so by President
Fernández, noting: "Nisman is not the sort to have gone public with the
recommendation for Menem's and others' arrests without some direction from
higher-ups."

Critics - including, unsurprisingly, the Peronist president - claim Nisman was
also a pawn of the pro-US Stiuso, who is believed to have provided the bulk of
his staff and fed him wiretaps.

In a long statement posted to her website last week, Fernández made the case
that Nisman's accusation was actually written by Stiuso, and that Nisman was
then killed by the same people who convinced him to present the charges. "They
used him alive and then they needed him dead," Fernández wrote. "As sad and as
terrible as that."

One source acquainted with both the prosecutor and the spy said: "When he
started investigating the cover-up, Nisman wanted to break away from the
intelligence channel but over time he came to rely on it."

The same might be said of Fernández. Argentina emerged from military
dictatorship in 1983, but the country's powerful intelligence agency has its
roots in the secret police force which tracked down opponents of the military
dictatorship during the Dirty War. Many of its personnel remained unchanged
after Argentina became a democracy.

In recent years, under the administrations of Fernández and her husband and
predecessor, the late Néstor Kirchner, the SI's power is alleged to have grown
exponentially, with little oversight and enormous influence. Far from trimming
their sails, the president has increased their budget and reach. In 2003 the
agency's budget was 138m pesos; by 2014 it had ballooned to 800m.

This was highlighted by a report released earlier this month by the Association
for Civil Rights, which said the excessive autonomy of the spy agencies showed
the flaws in Argentina's transition to democracy. "Since 1983, democratic
government have been unable or unwilling to establish effective checks on the
intelligence services what have become an essential part of presidential power,"
it notes.

Some of those who have benefited agree the clandestine operations need to be
reined in. "Intelligence agents are out of control," Marcelo Sain, a former
chief of airport security police who is tipped by some to be a future
intelligence agency boss, told the Guardian.

The latest budget figures indicate military intelligence spending is rising
twice as fast as that for the IS, prompting speculation that Fernández is
turning to the army to conduct monitoring of opponents - despite constitutional
constraints against this that were put in place after the fall of the military
dictatorship. The lack of trust in other branches of the police was also
apparent in the prosecutor's decision to have the border police guard suspects
instead of the federal police, who failed to protect Nisman.

Tension between Argentina's spies and their political masters also grew over the
government's attempts to steer away from traditional alliances with the US. Like
fellow Latin American populists Hugo Chávez, Rafael Correa and Evo Morales,
Fernández built up ties with Iran and Cuba, but in doing so she appears to have
run into opposition from security officials who for years had worked closely
with the CIA and Mossad.

The behind-the-scenes tension became public knowledge on Monday when Fernández
called a special session of parliament to break up the intelligence agency and
create a new system with greater oversight by the legislature and attorney
general. Fernández framed this as one of the outstanding tasks still undone in
the country's transition from dictatorship to democracy.

Related: Argentinian government moves to dissolve domestic intelligence agency

Critics accuse her of hypocrisy. "For more than 10 years, the president has used
the intelligence service for domestic operations against politicians and
journalists. So now the agents think they can do anything," said Bullrich, a
legislator who heads the criminal legislation committee of the House of
Deputies.

Then what of the indictment that Nisman rushed back to Argentina to file against
the president? The nearly 300-page document was widely circulated after his
death. It describes a shady parallel diplomatic track of negotiations between
trusted supporters of Fernández such as Luis D'Elía, a prominent street
activist, and a go-between for Iran, Jorge Khalil - an Argentinian of Lebanese
descent - in the runup to the 2013 agreement to establish a joint commission to
investigate the blast in return for Argentina closing down the judicial
investigation and cancelling the Interpol warrants.

The government, the document said, was ready to trade oil for immunity, which
meant it had to shift responsibility for the Amia attack. A handful of wiretap
recordings have been leaked to radio stations that suggest the Argentinians
proposed blaming the assault on a fascist group as a way of lifting the Interpol
"red notices" that Nisman - with US support - had secured against six senior
Iranian officials, including the alleged mastermind, Mohsen Rabbani, a former
cultural attache who is also accused of setting up Hezbollah cells across South
America.

But many question whether the Nisman indictment was the bombshell it claimed to
be. The secret negotiations between Argentina and Iran had already been reported
by journalist José Eliaschev in 2011. The goals of the talks were never
achieved. Since the memorandum, trade between the two countries has not improved
and the red notices were never lifted. The former head of Interpol has denied
that Argentina even requested they be dropped.

Opposition lawmakers believe Nisman would have presented more evidence if he had
lived. "We know just 2% or 3% of what he had from the two or three years of
wiretaps of Rabbani and Khalil. I think he would have given us more," said
Bullrich, who spoke to Nisman the day before he died about his plans to testify.

Legal experts are less convinced. They say the document appears to be written to
the verification standard of intelligence officials rather than lawyers and that
it contains contradictions. If such criticisms are recognised by judge Ariel
Lijo, who will rule on the document next month, the indictment that Nisman died
for will be doomed.

Additional research by Mariano Parada López

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 29, 2015 Thursday 7:49 PM GMT

EU countries could hire PR firms to beat back Isis;
"Europe is more united than ever" after the terrorist attacks in Paris

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 224 words


European countries could hire public relations experts to counter extremist
propaganda on the internet under plans being drawn by the European Union.

The move was disclosed by the EU's counter-terrorism co-ordinator, Gilles de
Kerchove, who called for hitting-hit material to be posted online to combat the
messages put out by Islamic State and its sympathisers.

He warned that their material was "very refined" and the EU needed to be "at
least as convincing" in countering it.

Timeline: The emergence of Isis

"That means the help of advertisers, PR professionals, experts, police, justice
and security forces [advising] on whom we focus, with what message, what tone
and through any medium," he told a Dutch newspaper.

A meeting of EU interior ministers in Latvia, attended by the Home Secretary
Theresa May, discussed moves to block jihadist websites.

The EU home affairs commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos said the bloc wants to
"enhance existing co-operation with the internet industry and to strengthen the
commitment of social media platforms to reduce illegal content online".

He added that "Europe is more united than ever" after the terrorist attacks in
Paris.

Latvian interior minister Rihards Kozlovskis said more work needed to be done to
take down extremist content online, saying the internet "plays a significant
role in radicalisation".

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Keighley News

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Terrorist attacks prompt Keighley school to change its plans for pupils' trip to
Paris

BYLINE: David Knights

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


THE HEAD of a Keighley school has reassured parents over its planned visit to
Paris.

Our Lady of Victories Primary School has changed the itinerary of its trip in
the light of terrorist attacks in the city earlier this month.

Pupils will no longer walk through the city centre but will instead see
landmarks such as the Eiffel Tower from a boat on the River Seine.

School head John Devlin said the change was less about the risk of further
attacks, but to avoid the children being confronted with the highly-visible
presence of armed police and soldiers.

He said: "There will be heightened security, which adds to the long queueing. I
don't want to frighten the children with all the guns.

"We couldn't possibly cancel the trip, the children are so excited about it. It
gives them a wonderful life experience."

Mr Devlin said some parents had been in touch with him after hearing about the
attacks.

He said: "They weren't asking for the trip to be cancelled, they were just
asking what our thoughts were and making sure we were monitoring the situation."

Our Lady of Victories, off West Lane in Keighley, provides a subsidised trip to
Paris every year for its leavers' class.

The youngsters usually stay at a children's activity centre outside Paris and
visit Disneyland Paris, a First World War battlefield and the school's mother
church of Notre Dame des Victoire. Instead of the city walk the children are
likely to visit Versailles.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Keighley News

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Hugs on offer at Holy Family Catholic School as part of positive response to
Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: Miran Rahman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 170 words


A KEIGHLEY school's determination to respond with a positive message to the
terrorist attacks in France saw "free hugs" on offer at break time last week.
(Jan 12-16)

The initiative was the idea of assistant head teacher Sally Layas and was put
into practise by members of the school's sixth form.

Mrs Layas said: "It was wonderful how something so simple could counteract
something so horrible and evil. We're a diverse, harmonious school and we're all
in it together.

"At break times during the week we had kids walking around school with placards
offering free hugs. It was lovely - one boy was getting hugged so constantly I'm
sure he's going to have bruises!

"We also had assemblies in the morning led by sixth formers.

"They didn't just look at what happened in Paris - they talked about the attack
on the school in Peshawar and the attack by Breivik in Norway.

"It was about showing that this is all hate crime, and that everyone has the
potential to commit evil or to be victims of hate. It's not about what faith you
are."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 29, 2015 Thursday 11:19 AM GMT

British jihadi threatens MPs on Twitter ahead of general election: Terrorist
also suggests attack on Territorial Army in hate-filled messages

BYLINE: HUGO GYE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 470 words



     ·    Abu Rahin Aziz, 33, posted a string of tweets inciting attacks on the
          UK
     ·    He told followers to use guns, bombs and stones against Western
          targets
     ·    Also mocked the death of Alan Henning, saying he would 'burn in hell'
     ·    Aziz skipped bail in Britain after stabbing a football fan with a pen


A British jihadi who fled to Syria and joined ISIS while on bail for attacking a
man with a pen has threatened MPs and servicemen in a string of sinister tweets.

Abu Rahin Aziz, a former office worker from Luton, incited fellow extremists to
carry out attack on the West using guns, bombs or even by throwing stones.

He also insulted the memory of Alan Henning, the British aid worker murdered by
ISIS, saying that he would 'burn in hell' because he was not a Muslim.

Aziz, 33, who tweets under the name 'Abu Adbullah Britani', is an associate of
hate cleric Anjem Choudary who was once a member of radical group 'Muslims
Against Crusaders'.

Last year he was sentenced to 36 weeks in jail for stabbing a football fan with
a pen - but by the time the case came to court, he had already skipped bail and
travelled to Syria to fight with other jihadists.

He boasted on Twitter that he 'stabbed a kafir in the back of a head with a pen
in London for insulting the propher Mohammed'.

This week, he returned to the social network to incite violence from jihadis who
are still living in the West.

'Muslims in the West given instructions to strike the enemies of Islam and
Muslims within their own countries,' Aziz wrote. 'Wonder who will strike first?

'Could it be UK first to be attacked? They've attacked us with jets killing
scores, plus they have many Muslims in prison as war on Islam.

'Maybe sit and wait outside TA offices? Maybe some other interests, maybe an MP.
Hmm interesting. UK can blame foreign policy.'

A spokesman for the House of Commons said that MPs are routinely given advice on
how to protect themselves against threats.

In another message, Aziz wrote: 'A call upon Muslims in Europe to carry out
attacks whether by explosive devices, bullets, car, rocks or even stones.'

A separate tweet sent yesterday made a reference to Mr Henning, who was beheaded
by the executioner known as 'Jihadi John' in October last year.

'All kufar [non-Muslims] even if they were good i.e. Alan Henning, Mother
Theresa will burn in hell because they died upon disbelief,' Aziz wrote.

He has previously shared photographs of himself holding up an AK-47 in front of
a Syrian landscape, and pictures of other high-profile jihadis.

Aziz also frequently posts links to news stories about ISIS on British websites,
while yesterday he wrote an account of a bombing raid on a nearby building -
claiming that he is protected from the US-led bombardment because he is living
in a building with no windows.

The whereabouts of his wife and two children is not currently known.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BUSTED;
EXCLUSIVE: MUM'S TERROR ; Hubby jailed for attacking wife over her 32E breasts

BYLINE: GAIL CAMERON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


By GAIL CAMERON A BULLIED mum revealed her jealous husband used her as a
punchbag because of his insecurity over her 32E bosom. May Thomson, 45, feared
for her life during three years of hell with Graham Temple, 39.

As he was caged, May, of Port Seton, East Lothian, said: "He hated other men to
look at me."

Full Story - Pages Six and Seven

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

BUSTED;
EXCLUSIVE: MUM'S TERROR EXCLUSIVE: MUM'S TERROR EXCLUSIVE: MUM'S TERROR
EXCLUSIVE: MUM'S TERROR ; Hubby jailed for attacking wife over her 32E breasts

BYLINE: GAIL CAMERON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


By GAIL CAMERON A BULLIED mum revealed her jealous husband used her as a
punchbag because of his insecurity over her 32E bosom. May Thomson, 45, feared
for her life during three years of hell with Graham Temple, 39.

As he was caged, May, of Port Seton, East Lothian, said: "He hated other men
looking at me."

Full Story - Pages Six and Seven

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 29, 2015 Thursday 2:18 PM GMT

Who are the Islamic State hostages and would-be suicide bomber Sajida
al-Rishawi?;
The hostages taken by Isil are Japanese journalist Kenji Goto and Jordanian
fighter pilot Moaz al-Kasasbeh, while Sajida al-Rishawi is an Iraqi woman on
death row for her involvement in a terrorist attack in Amman

BYLINE: By Ruth Sherlock Beirut

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 876 words


On Thursday morning, Kenji Goto said a Jordanian air force pilot held by Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant militants would be killed unless an Iraqi female
prisoner held by the Jordanian authorities was released by sunset on the same
day.

As the deadline approaches, we profile the hostages and why Isil wants the
release of Rishawi.

Kenji Goto

Mr Goto, is a freelance journalist and the founder of the Independent Press
website, which sends footage from conflict zones to Japanese news outlets.

The 47-year-old from Tokyo has earned a reputation in Japan for reporting from
some of the world's most inhospitable places. He has been on assignment for
several of the country's main news broadcasters in Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq
and other hot-spots across Africa and Asia .

His focus, his colleagues say, is the impact of war on civilian populations. He
has written books about Aids, child soldiers in Sierra Leone, genocide in
Rwanda, and schoolgirls in Afghanistan.

Mr Goto is married and the father of three children.

He was relatively well known among the community of journalists reporting from
inside Syria. Many passed time with him in cafes in the Turkish border towns of
Antakya and Gaziantep, as they planned their trips inside the country.

Videos posted on social media and YouTube show him reporting near the Syrian
border town of Kobane. He was also filmed discussing his time in Syria at a
Unicef conference in March

The final post on a Twitter account with his name was made in October 2014. Goto
also sent an email to an Associated Press journalist in October, where he wrote:
"I'm in Syria for reporting. I hope I can convey the atmosphere from where I am
and share it."

Moaz al-Kasasbeh

In December, 26-year-old Moaz al-Kasasbeh became the first known military member
of the US-led coalition against Isil to be captured by the jihadist group.

The Jordanian was kidnapped by the jihadists after his plane crashed closed to
their stronghold city of Raqqa in northeastern Syria.

Photographs of Mr Kasasbeh were released showing his semi-naked body, being
pulled from water by gunmen shortly after the incident.

Mr Kasabeh is a First Lieutenant in the Jordanian Airforce. He had served for
six years prior to his capture. He married in July.

Safi Yousef al-Kasasbeh, Mr Kasasbeh's father has appealed to the Isil jihadists
to keep his son safe: "I direct a message to our generous brothers of the
Islamic State in Syria: to host my son, the pilot Muadh, with generous
hospitality. I ask God that their hearts are gathered together with love, and
that he is returned to his family, wife and mother," he said.

Jawwad Kasasbeh, Mr Kasasbeh's brother, also sought mercy from the extremists,
explaining that the pilot is a practising Muslim: "My brother is a pious man who
prays and fasts and he always flies with his Quran with him," he told a
Jordanian radio station.

An article published in Isil's Dabiq magazine shortly after the pilot's capture
- that purported to be an interview with Moaz - indicated that his captors had
not listened to his family's messages.

When asked in the interview if the pilot knows what will happen to him, the
pilot is quoted as replying: "yes ... they will kill me...".

The jihadists had included the release of Mr Kasasbeh in a recent deal that
would see the pilot and Kenji Goto, a Japanese journalist also held by the
group, released in exchange for Iraqi al-Qaeda member Sajida al-Rishawi, who is
currently held in a Jordanian prison.

However, the Jordanian government have said they have not yet received proof
from the jihadists that Mr Kasasbeh is still alive.

Sajida al-Rishawi

Rishawi is a 44-year-old Iraqi woman who has been placed on death row in Jordan
for her participation in a terrorist attack in Amman that killed 57 people.

On November 9 2005, Rishawi, who is from Ramadi in central Iraq had strapped an
explosive device to her body and entered the Radisson SAS hotel. She was
captured when the bomb failed to detonate.

She had been with Ali Hussein al-Shumari, her husband, whose bomb belt did
explode killing several guests that were attending a wedding inside the hotel.
Other accomplices targeted two other hotels in the city at the same time.

She said in a confession on state-run Jordan TV: "My husband and I went inside
the hotel. He went to one corner and I went to another.

"There was a wedding at the hotel, with children, women and men inside. My
husband detonated (his bomb). I tried to explode (my belt), but it wouldn't."

Al-Qaeda in Iraq claimed responsibility for the blasts.

Since then, jihadists, most recently from Isil, have repeatedly demanded
Rishawi's release.

Rishawi is reportedly the sister of a former close aide of deceased al-Qaeda in
Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Some reports name her brother as Mubarak
Atrous al-Rishawi who was killed by US forces on Iraq.

This week the Jordanian government agreed to a prisoner swap whereby the failed
suicide bomber was made part of a deal whereby Isil will release two of its
captives - Mr Goto and Mr Kasasbeh. The deadline set by the jihadists for the
swap to take place is "sunset" on Thursday night.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Iran condemns "terrorist attacks" in Egypt's North Sinai

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran, 30 January: Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has
denounced Thursday's [29 January] terrorist attacks in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula.

Afkham on Friday [30 January] slammed the deadly attacks and said the purpose
behind such acts is to preoccupy Islamic and regional countries with peripheral
issues and keep them away from the Muslim world's top priority, namely
supporting the Palestinian people and defending the holy Quds (Jerusalem).

She further underscored the need for cooperation and unity among regional
countries in fighting extremism and terrorism.

On Thursday, suspected fighters fired a barrage of rockets and set off a car
bomb in a series of attacks in Egypt's North Sinai province, killing at least 26
people, mostly soldiers, according to security officials.

Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, the Egyptian affiliate of the so-called Islamic State in
Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group [also known as IS/ISIS], claimed responsibility
for the attacks that struck the provincial capital of El-Arish, the nearby town
of Sheik Zuwayid and the town of Rafah bordering the Gaza Strip.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1200 gmt 30 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Morocco strongly condemns northern Sinai "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 30 January: Morocco strongly condemned on Friday [30 January] the
terrorist attacks against police, military and media institutions which left
more than 30 people dead and 47 others injured in northern Sinai.

"While offering condolences to the families of the victims and the Egyptian
people and government and extending wishes of prompt recovery to the injured,
the Kingdom of Morocco reiterates its strong condemnation of all forms of
violence and terrorism targeting brotherly Egypt whatever their motivations,"
Morocco's Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

In the face of this dangerous calamity, the kingdom expresses support for the
Egyptian government and people to restore peace and stability, the statement
said.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1432 gmt 30 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Islamic State calls for more terrorist attacks in West - Spanish paper

LENGTH: 862 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper ABC website, on 30 January

[Report by Javier Pagola, Pablo Munoz: "Jihadist Group Urges its 'Lone Wolfs' To
Step Up Killings in the West"]

ISIL has called again on "lone wolfs" to carry out terrorist attacks in the West
and cited the attacks carried out in Canada, France, Australia, and Belgium as
an example to follow. Ecstatic because the international alliance has been
unable to clearly undermine its potential, ISIL also brags about the fact that
the jihadists from Afghanistan have sworn allegiance to ISIL.

This new communique calling on "lone wolfs" to carry out attacks in the West was
released on 26 January. A jihadist leader used various Twitter accounts and
profiles linked to ISIL to spread an audio message, which lasts 9.33 minutes,
with new threats to the West. The intelligence services think that the author of
the message is Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, although they are still working to
confirm this. This DAESH leader released a similar message in September 2014.

And just like then, Al-Adnani explains now that the terrorist attacks should
depend on the perpetrators' capabilities, be them explosive devices, long or
short weapons, knives or even kicks or punches. This call involves "lone wolfs"
who have certain training and experience, in the event that the goal is to carry
out attacks similar to the one that Amedy Coulibaly carried out in a Jewish
supermarket in Paris, and also those who lack that operational training, such as
the two jihadists who killed a British soldier with a machete after having run
him over on a street in London in May 2013.

Jihadist Forums

The jihadist group preferably uses jihadist forums to recruit and indoctrinate
individuals who are susceptible of being radicalized, so that they will
subsequently carry out terrorist attacks in their home countries as "lone
wolfs."

To the counter-terrorism experts, lone wolfs pose a threat similar to that of
the jihadist returning from Syria and Iraq. They do not need any sort of
logistical infrastructure, or weapons, or previous information. On some
occasions, they choose their victims more or less at random and precisely the
indiscriminate nature of these attacks triggers a feeling of panic among the
population. However, the experts believe that the "lone wolfs" would always
prefer either to attack soldiers and police officers or places that they deem
emblematic, because the attacks would achieve greater notoriety on behalf of
jihad.

Abu Mohammad al-Adnani himself in September 2013 called on his followers to kill
"infidels, be them civilians or soldiers," regardless of whether or not they had
weapons. That is to say, by resorting to beheading, choking, or poisoning,
Al-Adnani suggested. In May 2014, a sympathizer of ISIL uploaded to his Facebook
account this alarming slogan: "The Muslims in the East and the West should use
acts of martyrdom (suicide attacks) to inflict great losses on the enemy.
Especially, the Muslims living in Western countries. They are smartly placed to
carry out these acts of martyrdom inside their home countries and to terrify the
kuffar (infidels) from inside." "You will have to permanently look left and
right, because you will not be safe, not even in your own houses," another
radical Islamist wrote on social networking sites.

In any case, anti-terrorism experts stressed that Spain is facing a threat
similar to those facing any other Western country, and perhaps a threat that is
slightly lower than those facing France or the United Kingdom. The goal of the
jihadist forums is to create "lone wolfs," who become radicalized and reach the
highest degree of fanaticism in the privacy of their houses through the
consumption of radical multimedia material. Internet provides them with the
information and counselling necessary to become true jihadists, like the ones
who carry out terrorist attacks in Syria or Iraq, without having to cross the
border into the West.

Due to their characteristics, the Internet forums can cover all the stages of
the training of a terrorist, who can thus avoid embarking on long and costly
trips during which they could be arrested by the security forces. The absence of
direct contacts with the heads of the recruitment networks make it very
difficult for the state security forces to detect the terrorists. They pose a
great risk to the security of western societies. It is complicated to monitor
jihadist forums, because they change constantly.

In the same audio message released on 26 January, Al-Adnani congratulates
himself for what he calls the "annexation" of a new province to the alleged
caliphate declared by the DAESH terrorists in June 2014. He mentions the
province of Khorasan, referring to Afghanistan. In this sense, he said on social
networking sites that the jihadists in Afghanistan had sworn allegiance to ISIL
leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who has already appointed ISIL leaders in
Afghanistan. Furthermore, he expressed his joy at the death of the king of Saudi
Arabia, Abdallah bin Abdulaziz, whom he described as "the tyrant of the
Al-Jazeera Peninsula and traitor of the two mosques."

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 0000 gmt 30 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Kuwait condemns terrorist attacks in Egypt's Sinai

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

Kuwait, Jan 30 (KUNA) - The State of Kuwait on Friday [30 January] condemned the
series of coordinated terrorist attacks which occurred in the volatile Sinai
Peninsula on Thursday, killing and wounding dozens of innocent people.

"These terrorist attacks underline the importance of the efforts exerted by the
international community to eradicate terrorism and protect the world from its
evils," a Foreign Ministry official source stated in a statement.

The official source affirmed that Kuwait stands on the side of Egypt in the face
of such threats. The source also expressed support of the measures taken by
Egyptian authorities to maintain the nation's security and stability. The
official source prayed for souls of the victims and wished the wounded quick
recovery.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 30 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 10:33 AM GMT

Egypt attacks: Terrorist group linked to Isis kills 26 people in coordinated
bomb and rocket strike in Sinai Peninsula;
Waliyat Sinai, part of Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, targeted the military and police

BYLINE: By Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 654 words


An Isis-affiliated terrorist group has killed at least 26 people in co-ordinated
rocket and bomb attacks on the Egyptian military and police in the Sinai
Peninsula.

Ansar Beit al-Maqdis launched the assault on three towns on Thursday, detonating
a car bomb outside a military base as mortars were simultaneously fired at the
stronghold, destroying buildings and burying soldiers under the debris.

The capital of North Sinai, el-Arish, was targeted along with the nearby towns
of Sheik Zuwayid and Rafah, which sees regular conflict because of its position
on the border with Gaza and the crossing there.

Rockets were also fired at a hotel, a police club and more than a dozen
checkpoints, officials said, killing 25 soldiers and a police officer.

At least 60 people were wounded, according to medical officials, who warned that
the death toll was expected to rise.

The Egyptian Army immediately issued a statement accusing former President
Mohamed Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of orchestrating the attack.

But hours before, Ansar Beit al-Maqdis had posted pictures of masked militants
dressed all in black, carrying rocket-propelled grenades and flying the black
flag of Isis, from its Twitter account.

The militant group, which emerged after the 2011 Egyptian revolution, later
claimed responsibility, saying on Twitter that two suicide bombers and three car
bombs struck an army base and adjacent security building in el-Arish - the
deadliest of all attacks.

Explosions smashed windows and shook residential areas, causing an electricity
blackout across the city.

The post called it "an extensive simultaneous offensive for the soldiers of the
caliphate" and listed at least eight checkpoints that also came under attack in
the three locations.

The US State Department condemned the attack, saying: "The United States remains
steadfast in its support of the Egyptian government's efforts to combat the
threat of terrorism in Egypt as part of our continuing commitment to the
strategic partnership between our two countries."

The group, which has several factions, has launched several attacks against
police and the army in Sinai in recent years.

It was initially inspired by al-Qaeda, but the Sinai group pledged allegiance to
the so-called Islamic State last year as it overran large parts of Syria and
Iraq.

In November, Sinai followers changed their name to Sinai Province, or Waliyat
Sinai, reflecting its loyalty to Isis, while allies operating in over the border
in Gaza have renamed themselves the Islamic State in Gaza.

Militants in other parts of Egypt are believed to remain loyal to al-Qaeda.

The same group claimed responsibility for a similar wave of deadly attacks on
Egyptian army positions in Sinai on 24 October last year.

At least 30 soldiers were killed and the bombing prompted a continuing state of
emergency in North Sinai, curfew and tensions that spilled over into Israel,
which closed the Rafah crossing to Gaza and caused Hamas to postpone peace
talks.

Ansar Beit al-Maqdis posted a video online apparently filmed during the attacks,
showing militants spraying soldiers with bullets and vowing more terror to come.

Egypt's army chief-turned-president, General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who led the
deposing of Morsi, has been depicted as by nationalist media as the rescuer of
Egypt from Islamic militancy.

He led an internationally-criticised crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood, who
staged regular demonstrations demanding the former President's reinstatement,
imprisoning thousands and killing hundreds during in street protests.

In apparent retaliation, militants launched a spate of attacks that ranged from
homemade explosive devices to suicide attacks.

Egyptian security forces have attempted to uproot militant networks in northern
Sinai but tensions over poverty and a feeling of neglect by Cairo as tourist
resorts in the south prosper have fuelled support.

Source: Independent

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 1:01 PM GMT

Hundreds of cops put on British streets to guard against Paris-style terror
attack

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 340 words


EXTRA armed officers will be given specialist training to deal with the "real"
threat of a terrorist gun attack on UK streets.

Top cop Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said the Met Police force had already put more
armed officers on London's streets to protect key areas in the wake of the Paris
shootings.

Masked gunmen Cherif and Said Koachi slaughtered 12 journalists, cartoonists and
police officers when they stormed the offices of satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo in the French capital.

The Islamic extremists were killed by armed police in their attempts to escape
the capital.

An accomplice of the brothers, Amedy Coulibaly, later kept up to 20 people
captive at a Kosher Supermarket less than 30 miles away from the magazine
headquarters.

Coulibaly killed four hostages before he was shot dead by police.

brightcove.createExperiences;  Met Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe

Scotland Yard has cut the number of armed officers on the capital's streets by
750 in recent years.

But Sir Bernard said members of the Territorial Support Group - often known as
the riot squad - would be trained as an armed reserve in the event of a major
terrorist attack.

There are 2,700 officers authorised to carry guns in London but the Met is said
to be reviewing that number.

Yesterday, the commissioner admitted protecting the public from terrorists was
an "imperfect science".

He said: "If you have multiple suspects, you can't follow all of them all the
time.

"Nor can we guarantee we make a perfect assessment of the threat they pose
today.

"We believe we are coping with the threat at the moment.

"We are looking to increase our resources but it is an imperfect science.

"We are dealing with human beings here who sometimes change their mind."

Related articles Shocking new footage emerges of Charlie Hebdo gunmen in Paris
police shootout Paris terrorist and jihadi wife spent NYE in Madrid before
deadly supermarket siege Paris terror suspect with 'Syria network link' returned
to France and charged

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 9:01 AM GMT

Glasgow Airport bomber Bilal Abdullah regrets terror attack: Extremist admits
actions were 'not justifiable';
BILAL Abdullah, who is serving a life sentence for his part in the failed
suicide bombing in 2007, has expressed regret for the first time over the attack
on Glasgow Airport.

BYLINE: By Torcuil Crichton

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 391 words


A Glasgow Airport bomber has admitted the attack was "not justifiable".

Bilal Abdullah - the Iraqi-born doctor turned terrorist - has expressed regret
for the first time over his attempt to bring mass murder to Scotland and, the
day before, the streets of London.

Abdullah, now 34, is serving a life sentence for his part in the failed suicide
bombing on June 30, 2007.

He spoke about the attack to Moazamm Begg, the British man who was imprisoned in
Guantanamo Bay for three years on suspicion of being a member of Al Qaeda.

Begg, who was released without charge, met Abdullah in jail, where he is serving
a 32-year sentence.

In an interview in the New Statesman magazine, Begg revealed the airport bomber
"would be the first person to say" that the attack was "not justifiable".

The admission is understood to be the first comment Abdullah has made on the
horror incident since being sentenced in 2008.

Begg described Abdullah as "unbelievably warm, kind, gentle, loving, unextreme
to the maximum".

He added: "Because he is an Iraqi and he did it at the height of the Iraq war,
it is understandable, isn't it?"

Asked if it WAS justifiable, Begg responded: "No, it is not justifiable and he's
the first person to say it."

Abdullah, who worked as a locum doctor at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley, was born in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire.

His family moved to Iraq when he was three.

He returned to England in his 20s to complete his medical training but went back
to Iraq in 2006 and witnessed carnage in his family's homeland.

Fellow terrorist Kafeel Ahmed drove a Jeep laden with explosives into the doors
of Glasgow Airport.

The intention was that it would explode inside the departure hall and that the
bombers, on the run from the failed attempt to bomb a nightclub in London, would
be martyred.

But the attack failed when the vehicle simply caught fire.

Ahmed died from severe burns a month later.

Five members of the public were hurt. The incident made baggage handler John
Smeaton and others who tackled the bombers national heroes.

Judge Mr Justice Mackay presided over the nine-week trial at London's Woolwich
Crown Court.

He described Abdullah as "religious extremist and a bigot" and sentenced him to
a minimum of 32 years in jail.

He will be at least 61 before he is freed.

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

Quick Quiz: News 29/1/15

Facebook banner

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            January 30, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GLASGOW AIRPORT BOMBER REGRETS TERROR ATTACK;
DR EVIL EXTREMIST FINALLY SPEAKS ; He tells pal actions 'not justifiable'

BYLINE: TORCUIL CRICHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 493 words


A GLASGOW Airport bomber airport bomber has admitted the attack was has admitted
the attack was 'not justifiable'".

Bilal Abdullah - the Iraqi-born Bilal Abdullah - the Iraqi-born doctor turned
terrorist - has doctor turned terrorist - has expressed regret for the first
expressed regret for the first time over his attempt to bring time over his
attempt to bring mass murder to Scotland and, mass murder to Scotland and, the
day before, the streets of the day before, the streets of London.

Abdullah, now 34, is serving a Abdullah, now 34, is serving a life sentence for
his part in the life sentence for his part in the failed suicide bomb ing on
June failed suicide bomb ing on June 30, 2007.

He spoke about the attack to He spoke about the attack to Moazamm Begg, the
British oazamm Begg, the British man who was imprisoned in man who was
imprisoned in Guantanamo Bay for three Guantanamo Bay for three years on
suspicion of being a years on suspicion of being a member of Al Qaeda. member of
Al Qaeda.

Begg, who was released Begg, who was released without charge, met Abdullah
without charge, met Abdullah in jail, where he is serving a in jail, where he is
serving a 32-year sentence.

In an interview in the New Statesman magazine, Begg revealed the airport bomber
revealed the airport bomber "would be's the first person to"would be's the first
person to say" that the attack was "not say" that the attack was 'not
justifiable'".

The admission is understood the admission is understood to be the first comment
Abdullah has made on the horror incident since being sentenced in 2008.

Begg described Abdullah as "unbelievably warm, kind, gentle, loving, unextreme
to the maximum".

He added: "Because he is an Iraqi and he did it at the height of the Iraq war,
it is understandable, isn't it?" Asked if it WAS justifiable, Begg responded:
"No, it is not justifiable and he's the first person to say it."

Abdullah, who worked as a locum doctor at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley, was born in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire.

His family moved to Iraq when he was three.

He returned to England in his 20s to complete his medical training but went back
to Iraq in 2006 and witnessed carnage in his family's homeland. Fellow terrorist
Kafeel Ahmed drove a Jeep laden with explosives into the doors of Glasgow
Airport.

The intention was that it would explode inside the departure hall and that the
bombers, on the run from the failed attempt to bomb a nightclub in London, would
be martyred.

But the attack failed when the vehicle simply caught fire.

Ahmed died from severe burns a month later.

Five members of the public were hurt. The incident made baggage handler John
Smeaton and others who tackled the bombers national heroes.

Judge Mr Justice Mackay presided over the nine-week trial at London's Woolwich
Crown Court. He described Abdullah as "religious extremist and a bigot" and
sentenced him to a minimum of 32 years in jail. He will be at least 61 before he
is freed.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INTERVIEW BeggHORROR Jeep in flames at entrance to airport as 999 crews
get to workTWISTED Ahmed died from burnsCARNAGE Burnt-out Jeep at Glasgow
Airport. It was supposed to explode in terminal packed with holidaymakers
Burnt-out Jeep at Glasgow Airport. It was supposed to explode in terminal packed
with holidaymakersSERVING LIFE Bilal Abdullah was found guilty of conspiracy to
murder

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 3:34 PM GMT

Sex offender who attacked, terrorised and groped young man is jailed for more
than two years;
Patrick Price, 38, from Stockton, threatened to stab victim, pinned him to the
ground and molested him in "disturbing attack".

BYLINE: By Gareth Lightfoot

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 601 words


A sex offender who attacked, terrorised and groped a young man in his home has
been jailed for more than two years.

The innocent victim could not answer his own door at times since his violent and
terrifying ordeal at the hands of Patrick Price.

Price, 38, threatened to stab him, pinned him to the ground and molested him in
his living room, Teesside Crown Court heard today.

Price - who has convictions for indecency against a young boy and a knife
slashing - befriended the 21-year-old man while using a different surname.

He was invited into the man's home - but reacted violently when the man told him
he was not gay.

Price had turned the conversation sexual as he asked whether the younger man had
"slept with a bloke" before.

The man felt uncomfortable and replied he was not that way inclined and he was a
father.

Price's response was to elbow the man to the left side of his face, injuring his
left eye.

Prosecutor Paul Cleasby described the "disturbing attack" which badly affected
the young man on September 12 last year.

Price pushed his elbow into the victim's chest, forcing him to the floor under
his body weight.

He told him not to struggle, saying: "Don't. Stay still or I'll stab you."

The victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, believed the threat to be
genuine as he thought he had seen a knife in Price's pocket.

Price pinned him down and sexually assaulted him, the court was told.

He calmly walked out of the house after the frightened victim shouted at him to
leave and pushed him away.

The injured, distressed man texted a friend saying he could not believe what had
happened to him.

His friend called the police and turned Price away from the home when he tried
to approach again.

In a victim personal statement read out in court, the young man said: "This
incident has changed me.

"I live alone in my home. Each time I get a knock at the door I panic.

"I will not go to the door until I look out of the window from behind the
curtains to see who it is.

"I don't always feel able to answer the door and sometimes I don't answer it.

"I don't feel able to trust anyone at the moment. I feel it's hard to let
anyone, especially males, into my home."

Price initially claimed it was a consensual sexual encounter, but changed his
story when the victim's injuries were put to him.

Price, of Tarring Street, central Stockton, pleaded guilty to sexual assault.

He had a conviction and one-year prison sentence for gross indecency against a
nine-year-old boy 14 years ago.

He received a probation order for inflicting grievous bodily harm by slashing
someone with a knife in 1996, as well as a conviction for intimidation.

Lewis Kerr, defending, said Price's lack of openness made it difficult to know
his motives beyond sexual desire.

He asked the judge to consider a non-custodial sentence to deal with Price's
"massive difficulty with reasoning in relation to sexual desires", but the
Probation Service rejected the idea of managing him in the community.

Mr Kerr said Price planned to move away from the area and was supported by his
partner.

Judge Howard Crowson told the defendant: "This offence was both violent and
distressing.

"He made things very clear. You didn't take refusal well so you assaulted him.

"You reacted in a violent way and forced yourself upon him.

"He was clearly very upset by the whole incident."

He jailed Price for two years and four months and gave him an indefinite
restraining order banning him from contacting the victim or entering his street.

Price will be on the sex offenders' register for 10 years - for the second time
in his life - and may face a ban from working with children.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                getsurrey.co.uk

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 5:28 PM GMT

Rev Stephen Sizer apologises for Facebook link to 'Israel did it' article about
9/11 attacks;
The Virginia Water priest has suspended his social media accounts after posting
a link to an article blaming Israel for the 9/11 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By David Stubbings

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


The priest accused of being anti-semitic after posting a link on Facebook to an
article blaming Israel for the 9/11 terrorist attacks has apologised.

The Rev Stephen Sizer, vicar of Christ Church, Virginia Water, faces an
investigation from the Church of England's Guildford Diocese after putting the
link on his Facebook page.

The article was entitled '9/11 Israel did it' and it prompted the Diocese of
Guildford to describe the vicar's actions as a "matter of deep sorrow and
shame".

He told Get Surrey: "I very much regret and apologise for the distress caused by
the re-posting on Facebook of a link to an article about 9/11 from Wikispooks.

"It was particularly insensitive in that last week coincided with Holocaust
Memorial Day.

"I removed the link as soon as I received adverse feedback, and realised that
offence had been caused.

"I have never believed Israel or any other country was complicit in the
terrorist atrocity of 9/11, and my sharing of this material was ill-considered
and misguided.

"At the request of the Diocese, I will be suspending my use of all social media
and blogs with immediate effect and until further notice."

The link was condemned by others, with Jonathan Arkush, vice-president of the
Board of Deputies of British Jews, describing it as "unquestionably
anti-semitic" and "beyond absurd".

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBSUR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 8:38 PM GMT

New NYPD unit armed with 'machine guns' criticised by reform advocates;
New 350-officer unit tasked with guarding city against threats but critics
accuse Bill Bratton of comparing Black Lives Matter protests with terrorist
attacks abroad

BYLINE: Oliver Laughland in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


The creation of a new counter-terrorism unit within the NYPD, which will be
armed with "machine guns" and tasked with policing protests as well as guarding
the city against any terrorist threat, has drawn heavy criticism from legal
groups and police reform advocates.

Police commissioner Bill Bratton announced a new 350-officer strong Strategic
Response Group (SRG) on Thursday along with a raft of police reforms including
equipping more officers with Tasers and body-worn cameras.

Bratton said the unit was "designed for dealing with events like our recent
protests, or incidents like Mumbai or what just happened in Paris".

He added that the SRG would be "equipped and trained in ways our normal patrol
officers are not", given "extra protective gear, the long rifles, machine guns,
as is unfortunately necessary sometimes in these instances".

The remarks drew criticism from reform advocates and legal groups, who accused
Bratton of comparing recent non-violent Black Lives Matter protests in the city
with terrorist attacks abroad.

"The comparison of Black Lives Matter and other large protests to violent
terrorist attacks is an outrage and an insult to the hundreds of thousands of
people who have been marching across the country against racism and for police
reform," said Mara Verheyden-Hilliard, the executive director of the Partnership
For Civil Justice Fund, a legal group representing hundreds of Occupy Wall
Street protesters arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge in 2011.

"Thousands have marched in a massive civil rights movement demanding police
reform, and the NYPD has decided to respond to the community instead by arming
the police with machine guns," she continued.

The recent wave of demonstrations against police brutality across the US saw
thousands take to the streets of New York City. The protesters shut down a
number of major roadways at the height of the movement in December.

Bratton argued the creation of the dedicated unit would free up personnel from
precincts around the city already assigned to heavily armed critical response
units (CRVs).

Priscila Gonzalez, organising director of Communities United for Police Reform
said the creation of the unit was "the opposite of progress".

"His [Bratton's] demands for a more militarised police force that would use
counterterrorism tactics against protesters are deeply misguided and frankly
offensive," Gonzalez said in a statement.

"We need an NYPD that is more accountable to New Yorkers and that stops
criminalizing our communities, especially when people are taking to the streets
to voice legitimate concerns about discriminatory and abusive policing."

In December Barack Obama resisted calls to curtail federal programs transferring
military equipment, including firearms, to local police forces. The calls
mounted following protests in Ferguson after the fatal police shooting of
unarmed teenager Michael Brown, which were heavily suppressed by local police.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Foreign Secretary condemns terrorist attacks in North Sinai

LENGTH: 98 words


January 30, 2015

Responding to news of terrorist attacks in North Sinai, Philip Hammond said:

I strongly condemn last night's series of terrorist attacks against the Egyptian
security forces in North Sinai. The UK stands with the Egyptian government and
people in their fight against terrorist violence.

Further information

oFollow the Foreign Secretary on Twitter itter.com/PHammondMP">@PHammondMP

oFollow the Foreign Office on Twitter itter.com/foreignoffice">@foreignoffice

oFollow the Foreign Office on Facebook and Google+

Media enquiries

Email newsdesk@fco.gov.uk

News Desk 020 7008 3100

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Minister For Foreign Affairs and Trade, Charlie Flanagan, condemns terror
attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 82 words


January 30, 2015

DUBLIN, Ireland -- The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Mr Charlie
Flanagan, TD, has condemned the terrorist attacks in Egypt which killed at least
30 people in the northern Sinai.

"I condemn the horrific terrorist attacks in El-Arish and the northern Si nai.
On behalf of the Irish people, I want to express sincere condolences to the
families and loved ones of those murdered and to convey our sympathy and
solidarity to those wounded and to the Egyptian people."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 12:21 PM BST

FIVE ACCUSED OF TERROR ATTACK PLOT

BYLINE: Emily Pennink, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Five men have appeared in court charged with plotting to carry out a terror
attack by shooting police officers or soldiers on the streets of London.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
and Nathan Cuffy, 25, all from west London, appeared before Mr Justice Wilkie at
the Old Bailey via video link from separate prisons.

They are all charged with the first of a 13 count indictment of conspiracy to
murder between July 8 and September 25 2014.

All but Cuffy are charged with a second count of preparation of terrorist acts
between July 8 and October 7 last year.

According to the charge details, the four men swore allegiance to extremist
group Islamic State (IS) and scouted out Shepherd's Bush police station and
White City Territorial Army Barracks on a ``hostile reconnaissance'' mission on
Google Street Views.

They allegedly kept Instagram images of two Scotland Yard police officers and
two Metropolitan Police community support officers, as well as a trove of
jihadist material including graphic images of the beheading of US journalist
Steven Sotloff.

The details of the charge also state that they took an oath to Islamic State,
entered into covert discussions, using code words for money, mopeds and
firearms, and discussed and agreed sourcing a gun and a moped to be stored in
Shepherds Bush, west London.

They also allegedly downloaded and circulated the Fatwa of Al Adnani and
arranged the procurement of a Baikal handgun and ammunition.

Cuffy is charged with transferring a prohibited firearm - a Bailkal IZH 79-8
self loading pistol - and ammunition on September 23 last year to Hamlett.

He is further accused of five counts of possessing a firearm with intent to
endanger life in September 26 last year and one count of possessing ammunition
with intent to endanger life.

Motasim and Majeed are accused of possessing a prohibited firearm and ammunition
and possession of a firearm with intent to endanger life on September 24 last
year.

Mr Justice Wilkie remanded the defendants in custody until a plea and case
management hearing on February 27 at the Old Bailey.

A ten-week trial is provisionally set for June 3 at Woolwich Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Regional Press Releases: London

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 12:50 PM BST

FIVE ACCUSED OF TERROR ATTACK PLOT

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 364 words


Five men have appeared in court charged with plotting to carry out a terror
attack by shooting police officers or soldiers on the streets of London.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
and Nathan Cuffy, 25, all from west London, appeared before Mr Justice Wilkie at
the Old Bailey via video link from separate prisons.

They are all charged with the first of a 13 count indictment of conspiracy to
murder between July 8 and September 25 2014.

All but Cuffy are charged with a second count of preparation of terrorist acts
between July 8 and October 7 last year.

According to the charge details, the four men swore allegiance to extremist
group Islamic State (IS) and scouted out Shepherd's Bush police station and
White City Territorial Army Barracks on a ``hostile reconnaissance'' mission on
Google Street Views.

They allegedly kept Instagram images of two Scotland Yard police officers and
two Metropolitan Police community support officers, as well as a trove of
jihadist material including graphic images of the beheading of US journalist
Steven Sotloff.

The details of the charge also state that they took an oath to Islamic State,
entered into covert discussions, using code words for money, mopeds and
firearms, and discussed and agreed sourcing a gun and a moped to be stored in
Shepherds Bush, west London.

They also allegedly downloaded and circulated the Fatwa of Al Adnani and
arranged the procurement of a Baikal handgun and ammunition.

Cuffy is charged with transferring a prohibited firearm - a Bailkal IZH 79-8
self loading pistol - and ammunition on September 23 last year to Hamlett.

He is further accused of five counts of possessing a firearm with intent to
endanger life in September 26 last year and one count of possessing ammunition
with intent to endanger life.

Motasim and Majeed are accused of possessing a prohibited firearm and ammunition
and possession of a firearm with intent to endanger life on September 24 last
year.

Mr Justice Wilkie remanded the defendants in custody until a plea and case
management hearing on February 27 at the Old Bailey.

A ten-week trial is provisionally set for June 3 at Woolwich Crown Court. end

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Regional Press Releases: London

                      January 30, 2015 Friday 12:50 PM BST

FIVE ACCUSED OF TERROR ATTACK PLOT

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 364 words


Five men have appeared in court charged with plotting to carry out a terror
attack by shooting police officers or soldiers on the streets of London.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
and Nathan Cuffy, 25, all from west London, appeared before Mr Justice Wilkie at
the Old Bailey via video link from separate prisons.

They are all charged with the first of a 13 count indictment of conspiracy to
murder between July 8 and September 25 2014.

All but Cuffy are charged with a second count of preparation of terrorist acts
between July 8 and October 7 last year.

According to the charge details, the four men swore allegiance to extremist
group Islamic State (IS) and scouted out Shepherd's Bush police station and
White City Territorial Army Barracks on a ``hostile reconnaissance'' mission on
Google Street Views.

They allegedly kept Instagram images of two Scotland Yard police officers and
two Metropolitan Police community support officers, as well as a trove of
jihadist material including graphic images of the beheading of US journalist
Steven Sotloff.

The details of the charge also state that they took an oath to Islamic State,
entered into covert discussions, using code words for money, mopeds and
firearms, and discussed and agreed sourcing a gun and a moped to be stored in
Shepherds Bush, west London.

They also allegedly downloaded and circulated the Fatwa of Al Adnani and
arranged the procurement of a Baikal handgun and ammunition.

Cuffy is charged with transferring a prohibited firearm - a Bailkal IZH 79-8
self loading pistol - and ammunition on September 23 last year to Hamlett.

He is further accused of five counts of possessing a firearm with intent to
endanger life in September 26 last year and one count of possessing ammunition
with intent to endanger life.

Motasim and Majeed are accused of possessing a prohibited firearm and ammunition
and possession of a firearm with intent to endanger life on September 24 last
year.

Mr Justice Wilkie remanded the defendants in custody until a plea and case
management hearing on February 27 at the Old Bailey.

A ten-week trial is provisionally set for June 3 at Woolwich Crown Court. end

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     January 30, 2015 Friday 10:14 AM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAMMOND CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN NORTH SINAI

LENGTH: 99 words


LONDON, Jan. 30 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Philip Hammond says UK stands with the Egyptian people in their fight against
terrorist violence.

Responding to news of terrorist attacks in North Sinai, Philip Hammond said:

I strongly condemn last night's series of terrorist attacks against the Egyptian
security forces in North Sinai. The UK stands with the Egyptian government and
people in their fight against terrorist violence." For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 31, 2015 Saturday

African Union condemns Sinai "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 62 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 31 January: Head of the African Union Commission Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma
condemned the terrorist attack that took place in North Sinai on Thursday [29
January].

Zuma offered condolences to the families of the victims, MENA quoted an AU
statement as saying.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0629gmt 31 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 31, 2015 Saturday

Iran condemns "terrorist attack" in Pakistan

LENGTH: 104 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has strongly condemned a
recent terrorist attack on a mosque in the Pakistani city of Shikarpur that
killed at least 60 people and injured 50, the Islamic Republic News Agency
(IRNA) reported on 31 January.

Afkham strongly condemned the attack, which occurred on 30 January, and called
for the unity of Muslims. She stressed: "The Islamic Republic of Iran strongly
condemns this terrorist act in Pakistan against innocent people, regardless of
their ethnic origins or religious beliefs," IRNA reported.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0947gmt 31 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 31, 2015 Saturday 7:51 AM GMT

'Give Tasers to ALL police officers in case of Lee Rigby-style terror attack';
"The threat to police has gone up - we have to do something," says Steve White,
the head of the Police Federation

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 426 words


Police chiefs want ALL rank-and-file officers to be armed with a Taser in case
of a Lee Rigby-style terror attack on the streets of Britain.

Steve White, chairman of the body which represents front-line officers, said
acts of terrorism could be carried out anywhere and police needed to be
protected.

He cited the killing of Fusilier Rigby near Woolwich Barracks in 2013 as an
example of how lone wolf-style attacks could be carried out without guns.

Michael Adebowale and Michael Adebolajo ran the 25-year-old soldier in a car
before attacking him with knives and a meat cleaver.

They are both serving life sentences in jail for the brutal murder.

And fears of an ISIS-inspired terror attack on British soil have increased after
17 people were killed in a series of shootings in Paris earlier this month.

Mr White told the Guardian: "The terrorist ideal to get attention no longer
relies on an attack being in a place of note. It could be in Cheam high street,
in any town, in any part of the UK. We know there are more dangerous people out
there, preparing to attack police officers and we need to be able to respond to
that threat.

Tasers for all cops

"As (the) Lee Rigby (murder) demonstrated, you don't need to have a gun to
create terrorism. It is a defensive tool and a tactical option. We have a
largely unarmed service and the service wants that to remain.

"The alternative is to have officers out there without anything at all. We have
to do something. The sector threat (to police) has gone up by two levels and we
need to make sure everything is done to protect officers who protect the
public."

Chilling Al-Qaeda video takes responsibility for Charlie Hebdo attack

The federation is to vote on the proposal next month, the newspaper said.

Home Office figures released last October showed the use of Tasers by police had
increased every year, while there have been a number of controversial deaths
related to the stun guns.

The weapons were fired 826 times out of the 5,107 occasions they were deployed
between January and June 2014, with the latter figure compared with 4,999 times
during the same period in 2013 and 1,297 times in 2009

Tasers were also pressed against a person's body - like an electric cattle prod,
in what is known as "angled drive stun" - on 123 occasions in England and Wales
in the same period.

Concerns over their use were heightened after the death of Andrew Pimlott, who
suffered fatal burns when he was hit by the stun gun in Plymouth in April 2013,
after he had poured petrol over himself and was holding a lit match at the time.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 31, 2015 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

Le Pen pulls ahead after terror attacks

BYLINE: Charles Bremner, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 352 words


Marine Le Pen, the leader of France's hard-right National Front, has pulled
further ahead of President Hollande in the race for the next presidential
election despite mishandling the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in Paris,
two opinion polls show.

If the election were held now, Ms Le Pen would lead the field with about 30 per
cent of the vote in the first round of the two-stage presidential race,
according to the Ifop and CSA polls for Marianne magazine and RTL radio.

Mr Hollande would be eliminated with about 19 per cent, while the former
president Nicolas Sarkozy, leader of the centre-right Union for a Popular
Movement, would score about 23 per cent.

However, Ms Le Pen would lose in the second round against any opponent by at
least four points, the polls show. The election is due in 2017.

The Ifop poll shows a three-point rise for Ms Le Pen since the last survey in
August despite a surge of support for Mr Hollande after the attack by Islamist
gunmen on Charlie Hebdo magazine.

The approval rating of the unpopular president shot up by about 20 points to the
mid-40s with the mood of national unity that followed the attacks and the firm
leadership that he displayed.

Ms Le Pen was deemed to have bungled her reaction to the attacks, refusing to
take part in a mass march led by Mr Hollande in Paris after not being officially
invited.

A third of her own voters disapproved of that, opinion polls showed, but the new
surveys confirmed a consensus in the political world that the anti-immigrant
National Front leader, whose party won a quarter of the vote in last spring's
European elections, would benefit from anger at the Islamist attacks.

"I have been warning of the danger of Muslim fundamentalism in our country for
years," Ms Le Pen said the day after the attacks.

She has been running ahead of the field in presidential projections since last
summer and some analysts have begun suggesting that the traditional "Republican
reflex" against the populist party could fade in 2017 and that, given the right
circumstances, she could squeak through in the run-off to reach the Élysée
Palace.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday

Iran, Egypt underline opposition to terrorist attacks in Iraq, Syria

LENGTH: 355 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran: Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Arab and African Affairs Hoseyn
Amir-Abdollahian and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi in a meeting in
Ethiopia underscored the two countries' opposition to the terrorist attacks of
Takfiri and extremist groups in Iraq and Syria.

During the meeting held on the sidelines of the 24th African Union summit in
Ethiopia on Sunday [1 February], Amir Abdollahian and Sisi discussed the latest
developments in the region, and voiced opposition to terrorism and extremism,
especially in Iraq and Syria.

Amir Abdollahian, for his part, stressed the necessity for strengthening unity
in the Muslim world and fighting the Takfiri moves imposed on the region by the
trans-regional states.

He also condemned the recent terrorist attacks in Sinai desert on the Egyptian
forces, and called for the partnership of all political groups and national
unity in Egypt.

At least 27 people were killed, including civilians, and over 30 injured in a
series of militant attacks in Egypt's North Sinai province on Thursday night.

According to a health ministry official who spoke to state TV, several army and
police positions were targeted in the province's el-Arish capital.

The office of state newspaper al-Ahram was reportedly damaged in the assault.
The province - which is located in Egypt's remote desert region and borders the
Gaza Strip, occupied lands and the Suez Canal - has been facing an insurgency
which has claimed the lives of hundreds of security officers in the region.

Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham on Friday strongly
condemned terrorist attacks in Sinai.

"Such terrorist acts are pursuant of the policy to get Muslim states busy with
trivial issues to keep them far away from the Muslim world top priority issue of
supporting the Palestinian nation and protecting the Holy Quds," Afkham said.

She further underlined the need for the collective efforts of the regional
countries to fight extremism and terrorism.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1225 gmt 1 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

Cypriot Foreign Ministry denounces terrorist attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

[Unattributed report: "Cyprus Denounces Terrorist Attacks in Egypt"]

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cyprus strongly condemned on
Friday [30 January] the multiple terrorist attacks that took place in Egypt's
North Sinai and Suez, resulting in a high number of casualties, mainly among the
security forces of the country.

"We express our deepest condolences and solidarity to the families of the
deceased and the Egyptian people at large" the Foreign Ministry states.

Cyprus is extremely concerned over the proliferation of terrorism that threatens
peace and stability across the region and stands alongside Egypt in its fight
against terrorism and extremism, the statement adds.

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 1334 gmt 30 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

Jordanian king condemns "terrorist attacks" in Sinai

LENGTH: 126 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Jordanian news agency Ammun News
website

His Majesty King Abdullah II, on Sunday [1 February], called Egyptian President
Abd-al-Fattah Al-Sisi and expressed his strong condemnation of the terrorist
attacks that recently targeted military personnel and Egyptian citizens in the
Sinai.

His Majesty expressed his condolences to President El-Sisi and the families of
the innocent victims and wished the injured a speedy recovery, stressing
Jordan's solidarity with Egypt and its people to overcome these difficult
circumstances.

During the call, His Majesty the King and President El-Sisi discussed bilateral
ties and regional developments of mutual interest.

Source: Ammun News website, Amman, in English 1645 gmt 2 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

Norway condemns terrorist attack in Sinai

LENGTH: 254 words


February 2, 2015

OSLO, Norway -- 'I condemn the bomb attacks in North Sinai yesterday, in which
at least 30 people were killed and many injured. Most of the casualties were
Egyptian soldiers. The bombings are the latest in a series of serious terrorist
attacks that have taken place in Sinai and the rest of Egypt over the last year.
Our thoughts and sympathie s are with those who have lost loved ones in
yesterday's attacks,' said Foreign Minister Børge Brende.



The bombings took place close to the cities of Arish and Rafah. According to
media reports, the 'Sinai province of the Islamic State' has claimed
responsibility. The nature of the attacks indicate that they had been carefully
planned and closely coordinated. North Sinai has seen several violent incidents
between militant Islamists and the Egyptian army, particularly over the last
year.

'The rise of extremist movements represents a serious threat in the region. I am
following the situation in Sinai with great concern. The attacks in Sinai
highlight the need for an intensified and coordinated effort by the
international community to combat extremist movements,' said Mr Brende.

Norway is concerned about the general escalation of violence that has targeted
both the authorities and peaceful protestors in recent months.

'I urge all parties t o act with moderation and restraint. Long-term stability
in Egypt will not be possible unless fundamental human rights, including the
right to take part in peaceful demonstrations, are respected,' said Mr Brende.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

Ban, Security Council condemn terrorist attacks in Egypt's Sinai peninsula

LENGTH: 313 words


January 30, 2015

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations Security Council today
condemned the terrorist attacks on towns in the northern part of Egypt's Sinai
Peninsula, which killed and injured dozens of Egyptian soldiers and people.



"The Secretary-General condemns the terrorist attacks in North Sinai on 29
January, which killed dozens of people, including civilians, and injured scores
of others," said a statement issued through his spokesperson.

"He conveys his condolences to the families of the victims and expresses his
solidarity with the people of Egypt," the statement added.

According to media reports, four separate attacks on security outposts took
place in North Sinai beginning Thursday evening and into the early morning hours
on Friday. News agencies suggest that at least 30 people were killed.

This is the second deadly attack to hit the area within the past few months. Mr.
Ban and the members of the Security Council condemned the 24 October 2014
terrorist attacks against military checkpoints in Sheikh Zuweid and al-Arish in
North Sinai, killing at least 31 members of the Egyptian security forces and
injuring dozens more.

Strongly condemning today's terrorist attacks, the members of the Security
Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations
constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security,
and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable regardless of
their motivation, wherever and whenever and by whomsoever committed.

The Council, in a statement to the press, underlined the need to bring
perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of this terrorist attack to
justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Egyptian Government in this regard.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

The African Union strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in the Sinai
Peninsula, in Egypt

LENGTH: 204 words


January 30, 2015

ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia /African Press Organization (APO)/ -- The Chairperson of
the Commission of the African Union (AU), Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, has
learned, with deep sorrow, of the terrorist attacks perpetrated, on 29 January
2015, in the Sinai Peninsula, in Egypt, killing dozens of people and injuring
many others.



The Chairperson of the Commission strongly condemns these terrorist attacks,
which cannot be justified under any circumstances. She expresses the AU's
heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, as well as its solidarity
with the Government and people of Egypt. She wishes speedy recovery to the
wounded.

The Chairperson of the Commission stresses that the attacks that took place in
the Sinai Peninsula and other terrorist acts on the continent underline the need
for enhanced African action in combatting the scourge of terrorism, within the
framework of the relevant AU and international instruments. She reiterates the
commitment of the Commission to pursue its efforts in this respect, including in
pursuance of the communiqué on terrorism and violent extremism, adopted by the
Peace and Security Council at its 455th meeting held in Nairobi, Kenya, on 2
September 2014.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 2, 2015 Monday 2:31 PM GMT

Grieving dad of executed teenager grabs AK-47 and 'kills seven ISIS terrorists'
in revenge attack;
Basil Ramadan went on a bloody rampage on Sunday - just weeks after his son
Ahmed was part of a group of eight men executed by extremists

BYLINE: By Gareth Roberts

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 221 words


An Iraqi man has reportedly gunned down seven Islamic State (ISIS) terrorists in
a revenge attack for the death of his son.

A string of reports claim Basil Ramadan, said to be in his 60s, opened fire with
an AK-47 assault rifle on a group of ISIS militants at a checkpoint in the city
of Tikrit.

He killed seven before he was shot dead on Sunday morning.

Local media say ISIS terrorists executed Ahmed Ramadan, an 18-year-old college
student, earlier this year.

ISIS execute 8 people - including Iraqi police officers - CENSORED footage

He was killed alongside seven other young men who were accused of collaborating
with the Iraqi security forces, reports say.

It was also reported in January that the group were undercover Iraqi police
officers.

Photographs and video were released last month by ISIS terrorists showing the
men blindfolded and handcuffed being frogmarched along the edge of a river.

Forced to kneel down, each prisoner was executed with a single bullet to the
head.

In early 2007, another son of Ramadan was killed by the al-Qaida terrorist group
in Tikrit.

The news comes just days after Japanese journalist Rinko Goto was killed by
Islamic State terrorists.

The militants released a gruesome video claiming to show the beheading of Mr
Goto, who was kidnapped in October last year.

TIMELINE: Rise of ISIS in Syria, Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Islamic State plotted terror attacks in Uzbekistan - security service

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Tashkent, 3 February: Measures are being taken in Uzbekistan to strengthen its
borders following information from security services on Islamic State (IS)
extremist group members' intention of committing acts of terrorism in the
republic's territory.

"We have a weighty reason to suppose that the activities of IS members who were
detained in Uzbekistan (in 2014) were not limited to recruitment. These IS
members were preparing a number of terror attacks for the spring of 2015 in
Uzbekistan's territory, and that is exactly why we are tightening border
protection measures," Uzbek media said on Tuesday [3 February], quoting a
National Security Service (NSS) analyst.

He said that law enforcement agencies had evidence from members of the Islamic
Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and IS who were detained in Uzbekistan in
November-December 2014. These detained Uzbek citizens underwent combat training
in Pakistan in 2013 and then returned to Uzbekistan in 2014 to recruit youths
into IS ranks.

Other reasons to strengthen border security, experts say, are a big opium
harvest in Afghanistan and the forthcoming presidential elections in Uzbekistan
on 29 March.

"We have information that IMU and other extremist groups are trying to
destabilize the situation in the country, but we are taking every step to
prevent that. These steps include not only preventive police operations but also
precautions and information provision for the population," NSS representatives
say.

At the same time, it is emphasized that cooperation among border guards of
neighbouring republics of the region is important, which makes it possible for
the countries to protect their border without having to deploy additional
troops.

"First of all that is possible thanks to the technical equipment and the system
of cooperation among of the three countries' (Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and
Uzbekistan) border guards. As for the 137 km border between Uzbekistan and
Afghanistan, it is the best-defended border between any post-Soviet country and
Afghanistan," the NSS officer said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0547 gmt 3 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Teachers Demand Redeployment Fearing Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 88 words


News: Nearly 700 teachers in Kenya have refused to return to work in the
country's north-eastern region in the aftermath of al-Shabab violence. The
teachers are demanding transfers to other safer areas and are protesting outside
the education ministry in Nairobi. The strike is affecting the counties of
Garissa, Mandera and Wajir, where the terrorist group killed more than 100
people in 2014. Meanwhile, the education ministry has stated that it would
consider disciplinary action if the teachers fail to report to work (BBC).

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

JAIL WORKER CAUGHT UP IN PROTEST TERROR;
Officer's car 'attacked and spat on'

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 388 words


A PRISON officer's car was surrounded by demonstrators last night as the
Maghaberry stand-off escalated.

Protesters swarmed around the vehicle with some taking pictures of the man on
mobile phones just yards from the gates of the high-security facility.

Witnesses said the car was spat at and some demonstrators tried to open the
doors while others hit it with their placards near Lisburn, Co Antrim.

It is understood at least one tail light was broken.

The incident will fuel fears among prison staff who say they are under threat
from dissidents.

The fact one prison worker was able to drive straight into the protest and have
his picture taken will be seen as significant security breach.

The protest was held after dissident supporters claimed construction work at the
jail's Roe House was making the wings more difficult to get around and claimed
prison staff are "creating and operating a conflictfuelled environment".

A tense stand-off, believed to involve around 40 prisoners, started on Sunday
and resulted in the riot squad being sent in to Roe House.

Calm was restored last night amid conflicting stories about what had happened
over the past day or two.

Last night prisoners' supporters claimed one inmate had his arm broken and was
kicked in the head during the incident.

Mandy Duffy, a spokeswoman for prisoners in the jail's segregated Roe House,
claimed staff were "hell-bent on creating conflict and began by verbally abusing
prisoners".

And in a Facebook post she alleged the injured prisoner was denied medical it B
t NI P i S i assistance. But NI Prison Service director general Sue McAllister
insisted neither prisoners or staff were hurt.

She said: "Managing prisoners in a high-security facility is challenging.

"We are clear that we wish to move to a normalised regime within a secure it Th
environment. The report by the Independent Assessment Team which was published
at the end of last year remains the best way to make progress in Roe House.

"The Prison Service remains committed to the implementation of the
recommendations within the stocktake report. However, this can only happen where
the agreement is honoured and our staff are free from threats and intimidation."

m.fitzmaurice@mgn.co.uk

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 8

"Staff are hell-bent on creating conflict and abused prisoners MANDY DUFFY
INMATES' SPOKESWOMAN

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: ALAN LEWIS TRAPPED Protesters and officer in car at jail near
Lisburn last nightFEAR Protester talks to officerCLAIMS Protesters with banners

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday

Islamic State calls on "lone wolves" to step up terrorist attacks in West

LENGTH: 862 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper ABC website, on 30 January

[Report by Javier Pagola, Pablo Munoz: "Jihadist Group Urges its 'Lone Wolfs' To
Step Up Killings in the West"]

ISIL has called again on "lone wolves" to carry out terrorist attacks in the
West and cited the attacks carried out in Canada, France, Australia, and Belgium
as an example to follow. Ecstatic because the international alliance has been
unable to clearly undermine its potential, ISIL also brags about the fact that
the jihadists from Afghanistan have sworn allegiance to ISIL.

This new communique calling on "lone wolves" to carry out attacks in the West
was released on 26 January. A jihadist leader used various Twitter accounts and
profiles linked to ISIL to spread an audio message, which lasts 9.33 minutes,
with new threats to the West. The intelligence services think that the author of
the message is Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, although they are still working to
confirm this. This DAESH leader released a similar message in September 2014.

And just like then, Al-Adnani explains now that the terrorist attacks should
depend on the perpetrators' capabilities, be them explosive devices, long or
short weapons, knives or even kicks or punches. This call involves "lone wolves"
who have certain training and experience, in the event that the goal is to carry
out attacks similar to the one that Amedy Coulibaly carried out in a Jewish
supermarket in Paris, and also those who lack that operational training, such as
the two jihadists who killed a British soldier with a machete after having run
him over on a street in London in May 2013.

Jihadist Forums

The jihadist group preferably uses jihadist forums to recruit and indoctrinate
individuals who are susceptible of being radicalized, so that they will
subsequently carry out terrorist attacks in their home countries as "lone
wolves."

To the counter-terrorism experts, lone wolfve pose a threat similar to that of
the jihadist returning from Syria and Iraq. They do not need any sort of
logistical infrastructure, or weapons, or previous information. On some
occasions, they choose their victims more or less at random and precisely the
indiscriminate nature of these attacks triggers a feeling of panic among the
population. However, the experts believe that the "lone wolves" would always
prefer either to attack soldiers and police officers or places that they deem
emblematic, because the attacks would achieve greater notoriety on behalf of
jihad.

Abu Mohammad al-Adnani himself in September 2013 called on his followers to kill
"infidels, be them civilians or soldiers," regardless of whether or not they had
weapons. That is to say, by resorting to beheading, choking, or poisoning,
Al-Adnani suggested. In May 2014, a sympathizer of ISIL uploaded to his Facebook
account this alarming slogan: "The Muslims in the East and the West should use
acts of martyrdom (suicide attacks) to inflict great losses on the enemy.
Especially, the Muslims living in Western countries. They are smartly placed to
carry out these acts of martyrdom inside their home countries and to terrify the
kuffar (infidels) from inside." "You will have to permanently look left and
right, because you will not be safe, not even in your own houses," another
radical Islamist wrote on social networking sites.

In any case, anti-terrorism experts stressed that Spain is facing a threat
similar to those facing any other Western country, and perhaps a threat that is
slightly lower than those facing France or the United Kingdom. The goal of the
jihadist forums is to create "lone wolve," who become radicalized and reach the
highest degree of fanaticism in the privacy of their houses through the
consumption of radical multimedia material. Internet provides them with the
information and counselling necessary to become true jihadists, like the ones
who carry out terrorist attacks in Syria or Iraq, without having to cross the
border into the West.

Due to their characteristics, the Internet forums can cover all the stages of
the training of a terrorist, who can thus avoid embarking on long and costly
trips during which they could be arrested by the security forces. The absence of
direct contacts with the heads of the recruitment networks make it very
difficult for the state security forces to detect the terrorists. They pose a
great risk to the security of western societies. It is complicated to monitor
jihadist forums, because they change constantly.

In the same audio message released on 26 January, Al-Adnani congratulates
himself for what he calls the "annexation" of a new province to the alleged
caliphate declared by the DAESH terrorists in June 2014. He mentions the
province of Khorasan, referring to Afghanistan. In this sense, he said on social
networking sites that the jihadists in Afghanistan had sworn allegiance to ISIL
leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who has already appointed ISIL leaders in
Afghanistan. Furthermore, he expressed his joy at the death of the king of Saudi
Arabia, Abdallah bin Abdulaziz, whom he described as "the tyrant of the
Al-Jazeera Peninsula and traitor of the two mosques."

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 30 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Knifeman attacks soldiers on anti-terrorism patrol

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 72 words


FRANCE: Three soldiers on an anti-terror patrol in Nice were attacked by a man
with a knife, police said. The attacker was detained but two people with him are
believed to have fled after the stabbing in the city centre.

France has been on high alert since the attacks in the Paris region by three
Islamic extremists that left 20 people dead. More than 10,000 soldiers have been
deployed around the country to protect sensitive locations.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     February 4, 2015 Wednesday 1:30 PM GMT

Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful;
The mysterious death of Alberto Nisman, who was investigating a 1994 terrorist
attack, has alarmed many Jews but others warn against over-simplifying the case

BYLINE: Jonathan Watts and Uki Goñi in Buenos Aires

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1219 words


The posters which appeared this week on the walls of the Villa Crespo
neighbourhood of Argentina's capital had a chilling message.

"A good Jew is a dead Jew. Nisman was a good Jew," they read, referring to
special prosecutor Alberto Nisman who was found dead in his bathroom last month,
the day before he was to testify in Congress about an alleged conspiracy between
the Iranian government and President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.

Related: Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor

For Latin America's biggest Jewish community, it was an alarming reminder not
just of the suspicious death of one of their most prominent members, but also
that it had already been targeted in two of the deadliest terrorist attacks in
Argentina's history.

Twenty-nine people were killed in the 1992 suicide bombing of the Israeli
embassy; 85 died when a car bomb exploded outside the the Asociación Mutual
Israelita Argentina (Amia) community centre in 1994. The two bombings left deep
scars, not just because of lives lost, but because of allegations that
successive governments have failed to protect Argentina's Jewish citizens - and
may even have conspired to obstruct the search for justice..

Nisman was supposed to change that. His appointment by former president Néstor
Kirchner to head a new investigation into the Amia case was welcomed by groups
representing families of the victims. But his death appears to have worsened the
friction that has built up since Fernández, Kirchner's widow and successor,
signed a memorandum of understanding with oil-rich Iran in 2013.

Fernández has yet to publicly express condolences to Nisman's family, nor did
her government send a representative to his funeral at the Tablada Jewish
cemetery, where the prosecutor was buried beside the "martyrs" of the Amia
attack.

"While he was alive they acted as if they wanted to kill him, and after he died,
as if they had killed him," tweeted Waldo Wolff, vice-president of Daia, the
country's largest Jewish association. Angry mourners at Nisman's wake ripped a
ribbon from a wreath sent by the attorney general. Others chanted "Justice!
Justice!" or held up banners proclaiming Nisman as the 86th victim of the Amia
attack.

Such was the anger and distrust the country's main Jewish organisations
boycotted an official ceremony to mark Holocaust Memorial Day.

Related: Alberto Nisman drafted arrest warrant for Argentinian president

Nisman drafted an arrest warrant for Fernández over the alleged cover-up - but
did not, eventually include it in his 300-page report to a judge.

President Fernández has blamed Nisman's death on rogue intelligence agents
working with outside interests (Nisman was a regular visitor to the US and
Israeli embassies). In a speech last week, she said Argentina must not become
the battleground for a proxy war. "Let's not bring the drama and tragedy from
other remote regions of the world ... where they drop missiles and bombs and
threaten each other with extermination," she warned. "Let nobody bring inside
all that filth from outside."

This has prompted scorn among many in the Jewish community. "I don't know what
she meant," says Wolff. "If she meant the situation in the Middle East, it's
already here, with the two unsolved bombings."

Despite the posters which appeared this week, overt antisemitism is still
relatively uncommon, said Wolff. "You can wear a skull-cap without problems.
There is no Le Pen here," but he said the government's recent moves to build
closer relations with Iran were disturbing.

Dismissing the president's claims that the CIA and Mossad might be involved in
the prosecutor's death as a "children's story", Wolff - who was one of the last
people to speak to Nisman - said the case would highlight how the weakness of
Argentinian governance posed risks to a wider population.

"For a long time many Argentinians saw the Amia case as a question of Jews v
Muslims that was distant from their lives, but the Nisman case has reminded
everyone that this is a matter for the entire society. What he revealed was the
worst of Argentina: the manipulation of information, corruption, impunity, the
use of the state for personal benefit rather than for the interests of the
country," he said.

This assertiveness contrasts with previous generations of Argentinian Jewish
leaders who were widely criticised for their meek response to earlier outrages.
One is even on trial - alongside former president Carlos Menem and senior
officials - for colluding in a plot to divert attention away from a possible
Syrian connection in the Amia attack.

Wolff says he represents a new generation that is more willing to speak out.
Philosopher Santiago Kovadloff agrees that the community needs a new approach.

"Jewish institutions are trying to recover the representation they lost because
of their previous behaviour," said the 72-year-old who broke down in tears
during a radio interview after attending Nisman's burial last week. "It is
essential our leaders put truth before opportunism."

This assertiveness helped to kill the 2013 memorandum of understanding with
Iran, which would have created a bilateral truth commission to look into the
Amia bombing. Despite being passed by congress, the accord collapsed after the
Daia took the government to court and had it declared unconstitutional.

In his indictment against the president, Nisman stated that the memorandum was
an attack on his personal integrity. He believed Iran was behind the 1994 blast
- an allegation consistently denied by Tehran.

Supporters of Fernández - including several in the Jewish community - criticised
the prosecutor for basing his assumptions on CIA and Mossad reports fed to him
by Argentina's intelligence service, and for relying too heavily on information
provided by the Mujahedin-e Khalq (MEK), or People's Mojahedin Organisation of
Iran, a dissident organisation which until 2012 was classified by the US as a
terrorist organisation.

"The Nisman document was tainted with political interests due to the conflict
between the government and part of the intelligence agency," said Sergio
Burstein, who heads an association of families of victims of the Amia bombing.
"I met Nisman many times. We relatives supported him at first, but then we had
our differences ... The Amia relatives should not be used for political
purposes."

Horacio Verbitsky, a leftwing journalist, also cautioned against
over-simplifying the case.

"We see the process now of turning Nisman into a hero. He's a tragic figure,but
he cannot be considered a hero," he said, noting how close the prosecutor was to
the intelligence agency and foreign embassies.

Verbitsky heads the Centre for Legal and Social Studies, a human rights group
that helped to secure a 2005 settlement for Amia families in which the
government took responsibility for not preventing the bombing and for covering
up what happened. He described the move to create a truth commission with Iran
as an ingenious attempt to push forward the quest for justice, though he
acknowledges that will now be difficult.

"Twenty years after the blast, it is very difficult to discover who did it," he
noted.

Amid the flurry of accusation and counter-accusation about Nisman's death, that
search for justice and security looks further away than ever for Argentina's
Jewish community.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                February 4, 2015
                                 First Edition

Teachers refuse to work after terror attacks;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories KENYA

BYLINE: Tom Odula IN NAIROBI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 102 words


Around 700 teachers in northern Kenya, near the border with Somalia, have
refused to return to work, fearing attacks by Islamic extremists al-Shabaab.

They have demonstrated outside parliament in Nairobi and demanded that the
government transfer them to schools in safer regions.

The protesting teachers are non-Somali and fear for their safety after the
Somali militant group singled out non-Somalis in attacks.

"We are so traumatised. I buried 10 colleagues in one week," said Anne Nyakio, a
teacher from Wajir Girls High School.

"It is very difficult for me to think of going back there. We should be
transferred." AP

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 4, 2015 Wednesday 12:01 PM GMT

Jordan's decision to execute two jihadist prisoners will achieve nothing other
than provoke MORE terror attacks by ISIS, warns security expert

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON and DAN BLOOM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1595 words



     ·    Kingdom hanged ISIS-linked prisoners after vowing to avenge pilot's
          death
     ·    Middle East security analysts warn of dangers of eye-for-an-eye
          response
     ·    Dr Andreas Krieg told MailOnline: 'The executions will only cause
          revenge'
     ·    Jordanian King Abdullah 'vows to conduct more airstrikes against ISIS'


     ·    He said: 'The only problem we'll have is running out of fuel and
          bullets'


Jordan's decision to execute its ISIS-linked prisoners in retaliation for the
death of its pilot will only serve to fuel more revenge attacks by the terror
group, a security analyst said today.

The Kingdom hanged two jihadists this morning hours after vowing to avenge the
death of Moaz al-Kasasbeh, who was shown being torched alive in a video released
yesterday.

Jordan has also promised to follow through on a threat to execute four other
prisoners convicted of being associated with ISIS.

But while such an uncompromising strategy may have struck a chord with the
Jordanian public, security experts have warned of the dangers of adopting an
eye-for-an-eye response.

Andreas Krieg, a professor for defence studies at King's College London in
Qatar, told MailOnline: 'The Jordanian response to the execution of their pilot
was purely an act of blind revenge.

Scroll down for video

'It was driven by negative emotions such as anger rather than the ambition of
achieving justice.

'Moreover, punishing jihadists by executing senior commanders will only cause
revenge - something that Jordan, a country under pressure, should try to avoid.

'At its core, the Islamic State can still act with impunity. Executing some Al
Qaeda operatives who were only marginally related to the roots of ISIS is not
going to change this.

'This round goes to ISIS. Jordan puts itself on the same level by letting anger
and hatred prevail over justice.'

The gruesome death of 26-year-old Lt Al-Kaseasbeh, captured while participating
in airstrikes by a U.S.-led coalition, sparked outrage and anti-Islamic State
group demonstrations in Jordan.

Newspaper headlines warned Jordan 'will take revenge' for his slaying as King
Abdullah II, a staunch Western ally, rushed back to his kingdom from Washington.

In its first response, Jordan executed Sajida al-Rishawi and Ziad al-Karbouly,
two Iraqis linked to Al Qaeda, government spokesman Mohammed al-Momani said.

Islamic State had demanded Rishawi's release in exchange for the life of
Japanese journalist Kenji Goto.

However, Goto was later beheaded by the group, with images of his death released
in a video last Saturday.

Jordan had insisted that they would only release the woman as part of a deal to
free the pilot, who, it has since emerged was killed a month ago making a
mockery of any negotiations.

Dr Krieg added: 'This act of vengeance by the Jordanian King is really not a
sign of strength. It is an act of weakness.

'(The executions) are a desperate attempt by King Abdullah to show strength to
an outraged public that has been unusually vocal in their criticism of the
palace's dealing with the hostage situation.

'After agreeing to negotiate the execution of the pilot, which already happened
a month ago, it is a slap in the King's face.

'ISIS demonstrated that they can stage an execution in this manner in their
capital Raqqa while appearing untouchable.'

Some analysts also believe Jordan could escalate its involvement in the campaign
against Islamic State, which has seized large areas of Iraq and Syria, Jordan's
neighbours to the north and east.

ATROCITY AFTER ATROCITY: HOW THEY'RE RAMPING UP HORROR

The latest murder by Islamic State terrorists represents a new level of
barbarity from a group notorious for its savagery.

As with previous beheading videos, footage of Moaz al-Kasasbeh's murder is
characterised by its slick production values and graphics.

But unlike the others, it contains an added cinematic dimension clearly designed
to achieve heightened impact - as if the horror of burning alive wasn't enough.

ISIS blames the fighter pilot for burning houses and killing babies with
airstrikes before he was captured in December.

The manner of his death is a symbolic show of strength to strike terror into
'non-believers' and encourage doubters within their ranks.

And while the beheading videos featuring British executioner Jihadi John were
often static - showing the terrorist standing behind his victims - this clip
combines aerial shots, panoramic views and changing camera angles that would
have taken far longer to edit.

Reports from Jordan suggest al-Kasasbeh may have died as long ago as January 3,
suggesting the video has been a month in the making.

The new clip also contains more of the landscape than has previously been shown,
which intelligence experts will analyse for clues as to the jihadists'
whereabouts.

It is the latest in a propaganda war in which the terror group seem intent on
finding new ways to provoke horror and disgust.

As well as posting footage of executions on social media, they have also used
captured British photojournalist John Cantlie - who is still believed to be
alive - to present videos attacking the West.

In Washington, Abdullah II and President Barack Obama vowed in a hastily
arranged White House meeting Tuesday not to let up in the fight against the
Islamic State group.

Abdullah has portrayed the campaign against the extremists as a battle over
values. In a speech later aired on Jordanian state television, he urged his
countrymen to unite.

'It's the duty of all of us to stand united and show the real values of
Jordanians in the face of these hardships,' Abdullah said.

U.S. Representative Duncan Hunter Jr, a California Republican, said after a
meeting with congressional lawmakers and King Abdullah that the Jordanian
monarch had been visibly angry and promised swift and certain retaliation
against Islamic State group militants.

'They're starting more sorties tomorrow than they've ever had.

'They're starting tomorrow,' Hunter told the Washington Examiner in an interview
published online Tuesday night.

Hunter added the king also said: 'The only problem we're going to have is
running out of fuel and bullets.'

That uncompromising response will strike the right chord with his own people,
who were shocked over the brutality of ISIS's latest execution video.

But Dr Labib Kamhawi, a Jordanian political analyst once threatened with
prosecution for criticising the King, says this commitment to engaging with ISIS
may wane before too long.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'The initial effect is that there is a
massive feeling of anger and solidarity amongst the people of Jordan against
ISIS.

'But you cannot count on this as time passes because initially Jordan was
severely divided over this particular issue and a good number of them feel this
is not our war, we should not be involved.

'Lots of people wouldn't be willing to express this position now because they
might be labelled as anti-patriotic.'

He said the decision to join the airstrikes did not come out of public debate or
consultation.

He added: 'The King made the decision and the King knows and only he knows
exactly why Jordan is involved in this fight.

'Personally I don't think our involvement would lead to anything or mean
anything. It's symbolic involvement but its repercussions are immense.

'I think ISIS itself knows that what's taking place is funny, not serious.
Airstrikes never won a war against paramilitary organisations.

'They will continue to grow as long as there's enough grievances and anger among
people in the region.

'I would not support [further air strikes]. It would lead to nothing. Jordan is
far too weak.

'Jordan's political position is far more important. If it put an end to the
supply route to Syria across Jordan that could be more effective.'

After word spread that the pilot had been killed, dozens of people chanting
slogans against the Islamic State group marched toward the royal palace to
express their anger.

Waving a Jordanian flag, they chanted, 'Damn you, Daesh!' - using the Arabic
acronym of the group - and 'We will avenge, we will avenge our son's blood.'

'There is no religion accepts such act,' Amman resident Hassan Abu Ali said.

'Islam is a religion of tolerance. (The Islamic State group) have nothing to do
with Islam. This is criminal act.'

Protesters also marched in the pilot's home village of Ai and set a local
government office on fire. Witnesses said the atmosphere was tense and that riot
police patrolled the streets.

Al-Kaseasbeh is from a tribal area in southern Jordan's Karak district.

The tribes are considered a mainstay of support for the monarchy, but the
pilot's capture has strained that relationship.

Members of the pilot's family have repeatedly accused the government of botching
efforts to win his release and have also criticized Jordan's participation in
the anti-Islamic State group alliance.

Jordan faces increasing threats from the militants. Jordan borders areas of
Islamic State group's self-declared caliphate.

There also have been signs of greater support for the group's militant ideas
among Jordan's young and poor.

David L Phillips, a former State Department adviser on the Middle East, said he
believes the pilot's killing could backfire, antagonising Sunnis against the
extremists, including Sunni tribes in Iraq.

He also said the extremist group's recent military setbacks may have fueled the
killings.

'They need to compensate for that with increasingly gruesome killings of
prisoners,' said Phillips, director of the Program on Peace-building and Human
Rights at Columbia University.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Boy's terror at bottle attack;
Kieran, 10, in tears as he recalls Old Firm assault

BYLINE: Lucy Christie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 413 words


A TEN-YEAR-OLD Rangers fan broke down yesterday as he recalled the horrific
moment his front teeth were knocked out by a thug.

Kieran Duffy also suffered a fractured jaw when he was attacked as he sat in a
mini-bus with his twin brother and their father. They were heading to the boys'
first ever Old Firm game.

The boy, who had an overnight stay in hospital after the attack, said: "I was
scared, I didn't know what had happened.

"I looked at my brother and saw he was crying.

"My hand was covered in blood and I realised something was wrong. I swallowed a
tooth and one of them was cracked in two."

Kieran was allowed home on Monday after receiving stitches and treatment for his
fracture. Yesterday, a fund to raise money for the victim was started online by
an outraged Celtic supporter and by last night it had reached £3,105.

The attack happened around 12.15pm on Sunday in Glasgow as the family headed to
the Scottish League Cup semi-final match at Hampden Park.

As their vehicle sat stationary on Cathcart Road in the city's Mount Florida
area, less than a mile from the ground, it was surrounded by a gang of men. They
hurled abuse at the occupants before one opened a side door and hurled a bottle
inside.

The main suspect was wearing a green and white beanie hat.

Kieran, who was sitting with his twin, Declan, was struck in the face.

Dad, Robert, 39, said the interior of the mini-bus was covered in blood after
the attack.

He branded the offender a "coward" but added: "I am hopeful that real football
fans in that group tell someone who was responsible for this.

"The shock of seeing your own kid in that mess knocked me for six. I was nearly
fainting.

"I just held the wee man. I had him in my arms trying my best."

Mr Duffy, of Springboig, Glasgow, said his sons were "very excited" to be going
to their first match away from Rangers' Ibrox stadium and were laughing and
enjoying themselves when the rival fans began shouting at and abusing the
driver.

Mr Duffy said: "The bottle hit my elbow but I didn't realise the state Kieran
was in. He was drenched in blood. If it had been two inches up, we'd have been
talking life or death. It could have been a lot worse. He's been left with
minimal scarring. The surgeon did a great job."

Mr Duffy called his wife, Amanda, 38, who he said was "hysterical" when he told
her what had happened.

Last night, police revealed that 56 people have now been reported to the Crown
Office for offences following Sunday's game, which Celtic won 2-0.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kieran, 10, was lucky to escape even worse injury says his father
Robert, left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    February 4, 2015 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Muslim knifeman attacks French anti-terror patrol

BYLINE: Adam Sage, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 623 words


Terror returned to the streets of France yesterday as two soldiers were stabbed
and wounded outside a Jewish community centre by a Muslim man who is suspected
of having tried to travel to the Middle East last week in an attempt to join
Isis.

The assailant, a 30-year-old man of Malian origin named by the French media as
Moussa Coulibaly, was in custody last night after the attack in the centre of
Nice, southern France. He did not appear to be related to Amedy Coulibaly, the
terrorist who killed a policewoman and four men in a Jewish supermarket in Paris
last month. Coulibaly is a common Malian surname.

The man walked up to three soldiers guarding a building that houses Nice's
Israelite Consistory, Radio Shalom and a Jewish association, put down a bag and
seemed to be searching for something in it before he produced a least one large
knife and tried to stab the nearest soldier. Coulibaly's initial thrust was
deflected by the trooper's body armour, witnesses said.

Philippe Pradel, a security official with Nice city hall, said that the weapon
"actually resembled a machete more than a knife". The soldier was taken to
hospital with a deep wound to his cheek but doctors said that his life was not
in danger. A second soldier suffered a cut on his leg and a third escaped
uninjured before Coulibaly was held by police. He had earlier been stopped on
the tramway in Nice and fined for travelling without a ticket. He had a criminal
record for theft and violence.

"An individual who was walking along the pavement violently attacked one of the
soldiers with a long knife, aiming for his neck and face," a police spokesman
said. A police source said that a second man, also of Malian origin, had been
arrested in Nice after being seen in Coulibaly's company shortly before the
attack.

Anti-terrorist prosecutors were placed in charge of the investigation after
officials said that Coulibaly had been turned back last week at Istanbul
airport, which is often used by European Islamists heading for Syria. French
border police alerted their Turkish counterparts after he bought a one-way
ticket from Ajaccio, Corsica, according to a secret service source.

He was questioned by agents from the Central Direction of Interior Information -
the equivalent of MI5 - on his return from Turkey "but his interview did not
enable us to gather enough information to inform the judicial authorities", the
secret service source said. The agency is certain to face questions over the
decision to free Coulibaly.

Christian Estrosi, the mayor of Nice, said: "I firmly denounce this violent
attack against soldiers and am calling for a very heavy sentence. We are all
under attack."

Haïm Korsia, France's chief rabbi, paid tribute to the soldiers after the
attack, which comes as France's Jewish community is deeply concerned at a rise
in antisemitic violence. "It's obvious that the threat is more than real," he
said. "The presence of soldiers outside religious sites is necessary . . . They
are risking their lives to save ours."

A total of 10,500 soldiers are patrolling France after last month's terrorist
attacks, which left 17 people dead.

Meanwhile Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said that seven men and a
woman were arrested yesterday on suspicion of belonging to a jihadist network.
Three had returned from Syria in December while the others are suspected of
recruiting Islamist fighters in Paris and Lyons.

Islamic State called yesterday for fresh attacks against France. In a video a
masked jihadist surrounded by militants urges French Muslims to quit their
country for its self-proclaimed "caliphate" and urged supporters to attack
police, military targets and those who took part in protests against the attacks
in Paris last month.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Kenya police arrest third suspect linked to terror attacks

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report entitled "Third man arrested over Mandera killings" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 5 February

A third suspect has been arrested over the December massacres in Mandera
[northeastern Kenya] that left 64 people dead.

The man police identified as Michael Nzomo Mbithi is said to be associated with
key suspect, Salim Abubakar Kitonga, who was arrested last week and is facing
charges. Another suspect, Mohamed Ibrahim Bashir was seized on Tuesday [3
February].

Police in Mandera said Mr Mbithi is believed to have planned the two terror
attacks in Mandera late last year.

Announcing the arrest at his office, County Police Commander Job Boronjo said Mr
Mbithi was arrested on Monday and that police have been holding him for
interrogation.

"We arrested Michael Nzomo Mbithi after the public informed us on his activities
in Mandera Town and we have been holding him since, but we shall move him for
further interrogation most likely in Nairobi," said Mr Boronjo.

He said Mr Mbithi disclosed that he was a "student" of Mr Kitonga, who was
arrested and charged in a Nairobi court, and that the suspect was on the police
list of the most wanted people.

"He is very cooperative with us and we shall have him moved to Nairobi so that
more interrogations can be done and legal action taken against him," said the
police boss.

Mr Boronjo said the suspect was from Makueni and was last year issued with a
national identity card indicating he was from Njiru District [Nairobi].

"We are still looking for more suspects who are still at large but very soon we
shall catch up with them," he said.

A police source said Mr Mbithi works at a locally-based transport company.

Police have intensified patrols in the town that has been an Al-Shabab playfield
for long.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 5 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

South Africa open to cyber crime, terror attacks

LENGTH: 456 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Pretoria News on 5 February

[Report by Lebogang Seale: "SA Prone To Cyber Crime and Terrorist Attacks
-Expert"]

The instability in the law enforcement and prosecution institutions and a
limited intelligence makes South Africa more prone to terrorist and cyber crime
attacks because the country is already a fertile ground for these threats.

Head of business crime and forensic practice Bernard Hotz sounded this warning
yesterday during a media briefing in Joburg [Johannesburg].

"South Africa is one of the top 15 nations of terrorism activity in the world
ratings... They (terrorists) want to transact in regions where there is
lawlessness, corruption and less controls over borders," Hotz said.

"The problem is that it's just about political wrangling and the rising crime
stats, including commercial crime.

"If we (look at) the alliance between terror funding and organized crime, we are
talking about groups that are organized on the lookout for organizations that
are vulnerable, with corruption, mismanagement and change (of leaders) every
second day."

His statements came as security and justice institutions critical in the fight
against crime and corruption remain hamstrung by a leadership crisis. The crisis
besetting the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), the Special Investigative
Unit (SIU) and elite investigating unit, the Hawks, had been linked to the
factional battles in the ANC-led government. The SA Revenue Services has not
been left unscathed.

Hotz warned of infiltration by organized crime syndicates and terrorist groups,
despite "wonderful legislation" tailored to tackle these threats.

"South Africa is perceived as having a state of lawlessness and laxity. One of
these relates to what happens when the NPA, Hawks, SIU and Sars focuses on
something different. We also have limited intelligence... That (is) why SA is a
fertile ground (for terrorist groups). You have al-Qaeda, Hezbollah, al-Shabaab,
Isis (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) and Boko Haram."

Hotz identified the diamond industry as one of the sectors prone to
terrorist-related cyber crime.

"Diamonds are a very, very lucrative business. We also see that a lot of terror
organizations are investing in mines in Africa and in SA particularly, with the
veneer of conducting a legitimate business but without really paying attention
to where the proceeds of the operations may be channelled to."

The problem, he said, was compounded by the prevalence of terrorist-related
organizations operating as charities and NGOs while cyber criminals were
assuming the identities of companies.

The insurance and banking sectors, ignored cyber crime attacks at their own
peril.

Source: Pretoria News, Pretoria, in English 5 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     February 5, 2015 Thursday 11:46 AM GMT

Scotland star Tim Visser: We can't get caught up in the emotion of Charlie Hebdo
tragedy;
SCOTLAND'S flying Dutchman looks forward to Saturday's 6 Nations date with
France that comes a month after the terror attack in Paris.

BYLINE: By Gordon Parks

SECTION: SPORT,RUGBY

LENGTH: 802 words


TIM VISSER insists Scotland won't get caught up in the wave of emotion that will
sweep the Stade de France for their Six Nations opener on Saturday.

France head coach Philippe Saint-Andre has called for the occasion to unite a
nation still coming to terms with the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack in Paris
last month that cost 17 lives.

But Visser is determined not to lose focus on the game as Vern Cotter's side
look to get the campaign off to a winning start.

The Dutch-born winger admits the grief that is still  being felt in Paris won't
be a distraction for Scotland.

He said: "We have to shut out what France are feeling. That's something they are
involved with. As tragic as that situation is it has nothing to do with us.

"It happened in their city to French citizens and they will want to do well. We
are going there to play rugby, we can't be influenced by other things. Sometimes
you can place too much emotion on a game when you're looking for an edge. It's
France v Scotland at rugby and we need to focus on that.

Scotland Six Nations team to face France

"You can't be too emotional because you may not be able to execute the game
plan.

"It's a balance of aggression and pride. At the top level it's more important to
play with your head than your heart.

"There are similarities to how we play and how France play. We're more
structured but we have to go out there and win.

"We want to get the Six Nations off to a good start. By no means will it be easy
but if we play like we've played in the past few games we'll put ourselves in a
good position."

GO INSIDE THE FRENCH CAMP IN OUR PICTURE GALLERY:

In pictures: Stunning images from inside France's 6 Nations training camp

History also weighs heavily on Scottish shoulders as it's 16 years since a
victory in the French capital and last season's Six Nations disasters at the
hands of England and Wales in particular have done nothing to encourage tartan
hopes.

But signs of progress have arrived in the shape of an impressive summer tour
followed by the autumn series wins over Australia and Tonga as well as a narrow
defeat to New Zealand.

Cynics who suggest Scotland will again battle it out with Italy for the wooden
spoon get short shrift from Visser who believes a win will ensure the doubters
sit up and take notice of a side many are labelling a dark horse.

He said: "No one has any right to put any team in a position before the first
game.

"It's important you get off to a good start. If we were able to beat France away
it would be a massive scalp.

"We have three home games but you have to clinch something away if you're going
to be in the top half of the table.

"We can really put it to France because I don't think many outside of our own
camp believe we will achieve anything.

"My only memory of the Six Nations was two years ago when we finished third.

"I'd like to better that this time - it's hard to make predictions because it's
so competitive."

Visser was the first Dutchman to play pro rugby but qualifies for Scotland via
the three-year residency rule and he's convinced the arrival of head coach
Cotter has created a harmony and is getting us back to our roots.

He said: "He's had a big impact in a short space of time. He wants us to play
rugby.

"He wants us to play the way Scotland have traditionally played the game. It's
quick rugby where we solve any problems we have on the pitch. We're being
encouraged to play a more expansive game and that doesn't mean just chucking the
ball around. You need to do the right thing at the right time and he's given us
freedom to do that.

"We have a lot of say in how we want to play and the way we're playing makes
training a joy as it's high intensity stuff.

"It's tough on the runners such as me but it's good fun because that's how I
like to play rugby."

Cotter will announce his starting XV at Murrayfield this morning.

Visser has already scored against France on their own patch and is eager for a
start after missing the Six Nations last season due to injury.

He said: "I would love to be involved because I missed it last year. I played in
Paris two years ago, we lost narrowly and I scored a good try though Matt Scott
did most of the work.

"I missed out last year and it was frustrating. I'm glad to be back. We have
scored a lot of tries, I haven't necessarily been a part of that but I'm getting
to the point where I'm now back to my physical best.

"I'm starting to feel sharp which has taken a while since my injury.

"Tommy Seymour and Stuart Hogg have looked really good as has Alex Dunbar. It
suits me and it suits my style, it reminds me of back in the day with Edinburgh.

"We used to play a lot of running rugby and I scored a lot of tries that way."

TACKLE THE RECORD SPORT QUIZ:

Quick Quiz: Sport 5/2/15

Follow the Daily Record on Facebook for all the latest news, sports and
entertainment updates

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We must put the block on Charlie fever;
Flying Dutchman Tim insists Scots can't get caught up in wave of emotion
following Paris terror attack

BYLINE: GORDON PARKS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 52,53

LENGTH: 765 words


TIM VISSER insists Scotland won't get caught up in the wave of emotion that will
sweep the Stade de France for their Six Nations opener on Saturday.

France head coach Philippe Saint-Andre has called for the occasion to unite a
nation still coming to terms with the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack in Paris
last month that cost 17 lives.

But Visser is determined not to lose focus on the game as Vern Cotter's side
look to get the campaign off to a winning start.

The Dutch-born winger admits the grief that is still being felt in Paris won't
be a distraction for Scotland.

He said: "We have to shut out what France are feeling. That's something they are
involved with. As tragic as that situation is it has nothing to do with us.

"It happened in their city to French citizens and they will want to do well. We
are going there to play rugby, we can't be influenced by other things. Sometimes
you can place too much emotion on a game when you're looking for an edge. It's
France v Scotland at rugby and we need to focus on that.

"You can't be too emotional because you may not be able to execute the game
plan.

"It's a balance of aggression and pride. At the top level it's more important to
play with your head than your heart.

"There are similarities to how we play and how France play. We're more
structured but we have to go out there and win.

"We want to get the Six Nations off to a good start. By no means will it be easy
but if we play like we've played in the past few games we'll put ourselves in a
good position."

History also weighs heavily on Scottish shoulders as it's 16 years since a
victory in the French capital and last season's Six Nations disasters at the
hands of England and Wales in particular have done nothing to encourage tartan
hopes.

But signs of progress have arrived in the shape of an impressive summer tour
followed by the autumn series wins over Australia and Tonga as well as a narrow
defeat to New Zealand.

Cynics who suggest Scotland will again battle it out with Italy for the wooden
spoon get short shrift from Visser who believes a win will ensure the doubters
sit up and take notice of a side many are labelling a dark horse.

He said: "No one has any right to put any team in a position before the first
game.

"It's important you get off to a good start. If we were able to beat France away
it would be a massive scalp.

"We have three home games but you have to clinch something away if you're going
to be in the top half of the table.

"We can really put it to France because I don't think many outside of our own
camp believe we will achieve anything.

"My only memory of the Six Nations was two years ago when we finished third.

"I'd like to better that this time - it's hard to make predictions because it's
so competitive."

Visser was the first Dutchman to play pro rugby but qualifies for Scotland via
the three-year residency rule and he's convinced the arrival of head coach
Cotter has created a harmony and is getting us back to our roots.

He said: "He's had a big impact in a short space of time. He wants us to play
rugby.

"He wants us to play the way Scotland have traditionally played the game. It's
quick rugby where we solve any problems we have on the pitch. We're being
encouraged to play a more expansive game and that doesn't mean just chucking the
ball around. You need to do the right thing at the right time and he's given us
freedom to do that.

"We have a lot of say in how we want to play and the way we're playing makes
training a joy as it's high intensity stuff.

"It's tough on the runners such as me but it's good fun because that's how I
like to play rugby."

Cotter will announce his starting XV at Murrayfield this morning.

Visser has already scored against France on their own patch and is eager for a
start after missing the Six Nations last season due to injury.

He said: "I would love to be involved because I missed it last year. I played in
Paris two years ago, we lost narrowly and I scored a good try though Matt Scott
did most of the work.

"I missed out last year and it was frustrating. I'm glad to be back. We have
scored a lot of tries, I haven't necessarily been a part of that but I'm getting
to the point where I'm now back to my physical best.

"I'm starting to feel sharp which has taken a while since my injury.

"Tommy Seymour and Stuart Hogg have looked really good as has Alex Dunbar. It
suits me and it suits my style, it reminds me of back in the day with Edinburgh.

"We used to play a lot of running rugby and I scored a lot of tries that way."

We have to shut out what France are feeling. We're going to Paris to play rugby
TIM VISSER

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TIM'S TIME Tim Visser is praying he will be handed a start today by
boss Vern Cotter, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     February 5, 2015 Thursday 2:35 PM GMT

Paris terror attack fugitive Hayat Boumeddiene 'appeared in new Islamic State
video'

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 388 words


PARIS terror attack fugitive Hayat Boumeddiene - the most wanted woman in France
- may have appeared in the latest video released by Islamic State extremists, it
has emerged.

REUTERS

Hayat Boumeddiene

The video titled 'Blow up France 2' was released yesterday and shows masked
jihadists calling for fresh terror attacks in France - nearly a month after
extremist gunmen launched a three-day reign of terror in Paris that left 20
people dead.

French authorities are now investigating whether a woman standing next to the
speaker, wearing camouflage clothing and holding a weapon, is 26-year-old
Boumeddiene.She is wanted by police in connection with the Paris attacks carried
out by her husband Coulibaly.

The 32-year-old killed policewoman Clarissa Jean-Philippe before launching a
hostage situation at a Jewish supermarket that left four people dead.

ABACA/Press Association Images?

Authorities are trying to identify the woman in the front right

Coulibaly, who claimed allegiance to the Islamic State terror group, was shot
dead by armed police as they ended the siege at the Kosher deli.

Boumeddiene is believed to have helped mastermind the bloody slaughter and it is
understood she may have fled to Syria via Turkey a few days before the atrocity.

Commenting on the new video released by the so-called Islamic State, a source
told American TV network CNN: "French authorities are investigating the
possibility this woman could be Hayat Boumeddiene."

ABACA/Press Association Images

She is believed to be the woman standing next to the speaker

Coulibaly and Boumeddiene are said to have married in a religious ceremony not
recognised by French authorities in 2009.

Coulibaly's terror attack on the Jewish grocery store followed the deadly
massacre at French satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo on January 7.

Islamist extremists Said Kouachi, 34, and Cherif Kouachi, 32, killed 12 people
when they stormed the offices of the publication, which had previously published
cartoons of the Prophet Muhammed.

Related articles Hunt for Hayat Boumeddiene intensifies as pictures emerge of
her on the run Graphic designer who hid from Kouachi brothers reveals how he
texted police information Dramatic new footage shows Charlie Hebdo gunmen
moments after carrying out attack France's most wanted woman Hayat Boumeddiene
had sister who 'lived' in UK

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 5, 2015 Thursday 6:05 PM GMT

Wife of Paris kosher deli Islamist 'appears in new ISIS video titled Blow Up
France 2' calling for French Muslims to carry out terror attacks

BYLINE: HANNAH PARRY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words



     ·    New ISIS video  shows fighters calling for further terror attacks in
          France
     ·    Female jihadist said to be wife of kosher deli gunman Hayat
          Boumeddiene
     ·    She's believed to be co-conspirator behind attack on the French
          supermarket


French authorities are investigating if a woman appearing in ISIS's latest video
titled Blow Up France 2 may be the wife of the Paris kosher deli Islamist- a
source has claimed.

The footage, released by French-speaking ISIS fighters on Tuesday, shows masked
jihadists praising the attacks on Paris last month and calling on Muslims to
carry out further terror attacks in France.

In a chilling statement to camera, the terrorist says: 'Don't give up and
particularly don't lower your weapons, don't surrender, kill. Today it's our
darwa, kill them, you now have more than 4 million targets.'

Scroll down for video

A source close to the French investigation into the kosher deli attacks, told
CNN  that authorities think the woman in the video, seen wearing camouflage
clothing and holding a weapon, could be Hayat Boumeddiene.

Boumeddiene is the wife of Amedy Coulibaly, the Islamist gunman who killed four
hostages at the kosher Hyper Cacher market in the eastern part of the French
capital on January 9.

He was killed by police following an hours-long standoff.

Authorities are searching for Boumeddiene, who is also believed to have been a
co-conspirator in attack. She is currently thought to be in Syria.

She and Coulibaly were married in a religious ceremony, but the marriage was not
officially recognized under French law.

The kosher supermarket attack followed the January 8 massacre by Islamic gunmen
at Charlie Hebdo, a satire magazine.

Gunmen brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi killed 12 people at the magazine's
offices in Paris. The next day, a French police officer was killed.

Seventeen people were killed over those three days.

The massacre caused a worldwide outcry and calls for the defense of free speech
after ISIS claimed the cartoonists were murdered because they published pictures
of the prophet Mohammed.

But in the new ISIS video, the militants claimed:

'Where is this freedom of speech? When in 2009, the cartoonist Siné, after
drawing the Jews and Sarkozy's son, was sacked by Charb and Charlie Hebdo.'

The video also calls for more attacks on soldiers and police officers in France.

The jihadist calls on French Muslims to: ''Kill a cop with a knife, take his
gun, with his gun kill a soldier, with his shotgun throw yourself in the way of
your God.'

They go on to warn the West that they cannot expect peace from the Islamist
terrorists.

'If you fight for democracy, we will fight for Islam,' they said. 'You will have
to accept that we will react fully to the numerous crimes you committed. You
took our rights. Therefore you can't expect to be in peace.'

The extremist organization that has carved out a de facto jihadist state across
large swaths of Syria and Iraq.

In the Blow Up France 2 video they go onto urge French Muslims to defect from
the Fifth Republic and take up arms in the new 'caliphate.'

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 5, 2015 Thursday 10:39 AM GMT

Wife of Paris kosher deli Islamist 'appears in new ISIS video titled Blow Up
France 2' calling for French Muslims to carry out terror attacks

BYLINE: HANNAH PARRY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words



     ·    New ISIS video  shows fighters calling for further terror attacks in
          France
     ·    Female jihadist said to be wife of kosher deli gunman Hayat
          Boumeddiene
     ·    She's believed to be co-conspirator behind attack on the French
          supermarket


French authorities are investigating if a woman appearing in ISIS's latest video
titled Blow Up France 2 may be the wife of the Paris kosher deli Islamist- a
source has claimed.

The footage, released by French-speaking ISIS fighters on Tuesday, shows masked
jihadists praising the attacks on Paris last month and calling on Muslims to
carry out further terror attacks in France.

A source close to the French investigation into the kosher deli attacks told CNN
that authorities in France believe that the woman who appears in the video
wearing camouflage clothing and holding a weapon could be Hayat Boumeddiene.

Boumeddiene is the wife of Amedy Coulibaly, the Islamist gunman who killed four
hostages at the kosher Hyper Cacher market in the eastern part of the French
capital on January 9.

He was killed by police following an hours-long standoff.

Authorities are searching for Boumeddiene, who is also believed to have been a
co-conspirator in attack. She is currently thought to be in Syria.

She and Coulibaly were married in a religious ceremony, but the marriage was not
officially recognized under French law.

The kosher supermarket attack followed the January 8 massacre by Islamic gunmen
at Charlie Hebdo, a satire magazine.

Gunmen brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi killed 12 people at the magazine's
offices in Paris. The next day, a French police officer was killed.

Seventeen people were killed over those three days.

The latest ISIS video calls for more attacks on soldiers and police officers in
France.

'If you fight for democracy, we will fight for Islam,' they said. 'You will have
to accept that we will react fully to the numerous crimes you committed. You
took our rights. Therefore you can't expect to be in peace.'

The extremist organization that has carved out a de facto jihadist state across
large swaths of Syria and Iraq.

In the Blow Up France 2 video they go onto urge French Muslims to defect from
the Fifth Republic and take up arms in the new 'caliphate.'

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

Paris restricts action movie filming after terror attacks

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 505 words


PARIS- Fearing that actors could be mistaken for police - and chase scenes
confused for the real thing - Paris is sharply restricting filming of action
movies in the city that has been the stage for some of film's most memorable
high-octane sequences.

Filming outside scenes with police, army or security services was quietly banned
after the attacks in the French capital that left 20 dead, including three
gunmen.

"There's a problem with these action-type scenes, as the actors in uniform could
be targets for terrorists. Also, the actors could pose confusion for the general
public - during this highly sensitive period," Sylvie Barnaud, the police
official who grants outside filming permission in Paris, told The Associated
Press.

She did not know how long the ban could last, but tensions remain high in Paris,
with armed police and soldiers still posted outside sensitive sites, including
synagogues, media offices and major shopping areas.

The telegenic city has long been a favored filming location, especially for
chase scenes that feature some of the world's most recognizable landmarks.

Luc Besson's 2014 box-office hit "Lucy," with Scarlett Johansson, features a
police chase next to the Louvre - something unfeasible under the new rules.

"Had Luc Besson wanted to film this now, it would be impossible," said William
Trillaud, set fixer for the movie.

The same may have been true of 2014's blockbuster "Edge of Tomorrow," which was
partly filmed in the French capital, staring Emily Blunt and Tom Cruise. Further
back in film history, Matt Damon's famed Mini Cooper chase in the "Bourne
Identity" wouldn't have happened, and the gun battle at the gilded Pont
Alexandre III featured in 1998's "Ronin," with Robert De Niro, would have been
equally complicated.

Scenes with religious sites or schools, both protected under the emergency
security plans, are also banned.

Several productions have already been disrupted including the latest movie from
"Basic Instinct" director Paul Verhoeven, who police say just after the Charlie
Hebdo attack pulled the plug himself on a sequence he had planned in Paris' main
police station for his latest movie, "Elle."

Another movie, called "Flics Tout Simplement" ("Simply Cops"), which was
supposed to have a scene with a police officer outside a school, was also
stopped.

"Yes, we were meant to film this scene. But it wasn't allowed. Of course, we
have to respect the new rules, and we changed the production plan," said the
film unit director Stephan Guillemet.

Paris is holding its annual Film Set Fair this week, hoping that it will
continue to attract big productions - and trumpets that it gave the green light
to 1,159 film productions in the capital last year alone.

"It could have an impact on the big American productions... It's not the right
moment to do it," said Agnes Naggeotte of the Cinema Mission of the City of
Paris. "Even if Steven Spielberg wanted to film a big scene with police and a
shoot-out in the streets in January I'm sure it would not have got made."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            February 6, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Action films banned after Paris terrorist attacks;
world digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 98 words


FRANCE: Filming of action movies in Paris has halted since the Charlie Hebdo
terror attacks because of fears the public will confuse the actors with the real
thing.

Staging scenes outside with actors posing as police, army or security services
was quietly banned after the magazine massacre on January 7. Police also fear
that outside film sets could also be a target for terrorist attacks. It is not
known how long the ban will last.

Luc Besson's 2014 box office hit Lucy, starring Scarlett Johansson, features a
police chase next to the Louvre which would not be allowed under the new rules.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ban: Scarlett in Lucy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      February 6, 2015 Friday 4:03 PM GMT

FILMING BANNED IN PARIS AFTER TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 188 words


Movie and TV crews have been banned from filming on the streets of Paris, France
amid fears high-octane action sequences could be mistaken for terrorist attacks.

French authorities have imposed the restriction following the massacre of
journalists and cartoonists at the headquarters of satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo in the capital last month (Jan15).

The shooting, which killed 12, was followed by several other attacks, and
officials have now stepped up security in the city, banning movie and TV crews
from filming in Paris.

The use of fake weapons and pyrotechnic effects is now prohibited, and actors
are forbidden from taking to the streets in costumes such as police or military
uniforms.

The decision was made in a bid to prevent movie chase sequences and action
stunts from sparking a panic among members of the public.

Paris is a popular location for filmmakers and has been featured in action
blockbusters such as Tom Cruise's Edge of Tomorrow and Matt Damon's Bourne
films, and it was recently the setting for Scarlett Johansson's Lucy, in which
the actress was seen in car chases and shootouts around the French capital.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           February 7, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police unit to tackle surge in terror attacks

BYLINE: AMANDA FERGUSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 403 words


POLICE have set up a special inquiry team following the discovery of four
explosive devices in Belfast in a 24-hour period.

District commander for Belfast, Chief Superintendent Nigel Grimshaw, said
detectives were examining four "similar incidents" in Dunmurry and north, south
and west Belfast.

Four viable devices, with the potential to kill, were left at different
locations between just before midnight on Wednesday and Thursday evening.

Chief Supt Grimshaw said: "Those involved have shown a blatant disregard for
human life", and similarities between the four attacks "form a major part of our
inquiry".

The senior officer refused to speculate on a possible link to a drugs feud
between republican paramilitaries and said all lines of inquiry remained open.
The first incident took place in the St James Road area of west Belfast on
February 4. Firefighters were called just before midnight to extinguish a
burning car after a device was placed under the vehicle.

The following morning a report was received, shortly after 8.20am, of a device
under a car in the Friendly Street area. Ammunition technical officers attended
the security alert and made safe a pipe bomb.

In the third incident, which was reported just after 9am, a viable device was
located on a footpath in North Queen Street. Again army bomb experts attended
and made it safe.

The fourth incident took place in the Colinbrook Gardens area of Dunmurry. Army
bomb experts attended and made safe a viable device which was located at the
rear of a property. Chief Supt Grimshaw appealed for people living in the areas
affected by the security alerts to get in touch.

"I understand this is quite a significant series of events. We are treating it
seriously and we will be looking to patrol in those areas to have a high
presence and a high visibility to provide reassurance," he said.

The probe comes just days after father-of-four Harry Mc-Mahon was shot in the
head at a Chinese takeaway in the Oldpark Road area of north Belfast. The
52-year-old remains critically ill in hospital. It has emerged an 11-year-old
child was in the takeaway when he was shot. Security alerts at two Catholic
churches in Glengormley and Newtownabbey on the outskirts of north Belfast last
night were declared hoaxes.

Controlled explosions were carried out on objects at St Mary's on the Hill
Church on the Carnmoney Road and the Church of St Mary, Star of the Sea, on the
Shore Road.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A device placed under the wheel of a car in St James Road exploded on
Wednesday KEVIN SCOTT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                     February 7, 2015 Saturday 8:35 PM GMT

French Socialists face crucial electoral test in runoff against Front National;

Party hopes François Hollande's handling of Paris terrorist attacks will end
long streak of election losses

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 704 words


France's Socialists are hoping that François Hollande's popularity surge as a
result of his handling of the Paris terrorist attacks is about to bring the
party's long losing streak to an end.

A byelection in eastern France is set to return a Socialist party (PS)
candidate, despite a close-run second-round runoff with the far-right Front
National (FN), which led the first vote a week ago.

The vote has sparked controversy: the opposition centre-right UMP party - backed
by its leader, former president Nicolas Sarkozy - has decided not to advise
supporters to vote PS to block the FN. A number of leading UMP heavyweights,
including former prime minister Alain Juppé, a Sarkozy rival, have openly defied
the party's decision.

Victory in the Doubs département, on the French-Swiss border, would be the first
parliamentary gain for the Socialist government since it came to power in 2012,
winning 295 of the 577 seats. Since then it has seen its absolute majority
whittled away and was hit with catastrophic showings in local and European
elections last year.

Related: François Hollande vows to build on French unity after Paris attacks

Sunday's byelection was sparked by former minister Pierre Moscovici's
resignation to take up a post in the European commission. Unless the PS can hold
on to the seat, it will lose its absolute majority.

Hollande's popularity more than doubled in the wake of the attacks on Paris by
jihadi gunmen that left 17 people dead. Pollsters Ifop described the jump as
"rare and historic". An Ifop poll last Thursday suggested that the Socialist
candidate in Doubs, Frédéric Barbier, would win with 53% against 47%. However,
Ifop admitted the vote was so close that it could give no accurate prediction of
the results.

The "neither PS nor FN" line taken by the UMP may be decisive. Its candidate,
Charles Demouge, was eliminated in the first round of voting and told supporters
to vote for his PS rival. However, the UMP has called on them to abstain or cast
a blank vote.

Juppé, who is expected to challenge Sarkozy for the party's presidential
nomination in 2017, pointed out that the FN candidate, Sophie Montel, once said
that the " inequality of races " was "obvious". An FN win would give the far
right a third seat in the National Assembly and be an indicator for departmental
elections in March.

Barbier has admitted that the "margin of error" means there is everything at
stake for his party. Montel, 45, has spoken of the "Islamist peril" since the
Paris terror attacks.

Government heavyweights Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, and Manuel
Valls, the prime minister, visited the Doubs in the runup to the vote. Valls
said UMP supporters should remember the "values of the republic and of General
de Gaulle" and that it was unthinkable the seat should be held by "someone who
believes in racial theories".

Edwy Plenel, head of the investigative website Mediapart, said there was no "FN
wave" and that the result came down to the abstention rate. Only 40% of local
voters turned out for the first round. "There's no [pro-FN] movement in the
Doubs, because there is no vote," he told Sud Est radio.

Former UMP government minister Roselyne Bachelot said the "neither-nor" line was
the "worst solution", telling journalists: "For those who defend this strategy,
it means there's no difference between the Front National and the Parti
Socialiste. For me, it's totally indefensible."

At a press conference on Wednesday, Hollande reminded voters that in 2002 - when
the PS candidate, Lionel Jospin, was knocked out in the first round of the
presidential poll, leaving the FN's Jean-Marie Le Pen in a second round runoff
against the UMP's Jacques Chirac - his party "did not hesitate a second" in
advising its voters to support Chirac.

In a clear dig at Sarkozy, Hollande told journalists: "I'm the head of state,
not the head of a party, but everyone knows how I feel and everyone knows how I
acted in the past when I was head of a party. I don't say it was easy, but some
things have to be done.

"In the republic there are [political] parties who have the right to have
candidates and elected representatives. Having said that, are all parties in
line with the values of the republic? No, surely not."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 8, 2015 Sunday 4:33 PM GMT

UK plans to cope with terrorist attack altered in wake of Paris shootings, says
chief anti-terror officer;
Around 600 people have been recruited by Isis, say government

BYLINE: Lamiat Sabin

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 309 words


Plans to tackle Isis and militant groups in the UK are being changed as the
Paris shootings were "not everything we anticipated," the chief anti-terror
officer claims.

The so-called Islamic State is said to be unlike any other threat Britain has
faced due to the organisation's ability to recruit "misfits, criminals and the
vulnerable" from Britain, the Scotland Yard assistant commissioner Mark Rowley
said.

In pictures: Anti-Isis protests in Jordan

The announcement was made in relation to the deaths of 17 people, including
those in attacks on the Charlie Hebdo magazine offices and a kosher supermarket.

Mr Rowley said on BBC One's Andrew Marr show: "In terms of our national firearms
capability, we've asked is it strong enough? How is it placed? How is it
organised?"

"You look at an event like Paris and you think not everything in that we
anticipated, so we're going to have to make some refinements to our plans to
improve," he added.

Islamic State, also known as Isis or IS, is not a "classic terrorist
organisation" as they "create a corrupt cult of people, followers who will act
in their name," Mr Rowley said.

His fears echo those expressed by Prince Charles over how young people are being
radicalised at an "alarming" rate in their own local areas or over the internet.

Around 600 people are believed to have travelled to Syria and Iraq from the UK
since the conflict began and around half have returned home.

Police have recently strengthened their cyber resources, leading to 1,000
"unsavoury" posts a week being taken down.

Read more:Prince Charles: 'Young people radicalised at alarming rate'Indy
Voices: 'Britain has no plan for tackling militants'Jordan vows to 'wipe Isis
out completely'

However, Mr Rowley said more money is needed to grow the anti-terror unit over
the next year and discussions with the Government for funding are ongoing.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      February 8, 2015 Sunday 1:52 PM GMT

Met's chief anti-terror officer admits strategy for dealing with terrorist
attack in London had to be 'improved' after Paris shootings

BYLINE: Standard Reporter

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 376 words


Police strategies for dealing with a Paris-style terrorist attack in London have
had to be "improved" because the shootings in the French capital were "not
everything we anticipated", the country's chief anti-terror officer has
admitted.

Scotland Yard assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said "refinements" needed to be made to the Met's emergency
plans amid the threat of a terror attack in the capital.

He said the Islamic State (IS) was unlike any other threat Britain has faced
before, adding that the extremists were trying to recruit "misfits, criminals
and the vulnerable" to their cause.

He said he shared Prince Charles's fears that young people in the UK are being
radicalised in their own communities, warning "it's what worries us most of
all".

Asked about the anti-terror unit's reaction to the Paris attacks, Mr Rowley told
BBC One's Andrew Marr show: "In terms of our national firearms capability, we've
asked is it strong enough? How's it placed? How's it organised?

"We've arranged to be able to deal with those sorts of events and we have some
well-tested exercises and command and control regimes for working across the
country on counter-terrorism.

Related stories

"But you look at an event like Paris and you think not everything in that we
anticipated, so we're going to have to make some refinements to our plans to
improve."

About 600 people are believed to have travelled to Syria and Iraq from the UK
since the conflict began, but it is estimated half of those new recruits have
since returned home.

Mr Rowley said IS was not a "classic terrorist organisation" but a "very
different" threat.

He said: "We're dealing with a group whose trying to create a corrupt cult of
people, followers who will act in their name."

He added more money was needed to grow the anti-terror unit over the next year
and discussions with the Government for funding were ongoing.

Last month Met Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe revealed Scotland Yard could
train hundreds more officers as a reserve firearms unit to deal with a possible
terrorist gun attack on London.

He also said police were in discussions with media firms to restrict live
coverage of terror events so that police operations were not inhibited.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                February 8, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Midland 'terrorist chatter' sparks fears of new attack

BYLINE: AMARDEEP BASSEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 515 words


AMERICAN counter-terror cops fearful of a jihadist plot against the West by a
new Islamic group in Syria are monitoring so-called "terrorist chatter" in the
Midlands.

A crack team of US investigators is using cutting edge electronic eavesdropping
techniques to monitor a number of suspects in the region believed to be in
contact with the Khorasan Group.

The existence of Khorasan became public only last year when US jets launched
targeted airstrikes against the group's base in Syria.

While most international efforts were centred on fighting the barbaric Islamic
State, US officials said they had been quietly tracking the Khorasan group for
two years.

The group's top brass are high-ranking Al Qaeda members, some of whom are
longsought militants connected to the fighting in Afghanistan and Pakistan over
the last decade.

A US security source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: "We know that
some British jihadis who had travelled to fight alongside the Taliban in
Afghanistan were trained by, and were in regular contact with, figures now
associated with Khorasan.

"Some of these British nationals returned to the UK and continued to retain
contact."

It is understood that links were further strengthened when Khorasan set up a
base in Syria.

The source said: "In the early days of the Syrian Civil war Western recruits,
many from the UK and the Midlands in particular, joined the ranks of another Al
Qaida-linked group, Jabhat Al Nusrah.

"Al Nusrah then filtered out foreign recruits prepared to carry out operations
in the West and passed them on to Khorasan."

Hundreds of British Muslims from the Midlands are believed to have travelled to
the subcontinent and Middle East to fight since the World Trade Centre attacks
on 9/11.

British security officials have found it impossible to keep tabs on them all and
have invited US experts to help them monitor increasingly sophisticated
communications techniques.

The US source added: "There is strong evidence to suggest that Khorasan are not
only capable but actively planning attacks in the West.

"This involves communication with its terror cells across the globe and we are
doing our best to monitor and piece together such terror chatter."

Despite the bombing raids in Syria last year FBI Director James Comey said he
believed plots had not been disrupted and that the group remains a threat to the
US and its allies.

Khorasan is a historical reference to a region that included parts of present
day Iran and Afghanistan.

The group is said to have been trying to recruit Europeans and Americans because
their passports allow them to board US-bound airliners with less scrutiny.

In addition, according to US intelligence assessments, the Khorasan militants
have been trying to make, or obtain, explosives that can be slipped past airport
security.

Among their sources, offi-cials said, has been Al Qaida's affiliate in Yemen,
which has put bombs on aeroplanes, although the bombs failed to explode.

The fear is that the Khorasan militants will provide sophisticated explosives to
their Western recruits who could sneak them onto US-bound flights.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 8, 2015 Sunday 9:19 PM GMT

François Hollande ends losing streak with Socialist by-election victory;
The French president's ruling Socialists put an end to a string of electoral
defeats, capitalising on Mr Hollande's skillful handling of the Paris terror
attacks

BYLINE: By Rory Mulholland

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words


French President François Hollande has capitalised on his newfound popularity in
the wake of the Paris terror attacks with a by-election victory by a Socialist
candidate over a far-Right Front National politician.

The win in the poll in the Doubs constituency on the French-Swiss border was the
first election triumph for the ruling Socialists since Mr Hollande took power in
2012 after seeing off Nicolas Sarkozy 's bid for a second term at the Elysée.

Mr Hollande had been the most unpopular French president in modern history until
the attacks early last month by radical Islamists that left 17 people dead.
Cherif and Said Kouachi attacked the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo's offices
and killed 12 people. An accomplice, Amedy Coulibaly, killed a policewoman the
day after and seized a Kosher supermarket, killing four hostages the next day.

But his adroit handling of the traumatic events and his call for national unity
saw his approval ratings quickly double to 40 per cent.

The Front National candidate Sophie Montel, who has in the past publicly spoken
about the "inequality of the races" and whose campaign warned of the "Islamist
peril" facing France, came first in the first round of the Doubs election a week
ago with close to a third of the vote.

The Socialist Frédéric Barbier came second and the main opposition candidate
from Mr Sarkozy's UMP party was knocked out of the race for the parliamentary
seat called after Socialist lawmaker Pierre Moscovici left for Brussels to take
office as Economic Affairs Commissioner.

Mr Barbier's win in the final round on Sunday was the first for the Socialists
in the 13 by-elections held since Mr Hollande came to power, with voters
becoming steadily more exasperated with record high unemployment and near zero
economic growth.

He took 51 to 52 percent of the tight vote, according to provisional results.

"This election may be a turning point" in Mr Hollande's term in office, Mr
Barbier said in a victory speech, adding that "we have managed to put a stop to
a negative spiral."

But the president's new-found popularity may be short-lived unless he can
reverse the ever rising unemployment figures.

Official data published late last month showed the number of jobless hit a new
record in December. And a poll published in the Le Parisien newspaper on Sunday
found that two-thirds of French people still think that he is a "bad president",
although that figure was down from 77 percent in July.

The Doubs result was a rare blow to the rise of the Front National of Marine Le
Pen, who has grown into one of France's leading political voices after a series
of electoral victories last year and who has her eyes firmly trained on the
presidential elections due in 2017.

But the biggest loser was arguably Mr Sarkozy, whose authority was undermined
when several leading UMP heavyweights, including ex-prime minister Alain Juppé,
openly defied the party's call to its supporters to abstain rather than vote
against the Front National candidate in the Doubs by-election.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

Kazakh leader signs decree on use of arms in suppressing terror attacks

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 9 February: President Nursultan Nazarbayev has approved regulations on
the procedure of using arms, military hardware and impact munition by
Kazakhstan's armed forces for the purpose of suppressing acts of terrorism in
planes, inland waters, territorial seas, the country's coastal shelf and in
operations aimed at ensuring security of navigation.

Nazarbayev signed a decree to this effect on 6 February in keeping with
Subparagraph 6 of Paragraph 2 of Article 4 of the Law "On countering terrorism"
signed in 1999, the presidential press service reported today.

The press service said that the decree will come into force within 10 days after
its official publication, except for the rules related to the use of arms,
military hardware and impact munition to suppress acts of terrorism in the
coastal shelf of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

These rules will be put into force when an international agreement on the legal
status of the Caspian Sea becomes effective, the decree says.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1249 gmt 9 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

PARIS BANS MOVIE ACTION SCENES AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY PETER ALLEN IN PARIS

LENGTH: 302 words


MOVIE makers have been banned from filming action scenes in Paris in the wake of
the terrorist shootings that left 20 people dead.

Announcing the measure, police commander Sylvie Barnaud said actors in uniform
could be targets for terrorism.

Also the actors could cause confusion for the general public during this highly
sensitive period,' he added.

The police chief said anyone displaying fake weapons in the French capital would
have them confiscated, while pyrotechnics were also banned. Commander Barnaud
said the indefinite restrictions were hugely important in a city where thousands
of armed police wearing bullet proof vests are still on the street.

The move is in response to the January attack by terrorists linked to Islamic
State on the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in which 12 people
died and the subsequent shooting of a policewoman and four hostages at a Jewish
Kosher store by another gunman.

Commander Barnaud said: I was shocked to hear witnesses of the Charlie Hebdo
attacks say that "it seemed like a movie shoot to us".'

Paris is one of the most popular film locations in the world, with producers
using its ancient squares and boulevards constantly. Last year alone there were
930 film crews working in the capital, including those from the big Hollywood
studios. It has provided the setting for violent blockbusters such as The Bourne
Identity, starring Matt Damon, and Taken, featuring Liam Neeson.

It has long been popular as a movie backdrop. The Day of the Jackal, in which
Edward Fox plays an assassin contracted to shoot President Charles de Gaulle,
was filmed in Paris. Made in 1973, its opening scene shows the head of state's
Citroen car being raked with machine gun fire by terrorists protesting against
the independence of Algeria, France's former colony.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

NEW ANTI-TERROR PLANS IN WAKE OF PARIS ATTACK

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 233 words


EMERGENCY plans to cope with a terror attack in the UK have been changed in the
wake of the Paris shootings because it was "not everything we anticipated", the
country's chief anti-terror officer said.

Scotland Yard assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said the Islamic State (IS) is unlike any other threat
Britain has faced before in its bid to recruit and corrupt people.

Around 600 people are believed to have travelled to Syria and Iraq from the UK
since the conflict began and around half have returned home.

Mr Rowley told BBC One's Andrew Marr show: "We've arranged to be able to deal
with those sorts of events and we have some well-tested exercises and command
and control regimes for working across the country on counter-terrorism.

"But you look at an event like Paris and you think not everything in that we
anticipated, so we're going to have to make some refinements to our plans to
improve."

He added that IS is a "very different" threat.

"We're dealing with a group who is trying to create a corrupt cult of people,
followers who will act in their name," he said.

"They're trying to attract misfits, criminals and the vulnerable."

The police have recently strengthened their cyber resources, leading to 1,000
"unsavoury" posts a week being taken down.

However, Mr Rowley said more money is needed to grow the anti-terror unit over
the next year.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 9, 2015 Monday 9:03 AM GMT

Anonymous 'hacktivists' attack ISIS - strike down terrorist propaganda and
recruitment sites;
The hacker group stifles terrorist propaganda by targeting the social media
accounts used to recruit new members #OpIsis

BYLINE: By Olivia Solon

SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 305 words


Hacktivist group Anonymous has taken the credit for strikes on websites and
social media accounts used by ISIS terrorists to recruit new members and spread
propaganda.

The militant Islamist organisation has a huge social media presence, with
accounts on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Instagram.

Through Operation ISIS - #OpISIS - the decentralised hacking group has been
strategically targeting this online presence.

"ISIS, we will hunt you, take down your sites, accounts, emails and expose you,"
says the hacktivist group in a statement.

"You will be treated like a virus, and we are the cure. We own the internet."

In the Anonymous digital armoury are distributed denial of service (DDoS)
attacks, which hammer ISIS websites with traffic until they go offline, and
repeatedly reporting social media accounts so they get suspended.

Other "weapons" used in #OpISIS include password cracking and phishing.

Anonymous has published a list of 800 Twitter accounts as well as Google Plus
accounts, recruitment websites, Facebook accounts and email addresses that it
has exposed and targeted.

The shadowy organisation also points out that it's made up of "Muslims,
Christians and Jews", adding "we come from all races, countries, religions and
ethnicity".

"Remember - the terrorists hat are calling themselves Islamic State (ISIS) are
not Muslims!"

Anonymous has been targeting militant Islamic group with its typical digital
mischief-making since June 2014 - but has up-scaled efforts in the wake of the
Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris.

Despite the hacktivists' efforts, there remain a lot of ISIS accounts online and
the militant group has recently released a social media guide to help members
create accounts that aren't easy to detect.

ISIS also continues to wage its war of terror on the ground in Iraq and Syria.

Facebook Mirror Tech like box

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday

Iran arrests "terrorists involved in attacks" in southeastern province

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Zahedan, Sistan-Baluchestan Province, 10 February: A senior local official said
Tuesday [10 February] evening that all agents who had caused insecurity in
Sistan-Baluchestan Province in the past eight years have been arrested.
Governor-General of this southeastern province Ali Owsat-Hashemi told IRNA that
the arrested persons were members of a number of terrorist groups, insurgents
and thieves active in Sistan-Baluchestan.

Arrested by security and law enforcement forces in several operations, the
detainees confessed to a number of terrorist attacks including bombings in the
provincial cities of Zahedan, Chahbahar, Saravan and Sarbaz as well as exploding
several roadside bombs in some of the provincial cities since 2007 and to
assassination of a number of local teachers and officials.

Hashemi referred to the arrest of the terrorists as the 'greatest achievement of
the security forces in this southeastern province in the post-revolution era.'

'It is unprecedented to identify and arrest terrorists in such a massive scale
and shortest possible time,' he said.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 2055 gmt 10 Feb
15

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Priest banned from Facebook over 9/11 post;
Vicar criticised for sharing links to 'anti-Semitic' material including article
claiming Israel was behind New York terrorist attacks

BYLINE: John Bingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 673 words


AN ANGLICAN priest who used his Facebook account to promote conspiracy theories
claiming that Israel was behind the September 11 terrorist attacks has been
banned from using social media websites by the Church of England.

The Rev Dr Stephen Sizer, the vicar of Christ Church in Virginia Water, Surrey,
has agreed to a "prohibition" on social media for at least six months and is
also barred from ever speaking, writing or blogging about the Middle East
conflict.

The measure, announced by the Bishop of Guildford, the Rt Reverend Andrew
Watson, came as MPs and peers called for the introduction of so-called "internet
Asbos" to limit the spread of anti-Semitism and other forms of racial abuse
online. A cross-party inquiry report published yesterday concluded that there
had been a "disturbing" rise in anti-Semitism in the UK and called for tough new
measures to combat it.

Bishop Watson, who took over the diocese of Guildford only last week, stepped in
to curb Dr Sizer's online activities after being alerted by the Board of
Deputies of British Jews to a post 10 days ago linking to an article entitled
"9/11 Israel did it".

The post, which was written in the week of Holocaust Memorial Day, included a
comment from Dr Sizer that the article "raises so many questions". He initially
defended the post, insisting he was "encouraging debate" about "serious
allegations" and accused the Board of Deputies of "harassment", claiming they
had seized on "one little link" in order to "discredit" him.

He has a long history of antagonism with Jewish community leaders, who
complained last year after he flew to Iran to take part in a conference which
the board called an "anti-Semitic hate-fest".

The previous year, Dr Sizer signed a mediated deal with the board, promising to
moderate the tone and nature of posts and links on his blog on the subject of
Israel and Palestine after a number of complaints.

Now, under special measures agreed by Bishop Watson, he has been barred from
involvement in any public discussion on the Middle East and ordered to stay off
Facebook, Twitter and other social media sites.

He will remain in charge of his parish and there are no plans to defrock him -
although he has given a written commitment that he will resign if he is deemed
to have broken the new agreement.

It amounts to one of the most sweeping sets of restrictions ever placed on a
serving Church of England cleric.

Bishop Watson emphasised that while criticising Israel's actions in the West
Bank and Gaza was not, in itself, anti-Jewish, some of the content Dr Sizer had
shared was "clearly anti-Semitic". He said that his "increasingly undisciplined
anti-Zionist agenda" had become a "liability" to the Church and "incompatible"
with his ministry.

He said it was "ridiculous" to suggest that Israel was involved in the 2001
atrocities in the US and that Dr Sizer was guilty of "gross insensitivity" in
the timing of the post.

"I do not believe that his motives were anti-Semitic," he said. "But I have
concluded that, at the very least, he has demonstrated appalling poor judgment
on the material he has chosen to disseminate, particularly via social media,
some of which is clearly anti-Semitic."

He added that although it would have been possible to take formal steps under
the Church's disciplinary procedures, it would have been a lengthy process with
an uncertain outcome.

In a letter to Bishop Watson, Dr Sizer wrote: "I very much regret the distress I
have caused to the Jewish community, to my church and to you by my actions, for
which I take full responsibility."

The bishop added: "This is a time when I would urge all Christian people to
stand shoulder to shoulder with our Jewish brothers and sisters in countering
the alarming rise of anti-Semitic incidents being reported, not least here in
the UK."

Jonathan Arkush, vice-president of the Board of Deputies, said: "We are grateful
that the Church shared our deep concern that Rev Sizer had indeed crossed a line
in the offensive materials he was posting and linking to online."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Rev Dr Stephen Sizer has agreed to resign if he breaks the terms of
the new agreement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 10, 2015 Tuesday 6:28 PM GMT

War with Isis: Iraq's religious minorities are living in terror as they prepare
for an attack by the militants;
Villagers around Kirkuk fear the worst as memories of the massacre of the
Yazidis looms large

BYLINE: Cathy Otten

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 705 words


Among a muddle of adobe houses south of the city of Kirkuk, in northern Iraq, a
band of poorly armed Kurdish fighters patrol the streets of the village that has
been renamed "Kobane" because of its proximity to the Isis front line.

The fighters are Kakai Kurds, members of a secretive minority religion whose
villages near Kirkuk are now caught between the jihadists and the Kurdish
forces. Living in terror, Kakais fear their sect could suffer the same fate as
the Yazidi minority who were slaughtered and captured by Isis as they tore
through northern Iraq last summer, so have formed a new fighting force under
Iraqi Kurdistan's Ministry of Peshmerga.

"How do you think anyone can feel safe living near Isis?" asks Rajab Assy
gesturing towards the front line 500m away. He works as a local official and is
a member of the Kakai faith, whose male members sport large bushy moustaches and
can be found across northern Iraq and western Iran where they have suffered
persecution.

Isis has targeted minority groups in Iraq, many of whom live across the
religiously diverse Ninawa plain. As well as destroying Yazidi towns and
massacring hundreds, the militants released an ultimatum to Christians in Mosul
last summer to convert, pay a tax or die by the sword.

Power struggle: Isis areas gained and lost

Major Farhad Nazar is the unofficial leader of the unit of 1,600 Kakai fighters
which was established in the wake of the Isis assault on Iraq. He says that
first his men took up arms voluntarily, before 600 of them were taken into the
ranks of the peshmerga. "When the Yazidis were being killed by Isis we felt
fear. We are Kurds but we have a different faith, we thought that maybe when
Isis come they will kill us too," he said.

The unit finished training with the peshmerga at the end of January, but are yet
to receive weapons from the peshmerga ministry, who say the order to arm them
has been issued but a commander still needs to be found. The Kakai fighters, who
wield worn-out Kalashnikovs, form part of a new group of minority forces now
under the umbrella of the Kurdistan Regional Government, being trained to
protect their own towns and villages.

"There are multiple Kakai villages which are under constant threat from Isis,"
said Jabar Yawar, secretary general of the Ministry of Peshmerga, referring to
the area around Daquq, 20 miles south of Kirkuk where the black Isis flag can be
seen from the road. "Isis is very close to the positions of the peshmerga forces
in the area. They are only about 1km way from the Baghdad highway. The villagers
have been forced to arm themselves."

On 30 January Isis attacked fronts around Kirkuk and managed to storm an
abandoned hotel in the centre of the Kurdish-controlled city, demonstrating
their continued threat.

As Isis assaulted the Yazidi stronghold of Sinjar in northern Iraq last August,
peshmerga forces withdrew, leaving the population in the hands of the jihadis.
Hundreds were killed and thousands more fled to Mount Sinjar.

In the wake of the slaughter, two active Yazidi units were established, as well
as units for Christian, Shabak and ethnic Turkoman fighters who Mr Yawar says
are still receiving military training.

Sherzad Nezar, the brother of Major Farhad, says there are between 50,000 and
60,000 Kakais in Iraq, who believe in reincarnation and are vulnerable because
they live on the borderlands between Kurdish and Arab Iraq. He cites bomb
attacks and threats from terrorist groups targeting Kakai communities in the
years since the 2003 overthrow of Saddam Hussein, and the destruction of three
Kakai shrines by Isis in Mosul last summer. "We are a closed religion, we can't
invite others to join us," he says. "If Isis want to find a reason to kill us
there are two reasons: we are Kurds and we are Kakais."

In the village of "Kobane", behind the front line stands a Kakai shrine replete
with green painted domes and flags fluttering in the cool air. Pictures of Imam
Ali hang on the wall inside and bright coloured cloth is strung up in one corner
of the temple. Down the dirt track the front line is quiet, despite weekly
mortar fire coming into the nearby Kakai town of Zankar, Mr Assy says. But how
long "Kobane" will remain calm is the concern of the men.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror chief dies in drone attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 52 words


A SENIOR Islamic State commander was killed in a drone strike on his convoy,
Afghan officials said yesterday.

Mullah Abdul Rauf (pictured), a former Guantanamo Bay detainee, was among six
wiped out by the Afghan attack in Helmand province.

His brother-in-law and four Pakistani fighters were reportedly in the same car.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     February 10, 2015 Tuesday 11:32 PM GMT

ISIS: Australian police stop 'imminent' terror attack in Sydney;
Cops arrested two men and seized a machete, a hunting knife and a homemade IS
flag, as well as a video of a man talking about an attack.

BYLINE: By Chris Richards

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 172 words


Police in Australia have stopped an "imminent" terror attack linked to Islamic
State.

They arrested two men in Sydney and seized a machete, a hunting knife and a
homemade IS flag, as well as a video of a man talking about an attack.

New South Wales Deputy Police Commissioner Catherine Burn told reporters: "We
will allege that both of these men were preparing to do this act yesterday
(Tuesday).

"We built up information, we received further information which indicated an
attack was imminent, and we acted."

The arrests took place in the suburb of Fairfield, according to an anonymous
police official.

The men will appear in court later.

It comes two months after a gunman claiming to represent IS took 18 people
hostage in a 16-hour siege at a Sydney cafe.

This ended in a blaze of gunfire when police rushed the cafe.

Gunman Man Haron Monis and hostages Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson died.

Several raids have been carried out in Sydney and Melbourne since Australia
raised its terror threat level to high for the first time in September.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     February 10, 2015 Tuesday 5:43 PM GMT

Muslim convert Brusthom Ziamani 'told friend he was planning terrorist attack'

BYLINE: John Simpson

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 454 words


Counterterrorism officers who swooped on a teenage Muslim convert who was
carrying a knife, hammer and black Islamic flag had no prior intelligence of an
alleged plot to kill a soldier that day, a court has heard.

Brusthom Ziamani, 19, was dressed in black tracksuit trousers and hoody when he
was arrested in the street near East London Mosque with the large hammer,
12-inch kitchen knife and black "shahada" flag, with white Arabic writing, the
Old Bailey heard.

The arrest came just hours after Mr Ziamani allegedly told a girlfriend "me and
the brothers are planning a terrorist attack". One of the arresting officers
told the Old Bailey that Mr Ziamani was arrested in August for expressing
support for terrorism online.

DC David Atkinson said: "We were advised that Mr Ziamani was arrestable," he
said.

"He was being arrested in relation to postings on his Facebook profile which was
in relation to encouraging terrorism," he added.

"I recognised Ziamani from previous dealings with him.

"I identified myself to Ziamani. He recognised me because obviously he had seen
me before. He looked quite surprised to see me."

Mr Ziamani was handcuffed and placed in the back of an unmarked police car,
where the black Adidas rucksack he had been wearing was searched.

"At this stage I saw one very large hammer and one very large knife," DC
Atkinson said, adding that officers wanted to get Mr Ziamani off the street
quickly because they were 200 yards from the busy mosque.

The knife and the hammer, both in protective packaging, were handed to the jury
for inspection and the officer unfurled the flag and held up the bag for them to
view.

In lengthy interviews two months earlier, Mr Ziamani, who insisted on being
called Mujahid Karim by police, was questioned on his intentions after police
searched the flat where he was staying on suspicion that it was being illegally
sublet.

They found a five-page note stuffed in his jeans in which he claimed to be a
member of ISIB, the Islamic State of Ireland and Britain, and called for
non-believers and homosexuals to be killed.

He expressed a desire to see an Islamic revolution in the UK, to see Sharia law
implemented and to attack David Cameron.

In a summary of his first police interview read out in court, Mr Ziamani was
heard to have agreed that the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby was "justified",
expressed support for Isis militants and agreed that if he saw the prime
minister without a security detail, he would want to "cause him harm"

Mr Ziamani, who allegedly told a prison officer he had been planning to behead a
soldier and pose for photographs with the severed head, said in the interview in
June that he had been angered by a group of soldiers while doing Islamic
outreach work.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 11, 2015 Wednesday

Ukrainian prosecutors qualify Donetsk bus station attack as "terrorist act"

LENGTH: 285 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 11 February: The Prosecutor-General's Office of Ukraine [PGO] has
announced that criminal proceedings were initiated under the article "terrorist
act" over the shelling of the bus station and the entrance gate of the Donetsk
metallurgy plant.

"Around 0700 [0500 gmt] on 11 February, the militants of the terrorist
organization DPR [Donetsk People's Republic] made a targeted strike on a bus
stop on the territory of the Centre bus station in Donetsk and on the entrance
gate of the Donetsk metallurgy plant. The exact number of casualties is being
determined. According to current data, six persons were killed and eight
wounded. The information on the wounded persons is also being updated," the PGO
press service reported.

The PGO reported that the militants carried out several targeted strikes on
civilians, even though they had reliable information that there were only
civilians in the area. "Shells from the weapons of destruction hit the buses,
the bus station roof and a supermarket were also damaged," the press service
reported.

Criminal proceedings were initiated over this case under Part 3 of Article 258
of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (terrorist act). The Donetsk regional
prosecutor's office is managing the pre-trial investigation. The course of the
investigation is under the personal control of the Donetsk regional prosecutor.

The spokesman for the ATO [Ukraine's "antiterrorist operation"], Anatoliy
Stelmakh, earlier stated that ATO forces had nothing to do with the shelling of
the Centre bus station in Voroshylovskyy district of Donetsk on Wednesday [11
February].

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1029 gmt 11 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 4:21 AM GMT

Pair 'on brink of terror attack'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 643 words


Two men were about to launch an imminent terror attack when they were arrested
in a raid on a Sydney suburb, police have said.

Officers who swooped in Fairfield seized a home-made Islamic State (IS)-style
flag, a machete and a hunting knife, raising fears of a possible beheading-style
attack.

The men, aged 24 and 25, would have carried out the attack imminently if they
had not been arrested that day, New South Wales deputy police commissioner
Catherine Burn said.

A video seized in the raid showed one of the men making threats, though Ms Burn
refused to say exactly what was said.

Australia's prime minister Tony Abbott later told parliament that the video
depicted one of the suspects kneeling in front of the IS flag with the knife and
machete while making a statement in Arabic.

Asked whether they were planning a beheading, Ms Burn replied: "We don't really
know what act they were going to commit.

"What we are going to allege is consistent with the IS messaging. We believe
that the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even kill somebody,
and potentially using one of the items that we identified and recovered
yesterday, potentially a knife."

Police are trying to determine whether the men were in contact with anyone from
the IS.

"Yesterday, our focus was to act on information that we received about something
that was imminent," Ms Burn said. "We believe that we have stopped that threat
from occurring. However, there are further investigations that now we will need
to follow through."

Omar Al-Kutobi and Mohammad Kiad were charged with undertaking acts in
preparation or planning for a terrorist act, which carries a maximum life
sentence. Their lawyer did not apply for bail and it was formally refused during
a brief court hearing today. Neither man appeared in the courtroom.

Police do not believe there is any link between the alleged plot and another
that prompted a series of anti-terror raids in Sydney in September. One man
arrested during those raids was charged with conspiring with an IS leader in
Syria to behead a random person in Sydney.

Australia's government raised the country's terror warning level in September in
response to the domestic threat posed by IS, which has threatened Australia in
the past when its spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani issued a message urging
attacks abroad, specifically mentioning the country.

In December, Man Haron Monis, an Iranian-born, self-styled cleric with a long
criminal history, took 18 people hostage inside a Sydney cafe. Among his demands
was that he be delivered an IS flag. Investigators, however, have said it does
not appear he had established any contact with the group.

Mr Abbott said he suspected the terror threat in Australia was going to only
worsen.

"As we have seen again and again in recent times, the death cult is reaching out
all around the world, including here in Australia," he told parliament. "There
are people in this country who are susceptible to these indictments to extremism
and even terrorism."

The government believes about 90 Australians are fighting alongside IS in Syria
and Iraq, with another 140 supporting the group from home.

The proliferation of IS-style attack plots in countries such as Australia is not
surprising because such plots are generally simple and low tech, which makes
them harder to stop, said Clive Williams, a counter-terrorism expert at the
Australian National University and a former military intelligence officer.

"To drive a car into a group of policemen takes no planning whatsoever," he
said. "It's a lot different from what al Qaida was encouraging people to do,
which was to do sophisticated bombings which would result in lots of casualties
but took lots of preparation and organisation.

"There was a better chance of detecting them, but they were more dangerous -
whereas these are less detectable but less dangerous."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 12:35 AM GMT

Two men 'on brink of terror attack' in Australia

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 147 words


Two suspected terrorists arrested with a home-made Islamic State (IS) flag
planned to harm someone with a hunting knife or machete, police have said,
raising fears of a beheading-style attack.

The men would have carried out the attack imminently if they had not been
arrested yesterday in a anti-terror raid, New South Wales deputy police
commissioner Catherine Burn said.

Police seized the knife, machete, flag and a video which showed "a man talking
about carrying out an attack", she said.

"What we are going to allege is consistent with the IS messaging.

"We believe that the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even
kill somebody, and potentially using one of the items that we identified and
recovered yesterday, potentially a knife," she added.

The men will appear in a Sydney court today charged with undertaking acts in
preparation or planning for a terrorist act.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 4:15 PM GMT

VIDEO: Woman screams as rockets rain down on neighbourhood in terror attack on
Ukraine

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 285 words


A WOMAN's terror and the cries of her baby can be heard as she films the
horrifying moment cluster bombs explode by her home.

brightcove.createExperiences;

The amateur footage was captured as shells neared the mother's apartment block
in the residential area of Kramatorsk, some 30 miles away from the nearest
frontline in the Ukraine conflict.

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said Pro-Russian separatists were
responsible for the rocket strike, which killed seven civilians and seriously
wounded 21 others.

War moving further into Ukraine. Smerch rocket landed, unexploded, 30 mins ago
in central Kramatorsk, N of Donetsk pic.twitter.com/TWecDb1S7k

- Oliver Carroll February 10, 2015

But separatists denied any involvement in the attack and said it was
"provocation" by the Ukrainian authorities.

The terrifying video was uploaded to YouTube on Tuesday, February 10, and gained
more than one million hits overnight.

Commenters on the video sharing site said Kramatorsk airport hosts a Ukranian
army base and could have been the target for the shelling.

Journalist Oliver Carroll posted a photo on Twitter showing part of an
unexploded rocket which had landed in the centre of the town, north of war-torn
city Donetsk.

The intense fighting, which the United Nations says has killed more than 5,300
people since last April, came ahead of crucial peace talks with Western leaders
today .

Related articles $1m bounty on sniper who 'gunned down' the White Widow in
war-ravaged Ukraine Mhl: Russia claims Ukrainian fighter pilot shot down
Malaysia Airlines jet Russian bomber armed with a NUKE intercepted off UK south
coast

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 1:36 PM GMT

Eight-year prison sentence for John Trainor for terror attack on partner;
Police welcome the sentence handed out to Trainor and hope it will encourage
other victims of domestic abuse to come forward.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


A brutal thug who subjected his partner to a horror assault in her home has been
jailed for eight years.

A jury at the High Court in Edinburgh found evil John Joseph Power Trainor, 27,
guilty of the terrifying attack on the woman at New Court, Thornhill, in August
2013.

The court heard how Dumfries Prison inmate Trainor repeatedly punched and kicked
her on the head, forced her to close the curtains in the house, forced her into
a shower, struck her on the head, pinned her to the floor and then cut her
fingers to her severe injury and permanent disfigurement.

Trainor was also found guilty of assaulting and injuring a man at the same
address on the same date.

Police have welcomed the sentence handed to Trainor and hope it will encourage
other victims of domestic abuse to come forward.

Detective Sergeant Robin Ferguson said: "As a result of a serious domestic
incident which resulted in the severe injury and permanent disfigurement of a
young female, the police investigation, assisted by support from the victim and
the local community, resulted in the arrest and conviction of Trainor.

"The custodial sentence of eight years which the perpetrator received confirms
that domestic abuse will not be tolerated and that Police Scotland will engage
with victims, partner agencies and the public to fully investigate reports of
this nature.

"The custodial sentence clearly sends out a message that behaviour of this
nature will not be tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 8:06 AM GMT

ISIS: Australian police stop 'imminent' terror attack in Sydney;
THEY arrested two men in Sydney and seized a machete, a hunting knife and a
homemade IS flag, as well as a video of a man talking about an attack.

BYLINE: By Chris Richards

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 208 words


POLICE in Australia have stopped an "imminent" terror attack linked to Islamic
State.

They arrested two men in Sydney and seized a machete, a hunting knife and a
homemade IS flag, as well as a video of a man talking about an attack.

New South Wales Deputy Police Commissioner Catherine Burn told reporters: "We
will allege that both of these men were preparing to do this act yesterday
(Tuesday).

Latest ISIS video threatens terror attacks in Belgium, the rest of Europe and
America

"We built up information, we received further information which indicated an
attack was imminent, and we acted."

The arrests took place in the suburb of Fairfield, according to an anonymous
police official.

The men will appear in court later.

It comes two months after a gunman claiming to represent IS took 18 people
hostage in a 16-hour siege at a Sydney cafe.

ISIS shoot down warplane and take pilot captive

This ended in a blaze of gunfire when police rushed the cafe.

Gunman Man Haron Monis and hostages Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson died.

Several raids have been carried out in Sydney and Melbourne since Australia
raised its terror threat level to high for the first time in September.

Try your hand at our news quiz

Quick Quiz: News 10/2/15

Daily Record Facebook promo

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 8:05 AM GMT

'Catastrophic' and 'beyond disturbing' Islamic State-linked terror attack foiled

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 350 words


AN "imminent" and potentially "catastrophic" terrorist attack linked to Islamic
State has been foiled by Australian police.

Two men, Omar al Kutobi and Mohammad Kiad, were arrested in Sydney after cops
found a machete, a hunting knife, an IS flag and a video of a man discussing a
deadly attack.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the footage involved one of the suspects
kneeling in front of the flag while speaking in Arabic.

The pair, aged 24 and 25, were planning to carry out the attack on Tuesday.

State premier Mike Baird said: "It was beyond disturbing, what was planned.

"Certainly something catastrophic was avoided... and for that we should be very
thankful."

When asked if the men planned to behead victims, New South Wales Deputy Police
Commissioner Catherine Burn said the attack was "likely" to have involved a
knife.

She added: "We believe that the men were potentially going to harm somebody,
maybe even kill somebody, and potentially using one of the times that we
identified and recovered, potentially a knife.

"We built up information, we received further information which indicated an
attack was imminent, and we acted."

Al Kutobi and Kiad have been charged with undertaking acts in preparation or
planning for a terrorist act.

State premier Mike Baird

They could face life in prison if found guilty.

In December two hostages were killed after a gunman took control of a Sydney
cafe in a 16-hour siege.

Man Haron Monis died along with Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson.

Monis claimed to represent IS and was gunned down by armed police after they
stormed the Lindt Chocolate Cafe.

As many as 70 Australian citizens are believed to have travelled to the Middle
East to fight with IS.

Related articles Muslims! Join the British Army to fight terror, urges leading
imam EXCLUSIVE: Plane crazy! RAF pilots' fear over safety kit delays Jordanian
hostage who was burned alive was 'drugged so he would not scream as he died'
Suicide bomber wanted! Islamic state facing SHORTAGE of fighters Family of
murdered Islamic State hostage Kayla Mueller are 'heartbroken'

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 5:54 PM GMT

Australia terror plot: Two men charged after Sydney police seize machete, knife
and Isis flag;
Police said they believed they had stopped an 'imminent' terror attack

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 729 words


Two men arrested after police in Australia foiled an imminent Isis-inspired
attack have been imprisoned and charged.

Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, and Mohammad Kiad, 25, are accused of undertaking acts in
preparation for a terrorist act, which carries a maximum punishment of life in
prison.

They were arrested yesterday when police seized a homemade flag associated with
the so-called Islamic State, a machete and a hunting knife in a
counter-terrorism raid in the Sydney suburb of Fairfield.

A video showing one of the suspects kneeling in front of the black flag and
making a politically-motivated speech threatening to commit "violent acts" with
the knife and machete he was holding was also found, according to the Australian
Attorney General, George Brandis.

Read more: Police foil potential terror attack in SydneyAnother man in Australia
charged with planning attackIsis 'plan to behead random Australian' thwarted

The men did not appear at a brief court hearing at on Wednesday morning, local
time, where they were refused bail. Australian media reported that they
requested to stay in their cells.

They will appear again at the Central Local Court in Sydney tomorrow.

Terror in Sydney: how the siege unfolded

Deputy New South Wales Police Commissioner Catherine Burn told reporters said
the force believed an attack would have been carried out yesterday if the men,
who were allegedly "well advanced in their preparations", had not been detained.

Asked whether they were planning a beheading, she replied, "We don't really know
what act they were going to commit."

"What we are going to allege is consistent with the Isis messaging," she added.
"We believe that the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even
kill somebody, and potentially using one of the items that we identified and
recovered yesterday, potentially a knife."

Police believe the men planned to launch their attack in western Sydney and are
trying to determine whether they were in contact with anyone else affiliated to
Isis.

There has been no suggestion of a connection between the alleged plot and
another planned attack that prompted a series of counter-terror raids in Sydney
in September.

One man arrested during those raids was charged with conspiring with an Isis
leader in Syria to behead a random person in the Australian city.

Australia's terror alert level was raised in September in response to the
domestic threat posed by supporters of the Isis group, which has threatened
Australia in the past.

In September, its spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani issued a message urging
attacks abroad, and specifically mentioned Australia along with Europe, the US
and France.

Three months later, Man Haron Monis, an Iranian-born self-styled cleric with a
long criminal history, took 18 people hostage inside a Sydney cafe.

Although he used an Isis-style flag during the siege, which resulted in the
deaths of three people including the gunman, investigators do not believe he had
contact with the group.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott fears the terror threat in Australia was going to
only worsen as international operations against Isis in Iraq and Syria continue.

Australia is one of the largest parties in the international coalition fighting
militants, launching air strikes and conducting humanitarian missions.

"As we have seen again and again in recent times, the death cult is reaching out
all around the world, including here in Australia," Mr Abbott told Parliament.

"There are people in this country who are susceptible to these indictments to
extremism and even terrorism."

About 90 Australians are believed to be fighting with Isis in Syria and Iraq,
with another 140 people apparently supporting the group from Australia.

Counterterrorism expert Clive Williams, a former military intelligence officer
who now works at the Australian National University, said "lone wolf" attacks
like the Sydney siege were difficult to predict or stop.

"To drive a car into a group of policemen takes no planning whatsoever," he
said.

"It's a lot different from what al-Qaeda was encouraging people to do, which was
to do sophisticated bombings which would result in lots of casualties but took
lots of preparation and organisation.

"There was a better chance of detecting them, but they were more dangerous -
whereas these are less detectable but less dangerous."

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 7:22 AM GMT

Australian police foil potential terror attack after two men are arrested in
Sydney;
Officers found a machete, a hunting knife and a home-made Isis flag at a
premises in the suburb of Fairfield

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 325 words


Counter-terrorism police in Sydney say they have thwarted an imminent attack
linked to Isis militants after arresting two men.

The pair, understood to be aged 24 and 25, were arrested in the Sydney suburb of
Fairfield on Tuesday after police found a machete, hunting knife, a flag and a
video tape during a counter-terrorism raid. Both were denied bail and are
expected to appear in court later today.

"When we did the search of the premises, a number of items were located,
including a machete, a hunting knife, a home-made flag representing the
prescribed terrorist organisation Isis, and also a video which depicted a man
talking about carrying out an attack," New South Wales Deputy Police
Commissioner Catherine Burn told reporters. "We will allege that both of these
men were preparing to do this act yesterday."

Australia is on high alert after the death of two hostages in December as police
stormed a cafe in central Sydney where 18 people were held during a 16-hour
siege.

Sydney siege: Australia mourns with sea of flowers at site of Martin Place
terror attack

The gunman, Man Haron Monis, who also died, was a self-styled sheik who
harboured deep grievances against the Australian government and sought to align
himself Isis extremists.

More widely, Australia a staunch ally of the US in the war against Isis, has
conducted numerous arrests since Australia raised its national terror threat
level to "high" for the first time last September, citing the likelihood of
attacks by Australians radicalised in Iraq or Syria.

At least 70 Australians are thought to be fighting with jihadi groups in Syria
and Iraq, with more than 15 reported killed so far in conflicts, including the
country's first two suicide bombers.

Last year the government said it believed about 100 Australians are actively
supporting extremist groups from inside the country, recruiting fighters and
grooming more potential suicide bombers, as well as providing funds and
equipment.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 10:28 PM GMT

One is a fashion-loving weightlifter while the other is a quiet nursing student:
The men arrested hours before they 'planned to launch ISIS-inspired terror
attack on police' after arriving in Australia as refugees

BYLINE: LILLIAN RADULOVA and CANDACE SUTTON FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 834 words



     ·    Mohammad Kiad, 25, and Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, were arrested on terror
          charges in their shared squalid granny flat at Fairfield on Tuesday
     ·    Pictures of Mr Kiad on social media revealed he was fond of fashion
          and took selfies at the gym
     ·    Contrasting photos showed him dressed in traditional Islamic clothing
     ·    His roommate, Mr Al-Kutobi was a nursing student who was granted his
          Australian citizenship in 2013
     ·    Neighbours who described them as being quiet and kind, said the two
          men's behaviour had changed drastically over the last few months
     ·    A police raid allegedly uncovered a machete, a hunting knife, an
          Islamic State flag and a video of them making threats of carrying out
          a terrorist attack
     ·    The men will appear at Sydney's Central Local Court on Thursday


The social media accounts of one of the two men charged with plotting a
terrorist attack involving large knives on Wednesday, have revealed the
extremist was a fashion-loving weightlifter with a keen eye for expensive
jewellery.

Pictures of Mohammad Kiad on his Facebook page show him sporting expensive
watches and suits as well as taking numerous selfies while at the gym. In
contrast to the snaps of him in shiny sparkling tight pants, other pictures show
him wearing traditional white Islamic clothing and headpieces.

However in person, the 25-year-old nurse who worked as a removalist has been
described as a quiet man who never mentioned his religion, according to Fairfax.

Mr Kiad and his Iraqi born housemate Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, were arrested in their
shared squalid granny flat at Fairfield, western Sydney, on Tuesday afternoon,
where a police raid allegedly uncovered a machete, a hunting knife, an Islamic
State flag and a video featuring both the men, with one recorded making threats
of carrying out a terrorist attack.

Both men arrived in Australia from the Middle East seeking a better life as
refugees but allegedly became radicalised in recent months, it has been claimed.

Scroll down for video

Immigration Minister Peter Dutton told the Today Show on Thursday Kiad, from
Kuwait, and Al-Kutobi, from Iraq, were granted refugee status.

Al-Kutobi was granted citizenship in 2013 and was studying to be a nurse after
he arrived in Australia by plane in 2009. The Daily Telegraph alleges a senior
intelligence source has confirmed he arrived in the country with false
documentation.

Mr Kiad entered Australia in 2012, where he had worked as a nurse - but when he
arrived in Australia he found he could not transfer his skills. He was granted a
visa under the family and spousal visa arrangements and recently took up a job
as a removalist but was fired and was on the dole at the time of his arrest, it
has been reported.

Mr Dutton told the Today Show: 'We've stopped the boats now and we need to make
sure they remain stopped.'

However, Today Show host Karl Stefanovic pointed out: 'This guy came by plane
though.'

Attorney-General George Brandis told parliament on Wednesday: 'Significantly,
police also located a video recording of one suspect kneeling in front of an
ISIL (IS) flag, with the knife and machete, making a politically-motivated
statement, threatening to undertake violent acts with those weapons.'

A Sydney police station and officers on the street were revealed to have been
the the targets with attacks scheduled for just before midnight on Tuesday,
Channel Nine reported.

Pictures of the duo from mid-2013 show them poking faces and smoking shisha
together.

Mr Al-Kutobi was granted citizenship in 2013 and was studying to be a nurse
while Mr Kiad, originally from Kuwait where he immigrated from in 2009, was
reported to have been recently fired from his removalist job.

While some neighbours told Fairfax that he was 'friendly', 'open minded about
religion' and 'never talked about Islam', others admitted he and Mr Al-Katobi
had begun acting differently after the anti-terror raids in western Sydney last
September.

'He began wearing a scarf, just like ISIS and Mohammad, he grew a long beard,'
Neighbour Michael David said of Al-Kutobi.

'I heard them praying in there [the granny flat] and reading the Koran,' said Mr
David, who speaks Arabic.

Ms Jeisele-Brown said the pair had fallen out with another neighbour over the
last month or two for 'speaking sharp' and that she had been upset with them
after finding a religious picture of hers dumped in the rubbish bin.

'I had been in hospital having chemotherapy and when I came back home my picture
of Jesus Christ was missing,' she said.

'I found it in the rubbish. I don't know who dumped it but I thought... I didn't
say anything.'

Neighbours Teresita Heisele-Brown said she had noticed that after the Martin
place siege, the two men had had lengthy discussions in Arabic and had watched a
lot of television, perhaps coverage of the a siege.

She said when the police came around to arrest the pair, Mohammad had pretended
he didn't speak English.

She said detectives had made the men lie on the ground while they handcuffed
them.

Their home, workplaces and cars were all searched by police.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 5:38 PM GMT

Father of man who 'planned to carry out one of Australia's most serious terror
attacks ever' reveals his son often begged him to visit because he was so lonely

BYLINE: CANDACE SUTTON, SARAH DEAN, LILLIAN RADULOVA and SALLY LEE FOR DAILY
MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1556 words



     ·    Housemates Mohammad Kiad, 25, and Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, were arrested on
          terrorism charges in western Sydney on Tuesday
     ·    R aids were carried out on their home, a car and two work places
     ·    'A machete, a hunting knife, a home-made flag representing IS and also
          a video which depicted a man talking about carrying out an attack'
          seized
     ·    They planned to target a Sydney police station and officers on the
          street
     ·    Al-Kutobi's father revealed he spoke to his son just hours before his
          arrest
     ·    The nursing student and removalist asked about his mother and showed
          no sign that anything was amiss
     ·    The men will appear at Sydney's Central Local Court on Thursday
     ·    Last year a senior member of ISIS urged a network in Australia to
          carry out public beheadings
     ·    Neighbour says both young men became withdrawn over the last month


The father of a western Sydney man who was charged with plotting an 'imminent'
terror attack on Sydney along with his housemate, has revealed that his son was
lonely in Australia.

Omar Al-Kutobi and Mohammad Kiad, 25, were arrested at their granny flat home in
Fairfield on Tuesday where a home-made flag representing the terrorist
organisation Islamic State was found, just hours before police allege they
planned to target a police station and officers on the street before midnight.

But 24-year-old Iraqi born Mr Al-Kutobi was revealed to have spoken to his
father, who is currently in Germany, just hours before his arrest to ask about
his mother, Fairfax reports.

'He told me he [was] working as a truck driver and asked me about his mother.
That is all. Everything was ok,' Mr Al-Kutobi's father, Ahmad, told Fairfax.

Scroll down for video

Ahmad said his son was struggling to find a balance between his work as a
removalist and his studies and revealed that he had begun a nursing degree after
struggling to find work in IT.

'He told [me] many times to come to him because he is alone,' Ahmad said.

Mr Al-Kutobi became a citizen in 2013 after his father sent him to Australia in
2009, where he hoped his son could live away from the region's conflict.

However the men's neighbours said Al-Kutobi and Kaid had begun acting
differently after the anti-terror raids in western Sydney last September

'He [Al-Kutobi] began wearing a scarf, just like ISIS and Mohammad, he grew a
long beard,' neighbour Michael David said.

'I heard them praying in there [the granny flat] and reading the Koran,' said Mr
David, who speaks Arabic.

During police raids at Mr Al-Kutobi and Mr Kiad's property on Tuesday afternoon,
a machete, a hunting knife, and a video featuring both the men - with one
recorded making threats - were discovered according to police.

The two men did not appear in court and asked not to be brought up from the
cells at Fairfield Local Court, where Counter Terrorism Task Force detectives
were in attendance, on Wednesday afternoon.

Police will allege the men were plotting to carry out an attack on Tuesday and
had armed themselves with a machete and a hunting knife and made a video
detailing their plans.

An image of the pair smoking shisha together - obtained from 25-year-old Kiad's
Facebook page - was uploaded in July, 2013.

According to his Facebook profile, Kiad is from Kuwait and has been married
since January 26, 2010.

On Kiad's Flikr account, he posted images of the Opera House, luxury cars,
waffles and Arabian horses.

Neighbour Deresita Heisele-Brown said Omar al-utobi was friendlier than Mohammed
Kiad who was 'shy' but both young men had become more withdrawn over the last
month.

She said the boys rarely cooked - sometimes a barbecue - and ordered in pizza or
Chinese and went out to meet friends or go to the mosque.

'They wore western clothes but sometimes head wear and Mohammed wears long white
tunic, maybe for the mosque.'

She said both men went to Centrelink but were often short of money and couldn't
pay rent to the owner of the house, Mr Huynh, who has a large property with a
granny flat in which the two men lived, Kiad for a year and al-Kutobi for up to
three years.

Kiad worked as a nurse in Kuwait but could not transfer his skills to Australia
and about a month ago both men had got jobs as furniture removalists.

Another resident, Michael David, said Omar had got Australian citizenship in
2014, but Mohammad was not a citizen.

Moldy Lebanese bread, boxes of energy cereal, an unused sink full of
plastic-ware and barbecue trays and utensils were found inside the home.

Inside the squat two bedroom granny flat which the two alleged terrorists tented
from their Vietnamese landlord, there are scenes which could depict the squalor
of any twenty something bachelors.

A picnic table sits out the back by the rubbish bins.

A song book is propped on the sink near a toolbox on top of the unnused stove.

A box of Arabic green tea has been torn open in the kitchen.

An Islamic calendar still hangs on the wall in a back room by a pulled out
drawer full of wires and leads.

Ms Jeisele-Brown said the pair had fallen out with another neighbour over the
last month or two for 'speaking sharp' and that she had been upset with them
after finding a religious picture of hers dumped in the rubbish bin.

'I had been in hospital having chemotherapy and when I came back home my picture
of Jesus Christ was missing,' she said.

'I found it in the rubbish. I don't know who dumped it but I thought... I didn't
say anything.'

Ms Heisele-Brown said Omar Al-Kutobi had been talking about going to Germany
where his mother lived and had been waiting for his mother to send him money.

'He had no family here, but he said he could never go back to Iraq.'

She said she had noticed that after the Martin Place siege, the two men had had
lengthy discussions in Arabic and had watched a lot of television, perhaps
coverage of the a siege.

She said when the police came around to arrest the pair, Mohammad had pretended
he didn't speak English.

She said detectives had made the men lie on the ground while they handcuffed
them.

Commonwealth DPP prosecutor Michael Allnutt told Magistrate Vivien Swain the
matter should be adjourned until Thursday at Central Local Court in Sydney, when
the men are expected to apply for bail.

'There is clear security issues, ' he said. The men had been charged with 'a
very very serious offence', he added.

The defendants, who were housemates at the time of their arrest, have asked for
an Arabic interpreter.

Authorities arrested the pair in Fairfield, western Sydney, on Tuesday, the same
day they were allegedly planning to maim or kill someone in a knife attack.

NSW Police Deputy Commissioner Catherine Burn said in a press conference on
Wednesday two men, aged 24 and 25, have been charged with 'acts done in
preparation, for, or planning terrorist acts'.

'We will be alleging that the two men were well advanced in their preparations,'
Ms Burn said.

It will be alleged that the two were going to undertake an act of terrorism in
Australia as revenge for incidents overseas.

Searches were conducted at their residence, as well as on a car, and where the
men work.

'A machete, a hunting knife, a home-made flag representing IS and also a video
which depicted a man talking about carrying out an attack' were seized, Ms Burns
said.

'We will allege both of these men were preparing to do this attack yesterday...
it was imminent and we acted.'

Commonwealth DPP prosecutor Michael Allnutt told Magistrate Vivien Swain he
understood the men wanted bail.

In September last year, Prime Minister Tony Abbott revealed how a senior member
of the Islamic State terror group had urged a network in Australia to carry out
public beheadings.

The latest plot is not thought to be related to a previous plan last year to
behead someone in Martin Place, in Sydney's city centre.

Neither of the men were on NSW Police's radar until a member of the public
tipped them off.

'The type of act is consistent with the messaging coming out of IS but we are of
the view that there is no further imminent attacks planned,' Ms Burns said as
she tried to reassure the public.

AFP Deputy Commissioner, Michael Phelan, said the raids and arrests were an
example of how authorities are having to be 'nimble to adjust to the threat'.

'We acted as soon as we possibly could,' he said.

Ms Burns continued: 'We don't know the exact nature of the target, who was
intended, however we do need to be vigilante whether it is police, military or
the general community.

'Everyone needs to remain alert.'

The raids, titled Operation 'CASTRUM', were led by NSW Police Force's Joint
Counter Terrorism Team.

The men, aged 24 and 25 years old, were arrested yesterday at a house in
Riverview Road at Fairfield, just after 4pm on Tuesday.

Deputy Commissioner Burn strongly urged members of the public to continue to
provide information when and where they see anything suspicious.

More to come

In Parliament, Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced that authorities had
thwarted what would have been its third 'brush with terrorism' following the
Melbourne incident in which two officers were stabbed in September and the
Martin Place Lindt café siege in December.

'Police found a large ISIL or Daesh flag, a machete, a hunting knife and a video
of a recording of one suspect kneeling in front of the ISIL flag with the two
knives while making a statement in Arabic,' Mr Abbott said.

'This was an imminent attack in Australia inspired by the ISIL or Daesh death
cult.'

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 2:53 PM GMT

One is a fashion-loving weightlifter while the other is a quiet nursing student:
The men arrested hours before they 'planned to launch ISIS-inspired terror
attack on police'

BYLINE: LILLIAN RADULOVA and CANDACE SUTTON FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words



     ·    Mohammad Kiad, 25, and Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, were arrested on terror
          charges in their shared squalid granny flat at Fairfield on Tuesday
     ·    Pictures of Mr Kiad on social media revealed he was fond of fashion
          and took selfies at the gym
     ·    Contrasting photos showed him dressed in traditional Islamic clothing
     ·    His roommate, Mr Al-Kutobi was a nursing student who was granted his
          Australian citizenship in 2013
     ·    Neighbours who described them as being quiet and kind, said the two
          men's behaviour had changed drastically over the last few months
     ·    A police raid allegedly uncovered a machete, a hunting knife, an
          Islamic State flag and a video of them making threats of carrying out
          a terrorist attack
     ·    The men will appear at Sydney's Central Local Court on Thursday


The social media accounts of one of the western Sydney men charged with plotting
a terrorist attack on Wednesday, have revealed the extremist was a
fashion-loving weightlifter with a keen eye for expensive jewellery.

Pictures of Mohammad Kiad on his Facebook page show him sporting expensive
watches and suits as well as taking numerous selfies while at the gym. In
contrast to the snaps of him in shiny sparkling tight pants, other pictures show
him wearing traditional white Islamic clothing and headpieces.

However in person, the 25-year-old nurse who worked as a removalist has been
described as a quiet man who never mentioned his religion, according to Fairfax.

Mr Kiad and his Iraqi born housemate Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, were arrested in their
shared squalid granny flat at Fairfield on Tuesday afternoon, where a police
raid allegedly uncovered a machete, a hunting knife, an Islamic State flag and a
video featuring both the men, with one recorded making threats of carrying out a
terrorist attack.

'Significantly, police also located a video recording of one suspect kneeling in
front of an ISIL (IS) flag, with the knife and machete, making a
politically-motivated statement, threatening to undertake violent acts with
those weapons,' Attorney-General George Brandis told parliament on Wednesday.

A Sydney police station and officers on the street were revealed to have been
the the targets with attacks scheduled for just before midnight on Tuesday,
Channel Nine reported.

Pictures of the duo from mid-2013 show them poking faces and smoking shisha
together.

Mr Al-Kutobi was granted citizenship in 2013 and was studying to be a nurse
while Mr Kiad, originally from Kuwait where he immigrated from in 2009, was
reported to have been recently fired from his removalist job.

While some neighbours told Fairfax that he was 'friendly', 'open minded about
religion' and 'never talked about Islam', others admitted he and Mr Al-Katobi
had begun acting differently after the anti-terror raids in western Sydney last
September.

'He began wearing a scarf, just like ISIS and Mohammad, he grew a long beard,'
Neighbour Michael David said of Al-Kutobi.

'I heard them praying in there [the granny flat] and reading the Koran,' said Mr
David, who speaks Arabic.

Ms Jeisele-Brown said the pair had fallen out with another neighbour over the
last month or two for 'speaking sharp' and that she had been upset with them
after finding a religious picture of hers dumped in the rubbish bin.

'I had been in hospital having chemotherapy and when I came back home my picture
of Jesus Christ was missing,' she said.

'I found it in the rubbish. I don't know who dumped it but I thought... I didn't
say anything.'

Neighbours Teresita Heisele-Brown said she had noticed that after the Martin
place siege, the two men had had lengthy discussions in Arabic and had watched a
lot of television, perhaps coverage of the a siege.

She said when the police came around to arrest the pair, Mohammad had pretended
he didn't speak English.

She said detectives had made the men lie on the ground while they handcuffed
them.

Their home, workplaces and cars were all searched by police.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 9:05 AM GMT

INSIDE THE LAIR: Pictures of dishevelled granny flat where terror accused
'planned to attack a Sydney police station or officers on the street'

BYLINE: CANDACE SUTTON, SARAH DEAN, LILLIAN RADULOVA and SALLY LEE FOR DAILY
MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1457 words



     ·    Two men were arrested in western Sydney on Tuesday
     ·    R aids were carried out on their home, a car and two work places
     ·    Mohammad Kiad, 25, and Omar al-Kutobi, 24, lived together
     ·    They have been pictured together on Facebook smoking shisha in 2013
     ·    The men will appear at Sydney's Central Local Court on Thursday
     ·    'A machete, a hunting knife, a home-made flag representing IS and also
          a video which depicted a man talking about carrying out an attack'
          seized
     ·    They planned to target a Sydney police station and officers on the
          street
     ·    'These men were not on our radar,' NSW Police Deputy Commissioner says
     ·    Last year a senior member of ISIS urged a network in Australia to
          carry out public beheadings
     ·    Neighbour says both young men became withdrawn over the last month


The two men charged with plotting an 'imminent' terror attack on Sydney
involving large knives lived together in a white granny flat, it has been
revealed.

Mohammad Kiad, 25, and Omar al-Kutobi, 24, shared a home in Fairfield in
Sydney's west, where a home-made flag, representing the prescribed terrorist
organisation Islamic State, was found.

A Sydney police station and officers on the street were revealed to have been
the mens' targets, with attacks scheduled for just before midnight on Tuesday,
Channel Nine reported.

During police raids at the property on Tuesday afternoon a machete, a hunting
knife, and a video featuring both the men, with one recorded making threats, was
also discovered according to police.

It's understood Al-Kutobi is from Iraq and was granted citizenship last year.
Kiad, a former nurse, is believed to be from Kuwait.

The two men did not appear in court and asked not to be brought up from the
cells at Fairfield Local Court, where Counter Terrorism Task Force detectives
were in attendance, on Wednesday afternoon.

Scroll down for video

Police will allege the men were plotting to carry out an attack on Tuesday and
had armed themselves with a machete and a hunting knife and made a video
detailing their plans.

An image of the pair smoking shisha together - obtained from 25-year-old Kiad's
Facebook page - was uploaded in July, 2013.

According to his Facebook profile, Kiad is from Kuwait and has been married
since January 26, 2010.

On Kiad's Flikr account, he posted images of the Opera House, luxury cars,
waffles and Arabian horses.

Neighbour Deresita Heisele-Brown said Omar al-utobi was friendlier than Mohammed
Kiad who was 'shy' but both young men had become more withdrawn over the last
month.

She said the boys rarely cooked - sometimes a barbecue - and ordered in pizza or
Chinese and went out to meet friends or go to the mosque.

'They wore western clothes but sometimes head wear and Mohammed wears long white
tunic, maybe for the mosque.'

She said both men went to Centrelink but were often short of money and couldn't
pay rent to the owner of the house, Mr Huynh, who has a large property with a
granny flat in which the two men lived, Kiad for a year and al-Kutobi for up to
three years.

Kiad worked as a nurse in Kuwait but could not transfer his skills to Australia
and about a month ago both men had got jobs as furniture removalists.

Another resident, Michael David, said Omar had got Australian citizenship in
2014, but Mohammad was not a citizen.

Moldy Lebanese bread, boxes of energy cereal, an unused sink full of
plastic-ware and barbecue trays and utensils were found inside the home.

Inside the squat two bedroom granny flat which the two alleged terrorists tented
from their Vietnamese landlord, there are scenes which could depict the squalor
of any twenty something bachelors.

A picnic table sits out the back by the rubbish bins.

A song book is propped on the sink near a toolbox on top of the unnused stove.

A box of Arabic green tea has been torn open in the kitchen.

An Islamic calendar still hangs on the wall in a back room by a pulled out
drawer full of wires and leads.

Neighbours Teresita Heisele-Brown and Michael David said Omar Al-Kutobi had
changed his look after the police anti-terror raids in wesyern Sydney last
September which resulted in the arrest of alleged terror plotter Omarjam Azari.

'He began wearing a scarf, just like ISIS and Mohammad, he grew a long beard,'
Mr David said.

'I heard them praying in there [the granny flat] and reading the Koran,' said Mr
David, who speaks Arabic.

Ms Jeisele-Brown said the pair had fallen out with another neighbour over the
last month or two for 'speaking sharp' and that she had been upset with them
after finding a religious picture of hers dumped in the rubbish bin.

'I had been in hospital having chemotherapy and when I came back home my picture
of Jesus Christ was missing,' she said.

'I found it in the rubbish. I don't know who dumped it but I thought... I didn't
say anything.'

Ms Heisele-Brown said Omar Al-Kutobi had been talking about going to Germany
where his mother lived and had been waiting for his mother to send him money.

'He had no family here, but he said he could never go back to Iraq.'

She said she had noticed that after the Martin Place siege, the two men had had
lengthy discussions in Arabic and had watched a lot of television, perhaps
coverage of the a siege.

She said when the police came around to arrest the pair, Mohammad had pretended
he didn't speak English.

She said detectives had made the men lie on the ground while they handcuffed
them.

Commonwealth DPP prosecutor Michael Allnutt told Magistrate Vivien Swain the
matter should be adjourned until Thursday at Central Local Court in Sydney, when
the men are expected to apply for bail.

'There is clear security issues, ' he said. The men had been charged with 'a
very very serious offence', he added.

The defendants, who were housemates at the time of their arrest, have asked for
an Arabic interpreter.

Authorities arrested the pair in Fairfield, western Sydney, on Tuesday, the same
day they were allegedly planning to maim or kill someone in a knife attack.

NSW Police Deputy Commissioner Catherine Burn said in a press conference on
Wednesday two men, aged 24 and 25, have been charged with 'acts done in
preparation, for, or planning terrorist acts'.

'We will be alleging that the two men were well advanced in their preparations,'
Ms Burn said.

It will be alleged that the two were going to undertake an act of terrorism in
Australia as revenge for incidents overseas.

Searches were conducted at their residence, as well as on a car, and where the
men work.

'A machete, a hunting knife, a home-made flag representing IS and also a video
which depicted a man talking about carrying out an attack' were seized, Ms Burns
said.

'We will allege both of these men were preparing to do this attack yesterday...
it was imminent and we acted.'

Commonwealth DPP prosecutor Michael Allnutt told Magistrate Vivien Swain he
understood the men wanted bail.

In September last year, Prime Minister Tony Abbott revealed how a senior member
of the Islamic State terror group had urged a network in Australia to carry out
public beheadings.

The latest plot is not thought to be related to a previous plan last year to
behead someone in Martin Place, in Sydney's city centre.

Neither of the men were on NSW Police's radar until a member of the public
tipped them off.

'The type of act is consistent with the messaging coming out of IS but we are of
the view that there is no further imminent attacks planned,' Ms Burns said as
she tried to reassure the public.

AFP Deputy Commissioner, Michael Phelan, said the raids and arrests were an
example of how authorities are having to be 'nimble to adjust to the threat'.

'We acted as soon as we possibly could,' he said.

Ms Burns continued: 'We don't know the exact nature of the target, who was
intended, however we do need to be vigilante whether it is police, military or
the general community.

'Everyone needs to remain alert.'

The raids, titled Operation 'CASTRUM', were led by NSW Police Force's Joint
Counter Terrorism Team.

The men, aged 24 and 25 years old, were arrested yesterday at a house in
Riverview Road at Fairfield, just after 4pm on Tuesday.

Deputy Commissioner Burn strongly urged members of the public to continue to
provide information when and where they see anything suspicious.

More to come

In Parliament, Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced that authorities had
thwarted what would have been its third 'brush with terrorism' following the
Melbourne incident in which two officers were stabbed in September and the
Martin Place Lindt café siege in December.

'Police found a large ISIL or Daesh flag, a machete, a hunting knife and a video
of a recording of one suspect kneeling in front of the ISIL flag with the two
knives while making a statement in Arabic,' Mr Abbott said.

'This was an imminent attack in Australia inspired by the ISIL or Daesh death
cult.'

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 9:47 AM GMT

'Imminent' terror attack foiled in Australia

BYLINE: Bernard Lagan, Sydney

SECTION: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND

LENGTH: 438 words


Counterterrorist police in Australia say they have foiled an Isis-inspired plot
to carry out a public killing on the streets of Sydney.

Omar Al-Kutobi, 24, and Mohammad Kiad, 25, are accused of planning to kill a
random victim using a large knife.

Their alleged "imminent" attack was only foiled when officers swooped on their
home in Western Sydney. Among the items recovered was a home-made Islamic State
flag, a machete and a video detailing the plot, police said today.

Catherine Burn, the deputy commissioner of New South Wales police, said they
believed that the pair were going to undertake an act of terrorism in Australia
inspired by Isis as revenge for incidents overseas.

Police believed the clear aim of the men was to use the machete or hunting knife
to attack someone.

"We believe the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even kill
somebody, potentially using [the knife]," she said, "The intent is clear."

The Islamic State has urged its supporters in western countries to seek out and
behead non-believers, particularly police and law enforcement workers.

"We will be alleging that the two men were well advanced in their preparations,"
Ms Burn said.

The men were not on police or intelligence radars.

Counter-terrorism officers only knew about the alleged plot when they received
information on Tuesday.

"We received further information that the attack was imminent and we acted," she
said.

The Australian government has estimated at least 90 former Australian residents
have joined the Islamic State forces or are aiding them in other ways.

Many are from Western Sydney which has a large Muslim population. Last August
Khaled Sharrouf, a former resident, who has joined Islamic State fighters in
Syria posted online pictures of his seven-year-old son holding up the severed
head of a Syrian soldier.

Mike Baird, the premier of New South Wales said a potential "catastrophic"
incident had been avoided.

"It was beyond disturbing, what was planned," he said. "Certainly, something
catastrophic was avoided yesterday and for that we should be very thankful."

Australia raised its terror threat level and carried out extensive raids in
Sydney and Brisbane in September to disrupt an alleged plot by Isis supporters
to abduct and randomly behead a member of the public.

In December, Sydney was rocked by a siege at a café by Man Haron Monis, a
self-styled cleric born in Iran with a history of extremist views.

He took 17 people hostage for 16 hours. The stand-off ended after Monis shot
dead the manager of the café, Tori Johnson, and police stormed the building and
killed him. Another hostage died in the crossfire.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                    February 11, 2015 Wednesday 2:41 PM GMT

Welsh newsagents shocked over Charlie Hebdo questioning;
Dyfed Powys Police have questioned newsagents about their sales of the French
magazine at the centre of terrorism attacks in Paris

BYLINE: By Rozina Sabur

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 637 words


Dyfed Powys Police questioned newsagents about their sales of Charlie Hebdo, the
magazine at the centre of the Paris attacks, it has emerged.

Newsagents in Prestaigne have spoken of their shock after being approached by
Dyfed-Powys Police and questioned over their sales of the magazine.

Officers in Wales, Wiltshire and Cheshire are believed to have questioned
vendors. 'Shocked'

Winnies newsagent on Prestaigne High Street in Powys said they were one of the
stores approached by the police.

One of their staff, who did not want to be named, said: "We did forecast [the
magazine] on request. We didn't advertise or display any where. We supplied the
customers and they then went out."

He said when police arrived they were "shocked". Attempts to trace readers

He said: "They didn't ask for the particular names of customers." He said it was
surprising that police were attempting to trace readers of a magazine
representing free speech.

Paul Merrett, 57, the owner of another newsagent in Presteigne, told the
Guardian newspaper that a detective and a police community support officer from
Dyfed-Powys Police spent half an hour asking his wife Deborah, 53, about the
magazine.

Related: Would Charlie Hebdo have been published in the UK?  'Out of the blue'

Silent rally in Cardiff which honoured victims of the Paris terrorist attacks

Silent rally in Cardiff tonight to honour the victims of the Paris terrorist
attacks

"There were questions asking where we got the Charlie Hebdo copies from, did we
know who we sold them to - which we didn't say. We were a bit bemused because it
was out of the blue," he said.

"My wife said 'Am I in trouble?' because she thought she was in trouble for
selling them. They said 'No, you're not in trouble' but just continued with
their questioning for half an hour."

Mr Merrett told the newspaper: "I guess they wanted names and addresses of
people we sold them to, which we didn't tell them anything like that. We sold 30
copies.

"My wife was a bit worried with the questioning but she certainly wouldn't have
given any names to the police. I'm shocked they asked. They wanted to know where
we got the copies from, how did we let the customers know that we had them."
Assessment of community tensions

A spokesman for the Home Office said the directive had not come from the
government. He said: "It was an operational decision by a few individual
forces."

A Dyfed-Powys Police spokeswoman declined to say how many shops it had
approached but said: "As part of ongoing community engagement and following
recent terrorism incidents globally, Dyfed Powys Police have been undertaking an
assessment of community tensions across the force area.

"As part of this assessment it was decided that it would be prudent to visit
newsagents who may be distributing the Charlie Hebdo magazine to offer
proportionate advice and reassurance due to the heightened publicity surrounding
the publication.

"It was not the intention to gather any personal information of those who
purchased the magazine and we can confirm no purchaser details were asked for or
recorded.

Related: 'We have the right to free speech - but do we want to use it to
offend': Leading Welsh Muslim gives his view of the new Charlie Hebdo magazine

"Dyfed Powys Police can confirm the visits were only made to enhance public
safety and to provide community reassurance". Five million copies sold

Wiltshire police apologised on Monday after admitting that one of its officers
had asked a newsagent to hand over the names of readers who bought a special
"survivors' issue" of the magazine - the edition which followed the murders of
ten of its journalists in Paris last month.

Five million copies of the magazine - which has a usual print run of around
60,000 - were published in a special edition, with about 2,000 of them
reportedly distributed in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     February 12, 2015 Thursday 1:14 PM GMT

IRA 'plotted terrorist attacks on Northern Ireland's transport infrastructure',
court hears;
The men allegedly discussed sniper strikes on high-profile targets

BYLINE: By Alan Erwin

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 608 words


Secret recordings of alleged Continuity IRA terror plot meetings revealed plans
to attack Northern Ireland's transport infrastructure, the High Court heard
today.

Discussions also explored future sniper strikes on high-profile targets,
prosecutors said.

Further details of the covert MI5 operation at a house in Newry, Co Down were
disclosed as bail was refused to one of the men accused of attending some of the
gatherings.

Terence Marks, 54, denies charges of belonging to a proscribed organisation,
namely the IRA, and conspiring to cause an explosion likely to endanger life.

The father-of-six's lawyer claimed the recordings were of singing and
drink-fuelled bravado.

He also expressed concerns about possible entrapment in the surveillance.

The investigation centres on meetings held by alleged key members of the
Continuity IRA's leadership.

The house at Ardcarn Park was raided last November after being bugged for three
months.

Twelve men were arrested at that stage, with charges brought against seven of
them and the other five released pending reports.

Marks, of Parkhead Crescent in the city, was among a further three men detained
the following month.

A total of nine meetings were recorded, with each of the suspects said to have
been present on at least one occasion.

According to the prosecution topics discussed included membership of an outlawed
organisation, weapons procurement and training, terrorist funding and plans to
commit acts of terrorism.

Based on voice analysis Marks is alleged to have been present at three
gatherings in September and October.

Among the issues explored at those meetings were: previous operations, using
household items for bomb-making, constructing improvised explosive devices and
and transporting a small weapon in a loaf of bread.

Opposing bail, prosecution counsel said police are still seeking other suspects.

He contended: "There are clearly very significant steps being taken by this
group to prepare for future significant terrorist acts, (including) preparation
for sniper attacks on high-profile targets and an attack on the transport
infrastructure."

According to the barrister it would involve "a reckless disregard for life if
such an attack were to take place".

John Connolly, defending, said Marks strenuously denies any past or present
involvement with dissident republican groupings.

Mr Justice Burgess was told the accused is a chronic alcoholic who drinks up to
ten cans of beer and as much as a litre of vodka a day.

Mr Connolly stressed that Marks is only alleged to have been present for eight
of the 70 hours of surveillance at the house.

He said: "It's clear from the recordings that there's a lot of bravado from
individuals, talking about events of the past and gesturing about what to do
about the future.

"Within the recordings there's a lot of banter, there's arguments, there's fun,
there's light conversation and there's heated debate.

"There's also singing and recounting of some songs."

It was claimed that one of those present can be heard going into "numerous
monologues" and inviting others to recall stories.

"There's a concern that there has been a state involvement in almost what is
known as entrapment," Mr Connolly said.

He added that the Public Prosecution Service had responded to a request about
whether any of those arrested were state agents by saying it was not obliged to
answer the question.

Refusing bail, Mr Justice Burgess said he had "grave doubts" any release
conditions would be complied with.

The judge also stressed: "These are serious matters impacting on the whole
community and in particular various sections, including danger to their lives
and serious injury."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           February 12, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New terror attack on London is just a matter of time, warns police chief

BYLINE: Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263 words


NEW York police commissioner Bill Bratton today warned that London was at
greater risk of a terrorist attack than his own city.

The US "supercop", who pioneered zero tolerance and advised David Cameron on
gangs, said an attack was "not a matter of if, but when" and that Britain's
proximity to the Middle East and Africa increased the risk.

In an interview with the Evening Standard, he highlighted the danger to cities
of lone wolf terrorists, inspired by Islamic State, who might "grab a knife,
grab a hatchet, grab a gun".

Bratton, who oversaw massive falls in crime during his first stint in New York
and later while running the Los Angeles police department, issued his warning
during a visit to New York by mayor Boris Johnson. "Boris talked about the fact
that you have hundreds of people that you are monitoring - many are under
surveillance because you have active concerns," he said. "We have nowhere near
those numbers. You also have the proximity to the source, in terms of coming out
of the Middle East and the African continent.

"It is so easy once you get across the borders into Europe to move everywhere.
It is not a matter of if; it's a matter of when. All of us, whether it's London,
New York, Los Angeles - Paris is the most recent example."

Highlighting the threat of dirty bombs, he said: "There's not a belief at this
time that the terrorists that we're dealing with have the capability. But we're
constantly trying to look ahead."

In 2011, Bratton was touted as a Met police chief before Home Secretary Theresa
May said the job had to go to a Briton. @PippaCrerar

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Zero tolerance pioneer: New York police commissioner Bill Bratton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 12, 2015
                                 First Edition

Two men charged over planned terror attack;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories AUSTRALIA

BYLINE: Kristen Gelineau IN SYDNEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 114 words


Two men were yesterday charged with planning to launch a terrorist attack in
Australia, after police seized a home-made Isis flag, machete and hunting knife
in a counter-terrorism raid. The men, aged 24 and 25, would have carried out the
attack on Tuesday, the day they were arrested in the Sydney suburb of Fairfield,
officials said.

A video that was seized showed one of the men making threats, though what
exactly was said has not been revealed.

Australian Attorney General George Brandis later said the video depicted one of
the suspects kneeling in front of the Isis flag and threatening to commit
"violent acts". The men planned to launch their attack in western Sydney, he
said. AP

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 12, 2015 Thursday 1:22 PM GMT

Man who was 'hours away from committing Sydney terror attack' tried to join the
army when he first arrived in Australia because he LOVED the country so much

BYLINE: CANDACE SUTTON, SARAH DEAN, LILLIAN RADULOVA and SALLY LEE FOR DAILY
MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1153 words



     ·    Mohammad Kiad and Omar Al-Kutobi were arrested on terrorism charges
     ·    Knives, an ISIS flag and a video describing a planned attack were
          seized
     ·    They planned to target a Sydney police station and officers on the
          street
     ·    Al-Kutobi's father revealed his son tried to join the army just two
          years ago
     ·    The nursing student spoke to his dad hours before he was arrested


A 24-year-old nursing student charged with planning a terror attack on a Sydney
police station had once tried to join the Australian army out of love for the
country.

However, Omar Al-Kutobi's father Ahmad told Fairfax that his son's application
was rejected two years ago, adding that only six months ago the Iraqi born
refugee admitted he was frustrated with the nation he called home.

'He told me "life in Australia is so hard". I told him, "You don't remember when
you said Australia is the best country in the world?",' Ahmad recalled from his
home in Germany.

'Yes, but it is changing,' he said was his son's response.

Scroll down for video

Al-Kutobi and his housemate Mohammad Kiad, 25, appeared in court on Thursday two
days after they were arrested at their granny flat home in Fairfield, where
police allegedly found a machete, a hunting knife, and a video in which they
appeared in front of an Islamic State flag and one of them made violent threats.

They were detained just after Al-Kutobi bought a hunting knife from military and
camping supplies store and only hours before their alleged plan to attack police
officers was due to take place, according to Channel Nine.

Neither were on security watch-lists and both entered Australia as refugees.

Fairfax has reported that Al-Kutobi entered the country on a false passport in
2009 before being granted an Australian citizenship in 2013.

Kiad, whose Facebook page states that he has been married since 2010, received a
family and spousal visa in 2012 after leaving Kuwait, shortly before separating
from his wife.

'If they had managed to hurt someone I would have felt guilty for the rest of my
life, because I brought this man to Australia,' his wife, who preferred to
remain anonymous, told Channel 10.

It comes after Ahmad revealed his son had grown lonely in Australia and said
that he'd spoken to him just hours before his arrest.

'He told me he [was] working as a truck driver and asked me about his mother.
That is all. Everything was OK,' Ahmad, told Fairfax.

He said his son was struggling to find a balance between his work as a
removalist and his studies and revealed that he had begun a nursing degree after
struggling to find work in IT.

'He told [me] many times to come to him because he is alone,' Ahmad said.

The men's neighbours said Al-Kutobi and Kaid had begun acting differently after
the anti-terror raids in western Sydney last September

'He [Al-Kutobi] began wearing a scarf, just like ISIS and Mohammad, he grew a
long beard,' neighbour Michael David said.

'I heard them praying in there [the granny flat] and reading the Koran,' said Mr
David, who speaks Arabic.

Police will allege the men were plotting to carry out an attack on Tuesday and
had armed themselves with a machete and a hunting knife and made a video
detailing their plans.

An image of the pair smoking shisha together - obtained from 25-year-old Kiad's
Facebook page - was uploaded in July, 2013.

Neighbour Deresita Heisele-Brown said Omar al-utobi was friendlier than Mohammed
Kiad who was 'shy' but both young men had become more withdrawn over the last
month.

She said the boys rarely cooked - sometimes a barbecue - and ordered in pizza or
Chinese and went out to meet friends or go to the mosque.

'They wore western clothes but sometimes head wear and Mohammed wears long white
tunic, maybe for the mosque.'

She said both men went to Centrelink but were often short of money and couldn't
pay rent to the owner of the house, Mr Huynh, who has a large property with a
granny flat in which the two men lived, Kiad for a year and al-Kutobi for up to
three years.

Kiad worked as a nurse in Kuwait but could not transfer his skills to Australia
and both men had worked as furniture removalists.

Moldy Lebanese bread, boxes of energy cereal, an unused sink full of
plastic-ware and barbecue trays and utensils were found inside the home.

Inside the squat two bedroom granny flat which the two alleged terrorists tented
from their Vietnamese landlord, there are scenes which could depict the squalor
of any twenty something bachelors.

A picnic table sits out the back by the rubbish bins.

A song book is propped on the sink near a toolbox on top of the unnused stove.

A box of Arabic green tea has been torn open in the kitchen.

An Islamic calendar still hangs on the wall in a back room by a pulled out
drawer full of wires and leads.

Ms Jeisele-Brown said the pair had fallen out with another neighbour over the
last month or two for 'speaking sharp' and that she had been upset with them
after finding a religious picture of hers dumped in the rubbish bin.

'I had been in hospital having chemotherapy and when I came back home my picture
of Jesus Christ was missing,' she said.

'I found it in the rubbish. I don't know who dumped it but I thought... I didn't
say anything.'

Ms Heisele-Brown said Omar Al-Kutobi had been talking about going to Germany
where his mother lived and had been waiting for his mother to send him money.

'He had no family here, but he said he could never go back to Iraq.'

She said she had noticed that after the Martin Place siege, the two men had had
lengthy discussions in Arabic and had watched a lot of television, perhaps
coverage of the a siege.

She said when the police came around to arrest the pair, Mohammad had pretended
he didn't speak English.

She said detectives had made the men lie on the ground while they handcuffed
them.

The defendants, who were housemates at the time of their arrest, have asked for
an Arabic interpreter.

NSW Police Deputy Commissioner Catherine Burn said in a press conference on
Wednesday two men, aged 24 and 25, have been charged with 'acts done in
preparation, for, or planning terrorist acts'.

'We will be alleging that the two men were well advanced in their preparations,'
Ms Burn said.

It will be alleged that the two were going to undertake an act of terrorism in
Australia as revenge for incidents overseas.

Searches were conducted at their residence, as well as on a car, and where the
men work.

'We will allege both of these men were preparing to do this attack yesterday...
it was imminent and we acted,' Ms Burns said.

'The type of act is consistent with the messaging coming out of IS but we are of
the view that there is no further imminent attacks planned.'

AFP Deputy Commissioner, Michael Phelan, said the raids and arrests were an
example of how authorities are having to be 'nimble to adjust to the threat'.

'We acted as soon as we possibly could,' he said.

The raids, titled Operation 'CASTRUM', were led by NSW Police Force's Joint
Counter Terrorism Team.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     February 12, 2015 Thursday 4:44 PM GMT

Hayat Boumeddiene: Paris attack terrorist's widow tells Islamic State magazine
he was 'burning with desire' for jihad;
France's most wanted woman Hayat Boumeddiene's has been on the run since partner
Amedy Coulibaly killed a policewoman and four shoppers last month

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 414 words


The widow of a terrorist behind a bloody attack on a Paris supermarket has told
Islamic State's magazine that "his heart was burning with desire to fight the
enemies of Allah."

France's most wanted woman Hayat Boumeddiene's partner Amedy Coulibaly killed a
policewoman then shot dead four shoppers in a kosher shop following the Charlie
Hebdo attack.

Islamic State's French-language magazine, Dar al Islam, has published what they
claim is an interview with the fugitive in IS-held territory in Iraq and Syria.

Boumeddiene reportedly said: "His heart was burning with desire to come to his
brothers, and fight the enemies of Allah in the Caliphate.

"His eyes lit up every time he saw the videos of the Islamic State.

Of her own journey into Islamic State-held territory, she said: "I did not
encounter any difficulties... it is good to live in the land that is governed by
the laws of God."

Hayat Boumeddiene and Amedy Coulibaly life in pictures:

Hayat Boumeddiene and Amedy Coulibaly Life In Pictures

The 26-year-old reportedly told Dar al Islam that Coulibaly had been an Islamic
State supporter.

She encouraged Muslims to: "Study the life of the Prophet (peace and benediction
to him) and ofhis companions and see what was the purpose of their lives.

"Their purpose was to adore Allah as Allah wishes and not as their souls would
suggest it.

The issue of the magazine, under the headline, 'May Allah Curse France', shows a
picture of the Eiffel Tower.

Hayat interview

Boumeddiene has been wanted by French security forces after seventeen people
were killed by Islamist terrorists during three days of violence in Paris in
January.

The shootings began when two men went on a gun rampage at the office of French
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on 7 January.

Following the attack on the magazine, Coulibaly shot dead a policewoman then
held shoppers hostage at a kosher supermarket - killing four of them.

He was killed after being shot at least 40 times as French security forces
brought the siege to an end. Boumeddiene caught on camera at Instanbul Airport:

Paris terrorist partner Hayat Boumeddiene 'caught on CCTV'

At first it was thought that Boumeddiene had been in the supermarket but escaped
before it was stormed.

But CCTV footage found last month apparently shows that she arrived at Istanbul
airport in Turkey on 2 January - five days before the start of the attacks, Sky
News reports.

Turkish security services say Boumeddiene crossed into Islamic State-held
territory in Syria on 8 January.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Retail Week

                           February 12, 2015 Thursday

Darty says January Sales dented by Paris terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 314  words


French electricals specialist Darty recorded a drop in footfall during the
crucial January Sales period as a result of the Paris terrorist attacks.

Darty chief executive Régis Schultz revealed the retailer recorded a 15% drop in
footfall during the five-day period beginning on January 8, which he said was as
result of "the impact of the events in Paris".

French retailers are legally obliged to begin their Sales on January 8, the day
radical Islamists attacked the offices of French satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo, sparking turmoil in Paris that included a further terrorist attack on a
Kosher supermarket and a march by more than a million people through the French
capital.

The disruption to January Sales contributed to a 2.9% decline in like-for-like
sales at Darty during the three months to January 31.

Darty posted a 2.4% increase in total revenues during the same period as it
outperformed the market against a backdrop of weak consumer confidence.

The retailer reported close to a 10% increase in online sales driven by its
growing click-and-collect business.

Online sales account for 18% of total sales, ahead of an average of 17% across
France, according to Schultz.

Darty also sold 25,000 of its in-home customer service button during the
three-month period.

Schultz said: "We were well prepared for the peak season, performed well over
the Black Friday weekend and saw double-digit growth in web sales, demonstrating
the customer appeal of our multichannel offer.

"Against a strong performance last year our overall sales in the period
reflected a weaker than expected tablet and digital camera market, which more
than offset growth across other categories."

"We have further strengthened our market positions in the period adding 11 new
franchisees in France and completed the acquisition of 17 profitable stores in
the Netherlands."

matthew.chapman@emap.com (Matthew Chapman)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Retail Week


                            Copyright 2015 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    February 12, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Police swoop on pair who plotted Sydney terror attack

BYLINE: Bernard Lagan, Sydney

SECTION: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND

LENGTH: 488 words


Two suspected terrorists planning a public killing in Sydney recorded a video in
front of an Islamic State flag only 20 minutes before heavily armed police
stormed the makeshift home of one, authorities have disclosed.

The video showed the men kneeling before an Isis flag and detailing their plans
to conduct a random attack in Sydney. Officers have not revealed the intended
location of the attack.

Police received a tip-off that the men were planning an attack for Tuesday. They
placed them under urgent surveillance, tracking them through Sydney, before
raiding their small rented flat in western Sydney on the morning of their
planned attack.

Omar al-Kutobi, 24, and Mohammad Kiad, 25, were due to appear before a Sydney
court yesterday, but refused to be brought up from the cells.

Further details of the plot were disclosed by Tony Abbott, the prime minister,
in a statement to parliament last night. He said that police found a large
Islamic State (Isis) flag, a machete and a a hunting knife, and a video
recording of one suspect kneeling in front of the flag with the two knives while
making a statement in Arabic.

Mr Abbott said: "This is a serious issue and I suspect it will get worse before
it gets better . . . there are those out there, some living in our midst who
would do us harm."

Police said that the men had bought a knife from a military supplies shop on
Monday afternoon.

Mr al-Kutobi had gained Australian citizenship last year although his previous
nationality was not disclosed. He had been studying computer science.

On his Facebook site Mr Kiad listed himself as married but neighbours said that
he separated last year when he moved in with Mr al-Kutobi.

Catherine Burn, the deputy commissioner of the New South Wales Police, said it
would be alleged that the two men were going to undertake an act of terrorism in
Australia as revenge for incidents overseas.

"What we are going to allege is consistent with the [Isis] messaging," she said.
"We believe the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even kill
somebody, potentially using [the knife]," Ms Burn said. "The intent is clear."

Isis has urged its supporters in western countries to seek out and behead
non-believers, particularly police and law enforcement workers.

Ms Burns added: "We will be alleging that the two men were well advanced in
their preparations." The Australian government has estimated that at least 90
former Australian residents have joined Isis forces are or are aiding them in
other ways.

The small flat occupied by the arrested men remained locked after the police
raid. A small religious prayer flag could be seen hanging in a back room of the
flat, along with study books, clothes and drawers that had been pulled out and
left on the floor.

The owner of the property said that Mr Kiad and Mr Al-Kutobi rented the
two-bedroom flat for about $200 a week. She that said she had never been inside
as they always kept it locked.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 12, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Police swoop on duo who 'plotted Sydney terror attack'

BYLINE: Bernard Lagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 488 words


Two suspected terrorists planning a public killing in Sydney recorded a video in
front of an Islamic State flag only 20 minutes before heavily armed police
stormed the makeshift home of one, authorities claimed yesterday.

The video purportedly showed the men kneeling before an Isis flag and detailing
plans to conduct a random attack in Sydney. Officers have not revealed the
location of the suspected attack.

Police received a tip-off that the men were planning an attack for Tuesday.

They placed them under urgent surveillance, tracking them through Sydney, before
raiding their small rented flat in the west of the city on the morning of their
planned attack.

Omar al-Kutobi, 24, and Mohammad Kiad, 25, were due to appear before a Sydney
court yesterday, but refused to be brought up from the cells.

Further details of the alleged plot were disclosed by Tony Abbott, the prime
minister, in a statement to parliament. He said that police found a large
Islamic State flag, a machete and a hunting knife, and a video recording of one
suspect kneeling in front of the flag with the two knives while making a
statement in Arabic. Mr Abbott said: "This is a serious issue and I suspect it
will get worse before it gets better ... there are those out there, some living
in our midst, who would do us harm."

Police said that the men had bought a knife from a military supplies shop on
Monday afternoon.

Mr al-Kutobi had gained Australian citizenship last year, although his previous
nationality was not disclosed. He had been studying computer science.

On his Facebook site Mr Kiad listed himself as married but neighbours said that
he separated last year when he moved in with Mr al-Kutobi.

Catherine Burn, the deputy commissioner of the New South Wales police, said it
would be alleged that the two men were going to undertake an act of terrorism in
Australia as revenge for incidents overseas.

"What we are going to allege is consistent with the [Isis] messaging," she said.
"We believe the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even kill
somebody, potentially using [the knife]," Ms Burn said. "The intent is clear."
Isis has urged its supporters in western countries to seek out and behead
non-believers, particularly police and law enforcement workers.

Ms Burn added: "We will be alleging that the two men were well advanced in their
preparations." The Australian government has estimated that at least 90 former
Australian residents have joined Isis forces or are aiding them in other ways.

The small flat occupied by the arrested men remained locked after the police
raid. A small religious prayer flag could be seen hanging in a back room of the
flat, along with study books, clothes and drawers that had been pulled out and
left on the floor.

The owner of the property said that Mr Kiad and Mr al-Kutobi rented the
two-bedroom flat for about $200 a week. She added that she had never been inside
as they always kept it locked.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            February 13, 2015 Friday

Kunming terrorist attack suspects nabbed in Indonesia

BYLINE: CUI JIA

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 288 words


The Chinese and Indonesian governments exchanged information on nine terrorist
suspects, believed to be from the  Uygur autonomous region, who fled to
Indonesia after plotting an attack in China last year, Indonesian media
reported.

The Indonesian police arrested four of the nine. Three fled into the jungle and
two others escaped to Malaysia. The captured suspects are likely to be
extradited to China as the two countries signed an extradition treaty in 2009,
Jakata Post reported.

The nine were believed to be part of the group that launched the terrorist
attack in March at a train station in Kunming, Yunnan province, where 33 people
were killed and 133 wounded, said Saut Usman, head of the National
Counterterrorism Agency of Indonesia

Saut made the remarks after he signed an agreement in  with Meng Hongwei, deputy
Public Security Minister of China on Tuesday as a part of an efforts to further
enhance information sharing.

The suspects fled to Poso, Indonesia, by a land route through Myanmar, southern
Thailand and Malaysia. From Malaysia, they entered Indonesia with Turkish
passports, posing as asylum seekers, Saut said.

Saut said the police had difficulty questioning the four suspects, who were
ultimately arrested, because they gave inconsistent statements. They initially
admitted having come from Xinjiang, but under further questioning they retracted
their statements and said they came from a town in Turkey.

"Religious extremists from China now use Southeast Asia as transit points before
joining terrorist groups in the Middle East. So international anti-terrorism
cooperation is crucial for China," said Li Wei, an anti-terrorism studies
researcher at the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 13, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French terror attack widow tells all to Isil

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 202 words


THE Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) has published a purported
interview with the French widow of a Paris gunman, its first official claim that
Hayat Boumeddiene is in its territory.

Boumeddiene, 26, is thought to have fled to Syria via Turkey shortly before the
Paris attacks, in which 17 people were killed - including 12 at the offices of
Charlie Hebdo, the satirical magazine. She is wanted in France for her suspected
involvement in preparing the attacks.

Her husband Amedy Coulibaly killed a policewoman and four people in a kosher
supermarket in the French capital. An online French-language magazine run by
Isil claims to have interviewed Boumeddiene on her reasons for joining the
militant group. Dar al-Islam's front-page features the Eiffel Tower guarded by
French soldiers and the title: "May Allah curse France."

The two-page interview with the "spouse of our brother Abu Basir Abdullah
al-Afriki" - the name Coulibaly used in a propaganda video - does not mention
Boumeddiene by name or feature any pictures to corroborate her claim that she
reached the Islamist stronghold without difficulty.

"It is good to live in a land that is governed by the laws of Allah," she is
quoted as saying.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            February 13, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gun battle after deadly terror attack on mosque;
world in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 75 words


AT LEAST 10 people were killed and 40 wounded today in the Pakistani city of
Peshawar after gunmen stormed a mosque. Three explosions also rocked the Shia
mosque in what was believed to be a sectarian attack. Police said the armed men
broke into the building during Friday prayers. "An operation has started against
the terrorists," said Mian Saeed, police chief of the north-western city. The
BBC reported that police and gunmen were exchanging fire.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 13, 2015 Friday 4:00 PM GMT

Report claims 'Lone Wolf' domestic terrorism is on the rise... with an attack or
plan foiled every 34 days since 2009

BYLINE: ANNETA KONSTANTINIDES FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 769 words



     ·    Southern Poverty Law Center report cited 63 victims in six years from
          plots carried out by American extremists
     ·    Urged government to pay more attention to threats at home
     ·    90% of recent domestic terrorist attacks were carried out by 1-2
          people
     ·    And 51% were inspired by ideologies 'of hate'
     ·    White House is holding summit to discuss countering violent extremism


While recent attacks in Paris and Sydney dominate the headlines, a new report
has found that domestic terrorism by 'lone wolf' assailants is on the rise.

A terrorist attack or foiled encounter has taken place, on average, every 34
days in the US since 2009, according to a study released today by the Southern
Poverty Law Center.

The watchdog group urged the government to pay more attention to domestic
terrorist attacks, citing 63 victims in six years from plots carried out by
American extremists, including right-wing radicals and homegrown jihadists.

Mark Potok, the study's editor, said the report was not 'trying to diminish the
very real jihadist threat' abroad, but rather implored the government to take
notice of the dangers at home as well, according to  Yahoo! News.

'We have known since Timothy McVeigh murdered 168 people in Oklahoma City in
1995 that there is a very real and very substantial threat in terms of terrorism
from our fellow Americans,' he said.

The concept of the 'lone wolf', defined as a person who carries out a terrorist
attack entirely on his own, gained popularity in the 1980s from a violent member
of the Ku Klux Klan.

Louis Beam advocated for radicals to stop acting together in large groups -
which only made it easier for them to get caught - and instead called for 'lone
wolf action or leaderless resistance' that involved no more than six men.

The  SPLC study found that 74 per cent of the 63 incidents examined from April
1, 2009, through Feburary 1, 2015, were carried out or planned by a single
person.

And 90 per cent of the incidents were just the work of one or two people.

According to the report, lone wolf's are all the more dangerous because often
nobody else knows about their plan for violence.

This is because homegrown terrorists are hiding themselves 'in the anonymity and
safety of the Internet', Potok said.

The 2012 massacre of six people at a Wisconsin Sikh temple by a neo-Nazi, and
the murder of two police officers and a bystander last summer by a Las Vegas
couple with anti-government views, were two of the incidents included in the
study.

Following the recent attacks in Sydney and Paris, the White House will hold a
summit next week to discuss countering violent extremism.

But Potok has concerns the meeting will focus too heavily 'on the threat of
Islamist terrorism'.

'The government, at least in our view, has fallen down in many ways with respect
to dealing with domestic terrorism' he said.

National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said the summit will not focus 'on
any particular religion, ideology or political movement,' he wrote in an email
to Yahoo News.

He said the summit will 'address contemporary challenges' and attempt to 'draw
lessons that are applicable to the full spectrum of violent extremists'.

A task force dedicated to domestic terrorism was created after the 1995 Oklahoma
City bombing, but it disbanded not long after the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

The Department of Homeland Security's team dedicated to non-Islamic domestic
terrorism similarly fell apart in 2009 after it was heavily criticized for a
report stating that right-wing radicalism grew exponentially following the
election of Barack Obama to office in 2009.

Attorney General Eric Holder announced last summer that the task force that
disintegrated in 2001 would be revived, although the SPLC has noted that a
meeting has yet to be held.

The report found that there were two main motivations fueling domestic
terrorism.

Almost half of the attacks in the last six years were fueled by anti-government
radicals, whereas 51 per cent of the incidents were inspired by ideologies 'of
hate', including both white supremacy and radical Islamism.

But after the recent attacks in Paris and Sydney, combined with the ongoing
brutality of ISIS, Potok said Muslims in America are 'clearly under fire'.

This week three young American-born Muslim students in North Carolina were
brutally executed by their neighbor Craig Stephen Hicks.

Although the most recent shooting in Chapel Hill has yet to be ruled a hate
crime - police believe it was caused by a parking dispute - Potok said he
believes the country will only continue to see similar violence.

'It is very likely to get worse before it gets better.'

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 13, 2015 Friday 7:47 PM GMT

Nisman successor formally accuses Kirchner;
Prosecutor who has taken over the case of Alberto Nisman, the Argentine
investigator found dead, formally accuses President Cristina Kirchner and
members of her government over alleged cover-up of a 1994 terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 352 words


The federal prosecutor who has taken over the case of Alberto Nisman, the
Argentina investigator who was found dead after accusing the president of
covering up the country's worst ever terrorist attack, has formally accused
Cristina Kirchner - giving his support to his late colleague.

Gerardo Pollicita took over the case following the death of Nisman on January
18. Nisman had spent a decade looking into the 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires
Jewish centre, AMIA, that left 85 people dead, including a young child.

On January 14 Nisman accused Mrs Kirchner of attempting to cover up Iranian
responsability for the AMIA bombing, in return for favourable oil and grain
deals.

On January 20 he was due to present his findings to Congress - but his body was
found hours before his scheduled appearance, inside his apartment.

His death was initially treated by the government as suicide, but Mrs Kirchner
on January 22 changed her mind and accused "rogue spies" who, she claimed, "used
him alive, then needed him dead."

On Friday Mr Pollicita formally accused Mrs Kirchner of orchestrating a cover-up
to protect Iran, backing the findings of his late colleague.

Judge Daniel Rafefas, presiding over the case, will now decide whether there is
sufficient evidence for a case to be heard and charges to be brought.

Mr Pollicita also requested permission - in continuation of Nisman's work - to
investigate Hector Timerman, the foreign minister; Andrés Larroque, a
pro-Kirchner MP; activists Luis D'Elía and Fernando Esteche; an Iranian man said
to be the "go-between" for the Argentines, Jorge Yusuf Khalil; former judge
Héctor Yrimia and a man described as a spy by Nisman, Ramón "Alan" Bogado.

Unlike Nisman, Mr Pollicita has not requested the arrest of the president. A
draft of an arrest warrant was found in Nisman's apartment after his death.

However, if the prosecutor and the judge agree that there are enough elements to
prove Mrs Kirchner committed a crime, she could face prosecution and be charged
after she steps down from office in October.

All of those accused have strongly denied attempting to shield Iran.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

Iran slams terrorist attack on Shi'i mosque in Pakistan

LENGTH: 213 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 14 February:  Iran's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman has strongly condemned
the Friday [13 February] terrorist attack on a Shi'i mosque in the north-western
Pakistani city of Peshawar.

While extending the Islamic Republic's condolences and solidarity with the
victims' families, [Marziyeh] Afkham stressed Iran condemned any terrorist
attack on innocent Pakistani people of any ethnicity or religion and deemed it
contrary to Islamic teachings and human values.

According to Pakistani government officials, a Taleban attack on a Shia mosque
in the northwestern Pakistani city of Peshawar killed at least 20 people and
injured more than 65 others on Friday.

During the attack, at least four suicide bombers, wearing security forces
uniforms, hit the Imamia mosque during Friday prayers. The Tehrik-i-Taleban
Pakistan (TTP) claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement, which
according to one of their spokesman was in revenge for the execution of one of
their members by the Pakistani government.

The group is also responsible for the December 16 attack on a school in Peshawar
that left 150 people dead, mostly students.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1150 gmt 14 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

Iran condemns terrorist attack on Shi'i worshippers in Pakistan

LENGTH: 149 words


Excerpt from report by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

TEHRAN (Tasnim) - Iran's Foreign Ministry strongly condemned a Friday [13
February] terrorist attack on a Shi'i mosque in Pakistan's Peshawar that killed
at least 19 people.

Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham said on Saturday [14 February] that
Iran condemns terrorist attacks targeting the innocent people of Pakistan,
regardless of their religion or ethnicity.

Expressing sympathy with the bereaved families of victims, Afkham said such acts
of terror run counter to "the teachings of Islam and the human values."

The Friday attack on the Imamia mosque in Peshawar killed at least 19 people and
injured more than 50 others.

[Passage omitted on the details of the attack; international reaction; the
number of Shi'i Muslims living in Pakistan]

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 0848gmt 14 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     February 14, 2015 Saturday 9:08 PM GMT

One dead and three injured in Copenhagen 'terrorist attack';
Swedish artist Lars Vilks, who has faced death threats for caricaturing prophet
Muhammad, was at blasphemy debate in cafe hit by estimated 200 shots

BYLINE: Chris Johnston and agencies

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 737 words


One person has been killed and three police officers injured after armed men
opened fire on a cafe in Copenhagen where a debate on Islam and free speech was
being held.

The meeting was attended by Lars Vilks, the controversial Swedish artist who has
faced death threats for caricaturing the prophet Muhammad. Also in attendance
was François Zimeray, the French ambassador to Denmark.

"They fired on us from the outside. It was the same intention as [the 7 January
attack on] Charlie Hebdo except they didn't manage to get in," Zimeray told AFP.

"Intuitively I would say there were at least 50 gunshots, and the police here
are saying 200. Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves to
the floor," the ambassador added.

"We managed to flee the room, and now we're staying inside because it's still
dangerous. The attackers haven't been caught and they could very well still be
in the neighbourhood."

He sent this tweet from the cafe moments after the attack.

Neither Vilks nor Zimeray were injured, but at least one person was killed in
the attack at about 3pm GMT. The gunmen fled the scene by car.

Eyewitnesses said that the police officers were injured outside the cafe.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility.

The victim was a 40-year-old man who was inside the cafe attending the event. He
has not yet been identified.

Danish police, who initially said they were searching for two suspects, issued a
picture of the main suspect on Saturday evening, taken on street cameras near to
where the getaway car, a VW Polo, was later found dumped.

The Danish security service said in a statement the circumstances surrounding
the shooting "indicate that we are talking about a terror attack".

Niels Ivar Larsen, one of the speakers at the event, told Denmark's TV2: "I
heard someone firing with automatic weapons and someone shouting.

"Police returned the fire and I hid behind the bar. It felt surreal, like in a
movie."

Helle Merete Brix, one of the meeting's organisers, said: "I saw a masked man
running past. I clearly consider this as an attack on Lars Vilks."

David Cameron, the prime minister, said his thoughts were with the Danish
people, tweeting: "I condemn the shootings in #Copenhagen. #Freespeech must
always be protected."

Laurent Fabius, the French foreign minister, condemned what he called a
"terrorist attack".

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, was travelling to Copenhagen on
Saturday night.

François Hollande has expressed his solidarity to Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the
Danish prime minister, Cazeneuve said.

Danish reports said there were about 30 bullet holes in the window of the
Krudttønden cafe where the meeting organised by Vilks was being held.

The cafe in northern Copenhagen, known for its jazz concerts, was hosting an
event titled "Art, blasphemy and the freedom of expression" when the shots were
fired.

The meeting was also being held to mark the anniversary of the fatwa against
Salman Rushdie issued by Islamic fundamentalists after he wrote The Satanic
Verses.

Vilks, 68, outraged many Muslims in 2007 after he depicted the prophet
Muhammad's head on the body of a dog.

In September that year, Vilks had a $100,000 bounty placed on his head by an
al-Qaida faction in Iraq in response to his drawings.

In 2010 Swedish newspapers reprinted the controversial cartoon after two Muslim
men were arrested and subsequently charged in the Irish Republic in connection
with an alleged plot to murder Vilks.

Since then he has received numerous death threats and has lived under constant
police protection.

Two years ago, an American woman who called herself Jihad Jane was sentenced to
10 years in prison for plotting to kill him.

The Lars Vilks committee gave its freedom prize to the Charlie Hebdo, the French
satirical magazine, in October 2014 - three months before the terrorist attack
on its Paris office.

Gerard Biard, the magazine's editor-in chief, who received the prize in
Copenhagen, survived the attack as he was in London on 7 January.

After the Charlie Hebdo attack, Vilks said that even fewer organisations were
inviting him to give lectures over increased security concerns.

He also thought that Sweden's SAPO security service, which deploys bodyguards to
protect him, would step up the security around him.

"This will create fear among people on a whole different level than we're used
to," he said. "Charlie Hebdo was a small oasis. Not many dared do what they
did."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 14, 2015 Saturday 12:09 PM GMT

Isis 'follower' arrested in east London on suspicion of collecting information
'useful' for planning terror attack;
The 32-year-old man is in custody after being detained on Saturday morning

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 289 words


A suspected Isis member has been arrested in east London on suspicion of
collecting information in preparation for a terror attack.

The 32-year-old man, who has not been named, is also charged with being a member
of a banned organisation, the so-called Islamic State, and "encouraging
terrorism".

A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said he was arrested by the force's
Counter Terrorism Command (SO15) in Newham on Saturday morning.

"He has been taken into custody at a south London police station," she added.

In pictures: The rise of Isis

A statement listed charges including "collection of information which may be
useful to somebody who commits or prepares acts of terrorism".

In September, Isis spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani issued a message urging
supporters to carry out attacks abroad, specifically mentioning Europe in his
call for bloodshed.

Read more: Isis calls for terror attacks around the worldUK plans to cope with
terrorist attack changed after ParisWoolwich-inspired teenager arrested on way
to behead soldier

Last month, he issued another call to arms, saying any loyalist who has the
opportunity to "shed a drop of blood" should do so.

His statements may have inspired gunmen in Australia, France and would-be
terrorists who planned an attack in Belgium.

Isis was put on the UK's list of proscribed terror organisations in June last
year as it waged its bloody campaign to establish a hard-line Islamic caliphate
in Iraq and Syria.

An unknown number of British-born jihadists have travelled to join the group and
authorities are attempting to stop anyone returning and planning attacks on home
soil.

Britain has faced four major terror plots in the past year, with three in recent
months, according to the head of MI5.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                    February 14, 2015 Saturday 12:04 AM GMT

Hunt for gunman in Danish terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words



HIGHLIGHT: Man killed in Danish shooting


A man was killed and three police wounded when a masked gunman sprayed bullets
into a Copenhagen meeting attended by a Swedish artist threatened with death for
his cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad.

Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said Denmark was on high alert after a
"terrorist attack".

Police said it was aimed at artist Lars Vilks, who sparked controversy in 2007
with published drawings depicting the Prophet Mohammad as a dog.

The attacker escaped in a car that was found later in the outskirts of
Copenhagen and a manhunt was under way.

A cafe complex was hosting a cultural event called "Art, Blasphemy and Freedom
of Expression".

French ambassador Francois Zimeray, who was attending the event, likened the
shooting to the attack on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper in Paris by Islamist
militants that killed 12 people last month.

"We feel certain now that it was a politically motivated attack, and thereby it
was a terrorist attack," Ms Thorning-Schmidt told journalists close to the site
of the attack.

European Council President Donald Tusk called the attack "another brutal
terrorist attack targeted at our fundamental values and freedoms, including the
freedom of expression".

The event's main speaker was Mr Vilks. He and Mr Zimeray were unharmed.

Witnesses said one or more gunmen had tried to shoot their way into the venue
before guards returned fire.

"I heard someone firing with automatic weapons and someone shouting. Police
returned the fire and I hid behind the bar. It felt surreal, like in a movie,"
Niels Ivar Larsen told Danish TV2.

The police said at first they were seeking two men who had sped off in a getaway
vehicle, but later said they were looking for one man.

They issued a photograph of a suspect wearing a thick coat and maroon bobble
hat. His face was obscured by a scarf.

"I'm still a bit stunned. I was inside, I had just sat down after my speech and
then I heard shots," Mr Zimeray told French news channel TF1.

"We all dove to the floor as we heard the gunshots and tried to protect
ourselves, and we crawled to the emergency exit."

Media reports and witnesses described the attack, saying between 20 and 40 shots
were fired from an automatic weapon.

Television footage showed windows of the arts centre and cafe riddled with
bullet holes.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2015 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 14, 2015 Saturday 11:23 PM GMT

Copenhagen café: two gunmen in terror attack at freedom of speech event;
One man dead and three police officers injured after two gunmen fire scores of
bullets at Copenhagen café holding an event in support of freedom of speech

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer and Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 766 words


Follow latest updates

A Copenhagen café holding an event in support of freedom of speech was attacked
by two gunmen on Saturday, leaving one man dead and three police officers
injured.

The meeting was organised by Swedish artist Lars Vilks, who has faced several
death threats for his controversial caricatures of the Prophet Mohammad.

The attack came just over a month after the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris, in
which Islamist terrorists killed 17 people.

The French ambassador to Denmark, Francois Zimeray, was one of the speakers at
the event, which was described by Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Danish prime
minister as a "terrorist act".

As many as 200 bullet holes ripped through the window of the Krudttoenden café
and at least two people were taken away on stretchers, including a uniformed
police officer.

The gunmen then fled the area in a dark coloured VW Polo car, according to
witnesses. The car was later found in a nearby street but the two gunmen were
still at large on Saturday night.

Helle Merete Brix, one of the organisers of the event - called Art, Blasphemy
And The Freedom Of Expression - confirmed that Vilks was at the event but had
not been injured.

She said: "I saw a masked man running past. A couple of police officers were
injured. I clearly consider this as an attack on Lars Vilks."

Interactive: Copenhagen shooting

Niels Ivar Larsen, one of the speakers at the event, said: "I heard someone
firing with an automatic weapons and someone shouting. Police returned the fire
and I hid behind the bar. I felt surreal, like in a movie."

In a statement, Danish police said the victim was a 40-year-old who had been
attending the event. He had not been identified last night.

Blix was ushered away shortly after the attack by one of the Danish police
guards that accompanies him whenever he is in the country.

In a statement, French President Francois Hollande called the shooting
"deplorable" and said Mrs Thorning-Schmidt would have the "full solidarity of
France in this trial".

According to Vilks's website, the event was staged to mark the anniversary of
the fatwa issued against Salman Rushdie by Iran's Ayatollah Khamenei, in 1989,
following the publication of the Satanic Verses. As well as Vilks, Inna
Chevchenko from the feminist protest group Femen was also due to attend.

Just over a month ago, France was shocked by three days of violence that began
when two Islamist gunmen burst into the Paris offices of the satirical weekly
Charlie Hebdo, opening fire in revenge for its publication of satirical images
of the Prophet Mohammad.

One member of the Islamist terror cell, who had already killed a police woman,
went on to hold shoppers hostage at a Jewish supermarket in the city, killing
four.

A second siege at a printing works on the outskirts of Paris ended without
civilian casualties when police stormed the building, killing the two brothers
who had attacked the Charlie Hebdo offices.

Following the Copenhagen attack, Mr Zimeray gave a dramatic account of events,
saying: "They fired on us from the outside. It was the same intention as (the
attack on) Charlie Hebdo except they didn't manage to get in.

"Intuitively I would say there were at least 50 gunshots, and the police here
are saying 200. Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves to
the floor. We managed to flee the room, and now we're staying inside because
it's still dangerous."

The café in northern Copenhagen, known for its jazz concerts, was hosting an
event titled "Art, blasphemy and the freedom of expression" when the shots were
fired. Niels Ivar Larsen, one of the speakers at the event, said that at least
two people were wounded.

After the shooting the meeting carried on inside the café - which had been
sealed off by police - with the organisers saying they were determined to stand
up to attempts to silence them.

Vilks, a 68-year-old Swedish artist, has faced several attempted attacks and
death threats since he depicted the Prophet Muhammad as a dog in 2007.

A Pennsylvania woman last year was sentenced to a 10-year prison term for a plot
to kill Vilks. In 2010 two brothers tried to burn down his house in southern
Sweden and were imprisoned for attempted arson.

Mr Vilks said he thought Sweden's SAPO security service, which deploys
bodyguards to protect him, would step up the security around him.

He said: "This will create fear among people on a whole different level than
we're used to," he said. "Charlie Hebdo was a small oasis. Not many dared do
what they did."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      February 15, 2015 Sunday 8:37 AM GMT

Copenhagen shootings: Danish police shoot dead man believed to be responsible
for terror attacks;
A MANHUNT was launched following two separate terror incidents just hours apart
in the Danish capital on Saturday.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 602 words


Video: Danish prime minister addresses the nation after terror attacks

POLICE in Copenhagen have shot dead a man they believe was responsible for two
shootings that claimed the lives of two civilians just hours apart.

Officers had an address in the Norrebro area of the Danish city under
observation and hailed the man as he approached before he opened fire on them
and was shot, police said.

Investigator Joergen Skov told reporters the preliminary probe showed nothing
that suggested there were other gunmen involved in the two earlier attacks, in
which a man died after being shot in the head near a synagogue and a a
55-year-old man was killed at a freedom-of-speech event.

The second deadly attack took place in the Krystalgade area of the city, with
two police officers also shot in the arm and leg and the gunman fleeing from the
scene on foot.

A manhunt had already begun for the gunman who opened fire at an event at a
Krudttonden cafe, leaving one citizen dead and three police officers injured.

The gathering featured Swedish cartoonist and historian Lars Vilks, who depicted
the Prophet Mohammed with the body of a dog in 2007.

In the cafe attack police said both Mr Vilks and French ambassador to Denmark
Francois Zimeray, who was also at the event, were both unharmed. The three
police officers were also "out of danger", they said.

Danish prime minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt told reporters in the Danish
capital last night: "We feel certain now that it's a politically motivated
attack, and thereby it is a terrorist attack.

"We take this situation extremely seriously. We are in a high alarm all over the
country, and our main priority at this stage is to catch the perpetrators and
make sure that we find them as soon as possible."

Prime Minister David Cameron led British condemnation of the attack. He said his
thoughts were with the Danish people, tweeting: "I condemn the shootings in
Copenhagen. Freespeech must always be protected."

Danish police, who initially said they were searching for two suspects, issued a
picture of the main suspect taken on street cameras near where the getaway car,
a VW Polo, was later found dumped.

Mr Zimeray tweeted from his FranceDK account shortly after the shooting,
writing: "Still alive in the room."

The cafe in northern Copenhagen was hosting an event titled Art, Blasphemy And
The Freedom Of Expression when the shots were fired, according to reports.

It comes little more than a month after the attack on the offices of the French
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris, which left 12 people dead.

According to larsvilks.com, the event was marking the anniversary of the fatwa
against Salman Rushdie. As well as Mr Vilks, Inna Shevchenko from the feminist
protest group Femen was also present.

It added that the Lars Vilks Committee, set up to support the cartoonist and
freedom of expression, awarded its 2014 freedom prize to Charlie Hebdo last
October.

Jodie Ginsberg, chief executive of Index on Censorship, condemned the attack,
saying: "The use of violence on a gathering exploring the intersection of
religious and artistic freedom should send shivers down our spines.

"It would be terrible if violent acts such as that in Copenhagen shut down free
speech even further."

As police put the area around Krystalgade on lockdown, Sebastian Zepeda, 19,
from London, said he did not want to leave his hotel room after hearing of the
first shooting and was texting his mother when the second shooting happened in
the street below.

"I was on my bed and I heard gunshots. And my heart raced," he said. "All of a
sudden the road was packed with police."

Facebook banner

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 15, 2015 Sunday 9:12 PM GMT

Copenhagen shootings: Security tightened in UK as Europe put on copycat terror
attack alert;
Armed police are to be deployed at GCHQ in response to the increased terrorism
threat level of "severe" with an attack at the listening post "highly likely"

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 2083 words


A lone wolf gunman's bloody attack in Copenhagen has sparked fears of terrorism
on Britain's streets.

While yet another European country counted its dead and injured just six weeks
after Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris, the UK security services were put on high
alert for a copycat attack in the UK.

The current threat level from international terrorism for the UK is rated as
"severe".

Armed police are to be deployed at GCHQ in response to the UK's increased
terrorism threat level, it was reported today.

The listening post in Cheltenham says the decision to bring in Ministry of
Defence Police is linked to a terrorist attack being "highly likely".

A GCHQ spokesman said: "The security posture of our sites, including the safety
of our staff, is under constant review.

"Our enhanced security arrangements are not in response to any specific threat
but related to the raising of the UK threat level from international terrorism
from substantial to severe last year."

Copenhagen shooting

The attack may have been inspired by those of Islamic extremists in Paris last
month, officials said.

And after recent terror attacks in France, Canada and Australia, MI5 believe it
is only a matter of time before a similar atrocity is carried out in the UK.

Armed police are now routinely deployed to tens of thousands of incidents a year
across Britain that are not related to terrorism of firearms offences.

Simon Chesterman, the national spokesman for armed policing, said earlier this
month armed officers needed to be deployed so they were ready for major gun
threats.

"If you are not allowed to use them for routine police duties, they become an
expensive commodity and your level of policing resource is diminished."

"If we restrict them to firearms deployments only, it is an appalling use of
public money," he added.

Colonel Richard Kemp, former commander of British Forces in Afghanistan, fears
that the UK faces a terror threat from several areas.

"The kind of attacks that we saw in Copenhagen and in Paris could easily happen
here in the UK and probably will," he told the Mirror.

"Many British youths have been radicalised in their mosques, at university, by
the internet or in prison.

"A worrying number have already been drawn to travel to fight with the Islamic
State in Iraq and in Syria. Some will return, blooded and experienced in
killing, with the intention of attacking what they see as enemies of Islam.

"These are the most dangerous. But others may also try and have a go as we have
seen in the recent past. Their attacks, though perhaps less proficient, can also
be deadly."

He called on members of the Islamic community to report anyone they suspect may
be involved in the planning of a terrorist attack.

"The targets will include those who have condemned violent jihadism as well as
soldiers, police and Jews.

"The police and intelligence and security services are on the alert for these
people and have had a huge amount of success over recent years - saving many
lives. But some will get through the net.

"It is the responsibility of members of our Islamic community to report those
who they suspect of planning an attack.

"Some, often courageously, have done so in the past. All who support the rule of
law, freedom and democracy, should follow their example.

"Without their help we are increasingly vulnerable to disaffected Muslim youths
who want to copy the attackers in Denmark and France and lash out at Western
society.

"I don't want to spread undue alarm, but the reality is that we are in a
downward spiral of jihadist violence which is set to continue as people here at
home copy what is going on elsewhere in Europe - encouraged by the Islamic State
death cult in the Middle East.

"The ultimate solution can only be visible defeat of the Islamic State which
will discourage their followers.

"For now, the government seems to lack the military and diplomatic commitment
necessary to bring this about."

A Carnival parade was called off in northern Germany today after a 'specific
threat of an Islamist attack' was identified by state security sources.

The 4,00-strong parade in Braunschweig, which draws around 250,000 visitors each
year, was cancelled just 90 minutes before it was due to start.

The town's mayor Ulrich Markurth said: "This is a sad day for our city."

Copenhagen shootings: Moment police shot 'gunman' dead after terror attacks

The Danish gunman, whose attack has left two dead and many more seriously
injured, was shot dead by police this morning after he opened fire on armed
officers.

He was tracked down by police using CCTV following two separate attacks on a
cafe and a synagogue.

The terrorist, who is thought to have carried out the gun attacks alone, was
tonight named locally as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, a 22-year-old born in
Denmark.

He is believed to have been released from prison just two weeks ago following a
prison sentence for aggravated assault.

The terror suspect is also thought to have had previous convictions for arms
offences and may have affiliations with local gangs in the city.

In November 2013 he was said to have stabbed a fellow passenger while travelling
on a train in Copenhagen. His 19-year-old victim was wounded in the legs and
buttocks with a large knife.

The terrorist was carrying two pistols at the time he was shot - and police also
found an automatic weapon similar to the one used in the shootings after
searching the area.

A police spokesperson said: "We have knowledge of the man's identity but due to
the ongoing investigation we are not in a position to reveal it."

Asked whether the man belonged to any known terrorist groups, he added: "I
cannot comment on whether he is connected to any known groups.

"We do not have concrete knowledge of him being a traveller to conflict zones."

Police tracked him down using CCTV to an area surrounding Norrebro metro station
at around 5am on Sunday.

The gunman had earlier killed two people in separate attacks at a free speech
event and a synagogue on Saturday.

Finn Noergaard, a 55-year-old film director, was killed at Krudttonden cafe in
the north of the city.

Dan Uzan, a 37-year-old Jewish security guard, was shot in the head as he stood
outside a building belonging to the city's Great Synagogue while a Bar Mitzvah
went on inside.

Two people today were seen being led out of an internet cafe in handcuffs as
part of the ongoing investigation.

At around 4pm on Saturday, the lone gunman opened fire on the front of a
Krudttonden cafe where Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks was taking part in a debate
on free speech.

The gunman shot through the windows of the building managing to wound three
police officers as well as kill Mr Noergaard.

Mr Vilks was whisked away unharmed by his bodyguards.

The 68-year-old has been considered the gunman's intended target having
previously drawn the Prophet Mohammed as a dog.

He said: "What other motive could there be? It's possible it was inspired by
Charlie Hebdo.

"At first there was panic. People crawled down under tables. My bodyguards
quickly pulled me away.

"We were well isolated in there. It would have been much worse if this happened
during the break, when people walk out."

Speaking to the Mirror, Agnieszka Kolek, 38, a freedom campaigner from London,
was sitting next to the Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks, who was the intended
target at the free speech debate.

Controversial artist Lars Vilks speaks about the stigma surrounding his work

She said: "I was invited to give a talk at the event. When I arrived there was
tight security and everyone had to walk through metal airport-style scanners.

"But it was an event open to the public. No one thought there would be a crazy
Islamist running around Denmark this weekend."

Inna Shevchenko, a member of the Ukrainian feminist group FEMEN which often
protest topless, was giving a talk when the gunman opened fire on the café.

Miss Kolek, a Polish national who has lived in London for 13 years, said: "The
gunman opened fire when Inna Shevchenko started talking about her friendship
with those at Charlie Hebdo and how we must all keep on with the fight for
freedom of speech.

"She was just telling us about the terrible attack on Charlie Hebdo when
suddenly we heard the first shots...bam, bam, bam. They were quite slow at first
and they initially sounded like fire crackers.

"I was sitting next to Lars when suddenly his security guards grabbed him and
started running. But I thought it was too far to get to the fire exit.

"I thought to myself that I didn't want to die because I have more things in my
life that I want to do. So I decided to hide behind a curtain next to the door."

The gunman fled by Volkswagen Polo and abandoned the vehicle. He is then
believed to have called a taxi to take him to an address in the Norrebro
district.

Then at around midnight on Sunday he carried out an attack on a nearby synagogue
in central Copenhagen.

Mr Uzan, 37, was working at a young girl's Bat Mitzvah where around 80 people
were inside, when he was killed by a gunshot to the head.

Two police officers, who were at the synagogue to provide extra security
following the earlier cafe shooting, were also shot in the arms and legs.

They are in a stable condition in hospital.

Danish prime minister addresses the nation after terror attacks

A city-wide manhunt was launched after his death as the suspect fled on foot.

He was killed at around 5am on Sunday after opening fire on police officers
outside an apartment block on Svanevej, around the corner from Copenhagen's
Norrebro metro station.

Soren Krebs, 22, a student living in the block, said: "I was woken from my bed
at 5am when I heard gunfire right outside the window of my apartment.

"It was terrifying. Me and a flatmate ran into the kitchen for protection
because we thought the bullets might come through the walls.

"When the shooting stopped I went into the living room and looked out the
window. I saw a man dressed entirely in black, with a bullet proof vest on. It
was a police officer holding some sort of sub-machine gun. He was standing over
a body.

"I couldn't see the body properly because it was dark and they covered it up
quickly. They put a tent around the body.

"Then I heard banging on the door. It was two police officers who wanted to ask
us a lot of questions. Our names, were we the owners of the flat, what we had
seen, that sort of thing. I don't think the terrorist lived in this block
though. It is mostly Danish people who live here.

"They did they break into an apartment upstairs but I heard it was just an old
lady living there who didn't get up to answer in time. Everyone here is
extremely shocked. People have died on the streets and it will take a long time
before people get over it."

Danish police issued a picture of the main suspect in the first attack, which
was taken on CCTV cameras near to where the getaway car, a VW Polo, was later
found dumped.

Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said: "We do not know the motive
for the alleged perpetrator's actions, but we know that there are forces that
want to hurt Denmark.

"They want to rebuke our freedom of speech."

David Cameron described the shootings as "terrible", adding: "The shootings in
Copenhagen are an appalling attack on free speech and religious freedom.

"Two innocent people have been murdered simply for their beliefs and my thoughts
are with their loved ones and all those injured at this tragic time."

Last month a total of 17 people were killed in a series of terror attacks in
Paris which took place at the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine, where
cartoonists and writers were shot dead, as well as at a kosher deli supermarket.

The atrocities were carried out by three Islamist jihadists with links to the
same terror cell.

The Israeli prime minister is now calling for the "massive immigration" of
European Jews to his country following a shooting outside a synagogue in Denmark
that killed a man.

Benjamin Netanyahu said the government will discuss a 46 million US dollar (£30
million) plan to encourage Jewish immigration from France, Belgium and Ukraine.

He said: "This wave of attacks is expected to continue. Jews deserve security in
every country, but we say to our Jewish brothers and sisters, Israel is your
home."

Meanwhile at least two people have been arrested in Copenhagen who are thought
to have been linked to the attack.

The gunman is connected to a violent gang known in Denmark as the Brothas.

The gang has a history of violence in Copenhagen and are well known to police.

It is now feared that other members could carry out further attacks in the city.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 15, 2015 Sunday 6:35 PM GMT

Copenhagen shooting: Picture of first victim of 'Charlie Hebdo-style' terror
attack revealed;
Finn Noergaard was a Danish filmmaker and was in the audience listening to a
debate on freedom of speech

BYLINE: By Alex Wellman

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


This is the first picture of murdered Danish filmmaker Finn Noergaard who died
at the hands of suspected jihadist during a Charlie Hebdo-style attack.

The 55-year-old was in the audience for a free speech even in Copenhagen
yesterday when a man with an automatic weapon opened fire on the venue -
blasting bullets through a window.

Mr Noergaard was sitting in the Krudttoenden cultural center listening to a
panel discussion on freedom of expression featuring a Swedish artist who has
previously caricatured the Muslim prophet Muhammad.

The artist, Lars Vilks, was whisked away unharmed by his bodyguards, but Mr
Noergaard was killed while three police officers were wounded.

Mr Noergaard directed and produced documentaries for Danish television,
including the 2004 "Boomerang boy" about an Australian boy's dreams to become a
world boomerang champion and the 2008 "Le Le" about Vietnamese immigrants in
Denmark.

The second victim has been named as Dan Uzan, a 37-year-old security guard who
was protecting a synagogue.

It is being reported in Denmark that the gunman, who has not yet been named, was
a 22-year-old Danish born man who had a background in criminal gangs.

According to police, the suspect, who was shot dead this morning, had a criminal
record, including violence and weapons offences.

Investigators believe the suspect carried out both shootings alone but are
investigating whether he had received help from others.

Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said: "Denmark has been hit by
terror. We do not know the motive for the alleged perpetrator's actions, but we
know that there are forces that want to hurt Denmark. They want to rebuke our
freedom of speech."

Second shooting near Synagogue in Copenhagen

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 15, 2015 Sunday 5:48 PM GMT

Copenhagen shootings: Moment police shot 'gunman' dead after terror attacks;
Victims of the attacks named as Finn Noergaard and Dan Uzan as gunman killed by
Danish police

BYLINE: By Alex Wellman

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


Copenhagen shootings: Moment police shot 'gunman' dead after terror attacks

This is the moment a man suspected of launching a Charlie Hebdo-style terror
attack on a free speech event in Copenhagen was gunned down by armed cops.

The lifeless body of the man is seen lying on the floor with blood on his body
and legs as forensic officers scour the ground for evidence.

The man, who has not yet been identified, is thought to have killed two people
and injured five in separate attacks on a free speech event and a synagogue.

Danish filmmaker Finn Noergaard was named as the victim killed by the gunman in
the attack on the Krudttoenden cultural center during a panel discussion on
freedom of expression.

The 55-year-old was said to have been a member of the audience, but died when
the gunman opened fire with an automatic weapon - blasting through the centre's
windows at around 4pm yesterday.

The institute's chief Henrik Bo Nielsen said he was shocked and angry to find
out Noergaard was gunned down while attending a discussion on art and free
speech.

Noergaard directed and produced documentaries for Danish television, including
the 2004 "Boomerang boy" about an Australian boy's dreams to become a world
boomerang champion and the 2008 "Le Le" about Vietnamese immigrants.

Denmark's Chief Rabbi, Jair Melchior, identified the Jewish victim as Dan Uzan,
37, a longtime security guard for the 7,000-strong community.

He was guarding a building behind the synagogue during a bat mitzvah when he was
shot in the head. Two police officers who were there were slightly wounded.

Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu decried the attack and said his
government plans to encourage a "massive immigration" of Jews from Europe.

He said: "This wave of attacks is expected to continue, as well as murderous
anti-Semitic attacks. Jews deserve security in every country, but we say to our
Jewish brothers and sisters, Israel is your home."

The suspected gunman, who Danish intelligence officers said had been on their
radar, was killed early this morning as he returned to a home that was under
surveillance.

Jens Madsen, head of the Danish intelligence agency PET, said investigators
believe the gunman was inspired by Islamic radicalism.

"PET is working on a theory that the perpetrator could have been inspired by the
events in Paris. He could also have been inspired by material sent out by (the
Islamic State group) and others," Madsen said.

Islamic radicals carried out a massacre at the Charlie Hebdo newsroom in Paris
last month, followed by an attack on Jews at a kosher grocery store, taking the
lives of 17 victims.

Copenhagen shooting

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                               February 15, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

One dead in Hebdo-style terror attack;
200 bullets fired into cafe Cartoonist believed to be the target

BYLINE: Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 526 words


DANISH security forces were on high alert last night after two masked gunmen
stormed a cafe and shot a man to death.

Most of Copenhagen was in virtual lockdown after the raiders fired 200 shots in
a Charlie Hebdo-style terror attack at a freedom of speech event.

Officers later confirmed it was a failed bid to assassinate controversial
Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks, who has faced numerous threats for caricaturing
the Prophet Mohammed in 2007.

A 40-year-old Danish man died at the Krudttoenden cafe and three police officers
were also injured as Mr Vilks, 68, took refuge in a cold store.

He later took to Twitter, saying: "Still alive in the room."

The shooting looked like a copy of the Islamic militants attack at the Charlie
Hebdo office in Paris last month, in which 12 people were murdered.

French ambassador François Zimeray, who was at the Copenhagen event, said: "They
fired on us from the outside.

"It was the same intention as the attack on Charlie Hebdo except they didn't
manage to get in. Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves
to the floor."

Police confirmed the gunmen were Danish speaking and stormed the building at
just before 4pm then fled in a VW Polo. The vehicle was found abandoned close to
a nearby bus station.

Helle Merete Brix, who organised the event, said: "They tried to shoot their way
into the conference room. I saw one of them running by, wearing a mask.

"I was in a cold room and kept hold of Lars Vilks' hand. He was very cool. We
told each other bad jokes. His bodyguards did a tremendous job.

"It is a dramatic and unpleasant reminder of what we are up against in these
times."

The venue was hosting an event called "Art, blasphemy and the freedom of
expression" to mark the anniversary of the fatwa against Salman Rushdie, when
the shots were fired.

In 2007, Vilks drew an image of the prophet as a dog In 2007, Vilks drew n image
of the rophet as a dog and sparked a backlash from extremist groups. Al-Qaeda
placed a £100,000 bounty on his head.

Mr Vilks is protected by bodyguards and last month he spoke to The Wall Street
Journal about the Charlie Hebdo attacks, saying he refused to hide away in fear
of attack.

He said: "Police protection doesn't offer a 100% guarantee, as we saw with
Charlie Hebdo, but it goes pretty far.

"I don't have to lie awake at night listening for odd sounds."

But Mr Vilks rejected claims that artists and satirists should tread more
carefully in their criticism of Islam.

Inna Shevchenko from the Ukrainian feminist protest group Femen was speaking
when the gunmen burst in.

She tweeted: "I was at the point of my speech when I was saying that often it is
an illusion we have freedom of speech in Europe. Then we heard shots."

and satiri in their c Inna Sh feminist speaking She tw speech w an illusio
Europe. T In a sta described carrying a an athlet It sai but wi black or da "
In a statement, Danish security services described one of the gunmen, who was
carrying a black machine gun, as tall with an athletic build.

It said he had an "Arabic appearance, but with lighter skin than normal and
black straight hair" and wore a black or dark blue ski jacket.

feedback@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On hit list ESCAPE: Lars Vilks was whisked into a cold store by his
bodyguardsSHOOTING: Medics treat victim and, right, Inna Shevchenko who spoke at
event

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PPL


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            February 15, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

PERVERT GLITTER IN PRISON ATTACKED;
Sex beast's assault terror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


EXCLUSIVE ¦ POP pervert Gary Glitter was left cowering in terror when an inmate
attacked him in jail.

The child sex beast - awaiting sentence after being convicted of abusing
schoolgirls - was punched in the face at London's notorious Wandsworth jail.

PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSSscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            February 15, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

NEW JIHADIST TERROR ATTACK;
Police hunt gunman as Scots eyewitness tells of Hebdo-style assault which leaves
one dead, three hurt One dead in terror bid to gun down cartoonist

BYLINE: Greg Christison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 657 words


A MAN was killed and three police officers seriously injured as Islamic
terrorism returned to the streets of Europe yesterday.

In a chilling Charlie Hebdo-style attack, a lone gunman opened fire with a
machine gun on a free speech debate in the Danish capital, Copenhagen.

It is thought that the killer - who was last night still on the run after
escaping by car - was targeting controversial Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks.

Police last night released a photograph of the black-clad suspect, who was
described as being between 25 and 30 years old, of Arabic appearance and with
his face covered by a "guerrilla scarf".

Mr Vilks, 68, has previously come under attack by Islamic extremists for
portraying the Prophet Muhammad in his work.

He was guest of honour at the event - held at the city's Krudttoenden café -
which was attended by the French ambassador Francois Zimeray.

Both men escaped without injury, but police confirmed a 40-year-old Danish man
had died of his injuries and three police officers were in hospital.

Last night, Scots oil and gas worker Ciarán McRae, who was just a short distance
from the café at the time of the incident, described hearing gunfire.

The 23-year-old, from Aberdeen, who is on a Valentine's break in the city with
his girlfriend, said: "There is a lot of police activity in the city at the
moment.

"There are a few helicopters in the sky, and I've not long seen two military
vehicles and a SWAT team getting escorted through the streets."

The café was hosting an event titled 'Art, blasphemy and the freedom of
expression', to mark the anniversary of the fatwa against Salman Rushdie.

Reports suggested the gunman sprayed up to 200 bullets on the window of the
café, but was prevented from entering the building by a security guard.

Police returned fire before the suspect fled in a black Volkswagen Polo, which
was later found abandoned a mile away.

In the aftermath, Mr Zimeray dramatically posted on Twitter: "I am alive in the
room."

Speaking later, he added: "They fired on us from outside. It was the same
intention as Charlie Hebdo except they didn't manage to get in.

"Intuitively, I would say there were at least 50 gunshots, and the police here
are saying 200.

"Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves to the floor. We
managed to flee the room, and now we're staying inside because it's still
dangerous."

Mr Vilks had Swedish bodyguards with him at the time, and Helle Merete Brix, one
of the organisers of the event, said she took cover with him in a cold store.

She said they both held hands and told bad jokes as they feared for their lives.

Niels Ivar Larsen, who was also speaking at the event, told how he took shelter:
"I heard someone firing with an automatic weapon and someone shouting.

"Police returned the fire and I hid behind the bar. It felt surreal, like in a
movie."

Following the incident, police placed the area around the café in lockdown and
began to hunt for the perpetrator. The three injured officers are not thought to
have life-threatening injuries.

Denmark's security service, PET, said that early indications suggested they were
dealing with a "terror attack".

Prime Minister David Cameron tweeted: "I condemn the shootings in Copenhagen.

"Free speech must always be protected. My thoughts are with the Danish people."

Mr Vilks stirred controversy in 2007 by publishing drawings depicting Mohammad
as a dog which sparked threats from Islamist militant groups. He has received
numerous death threats and has lived under the constant protection of the
Swedish police since 2010.

The threat from extremists is so serious that he sleeps with an axe under his
bed and has had a panic room put in his home.

Last year, an American woman who called herself Jihad Jane was sentenced to 10
years in prison for plotting to kill him.

The Lars Vilks Committee, which organised yesterday's event, awarded its 2014
freedom prize to Charlie Hebdo last October.

'There were at least 50 shots'

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAMPAGE: The controversial cartoonist Lars Vilks, right, was thought to
be the target of yesterday's attack in Copenhagen, which saw police flooding the
city streets

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     February 15, 2015 Sunday 05:15 PM GMT

Huge Parade Cancelled Over Terror Attack Fear

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 196 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of Germany's biggest carnivals has been cancelled at the 11th
hour following a "specific threat of an Islamist attack".


  More than 250,000 people were expected to attend the street parade in the
northern city of Braunschweig.

But shortly before it was due to start, police told people to stay at home after
receiving credible information that an attack was imminent.

Police spokesman Thomas Geese said the event was cancelled 90 minutes before its
scheduled start time, adding: "Many people arriving at the train station from
out of town were already dressed up and very disappointed - but we didn't want
to take any risks."

Officials do not believe the threat is connected to two fatal attacks in
Copenhagen.

Ulrich Markurth, the Mayor of Braunschweig, said the cancellation of the yearly
carnival was "a sad day for our city and a sad day for our democratic society".

The event - which coincides with the Roman Catholic carnival season - would have
seen bands and 4,000 people in fancy dress costumes march down a four-mile route
through the city.

Organisers have said the bands will perform their live music at the town hall
instead.

Police have confirmed the warning came from intelligence sources, but have
refused to provide any further information about the threat.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Sunday Sun

                               February 15, 2015
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Man dies in Dane 'terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 383 words


A MAN has died after at least one gunman opened fire on a cafe in the Danish
capital of Copenhagen, which was hosting a freedom of speech debate.

Three policemen were also injured in the shooting at the debate organised by
Swedish artist Lars Vilks, who has faced numerous threats for caricaturing the
Prophet Mohammed. Denmark's security service PET said the circumstances
surrounding the shooting "indicate that we are talking about a terror attack".

Danish police said the gunman used an automatic weapon to shoot through the
windows of the Krudttoenden cafe, which TV footage showed were riddled with
bullet holes. The gunman then fled in a hijacked Volkswagen Polo that was found
later a few miles away.

Police initially said there were two gunmen but later said they believed there
was only one shooter, and described him as 25 to 30 years old with an athletic
build, and carrying a black automatic weapon. They released a blurred photograph
of the suspect wearing dark clothes and a scarf covering part of his face.

The shooting came a month after Islamic militants attacked another media outlet
that had printed cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, the Charlie Hebdo satirical
magazine in Paris, killing 12 people.

A police spokesman said it was possible the gunman had planned the "same
scenario" as in the Charlie Hebdo massacre.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the shooting, which took
place shortly before 4pm local time.

Helle Merete Brix, one of the organisers of the event, said Mr Vilks was present
at the event but not injured.

She said: "I saw a masked man running past. I clearly consider this as an attack
on Lars Vilks."

Danish police said they were look-lo" ing for two perpetrators in dark clothing
who drove away in a dark Volkswagen Polo that had been carjacked. The car was
later found.

Police said the victim was a 40-yearold man inside the cafe attending the event.
He has not yet been identified.

Niels Ivar Larsen, one of the speak-speak ers at the event, said: "I heard
someone firing with an automatic weapons and someone shouting.

"Police returned the fire and I hid behind the bar. I felt surreal, like in a
movie."

Visiting the scene of the shooting, " Danish prime minister Helle
Thorning-Schmidt said "our highest priority is to get the perpetrator arrested".

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSN


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 15, 2015
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Bullets came through the door and we threw ourselves down';
Witnesses recount terror and solidarity inside Copenhagen venue as attacker
kills one and injures three in a rain of gunfire

BYLINE: HARRIET ALEXANDER; PATRICK SAWER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 864 words


IT WAS billed as a celebration of liberty, in one of the most tolerant of
European capitals - a discussion of "art, blasphemy and freedom of expression".

Held inside Copenhagen's low-slung, red-brick Krudttonden cultural centre - a
place popular for jazz, art and debate - the event had attracted an eclectic
crowd: journalists, feminists, and the French ambassador. Security was
considered and bags were searched on arrival - the keynote speaker was Lars
Vilks, a Swedish artist whose images of the Prophet Mohammed had earned him a
place on an al-Qaeda hit list, alongside Charb, the Charlie Hebdo cartoonist -
but the meeting yesterday was a low-key affair.

Until that is, just as the French ambassador stepped down from the stage, a hail
of gunfire rained down.

"Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves to the floor,"
said François Zimeray, the ambassador. "They fired on us from the outside.

"Intuitively, I would say there were at least 50 gunshots, and the police here
are saying 200.

"It was the same intention as [the January 7 attack on] Charlie Hebdo - except
they didn't manage to get in."

Another of those inside, Inna Shevchenko from Femen, the topless feminist
protest group, said that she had just finished stating how freedom of expression
was "an illusion" in Europe, when the shots rang out.

A 40-year-old Danish man was killed in the attack, and three policemen injured.

"Still alive in the room," tweeted Mr Zimeray - a simple message which was
retweeted over 2,000 times.

Agniezski Kollek, 38, a special needs teacher and artist from London, told how
she was waiting to speak at the debate when she heard the sound of gunfire.

She said: "At first it was just bangs, like fireworks and then it turned into a
shower of bullets, like a machine gun.

"We all hid, some running to the back of the building. I hid by the stage. The
gunmen [there were initially thought to be more than one] started shooting
outside then the sound of the shooting got closer and it sounded like they were
in the lobby. It was frightening, but I thought that if something was meant to
happen to me, then so be it. I'm Polish and we Poles have seen many terrible
things in our lives." She said the shooting seemed to last a few minutes.

But the gunman, who spoke Danish and was photographed wearing a black puffer
jacket and red wool hat, did not manage to make his way any further than the
lobby of the building - the name of which translates as "The Powder Box". He
then ran off.

Back in the hall, those gathered displayed remarkable composure, said Helle
Merete Brix, one of the organisers. She was ushered with Lars Vilks, the Swedish
artist, into a cold storage room - his bodyguards leading the way.

"I was in a cold room and I kept hold of Lars Vilks's hand. He was very
relaxed," she said, praising his bodyguards for doing "a tremendous job".

"We stood and told each other bad jokes," she added.

But once the immediate danger was passed, she said those inside - unable to
leave the building for their own safety, decided to carry on with their debate.

"When the police said were safe, we started talking among ourselves and decided
to continue the meeting," said Ms Kollek. "It felt like absolutely the right
thing to do. The attackers not only wanted to kill us, but they wanted to
silence us too, and we didn't want that to happen. I spoke about the Passion for
Freedom festival which takes place every autumn in London."

Ms Brix added: "People actually reacted very calmly, and the meeting continued.
We could not get away, so we continued our discussion. It is a dramatic and
unpleasant reminder of what we are up against in these times."

Mr Vilks, the presumed target of the attack, knew that he was a wanted man. But
the artist, who published cartoons of Mohammed as a dog in 2007, and since 2010
has had 24-hour protection, remained unfazed by the threat.

"Police protection doesn't offer a 100 per cent guarantee - as we saw with
Charlie Hebdo - but it goes pretty far," he said in a recent interview. "I don't
have to lie awake at night listening for odd sounds."

He explained that he has to plan outings in advance because he "can't go
anywhere without a police escort". "It's tricky for me to be spontaneous." As
those inside resumed the discussion, outside a huge manhunt was beginning.

The lone gunman had been spotted running across Faelledparken, a nearby park -
hijacking a VW Polo, which was abandoned shortly afterwards on Borgervanget
street.

Last night, as police continued to hunt for the unidenti-fied gunman, Helle
Thorning-Schmidt, the Danish prime minister, described the shooting as a
terrorist attack.

"Denmark has today been hit by a cynical act of violence," she said in a
statement.

"Everything leads us to believe that the shooting was a political attack and
therefore a terrorist act."

Manuel Valls, the French prime minister, was quick to express his solidarity
with Denmark - the shooting came less than six weeks after the Charlie Hebdo
shootings.

"Freedom attacked in Copenhagen. Solidarity with the Danes," he said, and added
that Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, was travelling to
Copenhagen.

"France does not yield. #JeSuisCharlie."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lars Vilks, above left, a Swedish artist known for provocative cartoons
of the Prophet Mohammed, was the key speaker at theKrudttonden centre, pictured
above before the attackAFP/GETTY/MATHIAS OEGENDAL/FRANCOIS CAMPREDONBullet holes
riddle the front of the Krudttonden centre in Copenhagen yesterday after a
gunman opened fire outside an event on 'Art, blasphemy and freedom of
expression'. Right: police released an image of the suspect

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 15, 2015 Sunday 8:53 PM GMT

Copenhagen suspect 'was released from prison two weeks ago';
Copenhagen terror attack suspect named as 22-year-old Omar el-Hussein, who 'had
violent past'

BYLINE: By David Chazan and Julian Isherwood in Copenhagen

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1149 words


Terror returned to Europe at the weekend when a suspected Islamist extremist
gunned down two people in separate attacks on a Copenhagen café and a synagogue
before being killed by police in a predawn shoot-out on Sunday.

The dead suspect, named on Sunday night as Omar el-Hussein, had reportedly been
released from prison two weeks ago after serving a two-year sentence for
grievous bodily harm.

In a rampage with parallels to the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris five weeks
earlier, the 22-year-old Danish-born assailant fired around 40 shots at a free
speech debate in an arts café on Saturday afternoon, killing a 55-year-old
documentary filmmaker, Finn Norgaard.

After fleeing in a stolen car, the gunman went on to target a girl's bat mitzvah
party at Copenhagen's main synagogue at one o'clock on Sunday morning, shooting
dead Dan Uzan, 37, an economist at the Danish treasury, who was acting as a
volunteer security guard.

The gunman was then later killed after a shoot-out with police at a train
station in central Copenhagen. Up to four other people were being held by police
on Sunday night following raids across the country.

As with the Charlie Hebdo attackers, the head of the Danish security and
intelligence service, Jens Madsen, said on Sunday that the gunman had been
identified as a potential threat.

"He was on the radar but he was not known to have travelled to conflict areas
like Iraq or Syria," Mr Madsen said. "We cannot yet say anything concrete about
the motive ... but we are considering that he might have been inspired by the
events in Paris," he told a news conference.

Police traced the killer from CCTV footage from the arts café attack, which
showed him abandoning his getaway car, a stolen Volkswagen Polo, and taking a
taxi. They questioned the driver, and went to the address in the mainly
immigrant area of Norrebro where he had dropped off the suspect.

The gunman had left again by the time police arrived at his home, near the
railway station, and went on to attack the synagogue. When he returned around
5am, police tried to apprehend him but shot him dead after he opened fire on
them.

In an indication that the gunman may have had accomplices, four people were
arrested when a dozen armed police raided an internet café in central
Copenhagen. Among the four were a Pakistani and an Arab, according to Danish
media reports.

Witnesses at both attacks said further killings were only averted by the swift
intervention of the police, who have been on high alert in the Danish capital
since the Paris shootings.

Despite the increased tensions, Copenhagen, which is considered one of the
safest capitals of the world, was bustling with people defiantly strolling and
cycling in the historic city centre on Sunday.

"We should not be afraid," said Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the prime minister, who
was among hundreds of people who laid floral tributes at the synagogue and the
café.

"We have tasted the ugly taste of fear and powerlessness that terror would like
to create. But we have also, as a society, answered back."

The shootings came as little surprise to most Danes. "It was not a question of
if, but when," said Malte Bern Jensen, 29, a civil servant.

"Everybody knew it was coming after the Charlie Hebdo shootings because a Danish
newspaper also published cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed," he said.

Twelve people were killed in an attack on the office of the French magazine
Charlie Hebdo. They included cartoonists who had caricatured the prophet.

A Swedish cartoonist, Lars Vilks, who had angered many Muslims by depicting the
prophet's head on the body of a dog, was at the free speech debate in Copenhagen
during the attack, leading many to conclude that he may have been the main
target.

The French ambassador was also present at the debate at the arts café,
Krudttonden, which means "powder keg' in Danish.

Vilks, 68, the target of several attempted attacks in recent years, was spirited
away to an undisclosed location under police guard after the shootings, during
which he hid in a cold store.

He told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet by telephone that he had been
expecting another attack.

"It is a tragedy, obviously, but it was expected that this would happen sooner
or later. And it's not the last time either."

He said the presence of his police bodyguards had helped to avert "a bloodbath"
as the gunman failed to get past a policeman at the door of the café.

"I saw a policeman who had been shot in the leg," he said.

"Nevertheless he continued his job and wouldn't give in. It could have been a
massacre."

Interactive: Copenhagen Shooting 2

Zubair Butt Hussein of the Danish Islamic Council said most Muslims were
appalled by the attacks, stating: "We are disgusted at what has happened. In
Denmark we are free to think what we want. But there is nothing that can allow
what happened. We must counter this as a united nation."

Queen Margrethe also called for national unity. "It is important that in such a
serious situation we stand together and defend the values upon which Denmark is
built," she said.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, said: "The shootings in Copenhagen are an
appalling attack on free speech and religious freedom. Two innocent people have
been murdered simply for their beliefs and my thoughts are with their loved ones
and all those injured at this tragic time.

"Denmark and Britain are both successful multi-ethnic, multi-faith democracies
and we must never allow those values to be damaged by acts of violence like
this."

Nine years ago, Denmark's Jyllands-Posten newspaper inflamed the Muslim world by
publishing 12 cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, including one that depicted him
with a bomb in his turban.

A Danish cartoonist, Kurt Westergaard, who survived an axe attack at his home in
2010 after caricaturing the Prophet Mohammed, said: "It can't be right that we
should be afraid to use our right to free speech."

Norgaard, the filmmaker who was killed at the café, was best known for a
documentary made in Australia called The Boy with the Boomerang.

His friend Majken Matzau, a psychologist, described him as "an unbelievable warm
and creative person, dedicated and fantastic. He practised yoga and was a very
spiritual type."

Dan Uzan, the economist who was standing guard at the synagogue when he was shot
dead, was a well-liked former footballer with a Jewish amateur team.

"He was a handsome guy about six foot five and always had a smile," said a
friend, who declined to be named. A note placed outside the synagogue by Baruch
Dayan read: "Dear Dan, you gave your life to save us."

Both the victims were unmarried.

Security was tightened at a bridge to Sweden outside Copenhagen used daily by
tens of thousands of commuters, and also on the border with Germany.

A carnival in northern Germany was called off at short notice after security
agencies warned of a "specific threat of an Islamist attack".

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      February 15, 2015 Sunday 6:20 PM GMT

Police arrest two after Copenhagen terror attacks

BYLINE: Sonia Elks and Harriet Line

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 1112 words


Police in Copenhagen tonight arrested at least two people at an internet café as
part of a massive inquiry into the fatal terrorist attacks by a lone gunman
which have rocked the Danish capital.

Anti-terror officers swooped this evening on the internet café near Norreport
railway station - the station where, 12 hours earlier, armed police had shot
dead the main suspect for the terror attacks, which left two civilians dead and
five police officers wounded.

An Arab man and a Pakistani man were among those taken in for questioning.

The first details were emerging tonight about the prime suspect, a young man
armed with an automatic weapon, who was shot dead in a gunbattle with police at
4am today, police said.

Aged 22 and born in Denmark, the suspect had a criminal record for violence and
possession of weapons, and is believed to have belonged to criminal gangs,
police said.

Investigators are focusing on his movements before, during and after he opened
fire on a freedom of speech meeting at 4pm yesterday, killing a man and wounding
three police officers. Nine hours later he shot dead a security guard and
injured two more police outside Copenhagen's main synagogue at 1am.

Jens Madsen, head of the Danish intelligence agency PET, said that he was
already known to anti-terror officers, and may have travelled to conflict zones
in Syria and Iraq.

He may have been inspired by the atrocities in Paris last month when Islamic
extremists shot journalists at the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine and opened
fire in a Jewish grocery, killing 17.

"PET is working on a theory that the perpetrator could have been inspired by the
events in Paris. He could also have been inspired by material sent out by (the
Islamic State group) and others," Mr Madsen said. He did not name the gunman.

At the synagogue in the centre of Copenhagen, tearful Danes laid flowers and lit
candles in memory of the victims of the worst such attack in the history of the
small Scandinavian nation.

The two victims have been named. Finn Noergaard, 55, who was killed at the free
speech event, was a documentary filmmaker who had directed and produced
programmes for Danish television, including the 2004 hit Boomerang Boy.

Denmark's Jewish community named the security guard who died after being shot in
the head outside the synagogue in Krystalgade as Dan Uzan.

The 37-year-old victim was guarding a building behind the synagogue during a bar
mitzvah, and was described as "irreplaceable".

Rabbi Jair Melchior, Denmark's chief rabbi, added: "He was a person who was
always willing to help. An amazing, amazing guy."

Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Danish prime minister, said the killings were a
cynical act of terrorism and that Denmark was experiencing a day of sorrow.

"We have tried the ugly taste of fear and powerlessness which terror hopes to
create," said Ms Thorning-Schmidt.

"We will defend our democracy and we will defend Denmark at any time."

Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, said her thoughts were with the director and the
young Jewish guard.

"It is important that we stand together in such a serious situation and guard
the values on which Denmark is founded."

David Cameron has led condemnation from across the world of the latest deaths,
while Jewish community leaders have demanded more protection against
anti-Semitic terrorist attacks across Europe.

The gunman first targeted a panel discussion on art and free speech at the
Krudttoenden cultural centre at around 4pm.

Police believe the intended target was the Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks, one of
the guest speakers, notorious in the Islamic world for drawing cartoons of the
prophet Mohammed with the body of a dog in 2007.

The three officers who were shot and injured are thought to have been members of
Mr Vilks' police bodyguard.

Witnesses said the gunman tried to enter the cafe, but was turned away as his
gun set off a metal detector. He stood outside and opened fire, spraying the
cafe front with around 200 bullets and sending attendees scrambling for cover.

Helle Merete Brix, organiser of the event at the cafe, said: "The security
guards shouted 'Everyone get out!' and we were being pushed out of the room.

"They tried to shoot their way into the conference room ... I saw one of them
running by, wearing a mask. There was no way to tell his face."

Francois Zimeray, France's ambassador to Denmark, who was present at the debate
but was unhurt, said: "They shot from the outside (and) had the same intention
as [with] Charlie Hebdo, only they didn't manage to get in."

Police had issued a photo of the suspected gunman, who escaped in a carjacked VW
Polo that was later found dumped a few km away.

As a major manhunt took place, the attacker struck again at around 1am at
Copenhagen's main synagogue during a Bar Mitzvah ceremony.

Two police officers called in to guard the synagogue following the earlier gun
attack were slightly wounded in the shooting, which killed Mr Uzan.

The synagogue shooting increased the already high tensions in Jewish
communities. Rabbi Menachem Margolin, head of the European Jewish Association,
called for security to be increased around every Jewish institution across
Europe.

Binyamin Netanyahu urged a "massive immigration" of European Jews to Israel to
escape persecution in Europe.

"Jews deserve security in every country, but we say to our Jewish brothers and
sisters, Israel is your home," he said, in an echo of his comments following the
Paris attacks.

Jair Melchior, Denmark's chief rabbi, said he was "disappointed" by Netanyahu's
call for immigration following the attack. "Terror is not a reason to move to
Israel," he said.

David Cameron led international condemnation of the attack, saying: "I condemn
the shootings in Copenhagen. Free speech must always be protected."

François Hollande, the French president, said the Copenhagen shooting was
"deplorable", adding that Ms Thorning-Schmidt would have the "full solidarity of
France in this trial".

Patrick Pelloux, a Charlie Hebdo columnist, voiced dismay over the attack on the
debate that Vilks had been attending, saying: "We are all Danish tonight."

The attacks took place two days after Denmark and its partners in the European
Union agreed to dramatically boost cooperation in the counter-terrorism field as
a result of the January attacks in Paris.

Cities around Europe went on high alert for copycat attacks. Police in the
German city of Braunschweig cancelled a popular carnival street parade less than
90 minutes before it was due to start, after receiving credible information of
an imminent Islamist terror attack. The parade is the biggest in northern
Germany and attracts 250,000 visitors each year.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      February 16, 2015 Monday 3:26 PM GMT

Denmark terror attacks: Gunman was NOT linked to a wider terror organisation,
confirms PM

BYLINE: Aaron Brown

LENGTH: 824 words


DANISH police have charged two men with aiding a gunman who opened fire at a
free speech event and synagogue in Copenhagen over the weekend.

AFP/GETTY

Police have shot dead a man after a second shooting at a synagogue in Copenhagen

Police in Denmark's capital say the men, who were arrested on Sunday, were this
afternoon remanded to ten-days detention.

"The two men are charged with helping through advice and deeds the perpetrator
in relation to the shootings at Krudttonden and in Krystalgade," the police said
in a statement.

It is believed the men provided the killer with his weapon and hid the suspect
during the terror attacks.

A gunman shot dead two men over the weekend as he tried to storm a cafe hosting
a free speech event on Saturday and then a synagogue the following day.

Danish officers yesterday shot dead the suspect - named as Omar Abdel Hamid
El-Hussein - near a train station.

Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt today revealed there was nothing to
indicate El-Sussein was linked to a wider terror cell, such as Islamic State.

But Thorning-Schmidt did say the choice of target - a free speech event and a
synagogue - suggested the attacks were an act of terrorism.

"This is not a conflict between Islam and the West ... this is a conflict
between the core values of our society and violent extremists," the Prime
Minister added.

Danish-born 22-year-old El-Sussein was known to police because of past violence,
gang-related activities and possession of weapons, officers said.

The gunman, who served a two-year sentence for grievous bodily harm, was
released from prison a fortnight before the attacks, it has been reported.

TWITTER

Terror suspect Omar El-Hussein is believed to have been behind the Copenhagen
shootings

EPA

Police forensic specialists investigate at the scene of the first shooting in
Copenhagen, Denmark

AFP/GETTY

Gunmen opened fire on the cafe during a free speech event

EPA

Forensics at the scene of the first shooting

Documentary filmmaker Finn Noergaard, 55, was killed at the free speech event on
Saturday.

It is believed the gunman was targeting controversial Swedish artist Lars Vilks,
who has received death threats for depicting the head of the Prophet Mohammed on
a dog.

The artist was whisked away unharmed by his bodyguards but a 55-year-old man
attending the event was killed, while three police officers were wounded.

Helle Merete Brix, one of the event's organisers, said Mr Vilks was not injured
in the attack.

She said: "I saw a masked man running past. A couple of police officers were
injured.

"I clearly consider this as an attack on Lars Vilks."

Some 30 bullet holes were left in the windows of the Krudttoenden cafe in
northern Copenhagen.

EPA

Police inspector Joergen Skov speaks in front of the police headquarters

IG

Police have released this image of a man they wish to speak to in connection
with the shooting

The French ambassador to Denmark, Francois Zimeray, was one of the people inside
the cafe at the time of the attack.

The diplomat tweeted to say that he was unharmed.

He added: "They fired on us from the outside. It was the same intention as
Charlie Hebdo except they didn't manage to get in."

The shooter, described as a male, 25-30 years old with an Arabic appearance and
black, slick hair, fled the scene in a car following the attack.

In the early hours of Sunday, a Jewish man was killed as he guarded the entrance
of a synagogue about 5km away from the first shooting.

Economist at the Danish treasury Dan Uzan, 37, who was volunteering as a
security guard over the weekend, has been named as the second victim.

Two police officers were also wounded.

AP

Flowers are laid out in front of the synagogue where one person was killed in
Copenhagen, Denmark

WENN

Tributes are left outside of the synagogue for 37-year-old volunteer security
guard Dan Uzan

Danish Prime Minister Thorning-Schmidt dsaid the country had gone on "high
alert".

Prime Minister David Cameron said: "I condemn the shootings in Copenhagen.

"Free speech must always be protected. My thoughts are with the Danish people."

Last month the satirical French magazine Charlie Hebdo was targeted by Islamic
gunmen.

Speaking recently Mr Vilks, 68, who is given police protection when he is in
Denmark, described himself as a "constant target".

He also said he refused to hide in fear.

"Police protection doesn't offer a 100 per cent guarantee as we saw with Charlie
Hebdo but it goes pretty far," he told The Wall Street Journal.

"I don't have to lie awake at night listening for odd sounds."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Head of BBC Arabic: 'DON'T call
Charlie Hebdo killers 'terrorists'' BBC reporter let off for 'Jewish slur'
during Charlie Hebdo rally 'Learn some manners' British Muslims protest against
Prophet Mohammad cartoons British police apologise after taking details of
Charlie Hebdo 'survivor edition' buyers Calls for Charlie Hebdo-style
anti-terror marches as three Muslims shot dead in US

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 16, 2015
                                 First Edition

Parade halted amid terrorist attack fears;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories GERMANY

BYLINE: Kirsten Grieshaber IN BERLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 186 words


Police in the German city of Braunschweig cancelled a popular carnival yesterday
because of fears of an imminent Islamist terror attack.

Police spokesman Thomas Geese said police received credible information that
there was a "concrete threat of an attack with an Islamist background" on
yesterday's parade and therefore called on all visitors to stay at home. Mr
Geese said the parade was cancelled less than 90 minutes before its scheduled
start and that "many people arriving at the train station from out of town were
already dressed up and very disappointed - but we didn't want to take any
risks".

Braunschweig's carnival parade is the biggest in northern Germany and draws
around 250,000 visitors each year.

Mr Geese declined to give further details, but did say that the warning came
from intelligence sources.

The city's mayor, Ulrich Markurth, said the cancellation marked a "sad day for
our city?? and a sad day for our democratic society."

Organisers announced that the many marching bands that had planned to
participate in the parade would instead play their music at the city's town hall
in the afternoon. AP

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 16, 2015 Monday 5:50 PM GMT

Copenhagen shootings: Scandinavia at a crossroads after latest terror attack;
There are fears that a gold-star education system is slipping because these
small countries are struggling to cope with their new diversity

BYLINE: James Ashton

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 766 words


We should be used to Nordic noir by now. The crop of dark dramas such as The
Bridge and The Killing painted the region in a different light, as well as
making compulsive viewing.

But the tragic events of last weekend in Copenhagen still elicit the response:
it shouldn't happen there. Internationally, Scandinavia is renowned as a magical
place for its high living standards, personal safety, welfare system, classy
design and industrial-strength coffee. Add to that its tolerance. All are
welcome, as long as you can cope with the cold.

Yet in the last decade there have been numerous incidents that have punctured
the dream. Denmark, like close neighbours Sweden and Norway, must wrestle with
how to maintain the best of being modern, libertarian societies without losing
what makes them special.

I have been visiting Scandinavia - mainly Sweden, sometimes Denmark - for 15
years, with my Swedish wife. It is a glorious escape, especially in summer, the
picture-postcard harbours and glistening Baltic Sea a secret we have been glad
to keep. It is easy to see why Copenhagen regularly tops liveability surveys.
Since it cleaned up the waterfront, you can safely swim, kayak or float in a hot
tub out into the harbour. Tivoli, the city centre amusement park and gardens,
lends it a fairytale air. All the more shocking that a gunman should want to
rage across it.

Shooting at Copenhagen blasphemy event

Oslo felt the same, when, four years ago, Anders Behring Breivik set off a bomb
in the Norwegian capital and then shot 69 young people dead on an island summer
camp, all in the name of religious hatred. In a remote summer house close to the
Norwegian border, we watched the TV pictures with disbelief.

The Scandinavian traditions of trust and egalitarianism have been sorely tested.
Twelve years ago the Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh died after being
stabbed while shopping in NK, Stockholm's foremost department store. In 1986,
the Prime Minister, Olof Palme, was shot in the back and killed as he walked
home from the cinema. In 2010, an Iraqi-born suicide bomber, Taimour Abdulwahab
al-Abdaly, succeeded in killing only himself.

READ MORE: Two arrested on suspicion of helping alleged gunmanSurvivors speak of
ordeal European leaders reject Netanyahu's call for Jewish migration

Art imitates life, and these deep-seated concerns of a changing society have
been around for a while. It is 24 years since Henning Mankell wrote Faceless
Killers, a novel in his Wallander detective series that focused on Sweden's
liberal attitude to immigration and the racial tensions it had thrown up.

The novels were adapted for television and filmed in Ystad and among the swaying
cornfields and quiet country roads that lie inland. Close by is Sjöbo, the quiet
farming town down the road from where we regularly stay. Last autumn it was
revealed as a hotbed for the Sweden Democrats, the political party that became
the third-largest in parliament last autumn, winning votes for its
anti-immigration agenda.

National identities have been under siege as these countries have thrown open
their borders and struggled to deal with the social consequences. Several years
ago, in testimony to the US government's Helsinki Commission, the mayor of
Södertälje, a town south-west of Stockholm with 83,000 inhabitants, revealed it
had taken in excess of 5,000 Iraqi refugees, more than the United States and
Canada combined. Anders Lago said: "Despite the fact that we need immigrants,
Södertälje has become a town that must now say: 'stop, stop, stop'."

He added: "Do not misunderstand me. We will always help others when we can...
Our common agreement that all people are equal, no matter what colour, religion
or gender, must become a reality."

Disillusionment must be dispelled for that to be the case. There are fears that
a gold-star education system is slipping because these small countries are
struggling to cope with their new diversity. I know at first-hand that
Scandinavian English is exceptional. But not everyone who spends more than three
weeks a year there has bothered to master the native tongue.

Such themes were addressed by the Danish Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt,
in her New Year speech. Going into an election year, she admitted integration
had failed, that too many immigrants had ended up on welfare. She appealed for
"a sense of solidarity where everyone contributes what they can. I believe that
it gives greater life satisfaction for the individual and a better society for
all of us." It must be hoped that after the events of last weekend, Denmark and
its neighbours can do just that.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 16, 2015 Monday 5:15 PM GMT

'I will not let people believe that Jews no longer have a place in Europe':
Hollande's fury after Netanyahu makes plea for 'mass emigration' to Israel in
wake of anti-Semitic terror attacks

BYLINE: JOHN HALL and DAN BLOOM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3420 words



     ·    Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu told Jews: Move here to stop more murder
     ·    Comments sparked outrage among European leaders and Jewish groups
     ·    French President Francois Hollande said he cannot let the comment pass
     ·    He said Netanyahu was 'leading people to believe that Jews no longer
          have a place in Europe and in France in particular'
     ·    German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her government will do everything
          possible to protect Jewish sites
     ·    Danish Chief Rabbi Jair Melchior said he was 'disappointed' in
          Netanyahu


European leaders have reacted with anger at Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu extraordinary plea for Jews to leave Europe to escape the rising tide
of antisemitic terror attacks.

Netanyahu said that Europe was no longer a safe haven for Jews following terror
attacks in Paris and Copenhagen, adding that Israel is now the only country in
the world where Jews can feel safe.

The remarkable comments were promptly savaged by the leaders of France, Germany
and Denmark, and were met with fury from Jewish groups.

French President Francois Hollande said. 'I will not just let what was said in
Israel pass, leading people to believe that Jews no longer have a place in
Europe and in France in particular,' while German Chancellor Angela Merkel said
her government is doing everything possible to protect Jewish sites.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT

Scroll down for video

The chair of Britain's Parliamentary committee against anti-Semitism, John Mann,
also attacked Mr Netanyahu's remarks.

He said: 'Mr Netanyahu made the same remarks in Paris - it's just crude
electioneering. It's no coincidence that there's a general election in Israel
coming up.

'The comments are not helpful and I think people will ignore them...We're not
prepared to tolerate a situation in this country or in any country in Europe
where any Jews feel they have to leave.'

'But if people make a positive choice to move then that's their right to do so,'
he added.

This afternoon a Downing Street spokesman said: 'The Prime Minister called the
Danish Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, today to personally offer his
condolences and to offer the UK's support at this difficult time.

'Both agreed on the importance of the UK and Danish authorities continuing to
work together to tackle the threat posed by Islamist extremism, including the
close co-operation between our intelligence agencies.

'They also agreed that the shootings in Copenhagen reinforced the case for even
closer international cooperation to tackle terrorism, for example cracking down
on the trafficking of illegal firearms and exchanging passenger name records.'

Netanyahu's renewed call for a modern-day exodus came just hours after the
deadly terror attacks in Copenhagen and one month after four hostages were
killed at a Paris kosher deli

Frenchmen have been accused of three deadly attacks on Jewish sites since 2012:
one at a school in the southern city of Toulouse, another at a museum in
Brussels and finally one at a kosher market last month. Twelve people died in
total

Hundreds of graves at a Jewish cemetery near Strasbourg were also desecrated
over the weekend amid heightened fears in France, which has the world's
third-largest Jewish population.

'We know there are doubts, questions across the community,' French President
Francois Hollande said as he reacted with shock and anger to Netanyahu's
comments.

Meanwhile German Chancellor Angela Merkel this morning said that her government
will do everything possible to ensure Jewish sites are secure.

'We are glad and thankful that there is Jewish life in Germany again,' Merkel
said in Berlin. 'And we would like to continue living well together with the
Jews who are in Germany today.'

France's Prime Minister Manuel Valls also slammed Netanyahu's comments, telling
475,000 French Jews the whole nation was 'wounded with you' after a gunman
killed two people including a synagogue security guard in Copenhagen, Denmark.

Mr Valls criticised Netanyahu's plea for mass migration - and questioned its
timing just a month before Mr Netanyahu seeks re-election to the Israeli
Parliament on March 17.

The French Prime Minister said: 'My message to French Jews is the following:
'France is wounded with you and France does not want you to leave'.'

'I regret Benjamin Netanyahu's remarks. Being in the middle of an election
campaign doesn't mean you authorise yourself to make just any type of
statement... The place for French Jews is France.'

A Jew who leaves France is a piece of France that is gone,' he later added.

Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt also expressed support for the
Jewish community, telling reporters: 'They belong in Denmark, they are a strong
part of our community, and we will do everything we can to protect the Jewish
community in our country.'

'The Jewish community have been in this country for centuries. They belong in
Denmark, they are part of the Danish community and we wouldn't be the same
without the Jewish community in Denmark,' she added.

Netanyahu's comments also triggered an angry response from Copenhagen's chief
rabbi, Jair Melchior, who said he was 'disappointed' by the remarks.

'People from Denmark move to Israel because they love Israel, because of
Zionism. But not because of terrorism,' he said. 'If the way we deal with terror
is to run somewhere else, we should all run to a deserted island,' he added.

More than 80 per cent of the world's Jews live in the U.S. and Israel but there
are large communities elsewhere, including in Canada, Britain, Russia,
Argentina, Germany and Australia.

Netanyahu issued his call during the weekly meeting of his Cabinet, which
approved a previously scheduled $46 million plan to encourage Jewish immigration
from France, Belgium and Ukraine - countries where large numbers of Jews have
expressed interest in moving to Israel.

British senior Labour party backbencher Louise Ellman also criticised the
Israeli leader's remarks.

Mrs Ellman - one of the most prominent Jewish MPs in Parliament - said: 'I
disagree with what he has said...It is the responsibility of all governments to
look after their citizens and that includes Jewish citizens.'

A spokesperson for Britain's Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis told MailOnline he would
not be giving an immediate response to Netanyahu's comments as he is currently
attending a conference.

PROFILE: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU - ISRAEL'S THREE-TIME PRIME MINISTER

Benjamin Netanyahu, who has been elected Prime Minister of Israel three times
and is widely known by his nickname 'Bibi', was born in Tel Aviv in 1949.

The Netanyahu family moved to the U.S. in 1963 when Benjamin's historian and
Zionist activist father Benzion was offered an academic job there.

Netanyahu returned to his homeland at the age of 18 to serve in the army for
five years, where he rose to the rank of captain in the elite commando unit
Sayeret Matkal.

He took part in a raid on Beirut's airport in 1968 and fought in the 1973 Middle
East war, before returning to America to study at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

In 1976 Netanyahu's elite army commando brother Yonatan was killed trying to
rescue hostages from a hijacked airline in Uganda.

In 1979 a profoundly affected Netanyahu set up an anti-terrorism institute in
his brother's memory, which led to him being noticed by the Israeli government,
who saw the eloquent, American-accented ex-soldier as a perfect representative
for the country at the UN headquarters in New York.

Netanyahu returned to Israel in 1988 and quickly rose through the ranks of
domestic politics until in 1996 he became the country's first democratically
elected Prime Minister.

He was also Israel's youngest every Prime Minister and the first to be born
after the formation on the state in 1948.

Despite his reputation as a hardline conservative, Netanyahu initially drew
criticism from right wing supporters for agreeing to hand over 80 per cent of
Hebron to the Palestinian Authority as part of a peace deal.

Netanyahu was eventually defeated at the next election and even his own father
publicly branded him 'not a very good Prime Minister'.

Netanyahu worked his way back up the political ladder, however, until in 2005 he
resigned from government in protest at Israel agreeing to pull out the Gaza
Strip.

When Prime Minister Ariel Sharon suffered a massive stroke and was left in a
coma Netanyahu returned for this second term, forming a coalition with right
wing parties who pursued a tough line on peace talks.

Although he agreed to a two-state solution for the country, Netanyahu insisted
Palestinians recognise Israel as a Jewish state.

Incredibly popular for his tough stance, Netanyahu called early elections in
2013, easily winning.

He almost immediately launched multiple attacks on terror targets within the
Gaza Strip, with the stated aim of securing long-term quiet in Israel.

The death toll exceeded previous interventions in Gaza, and led to strained
relations with U.S. President Barack Obama, who was overheard complaining of
'having to deal with him everyday'.

Netanyahu has also taken a hard line towards Iran, repeatedly warning of the
danger to the international community of allowing it to develop nuclear weapons.



Jens Madsen, head of Denmark's intelligence agency PET, said investigators
believed the gunman who killed two people in the weekend shootings in Copenhagen
was inspired by Islamic radicalism.

A visibly moved Thorning-Schmidt laid flowers at the synagogue Sunday,
accompanied by former Chief Rabbi Bent Lexner, Jewish community leader Dan
Rosenberg Asmussen and Anders Gadegaard from the Copenhagen Protestant
cathedral.

'My message is that all of Denmark feels with you,' Thorning-Schmidt said. 'This
is not the Denmark we want. We want a Denmark where people freely can choose
one's religion.'

Denmark is known for saving most of its Jews during World War II. There are an
estimated 6,000 to 7,000 Jews in Denmark.

Melchior, the chief rabbi, identified the Jewish victim in Copenhagen as Dan
Uzan, a security guard.

'He was a person who was always willing to help. An amazing, amazing guy,' said
Melchior, speaking from Israel before boarding a return flight to Copenhagen.

The community had previously asked police for enhanced security, and following
last month's attack on the Paris kosher market, Danish police began reevaluating
security, Melchior said.

Netanyahu spoke at a time of rising tensions with European countries over
Israeli settlement activity in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, captured
territories claimed by the Palestinians. Some Israelis believe such criticism
has helped fuel anti-Semitism.

European leaders have insisted that their criticism of Israel's actions in the
West Bank and east Jerusalem have had no bearing on the treatment of their own
Jewish communities.

Netanyahu rushed to France following the January 7-9 killings at the satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket, urging the country's Jews to
move to Israel.

French leaders signaled their unhappiness.

'France, without the Jews of France, is no longer France,' French Prime Minister
Manuel Valls said at the time. The government has since increased protection at
synagogues, Jewish schools and other sensitive sites.

The jihadi who killed two people before being gunned down by Danish police
yesterday was inspired by the Charlie Hebdo atrocity in Paris it emerged last
night.

Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein was shot at a train station in Copenhagen after he
opened fire on armed officers in the early hours of yesterday morning.

The 22-year-old fanatic murdered film director Finn Norgaard, 55, while
indiscriminately firing an automatic rifle at a free speech debate at a cafe on
Saturday afternoon.

His intended target was thought to have been the controversial Swedish
cartoonist Lars Vilks, who has previously depicted the prophet Muhammad as a
stray dog. Mr Vilks escaped unscathed.

Some ten hours later the gunman shot Dan Uzan in the head at a synagogue holding
a bat mitzvah celebration for 80 people. Mr Uzan, 37, an economist at the Danish
treasury, had been acting as a volunteer security guard for the event.

Two police officers, who were at the synagogue to provide extra security
following the earlier cafe shooting, were shot in the arms and legs. Three
others were injured in the earlier attack. All are expected to survive.

France and Belgium have experienced deadly attacks on their Jewish communities
in in recent years, most recently an attack in Paris last month that killed four
Jews at a kosher market.

Ukraine, meanwhile, is in the midst of a conflict between government troops and
Russian-backed separatists.

'This wave of attacks is expected to continue,' Netanyahu told his Cabinet.
'Jews deserve security in every country, but we say to our Jewish brothers and
sisters, Israel is your home.'

OMAR ABDEL HAMID EL-HUSSEIN: THE KNIFE-WIELDING THUG WHO GRADUATED FROM GANGSTER
TO COPENHAGEN TERRORIST

Prowling menacingly through a train with a knife, this is the gangster turned
terrorist who caused mayhem in Copenhagen.

Born in Denmark to migrant parents, Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein descended into a
life of crime in his teenage years, joining notorious gang The Brothas and
roaming the streets with a knife or a gun.

By the time he was killed by armed officers outside a train station in the
Danish capital yesterday, the 22-year-old had an extensive criminal record for
offences including assault and possession of dangerous weapons.

In November 2013, El-Hussein was caught on CCTV pulling a knife out on a train
in Copenhagen. Moments later he walked down the aisle between the seats and
select his victim at random.

He knifed a 19-year-old man in the thigh and buttock before strolling off the
train. He was jailed for the attack and was released from prison only two weeks
ago, after serving his sentence for aggravated assault.

He was known to Danish intelligence services, who said it was impossible to keep
a round-the-clock watch on all its suspects.

Last night it was unclear how El-Hussein was radicalised or if he had travelled
to Syria or Iraq.

The second shooting took place in Nørrebro, an ethnically mixed district of the
capital where violent gang wars have recently raged. Locals say there is an
ongoing tit-for-tat battle between bikers and ethnic minority youths.

Some say the shootings over the weekend were part of a turf war over the
lucrative hashish trade in the city. Others say it has been inflamed by feelings
of marginalisation among ethnic minority youngsters. The National Night Owls
Association, a voluntary public safety group that patrols the streets, has
decided to pull out of the district.

NNOA's Erik Thorsted said: 'This is the first time the organisation has had to
give up on an area.'

Nørrebro has a migrant population of almost 30 per cent and has been the site of
many riots over the past 35 years.

During the 1980s, it was often the setting for violent clashes between Danish
police and militant squatters known as BZ.

Meanwhile hundreds of graves were vandalized at a Jewish cemetery in eastern
France over the weekend, in what President Francois Hollande called an 'odious
and barbaric' anti-Semitic act against French values.

French Jews have been increasingly migrating to Israel, a pattern that dismayed
the French government well before the attacks at the kosher supermarket and
since has left top officials pleading for them to stay.

In 2014, more than 7,000 French Jews left, more than double the number for 2013.

The exodus from France accelerated after the March 2012 attacks by Mohammed
Merah, who stormed a Jewish school in Toulouse, killing three children and a
rabbi.

Last month's attack in France was part of a wave of violence that killed a total
of 17 people carried out by extremists who claimed allegiance to the al-Qaida
and Islamic State extremist groups.

France's interior minister described the vandalism at the cemetery as a
'despicable act'.

Mr Netanyahu made his call for Europe's Jewish population to emigrate yesterday,
reiterating a similar plea he made in the wake of the Paris attacks.

'To the Jews of Europe and to the Jews of the world I say that Israel is waiting
for you with open arms,' he said.

'Extremist Islamic terrorism has struck Europe again... Jews have been murdered
again on European soil only because they were Jews'.

His comments came hours after Saturday's Copenhagen shootings which killed two
people.

Film director Finn Nørgaard, 55, was shot dead during a free speech debate at a
cafe which was due to feature Lars Vilks, an artist who drew the Prophet
Mohammed as a stray dog in 2007.

Hours later security guard Dan Uzan, 37, was shot in the head as he stood
outside a synagogue where a young girl was celebrating her Bat Mitzvah.

The suspected jihadi attacker, named as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, 22, was
gunned down by police at a metro station yesterday amid fears the rampage was
inspired by the Paris attacks.

Those attacks left 17 people dead, including four Jewish men who were taken
hostage by an Islamist gunman at a kosher supermarket. Their bodies were
repatriated to Israel for burial.

The European Jewish Association has called for round-the-clock security at
Jewish institutions and demanded more action by national governments

EU leaders had already agreed last week to step up international co-operation on
counter-terror investigations in a bid to stop further attacks.

Rabbi Menachem Margolin, the Brussels-based association's general director,
said: 'European leaders need to support us in fighting the battle on terror in
our homeland.'

He accused EU leaders of burying their heads 'in the sand' for months after an
armed attack on the Jewish museum in Brussels last May which killed four people.

And he called for the establishment of a Europe-wide task force to beef up
protection of Jewish institutions and reinforce educational efforts against what
he called 'rampant anti-Semitism.'

EU President Donald Tusk said the latest acts of violence would only strengthen
Europeans' resolve to fight all kinds of extremism and terrorism.

'We will press forward with our new agreed priorities in the fight against
terrorism,' he said. 'We will face this threat together.'

HOW ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS ARE GIVEN THE KID GLOVE TREATMENT ON RETURNING TO
DENMARK AND WHY THEY DO NOT FACE TERROR CHARGES

Denmark is fast becoming a hotbed for Islamic extremism, with more than 100
young men joining Islamic State to fight.

Among European countries, only Belgium saw a higher proportion of its population
travel to Syria last year.

But despite the growing problem, jihadis who return to Denmark do not face
terrorism charges. Instead, they are offered rehabilitation.

The Danish government enrols citizens in a programme of counselling, mentoring
and education or vocational training.

Everyone who returns from war-torn countries is offered treatment for shrapnel
wounds as well as psychiatric care for trauma.

The scheme, which was meant to halt a cycle of radicalisation and retributive
justice, was started in the city of Aarhus and adopted nationwide last autumn.

The approach involved dialogue with a mosque regarded as a hotbed of extremism,
after authorities found 22 of the young radicals who went to Syria had
worshipped there.

But those who return are not expected to renounce their support for radical
Islamic goals.

Denmark is the only Western state to take such an approach but the organisers
have been invited to a number of European countries, including Britain, to
outline their programme.

Professor Preben Bertelson, one of those behind the scheme, said it was 'the
only answer'.

When [IS] is defeated in three years, we are going to get up to 6,000 very angry
young men coming back to Europe Professor Preben Bertelson

'When [IS] is defeated in three years, we are going to get up to 6,000 very
angry young men coming back to Europe,' he told the Independent.

But Maria Krupp, an MP for the conservative Danish People's Party, was adamantly
opposed to the programme, saying: 'The project is misconceived. It rewards for
violence.'

Denmark has put huge effort into combating domestic terror threats since 2006,
when the newspaper Jyllands-Posten became an Al Qaeda target.

It was the first publication to print cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, sparking
outrage across the Muslim world. The Danish Security and Intelligence Service
has thwarted six terror plots in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 16, 2015 Monday 12:31 PM GMT

'The Jews of the world should now move to Israel': Netanyahu makes extraordinary
plea for 'mass immigration' in wake of anti-Semitic terror attacks in Paris and
Copenhagen

BYLINE: JOHN HALL and DAN BLOOM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2917 words



     ·    Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu told Jews: Move here to stop more murder
     ·    But the remarks were attacked by his French counterpart Manuel Valls
     ·    Mr Valls accused Israeli leader of playing politics a month before
          election
     ·    'France is wounded with you and does not want you to leave', he told
          Jews
     ·    Guard died in Copenhagen synagogue attack weeks after Paris sieges
     ·    European Jewish Association has called for round-the-clock security


Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has made an extraordinary plea for
Jews to leave Europe and migrate to Israel to escape the rising tide of
antisemitic terror attacks sweeping the continent.

Netanyahu said that Europe was no longer a safe haven for Jews following terror
attacks in Paris and Copenhagen, adding that Israel is now the only country in
the world where Jews can feel safe.

His comments - which came just hours after two people were killed in separate
terror attacks in the Danish capital, one of which was on a synagogue -
triggered an angry response from Copenhagen's chief rabbi, Jair Melchior, who
said he was 'disappointed' by the remarks.

'People from Denmark move to Israel because they love Israel, because of
Zionism. But not because of terrorism,' he said. 'If the way we deal with terror
is to run somewhere else, we should all run to a deserted island,' he added.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT

Scroll down for video

France's Prime Minister Manuel Valls also slammed Netanyahu's comments, telling
475,000 French Jews the whole nation was 'wounded with you' after a gunman
killed two people including a synagogue security guard in Copenhagen, Denmark.

Netanyahu's renewed call for a modern-day exodus came just a month after four
hostages were killed at a Paris kosher deli.

Hundreds of graves at a Jewish cemetery near Strasbourg were also desecrated
over the weekend amid heightened fears in France, which has the world's
third-largest Jewish population.

Mr Valls criticised Netanyahu's plea for mass migration - and questioned its
timing just a month before Mr Netanyahu seeks re-election to the Israeli
Parliament on March 17.

The French Prime Minister said: 'My message to French Jews is the following:
"France is wounded with you and France does not want you to leave".'

'I regret Benjamin Netanyahu's remarks. Being in the middle of an election
campaign doesn't mean you authorise yourself to make just any type of
statement... The place for French Jews is France.'

This morning French President Francois Hollande also said that Jews were welcome
in Europe and France, in another apparent retort to the Israeli prime minister.

More than 80 per cent of the world's Jews live in the U.S. and Israel but there
are large communities elsewhere, including in Canada, Britain, Russia,
Argentina, Germany and Australia.

Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt also expressed support for the
Jewish community, telling reporters: 'They belong in Denmark, they are a strong
part of our community, and we will do everything we can to protect the Jewish
community in our country.'

Netanyahu issued his call during the weekly meeting of his Cabinet, which
approved a previously scheduled $46 million plan to encourage Jewish immigration
from France, Belgium and Ukraine - countries where large numbers of Jews have
expressed interest in moving to Israel.

Jens Madsen, head of Denmark's intelligence agency PET, said investigators
believed the gunman who killed two people in the weekend shootings in Copenhagen
was inspired by Islamic radicalism.

A visibly moved Thorning-Schmidt laid flowers at the synagogue Sunday,
accompanied by former Chief Rabbi Bent Lexner, Jewish community leader Dan
Rosenberg Asmussen and Anders Gadegaard from the Copenhagen Protestant
cathedral.

'My message is that all of Denmark feels with you,' Thorning-Schmidt said. 'This
is not the Denmark we want. We want a Denmark where people freely can choose
one's religion.'

Denmark is known for saving most of its Jews during World War II. There are an
estimated 6,000 to 7,000 Jews in Denmark.

Melchior, the chief rabbi, identified the Jewish victim in Copenhagen as Dan
Uzan, a security guard.

'He was a person who was always willing to help. An amazing, amazing guy,' said
Melchior, speaking from Israel before boarding a return flight to Copenhagen.

The community had previously asked police for enhanced security, and following
last month's attack on the Paris kosher market, Danish police began reevaluating
security, Melchior said.

PROFILE: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU - ISRAEL'S THREE-TIME PRIME MINISTER

Benjamin Netanyahu, who has been elected Prime Minister of Israel three times
and is widely known by his nickname 'Bibi', was born in Tel Aviv in 1949.

The Netanyahu family moved to the U.S. in 1963 when Benjamin's historian and
Zionist activist father Benzion was offered an academic job there.

Netanyahu returned to his homeland at the age of 18 to serve in the army for
five years, where he rose to the rank of captain in the elite commando unit
Sayeret Matkal.

He took part in a raid on Beirut's airport in 1968 and fought in the 1973 Middle
East war, before returning to America to study at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

In 1976 Netanyahu's elite army commando brother Yonatan was killed trying to
rescue hostages from a hijacked airline in Uganda.

In 1979 a profoundly affected Netanyahu set up an anti-terrorism institute in
his brother's memory, which led to him being noticed by the Israeli government,
who saw the eloquent, American-accented ex-soldier as a perfect representative
for the country at the UN headquarters in New York.

Netanyahu returned to Israel in 1988 and quickly rose through the ranks of
domestic politics until in 1996 he became the country's first democratically
elected Prime Minister.

He was also Israel's youngest every Prime Minister and the first to be born
after the formation on the state in 1948.

Despite his reputation as a hardline conservative, Netanyahu initially drew
criticism from right wing supporters for agreeing to hand over 80 per cent of
Hebron to the Palestinian Authority as part of a peace deal.

Netanyahu was eventually defeated at the next election and even his own father
publicly branded him 'not a very good Prime Minister'.

Netanyahu worked his way back up the political ladder, however, until in 2005 he
resigned from government in protest at Israel agreeing to pull out the Gaza
Strip.

When Prime Minister Ariel Sharon suffered a massive stroke and was left in a
coma Netanyahu returned for this second term, forming a coalition with right
wing parties who pursued a tough line on peace talks.

Although he agreed to a two-state solution for the country, Netanyahu insisted
Palestinians recognise Israel as a Jewish state.

Incredibly popular for his tough stance, Netanyahu called early elections in
2013, easily winning.

He almost immediately launched multiple attacks on terror targets within the
Gaza Strip, with the stated aim of securing long-term quiet in Israel.

The death toll exceeded previous interventions in Gaza, and led to strained
relations with U.S. President Barack Obama, who was overheard complaining of
'having to deal with him everyday'.

Netanyahu has also taken a hard line towards Iran, repeatedly warning of the
danger to the international community of allowing it to develop nuclear weapons.



The jihadi who killed two people before being gunned down by Danish police
yesterday was inspired by the Charlie Hebdo atrocity in Paris it emerged last
night.

Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein was shot at a train station in Copenhagen after he
opened fire on armed officers in the early hours of yesterday morning.

The 22-year-old fanatic murdered film director Finn Norgaard, 55, while
indiscriminately firing an automatic rifle at a free speech debate at a cafe on
Saturday afternoon.

His intended target was thought to have been the controversial Swedish
cartoonist Lars Vilks, who has previously depicted the prophet Muhammad as a
stray dog. Mr Vilks escaped unscathed.

Some ten hours later the gunman shot Dan Uzan in the head at a synagogue holding
a bat mitzvah celebration for 80 people. Mr Uzan, 37, an economist at the Danish
treasury, had been acting as a volunteer security guard for the event.

Two police officers, who were at the synagogue to provide extra security
following the earlier cafe shooting, were shot in the arms and legs. Three
others were injured in the earlier attack. All are expected to survive.

France and Belgium have experienced deadly attacks on their Jewish communities
in in recent years, most recently an attack in Paris last month that killed four
Jews at a kosher market.

Ukraine, meanwhile, is in the midst of a conflict between government troops and
Russian-backed separatists.

'This wave of attacks is expected to continue,' Netanyahu told his Cabinet.
'Jews deserve security in every country, but we say to our Jewish brothers and
sisters, Israel is your home.'

Netanyahu spoke at a time of rising tensions with European countries over
Israeli settlement activity in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, captured
territories claimed by the Palestinians. Some Israelis believe such criticism
has helped fuel anti-Semitism.

European leaders have insisted that their criticism of Israel's actions in the
West Bank and east Jerusalem have had no bearing on the treatment of their own
Jewish communities.

Netanyahu rushed to France following the January 7-9 killings at the satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket, urging the country's Jews to
move to Israel.

French leaders signaled their unhappiness.

'France, without the Jews of France, is no longer France,' French Prime Minister
Manuel Valls said at the time. The government has since increased protection at
synagogues, Jewish schools and other sensitive sites.

OMAR ABDEL HAMID EL-HUSSEIN: THE KNIFE-WIELDING THUG WHO GRADUATED FROM GANGSTER
TO COPENHAGEN TERRORIST

Prowling menacingly through a train with a knife, this is the gangster turned
terrorist who caused mayhem in Copenhagen.

Born in Denmark to migrant parents, Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein descended into a
life of crime in his teenage years, joining notorious gang The Brothas and
roaming the streets with a knife or a gun.

By the time he was killed by armed officers outside a train station in the
Danish capital yesterday, the 22-year-old had an extensive criminal record for
offences including assault and possession of dangerous weapons.

In November 2013, El-Hussein was caught on CCTV pulling a knife out on a train
in Copenhagen. Moments later he walked down the aisle between the seats and
select his victim at random.

He knifed a 19-year-old man in the thigh and buttock before strolling off the
train. He was jailed for the attack and was released from prison only two weeks
ago, after serving his sentence for aggravated assault.

He was known to Danish intelligence services, who said it was impossible to keep
a round-the-clock watch on all its suspects.

Last night it was unclear how El-Hussein was radicalised or if he had travelled
to Syria or Iraq.

The second shooting took place in Nørrebro, an ethnically mixed district of the
capital where violent gang wars have recently raged. Locals say there is an
ongoing tit-for-tat battle between bikers and ethnic minority youths.

Some say the shootings over the weekend were part of a turf war over the
lucrative hashish trade in the city. Others say it has been inflamed by feelings
of marginalisation among ethnic minority youngsters. The National Night Owls
Association, a voluntary public safety group that patrols the streets, has
decided to pull out of the district.

NNOA's Erik Thorsted said: 'This is the first time the organisation has had to
give up on an area.'

Nørrebro has a migrant population of almost 30 per cent and has been the site of
many riots over the past 35 years.

During the 1980s, it was often the setting for violent clashes between Danish
police and militant squatters known as BZ.

Meanwhile hundreds of graves were vandalized at a Jewish cemetery in eastern
France over the weekend, in what President Francois Hollande called an 'odious
and barbaric' anti-Semitic act against French values.

French Jews have been increasingly migrating to Israel, a pattern that dismayed
the French government well before the attacks at the kosher supermarket and
since has left top officials pleading for them to stay.

In 2014, more than 7,000 French Jews left, more than double the number for 2013.

The exodus from France accelerated after the March 2012 attacks by Mohammed
Merah, who stormed a Jewish school in Toulouse, killing three children and a
rabbi.

Last month's attack in France was part of a wave of violence that killed a total
of 17 people carried out by extremists who claimed allegiance to the al-Qaida
and Islamic State extremist groups.

France's interior minister described the vandalism at the cemetery as a
'despicable act'.

Mr Netanyahu made his call for Europe's Jewish population to emigrate yesterday,
reiterating a similar plea he made in the wake of the Paris attacks.

'To the Jews of Europe and to the Jews of the world I say that Israel is waiting
for you with open arms,' he said.

'Extremist Islamic terrorism has struck Europe again... Jews have been murdered
again on European soil only because they were Jews'.

His comments came hours after Saturday's Copenhagen shootings which killed two
people.

Film director Finn Nørgaard, 55, was shot dead during a free speech debate at a
cafe which was due to feature Lars Vilks, an artist who drew the Prophet
Mohammed as a stray dog in 2007.

Hours later security guard Dan Uzan, 37, was shot in the head as he stood
outside a synagogue where a young girl was celebrating her Bat Mitzvah.

The suspected jihadi attacker, named as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, 22, was
gunned down by police at a metro station yesterday amid fears the rampage was
inspired by the Paris attacks.

Those attacks left 17 people dead, including four Jewish men who were taken
hostage by an Islamist gunman at a kosher supermarket. Their bodies were
repatriated to Israel for burial.

The European Jewish Association has called for round-the-clock security at
Jewish institutions and demanded more action by national governments

EU leaders had already agreed last week to step up international co-operation on
counter-terror investigations in a bid to stop further attacks.

Rabbi Menachem Margolin, the Brussels-based association's general director,
said: 'European leaders need to support us in fighting the battle on terror in
our homeland.'

He accused EU leaders of burying their heads 'in the sand' for months after an
armed attack on the Jewish museum in Brussels last May which killed four people.

And he called for the establishment of a Europe-wide task force to beef up
protection of Jewish institutions and reinforce educational efforts against what
he called 'rampant anti-Semitism.'

EU President Donald Tusk said the latest acts of violence would only strengthen
Europeans' resolve to fight all kinds of extremism and terrorism.

'We will press forward with our new agreed priorities in the fight against
terrorism,' he said. 'We will face this threat together.'

HOW ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS ARE GIVEN THE KID GLOVE TREATMENT ON RETURNING TO
DENMARK AND WHY THEY DO NOT FACE TERROR CHARGES

Denmark is fast becoming a hotbed for Islamic extremism, with more than 100
young men joining Islamic State to fight.

Among European countries, only Belgium saw a higher proportion of its population
travel to Syria last year.

But despite the growing problem, jihadis who return to Denmark do not face
terrorism charges. Instead, they are offered rehabilitation.

The Danish government enrols citizens in a programme of counselling, mentoring
and education or vocational training.

Everyone who returns from war-torn countries is offered treatment for shrapnel
wounds as well as psychiatric care for trauma.

The scheme, which was meant to halt a cycle of radicalisation and retributive
justice, was started in the city of Aarhus and adopted nationwide last autumn.

The approach involved dialogue with a mosque regarded as a hotbed of extremism,
after authorities found 22 of the young radicals who went to Syria had
worshipped there.

But those who return are not expected to renounce their support for radical
Islamic goals.

Denmark is the only Western state to take such an approach but the organisers
have been invited to a number of European countries, including Britain, to
outline their programme.

Professor Preben Bertelson, one of those behind the scheme, said it was 'the
only answer'.

When [IS] is defeated in three years, we are going to get up to 6,000 very angry
young men coming back to Europe Professor Preben Bertelson

'When [IS] is defeated in three years, we are going to get up to 6,000 very
angry young men coming back to Europe,' he told the Independent.

But Maria Krupp, an MP for the conservative Danish People's Party, was adamantly
opposed to the programme, saying: 'The project is misconceived. It rewards for
violence.'

Denmark has put huge effort into combating domestic terror threats since 2006,
when the newspaper Jyllands-Posten became an Al Qaeda target.

It was the first publication to print cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, sparking
outrage across the Muslim world. The Danish Security and Intelligence Service
has thwarted six terror plots in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 16, 2015 Monday 11:54 AM GMT

Armed police patrol GCHQ for the first time amid heightened fears of a 'lone
wolf' terror attack after Copenhagen atrocity

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE and HARRIET SIME FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words



     ·    Ministry of Defence armed officers now outside GCHQ in Cheltenham 24/7


     ·    Terror threat level at 'severe' and MI5 say 'only matter of time'
          until attack
     ·    Not clear if GCHQ's decision is based on plot to target the listening
          station
     ·    Britain preparing for 'lone wolf' attack after extremist murders in
          Denmark


Armed police are now guarding the headquarters of spy agency GCHQ 24 hours a day
amid fears it could be targeted in a terror attack similar to the weekend's
atrocity in Denmark, it was revealed today.

Security has been tightened after the attacks in Copenhagen by lone gunman Omar
Abdel Hamid El-Hussein and MI5 believes it is 'only a matter of time' before a
similar attack in Britain.

For the first time armed Ministry of Defence Police will guard the GCHQ
listening station full time in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, in response to the
heightened terror threat.

The current threat level of an attack has been set by the Government as severe,
meaning a strike is 'highly likely'.

But it is not known whether officers have been deployed at GCHQ because of a
specific threat.

A GCHQ spokesman said of the decision to deploy armed police: 'The security
posture of our sites, including the safety of our staff, is under constant
review.'

He added that it was the first time full time armed guards had been deployed at
the site.

Spy chiefs last night warned that lone wolf terror attacks are now Britain's
'biggest fear' in the wake of Europe's latest atrocity.

However, officials accept there is little they can do to prevent such tragedies
because those involved often live appparently normal lives within communities
and give no hint of their intentions.

A counter-terror source last night said lone wolf gunmen or suicide bombers,
with no obvious link to known extremists, were 'our biggest fear'.

The insider told the Daily Mirror: 'Loners are unpredictable and by their very
nature tend not to make their intentions known in a way that can be intercepted.

'Agencies have smashed many major mass casualty plots, but smaller attacks by
one or two radicalised terrorists whose warped plans go below the radar make
detection difficult. These people are out there, without doubt.'

It was revealed last night that the jihadi who killed two people in the
Copenhagen atrocity was inspired by the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris last
month.

Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein was shot at a train station in Copenhagen after he
opened fire on armed officers in the early hours of Sunday morning.

The 22-year-old fanatic murdered film director Finn Norgaard, 55, while
indiscriminately firing an automatic rifle at a free speech debate at a cafe on
Saturday afternoon.

His intended target was thought to have been the controversial Swedish
cartoonist Lars Vilks, who has previously depicted the prophet Muhammad as a
stray dog. Mr Vilks escaped unscathed.

Some ten hours later the gunman shot Dan Uzan in the head at a synagogue holding
a bat mitzvah celebration for 80 people. Mr Uzan, 37, an economist at the Danish
treasury, had been acting as a volunteer security guard for the event.

Two police officers, who were at the synagogue to provide extra security
following the earlier cafe shooting, were shot in the arms and legs. Three
others were injured in the earlier attack. All are expected to survive.

The attack at the Krudttønden café bears striking similarities to the massacre
at the Charlie Hebdo office in Paris last month, in which two fanatics murdered
12 people. Their accomplice shot dead a policewoman and four hostages at a
kosher supermarket.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 16, 2015 Monday 10:46 AM GMT

'The Jews of the world should now move to Israel': Netanyahu makes extraordinary
plea for 'mass immigration' in wake of anti-Semitic terror attacks in Paris and
Copenhagen

BYLINE: DAN BLOOM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 791 words



     ·    Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu told Jews: Move here to stop more murder
     ·    But the remarks were attacked by his French counterpart Manuel Valls
     ·    Mr Valls accused Israeli leader of playing politics a month before
          election
     ·    'France is wounded with you and does not want you to leave', he told
          Jews
     ·    Guard died in Copenhagen synagogue attack weeks after Paris sieges
     ·    European Jewish Association has called for round-the-clock security


Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has urged Jews to leave Europe and
migrate to Israel to avoid being murdered in the rising tide of antisemitism
sweeping the continent.

Netanyahu said that Europe was no longer a safe haven following the terror
attacks in Paris and Copenhagen, adding that Israel is now the only country in
the world where Jews can feel safe.

His comments triggered an angry response from Copenhagen's chief rabbi, Jair
Melchior, who said he was 'disappointed' by the remarks.

'People from Denmark move to Israel because they love Israel, because of
Zionism. But not because of terrorism,' he said. 'If the way we deal with terror
is to run somewhere else, we should all run to a deserted island.'

France's Prime Minister Manuel Valls also slammed Netanyahu's comments, telling
475,000 French Jews the whole nation was 'wounded with you' after a gunman
killed two people including a synagogue security guard in Copenhagen, Denmark.

Netanyahu's renewed call for a modern-day exodus came just a month after four
hostages were killed at a Paris kosher deli.

Hundreds of graves at a Jewish cemetery near Strasbourg were also desecrated
over the weekend amid heightened fears in France, which has the world's
third-largest Jewish population.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT

Scroll down for video

But Mr Valls criticised the plea - and questioned its timing just a month before
Mr Netanyahu seeks re-election to the Israeli Parliament on March 17.

The French Prime Minister said: 'My message to French Jews is the following:
France is wounded with you and France does not want you to leave.

'I regret Benjamin Netanyahu's remarks. Being in the middle of an election
campaign doesn't mean you authorise yourself to make just any type of statement.

'The place for French Jews is France.'

More than 80 per cent of the world's Jews live in the U.S. and Israel but there
are large communities elsewhere, including in Canada, Britain, Russia,
Argentina, Germany and Australia.

France's interior minister described the vandalism at the cemetery as a
'despicable act'.

Mr Netanyahu made his call for Europe's Jewish population to emigrate yesterday,
reiterating a similar plea he made in the wake of the Paris attacks.

'To the Jews of Europe and to the Jews of the world I say that Israel is waiting
for you with open arms,' he said.

'Extremist Islamic terrorism has struck Europe again... Jews have been murdered
again on European soil only because they were Jews'.

His comments came hours after Saturday's Copenhagen shootings which killed two
people.

Film director Finn Nørgaard, 55, was shot dead during a free speech debate at a
cafe which was due to feature Lars Vilks, an artist who drew the Prophet
Mohammed as a stray dog in 2007.

Hours later security guard Dan Uzan, 37, was shot in the head as he stood
outside a synagogue where a young girl was celebrating her Bat Mitzvah.

The suspected jihadi attacker, named as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, 22, was
gunned down by police at a metro station yesterday amid fears the rampage was
inspired by the Paris attacks.

Those attacks left 17 people dead, including four Jewish men who were taken
hostage by an Islamist gunman at a kosher supermarket. Their bodies were
repatriated to Israel for burial.

The European Jewish Association has called for round-the-clock security at
Jewish institutions and demanded more action by national governments

EU leaders had already agreed last week to step up international co-operation on
counter-terror investigations in a bid to stop further attacks.

Rabbi Menachem Margolin, the Brussels-based association's general director,
said: 'European leaders need to support us in fighting the battle on terror in
our homeland.'

He accused EU leaders of burying their heads 'in the sand' for months after an
armed attack on the Jewish museum in Brussels last May which killed four people.

And he called for the establishment of a Europe-wide task force to beef up
protection of Jewish institutions and reinforce educational efforts against what
he called 'rampant anti-Semitism.'

EU President Donald Tusk said the latest acts of violence would only strengthen
Europeans' resolve to fight all kinds of extremism and terrorism.

'We will press forward with our new agreed priorities in the fight against
terrorism,' he said. 'We will face this threat together.'

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     February 16, 2015 Monday 10:43 PM GMT

Shocking video shows Jewish man spat at and insulted as he walks the streets of
Paris;
The journalist was conducting an experiment to see how safe the streets of the
French capital are after a series of terror attacks in Europe

BYLINE: By Alex Wellman

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


Jewish man abused in Paris

This shocking video shows how a man wearing a Jewish skullcap was abused and
spat at as he walked through Paris.

Journalist Zvika Klein decided to test how safe the streets of the French
capital were for Jewish people by walking them for 10 hours with a secret
camera.

Mr Klein, who works for the Jewish news agency NRG, decided to conduct the test
after the terror attack on a Jewish supermarket saw four people killed.

For the test, which was also conducted at a time when anti-semitism is reported
to be on the rise in Europe, Mr Klein wore a yarmulke and a tzitzit.

A colleague walked in front of him with a GoPro camera pointing at the
journalist.

The one-and-a-half minute long video was then posted to YouTube and shows Mr
Klein being spat and sworn at, mocked and intimidated.

In an article for NRG, Mr Klein told how he walked the streets for 10 hours -
beginning in the tourist areas, where things were 'relatively calm.

But as he got further into the city, the journalist claims that people became
much more hostile.

He said: "Walking into a public housing neighborhood, we came across a little
boy and his hijab-clad mother, who were clearly shocked to see us.

"What is he doing here Mommy? Doesn't he know he will be killed?"

He added: "At a nearby cafe, fingers were pointed at us, and moments later two
thugs were waiting for us on the street corner. They swore at me, yelled "Jew"
and spat at me."

Although the video appears to show a number of people abusing Mr Klein, the
journalist told that he did receive some support.

As he walked through a marketplace in a predominantly Muslim area, one person is
said to have shouted out that he should 'be ashamed of himself' for walking
there with the yarmulke on.

Mr Klein said: "One Muslim merchant yelled. "What do you care? He can do
whatever he wants"."

The video comes as Isreali Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called for the mass
emigration of Jews from Europe to escape the rising tide of antisemitism.

Mr Netanyahu clamied Europe was no longer a safe haven for Jews following
attacks in Paris and Copenhagen.

The video was inspired by a similar one done in New York where actress Shoshana
Roberts was filmed walking the streets of the city being subjected to lewd
remarks by dozens of men .

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 16, 2015 Monday 10:39 AM GMT

Eating at a bad restaurant 'similar to suffering a terrorist attack';
Restaurants which are not up to scratch can leave people with mild form of
trauma similar to experiencing a personal disaster

BYLINE: By Sarah Knapton Science Editor in San Jose

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 581 words


There may be no such thing as a free meal but scientists have discovered that
there can be a traumatic one.

A bad restaurant experience can leave diners suffering from a mild form of
trauma akin to experiencing a personal disaster and the language used in
terrible reviews is comparable to that used by those writing in the aftermath of
9/11 , Stanford University has found.

Rude, unhelpful staff, bad food and dirty cutlery are likely to affect customers
far more than restaurant owners realise, and could explain why they often talk
about their bad experiences for weeks afterwards.

Scientists studied more than one million one star restaurant reviews posted on
Yelp between 2011 and 2013 which spanned more than 6,5000 restaurants across
major US cities like New York and San Francisco.

They found the language used by reviewers was similar to that used by people
suffering from trauma.

Linguistic clues including talking about their experience in the past tens, to
distance themselves from the situation, and speaking as group rather than an
individual.

Dan Jurafsky, professor of linguistics and computer science at Stanford
University said: "We have been analysing the language to see what they tell us
about people. We looked that the words people used in writing good and bad
reviews.

"We thought they would talk about how bad the food was, that is was greasy but
instead they used very specific language using the past tense rather than the
present tense and talking about other people a lot as well as using lots of
negative words like 'awful' and 'terrible'.

"It turns out that there is previous scientific literature showing that these
are the same characteristics used by people writing after they have been
traumatised, such as people writing after 9/11 or students writing after a
campus tragedy.

"So when they are writing about one star restaurant reviews they are reminiscing
about a small trauma that happened to them."

Prof Jurafsky said the research showed that most people gave bad reviews because
of treatment by staff rather than the quality of the food.

"If you look at the reviews, sure enough it was all 'someone was mean to me',
the waiter or waitress was rude. It's all about personal interactions," added
Prof Jurafsky.

"You would think the review would be about the food but it's actually all about
this interaction. People feel injured and want to write about it."

However the study also reveals how language changes for good reviews.

When diners enjoyed their meal in an upmarket restaurant their words become
effusive and largely sexual describing dishes as 'orgasmic' 'seductive' and
'naughty.'

But customers writing about the delights of cheaper eateries tend to talk about
'cravings' or addictions, as if they were unable to resist the fare.

The study also looked at how cheaper and more expensive restaurants listed food
in their menus and found that cheaper eateries highlighted the choice of dishes,
while more upmarket establishments highlighted exclusivity.

"It's much more like the theatre where you expect the chef to create something
for you," added Prof Jurafsky.

"The cheaper the restaurant the more choice you would have."

Upmarket establishments were also likely to use longer words to decisive their
dishes. On average, for every extra letter in a menu item, the price would rise
by around 10p, it was found.

The research was presented at the American Association for the Advancement of
Science annual conference in San Jose, California.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 16, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Gunman in Danish café terror attackwas home-grown criminal

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 764 words


The gunman who shot dead two people in attacks on a free-speech meeting and a
synagogue in Copenhagen was a Danish-born criminal who had just been freed from
jail.

The 22-year-old terrorist, named by local media as Omar El-Hussein, was killed
by police in his doorway in Norrebro, a suburb of the capital at 5am yesterday
morning, after turning his gun on a unit that was staking out his apartment.

The 14-hour rampage left one dead at the meeting in a café and another at the
gate of the city's main synagogue, where 80 people inside were celebrating a bat
mitzvah.

"When you mercilessly fire deadly bullets at innocent people taking part in a
debate, when you attack the Jewish community, you attack our democracy," Helle
Thorning-Schmidt, the prime minister, said. "We have tried the ugly taste of
fear and powerlessness which terror hopes to create. We will defend our
democracy and we will defend Denmark at any time."

Jens Madsen, head of the Danish intelligence agency PET, said the gunman was
known for gang-related offences and was believed to have acted alone. Danish
media reported that he was released from prison two weeks ago, after serving a
term for aggravated assault.

"We cannot yet say anything concrete about the motive ... but are considering
that he might have been inspired by the events in Paris some weeks ago," Mr
Madsen said. Police would not say last night why four men were arrested at an
internet café only yards from the killer's apartment.

In one sign that he acted alone, the man abandoned his getaway car and took a
taxi home after a shooting spree at a café on Saturday afternoon. The café was
hosting a discussion about freedom of speech.

It was 3.30pm on Saturday when the man initially tried to enter the café but set
off a metal detector, it was reported, prompting him to spray the front of the
building with at least 40 bullets.

François Zimeray, the French ambassador, who was at the event, said: "They shot
from the outside [and] had the same intention as [with] Charlie Hebdo, only they
did not manage to get in."

The main target of this first attack was believed to be Lars Vilks, a Swedish
cartoonist who has received numerous death threats and has been attacked before
for portraying the prophet Muhammad as a dog in 2007.

"The rather spare audience got to experience fear and horror - and tragedy,"
Vilks wrote last night. "I was sitting there and we were listening to a lecture
and suddenly started to come these 'bang bang' sounds. At first it seemed so
unreal. Then the bodyguards reacted and I understood there was an attack going
on."

Vilks was bundled out unharmed by his Swedish bodyguards, but one of the bullets
killed Finn Norgaard, 55, a documentary film director.

Danish police who were patrolling the event returned fire and three were injured
as the masked gunman escaped and gave pursuers the slip by abandoning his VW
Polo getaway car. By the time police had traced his apartment, he was already on
his way to the scene of his second attack.

Shortly after midnight, he tried to storm the synagogue complex, killing Dan
Uzan, 37, an unarmed guard. Two armed police had been stationed at the event
after the raised terrorism alert and returned fire but again the gunman managed
to escape, wounding both policemen.

Witnesses in a bar across the street said they saw special police teams moving
in with automatic rifles.

"We looked out the window and saw this guy lying on the street," said Rasmus
Thau Riddersholm, 33. "We were told by police to stay in the back of the room,
away from the windows and doors."

Mr Uzan, said to be 6ft 8in, stood as a volunteer guard at synagogue events for
many years and often made light of the dangers.

"He was well known in the basketball world, a big warm guy, always helpful,"
said Jens, 52, a fellow member of Mr Uzan's basketball club, who came to lay
flowers yesterday. "We knew he had this job so he has been in danger for a lot
of years. He always talked about his job. He knew this street and synagogue
could be under threat, but he was calm about it, he was cool, he knew how to
handle himself."

Fourteen hours on the run VW Polo believed to have been used by gunman found
abandoned 3 5am Police wait for suspect at his home near Norrebro station. Shots
are exchanged and the gunman is killed Saturday, 3.30pm Krudttonden Cultural
Centre Gunman arrives by taxi and shoots multiple rounds through the windows. A
55-year-old man is killed and three police officers wounded. Gunman escapes by
taxi 2 Yesterday, 1am Krystalgade synagogue Gunman opens fire killing doorman
and wounding two police officers

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: flowers at the synagogue. Below, Omar El-Hussein, who was shot dead by
policeDanish forensics examine the cafe while the prime minister, Helle
Thorning-Schmidt, lays

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

Cyprus condemns "terrorist attacks" in Denmark

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

[Unattributed report: "Cyprus Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Copenhagen"]

Cyprus condemned on Sunday [15 February] the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen,
Denmark, in which two persons tragically lost their lives and five police
officers were wounded.

"This is yet another alarming reminder that terrorism knows no borders. Acts of
terrorism oppose and seek to undermine our fundamental values of freedom of
expression, the rule of law, the respect and tolerance towards different faiths
and beliefs. These values we share and espouse. We stand by Denmark in its
continuing determination to tackle terrorism" a press release of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs said.

The Ministry expressed deep condolences and sympathy to the families of the
victims and to the people of Denmark.

Government Spokesman Nikos Christodoulides [Christodoulidis] condemning the
incident, he said that "it is something that raises concerns".

"Only recently at the European Council the Heads of States and Governments
adopted a joint statement with regard to terrorist attacks in Europe. Nicosia is
taking all possible measures, in cooperation with our partners, so that any
unpleasant event is averted" he stressed.

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 1533 gmt 15 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

Austria on high alert following Denmark terror attacks

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 233 words


VIENNA - Austria will keep a high level of security following the terror attacks
in the Danish capital of Copenhagen over the weekend and will re-evaluate the
situation, Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner said Monday.

Security measures may be adopted after a new risk assessment although no direct
link between Austria and the deadly attacks has been established, she told the
Austria Press Agency (APA) in an interview.

"We now need to clarify the facts, analyze, and evaluate," she said, adding that
while there is a cause for concern and caution, there is none for panic.

"The police must be well-prepared for the worst-case - with our security
offensive, that is assured," the interior minister said.

She also warned against extreme political or social reactions, saying the
perpetrators of such attacks attempt to cause divisions in society with fear and
terror, and if this is allowed to take place, "they have already won."

The minister said she had a telephone conversation with Danish Justice Minister
Mette Fredriksen on Monday, expressing solidarity and sending condolences to the
families of the victims.

"It must be clear to everyone that our unity and determination is something
nothing and no one can shake," she said.

Two separate shooting attacks rocked Copenhagen on Saturday and Sunday,
resulting in four deaths, including the two assailants, and the injury of five
policemen.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 8:57 PM GMT

Abid Naseer trial: MI5 agents will wear make-up and wigs during trial of man
accused of plotting terror attacks on UK, US and Denmark;
Prosecutors will for first time make use of evidence collected from Osama Bin
Laden's Pakistan compound

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 573 words


A Pakistani terrorism suspected deported from Britain two years ago was part of
a global al-Qaeda plot to attack targets in Britain, the US and Denmark, a court
in New York has been told.

Prosecutor Celia Johnson told the court on Tuesday that Abid Naseer, who was
arrested in Britain in 2009 and later released without charge, headed a terror
cell located in the northern British city of Manchester. She said he was part of
an al-Qaeda effort to infiltrate Western society.

"That was the whole point of the Western operatives," Ms Johnson told the court,
according to the Associated Press. "They knew how to blend in and conduct
reconnaissance and pick the best target. [Their goal] was to repeat the
devastation of 9/11."

Mr Naseer, 28, was one of 12 people arrested in Britain amid suspicions they
were members of an al-Qaeda-backed terror cell. At the time, the then Prime
Minister Gordon Brown described the network as a "very big terrorist plot".

After no explosives were found, the men were released without being charged but
ordered to leave the country.

Mr Naseer avoided being sent to Pakistan after arguing that he would be
mistreated there. He was eventually deported to the US in January 2013 after
prosecutors announced they wanted to charge him with trying to blow up the New
York subway and Manchester's Arndale shopping centre.

Mr Naseer has denied the charges and said that he wanted to represent himself.
Denying that he was a member of al-Qaeda, Mr Naseer referred to himself in the
third person and said on Tuesday: "He has no extremist or jihadist views."

The trial of Mr Naseer is significant for many reasons, not least the twisting
efforts by the authorities in the US to bring him to trial. The hearing will be
the first to include evidence discovered in the Abbottobad compound of Osama bin
Laden by US special forces who killed the al-Qaeda leader in the spring of 2011.

The trial is also expected to see agents from Britain's MI5 giving evidence
against Mr Naseer wearing wigs and disguises. A US judge ruled last month that
six agents who conducted surveillance on Mr Naseer in Manchester could protect
their identities after hearing they still worked on sensitive undercover cases.
US District Judge Raymond Dearie also said the agents could wear light make-up
and be identified using numbers rather than their real names.

On Tuesday, prosecutors introduced testimony from the first of two witnesses,
Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, who both pleaded guilty to taking part in a
thwarted plot to detonate homemade explosives in the New York subway.

The Associated Press said Mr Naseer objected several times when Mr Nazi, a
former New York resident, gave his evidence. One of his interventions was to
object to the introduction of a photograph of bin Laden.

"I agree with you that this case is not about 9-11," Judge Dearie told Mr Naseer
during a break. The judge decided, however, that Zazi should be able to refer to
bin Laden in describing how he became radicalised.

In a lengthy written statement submitted during the deportation proceedings, Mr
Naseer claimed to come from a moderate Muslim family that stressed education.

He said he went to Great Britain to get a degree in computer science, not to
attack the West. "Committing terrorist acts is not justified and I do not
consider this to be jihad," he added. "I believe in spiritual jihad."

The trial continues.

Follow Andrew Buncombe on Twitter: @AndrewBuncombe

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Coptic families struck by terror attack pay tributes to loved ones

BYLINE: ALISTAIR DAWBER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 482 words


Egypt's Christian communities yesterday mourned the 21 Coptic men brutally
beheaded on video by Isis militants.

In central Egypt relatives questioned why more had not been done to secure their
release. The men were mostly from poor communities and had travelled to Libya in
search of work. According to reports, the flow of would-be labourers continued
until last week, well after Isis had claimed responsibility for kidnapping the
men.

Speaking from her home in the village of Al-Our about 250km south of Cairo,
Shinuda Anis, whose brother was among those beheaded, said that the Egyptian
government had had almost two months to act from when the men were taken, and
had failed to do so. "Our blood is for the sake of the nation," she said.

Speaking to the Egyptian press, other relatives told the stories of men who
died. Abanub Ayyad Atiyyah was a 22-year-old business graduate; the brains in
the family, whose work in Libya was supporting his parents and helping to pay
for his future wedding.

"We intended to search for a wife for him upon his return to Egypt," his father
said. "I also relied on him to help with the expenses of the household."

Luqa Najati was 24 and had been working in Libya for 18 months. The images in
the footage - on a beach, wearing the now infamous orange jumpsuit, were the
first his family had seen of him since he left to support his new wife. The
young father never got a glimpse of his baby daughter - he left for Libya not
knowing his wife was pregnant.

Egypt's Coptic Christians are used to feeling persecuted. Numbering between nine
and 15 million in Egypt, a sizeable minority in the mainly Muslim country of
about 88 million, they are among the poorest in Egypt's society.

While every religion is protected under the country's constitution, Copts have
long faced discrimination - it is more difficult to convert to Christianity than
from it.

Prominent Copts have served in high office - Boutros Boutros-Ghali served under
President Anwar Sadat as foreign minister, before later becoming
Secretary-General of the United Nation - but they are the exception, rather than
the norm.

It was under the brief Muslim Brotherhood administration that came to power
following the overthrow of former President Hosni Mubarak, that conditions for
the Copts reached a nadir. There was a marked increase in attacks on Coptic
communities and churches were often the target of vandals.

In October 2011, during a protest in Upper Egypt against the demolition of a
church, the security forces opened fire on what had, according to organisers,
been a peaceful sit-in, resulting in 28 deaths and more than 200 injuries. A
further 24 were killed during protests that followed in Cairo.

President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, like Hosni Mubarak, has cracked down on
inter-faith violence, and conditions have improved for Egypt's minority
Christians, but many still feel like second-class citizens.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 10:35 AM GMT

ISIS deserters reveal letters 'written by commanders' ordering fighters to carry
out suicide bombings, attack villages and claim credit for the Paris terror
attacks

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1061 words



     ·    Notes contain orders for ISIS militants to carry out sickening acts of
          terror
     ·    Militants are told to organise suicide bombings and withhold medicine
     ·    Letters were leaked by ISIS' Al Qaeda-backed enemy, the Al-Nusra Front
     ·    Terror group claimed jihadis have recently left ISIS and joined their
          ranks
     ·    Some letters were sent as recently as several weeks ago and demanded
          ISIS militants claim responsibility for the terror attacks in Paris


Former Islamic State fighters who deserted the terror group have leaked a set of
chilling letters purportedly containing the handwritten orders and commands of
senior commanders.

The notes contain orders for ISIS militants to carry out suicide bomb
explosions, to besiege villages in Syria and Iraq and even to claim credit for
last month's terror attacks in the French capital, Paris.

Each of the letters is signed with a purple stamp, indicating the province from
which it was sent, and are understood to have been handed to ISIS' network of
messengers and fighters, whose job it is to pass on or act upon the information
contained in the letters.

The letters have not been independently verified and ISIS are yet to comment on
them, but they were originally published on a Twitter account claiming to
represent ISIS' Al Qaeda-affiliated enemy in Syria, Jabhat al-Nusra - also known
as the Al-Nusra Front.

Each of the handwritten notes was shared on the social media website with the
hashtag #HackingTheSecretMessagesOfBaghdadiState and came with an explanation
that they had originally been given to jihadis who had fled ISIS, according to
Vocativ.

The men are now said to be fighting for Al-Nusra in the Syrian province of Deir
ez-Zor - an ISIS stronghold - and are determined to expose the inner workings of
the barbaric terror group which has seized control of vast swathes of Syria and
Iraq in its campaign of rape and massacre.

One letter purportedly sent from ISIS' de facto capital Raqqa on January 13
contained an order for a militant named Faruq al-Jazrawi to contact the ISIS
media office in Deir ez-Zor immediately in order to claim responsibility for the
Charlie Hebdo terror attack in Paris six days earlier.

Another letter sent on May 13 last year contains a sickening order for a fighter
named Abu Ahmad al-Tunisi to organise a suicide bomb attack on the 'disbelievers
of Shejil' - a village near Deir ez-Zor. The note insists 'one of the brothers
from the [Arab] peninsula' carry out the atrocity.

Another letter purportedly sent by the Islamic State on August 22 last year
refers to the distribution of 'relief goods' - understood to be food and medical
supplies.

In it the commander of Raqqa province demands a militant named Abu Imad ensures
the supplies are only given to the Mujahideen brothers [fighters], not the
suffering local population.

Each of the letters is signed with a blue stamp, which appears to indicate
authenticity and the province from which it was sent. The vast majority of the
leaked letters were sent between commanders in Raqqa and Deir ez-Zor provinces.

Deir ez-Zor is also where the branch of the Al Qaeda-affiliated Al-Nusra Front
terror group - who say they came in to possession of the letters when local ISIS
fighters defected - claim to be based.

The letters are among the first indications of how the terrorist organisation
operates. The brief, handwritten instructions recall the so-called 'pizzini'
Sicilian Mafia boss Bernardo Provenzano used to communicate with the rank and
file while on the run from the authorities in the 1990s.

LONE WOLF FANATIC SWORE ALLEGIANCE TO ISIS ON FACEBOOK MOMENTS BEFORE KILLING
TWO IN COPENHAGEN TERROR ATTACK

 The jihadi who murdered two civilians in Denmark swore allegiance to Islamic
State just nine minutes before his first attack.

Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein declared his devotion to the terror group on his
Facebook page and then gunned down a film director at a free speech debate in
Copenhagen.

The 22-year-old fanatic later killed a volunteer security guard at a synagogue
before police shot him dead.

Last night it emerged that Danish intelligence service PET was warned that
El-Hussein had become radicalised while in prison.

A senior member of his former gang, called the Brothas, said El-Hussein had been
released two weeks ago.

Abo Saddam added: 'When he went inside he was a member of our gang. He lived his
life with us. We would drive around, smoke hashish together, fight rival gangs.
This is the Omar that I knew.

'But when he came out he changed. He stopped keeping in touch with the Brothas.

The emergence of the letters comes amid reports that the Islamic State's
leadership in Syria and Iraq has been decimated by months of sustained air
strikes, leaving the terror group in chaos and isolating leader Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi.

Allied airstrikes, including those carried out by British warplanes, have killed
more than 6,000 fighters since September, including more than half the militants
serving on ISIS' ruling council.

Among the dead jihadis is Abu Muslim al-Turkmani, a former Iraqi army lieutenant
colonel considered Baghdadi's number two and ISIS' most senior militant in Iraq.

His death and that of as many as nine others on ISIS' 18-man leadership council
have forced Baghdadi to promote local warlords to the status of regional
commanders.

This because his inner circle of trusted advisers and battle-hardened loyalists
is becoming increasingly small the longer the airstrikes continue targeting the
terror group.

Baghdadi has not been seen in public since July and there have been numerous
unconfirmed reports that he suffered serious injury or possibly even death as a
result of targeted airstrikes.

The likelihood, however, is that Baghdadi has been forced deep into hiding to
avoid being targeted by jets that have destroyed more than 1,000 vehicles used
by terrorists over the past five months.

Other senior figures within the terror group have not been afforded that luxury
and still need to travel across the vast swathes of Syria and Iraq that remain
under ISIS' control.

This forces them to make a decision whether to move as part of a large military
convoy and risk being spotted by warplanes overhead, or whether to use cars that
reduce the likelihood of aerial detection but leave them at risk of kidnap or
killing at the hands if ISIS' rivals on the ground.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 8:40 AM GMT

'Our purpose is to destroy you. We will come to you with slaughter and death':
Lone wolf fanatic swore allegiance to ISIS on Facebook moments before killing
two in Copenhagen terror attack

BYLINE: ARTHUR MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 857 words



     ·    Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, 22, killed two in Copenhagen terror
          attack
     ·    Opened fire at cafe which was hosting free speech seminar and
          synagogue
     ·    Film director Finn Nørgaard, 55, and security guard Dan Uzan, 37,
          killed
     ·    Friend says El-Hussein may have been radicalised during recent jail
          term
     ·    Abo Saddam said of El-Hussein: 'He came out wanting to wage a holy
          war'
     ·    El-Hussein released two weeks ago after being jailed for a violent
          stabbing


The jihadi who murdered two civilians in Denmark swore allegiance to Islamic
State just nine minutes before his first attack.

Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein declared his devotion to the terror group on his
Facebook page and then gunned down a film director at a free speech debate in
Copenhagen.

The 22-year-old fanatic later killed a volunteer security guard at a synagogue
before police shot him dead.

Last night it emerged that Danish intelligence service PET was warned that
El-Hussein had become radicalised while in prison.

A senior member of his former gang, called the Brothas, said El-Hussein had been
released two weeks ago.

Abo Saddam added: 'When he went inside he was a member of our gang. He lived his
life with us. We would drive around, smoke hashish together, fight rival gangs.
This is the Omar that I knew.

'But when he came out he changed. He stopped keeping in touch with the Brothas.

'Prison changed him. He became a much harder Muslim with more hardcore beliefs.
He wanted to act on those beliefs as well, instead of just talking about them.'

The 24-year-old gangster added: 'He went into prison a gang member like us and
came out wanting to wage holy war.'

Last night a video emerged of El-Hussein competing in a Thai kick-boxing bout
two years ago looking toned and athletic.

Highly-skilled, he was known as 'The Captain' and hoped to turn professional.
Instead, he started smoking marijuana heavily and became involved in tit-for-tat
battles with rival gangs in the poor areas of Copenhagen.

In November 2013 he stabbed a man of 19 in the thigh and buttock on a train in
an unprovoked attack.

He was sentenced to two years in prison for grievous bodily harm - where he
became radicalised. Born in Denmark to Palestinian parents, he developed a
hatred of Jews, his associates claim.

Saddam said: 'I grew up with him. Academically he was one of the brightest at
school.'

It also emerged that El-Hussein posted a video on Facebook called the 'Sword of
Jihad' 45 minutes before his first attack.

The footage is of an Arabic song, which says: 'Soon, soon, will see the
indescribable. Our purpose is to destroy you, therefore the sword has been made
sharp. We will come to you with slaughter and death.'

And nine minutes before his first attack he wrote: 'I swear allegiance to Abu
Bakr and will obey him in adversity and prosperity, and will not go against the
orders I get assigned, unless I witness blatant disbelief.' Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
is the head of Islamic State.

El-Hussein set up his Facebook page under the Islamic name of Abu Ramadan
Almuhajir.

He lists himself as an employee of 'Murder Inc'.

PET head Jens Madsen has acknowledged that El-Hussein had been 'on the radar'.

The gunman killed film director Finn Norgaard, 55, while indiscriminately firing
at the Krudttønden café on Saturday.

Some ten hours later he shot Dan Uzan in the head at a synagogue. Mr Uzan, 37,
an economist at the Danish treasury, had been acting as a volunteer security
guard.

Two police officers, also guarding the synagogue, were wounded.

Two men appeared in court yesterday, accused of providing and disposing of the
gun used in the shootings, as well as helping the killer to hide

Mr Norgaard was killed at a free speech debate attended by Swedish artist Lars
Vilks, who has received death threats for drawings of the Prophet Mohammad, and
French ambassador Francois Zimeray, who likened the attacks to the Charlie Hebdo
killings.

Vilks and Zimeray were both unharmed.

Vilks is believed to have been the target of the attack and has previously
spoken of how he sleeps with an axe under his bed and has a panic room in his
secret location house as he lives under constant threat from Islamist fanatics.

Yesterday, tens of thousands of Danes gathered at memorials around the country
to pay tribute to the victims of the attack.

A torch-lit manifestation in Copenhagen attracted a large crowd, including
Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt and political leaders from fellow
Nordic countries.

Singing John Lennon's Imagine, defiant Danes promised to uphold their trademark
open society and showed solidarity with the country's Muslim minority after
El-Hussein was identified to have Palestinian roots and a passion for Islamist
issues.

The shooting spree was Denmark's worst terror attack since a bomb exploded
outside the Copenhagen office of the North West Orient airline in 1985, killing
a 27-year-old Algerian tourist.

U.S. president Barack Obama has phoned his Danish counterpart, Prime Minister
Helle Thorning-Schmid, to offer his condolences.

The White House said Mr Obama offered the United States' support, and the pair
agreed to work together to confront those who would challenge free speech or
religion.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 10:24 AM GMT

Tameside terror arrests: Boy and girl aged 16 detained on suspicion of planning
terrorist attacks;
The pair were arrested on suspicion of being concerned in the commission,
preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism

BYLINE: By Kim Pilling

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


A 16-year-old boy and a 16-year-old girl have been arrested on suspicion of
terror offences.

Two addresses in the Mossley area of Tameside are being searched, Greater
Manchester Police said.

Greater Manchester Police said the pair - a girl and a boy - were detained by
the North West Counter Terrorism Unit (NWCTU) on suspicion of being concerned in
the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism.

The force said: "Following intelligence received, officers from the NWCTU are
also currently searching two addresses in the Mossley area of Tameside."

The addresses being searched are in Hanover Street and Spring Mill Drive,
Mossley, which is east of Manchester city centre.

A spokesman said the searches "are expected to last some time".

It is believed the investigation was launched after evidence emerged that they
had been buying substances over the internet, Manchester Evening News reports.

The boy was arrested at one house and the girl at the other property. They are
not related to eachother.

It is understood that neither is connected to any organised terror group.

The suspects were detained yesterday.

Chief Superintendent Caroline Ball said: "I know news of an arrest made under
terrorism legislation in this community will cause a certain amount of anxiety
and people will understandably have questions.

Tameside police arrest

"What I want to stress very clearly is that this investigation is in no way
linked to any sort of international terrorist plot nor have we recovered any
evidence to suggest the community of Mossley is at risk.

"This investigation has arisen as a result of information from law enforcement
agencies so it is prudent we act on that information and carry out a thorough,
professional investigation to determine the circumstances and details of the
activity reported.

"Members of our community will see a lot of police activity at these addresses
over the coming days but rather than cause anxiety I want people to be reassured
that we have taken this precautionary action to ensure the safety of our
residents."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 6:53 AM GMT

Copenhagen shootings: Footage emerges of 'kickboxing jihadi' who 'gunned down
two people in terror attack';
Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein had only been out of jail for two weeks when he is
thought to have launched the attacks

BYLINE: By Alex Wellman

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 334 words


The kickboxing Jihadi of the Copenhagen shooting - new footage emerges

Footage has emerged of the 'kickboxing Jihadi' Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein
suspected of carrying out the Copenhagen terror attack.

Police believe El-Hussein is the man responsible for gunning down two people and
injuring five others in the shootings.

It has been revealed in Denmark that the 22-year-old was a talented kickboxer
before he was allegedly radicalised.

Another video which emerged in Denmark showed him fighting Danish kick-boxer
Peder Jepsen.

According to Danish press, El-Hussein was only released from jail TWO WEEKS ago
after serving time for a knife attack.

The terror suspect is also thought to have had previous convictions for arms
offences and may have affiliations with local gangs in the city.

In November 2013 he was said to have stabbed a fellow passenger while travelling
on a train in Copenhagen. His 19-year-old victim was wounded in the legs and
buttocks with a large knife.

The terrorist was carrying two pistols at the time he was shot - and police also
found an automatic weapon similar to the one used in the shootings after
searching the area.

A police spokesperson said: "We have knowledge of the man's identity but due to
the ongoing investigation we are not in a position to reveal it."

Asked whether the man belonged to any known terrorist groups, he added: "I
cannot comment on whether he is connected to any known groups.

"We do not have concrete knowledge of him being a traveller to conflict zones."

Copenhagen was rocked by the violence that began at around 4pm on Saturday when
a gunman opened fire on a cultural centre while a debate on free speech was
taking place.

Filmmaker Finn Noergaard was inside as part of the audience and was killed when
one of the bullets struck him.

The gunman fled the scene and later on a second attack was reported outside a
synagogue where security guard Dan Uzan was killed.

El-Hussainn was himself shot dead by police in the early hours of this morning.

Copenhagen shooting

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 3:14 PM GMT

Eating at a bad restaurant 'similar to suffering a terrorist attack';
Restaurants which are not up to scratch can leave people with mild form of
trauma similar to experiencing a personal disaster

BYLINE: By Sarah Knapton Science Editor in San Jose

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 581 words


There may be no such thing as a free meal but scientists have discovered that
there can be a traumatic one.

A bad restaurant experience can leave diners suffering from a mild form of
trauma akin to experiencing a personal disaster and the language used in
terrible reviews is comparable to that used by those writing in the aftermath of
9/11 , Stanford University has found.

Rude, unhelpful staff, bad food and dirty cutlery are likely to affect customers
far more than restaurant owners realise, and could explain why they often talk
about their bad experiences for weeks afterwards.

Scientists studied more than one million one star restaurant reviews posted on
Yelp between 2011 and 2013 which spanned more than 6,5000 restaurants across
major US cities like New York and San Francisco.

They found the language used by reviewers was similar to that used by people
suffering from trauma.

Linguistic clues including talking about their experience in the past tense, to
distance themselves from the situation, and speaking as group rather than an
individual.

Dan Jurafsky, professor of linguistics and computer science at Stanford
University said: "We have been analysing the language to see what they tell us
about people. We looked that the words people used in writing good and bad
reviews.

"We thought they would talk about how bad the food was, that is was greasy but
instead they used very specific language using the past tense rather than the
present tense and talking about other people a lot as well as using lots of
negative words like 'awful' and 'terrible'.

"It turns out that there is previous scientific literature showing that these
are the same characteristics used by people writing after they have been
traumatised, such as people writing after 9/11 or students writing after a
campus tragedy.

"So when they are writing about one star restaurant reviews they are reminiscing
about a small trauma that happened to them."

Prof Jurafsky said the research showed that most people gave bad reviews because
of treatment by staff rather than the quality of the food.

"If you look at the reviews, sure enough it was all 'someone was mean to me',
the waiter or waitress was rude. It's all about personal interactions," added
Prof Jurafsky.

"You would think the review would be about the food but it's actually all about
this interaction. People feel injured and want to write about it."

However the study also reveals how language changes for good reviews.

When diners enjoyed their meal in an upmarket restaurant their words become
effusive and largely sexual describing dishes as 'orgasmic' 'seductive' and
'naughty.'

But customers writing about the delights of cheaper eateries tend to talk about
'cravings' or addictions, as if they were unable to resist the fare.

The study also looked at how cheaper and more expensive restaurants listed food
in their menus and found that cheaper eateries highlighted the choice of dishes,
while more upmarket establishments highlighted exclusivity.

"It's much more like the theatre where you expect the chef to create something
for you," added Prof Jurafsky.

"The cheaper the restaurant the more choice you would have."

Upmarket establishments were also likely to use longer words to decisive their
dishes. On average, for every extra letter in a menu item, the price would rise
by around 10p, it was found.

The research was presented at the American Association for the Advancement of
Science annual conference in San Jose, California.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 12:36 PM GMT

Copenhagen suspect 'was released from prison two weeks ago';
Copenhagen terror attack suspect named as 22-year-old Omar el-Hussein, who 'had
violent past'

BYLINE: By David Chazan and Julian Isherwood in Copenhagen

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1151 words


Terror returned to Europe at the weekend when a suspected Islamist extremist
gunned down two people in separate attacks on a Copenhagen café and a synagogue
before being killed by police in a predawn shoot-out on Sunday.

The dead suspect, named on Sunday night as Omar el-Hussein, had reportedly been
released from prison two weeks ago after serving a two-year sentence for
grievous bodily harm.

In a rampage with parallels to the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris five weeks
earlier, the 22-year-old Danish-born assailant fired around 40 shots at a free
speech debate in an arts café on Saturday afternoon, killing a 55-year-old
documentary filmmaker, Finn Norgaard.

After fleeing in a stolen car, the gunman went on to target a girl's bat mitzvah
party at Copenhagen's main synagogue at one o'clock on Sunday morning, shooting
dead Dan Uzan, 37, an economist at the Danish treasury, who was acting as a
volunteer security guard.

The gunman was then later killed after a shoot-out with police at a train
station in central Copenhagen. Up to four other people were being held by police
on Sunday night following raids across the country.

As with the Charlie Hebdo attackers, the head of the Danish security and
intelligence service, Jens Madsen, said on Sunday that the gunman had been
identified as a potential threat.

"He was on the radar but he was not known to have travelled to conflict areas
like Iraq or Syria," Mr Madsen said. "We cannot yet say anything concrete about
the motive ... but we are considering that he might have been inspired by the
events in Paris," he told a news conference.

Police traced the killer from CCTV footage from the arts café attack, which
showed him abandoning his getaway car, a stolen Volkswagen Polo, and taking a
taxi. They questioned the driver, and went to the address in the mainly
immigrant area of Norrebro where he had dropped off the suspect.

The gunman had left again by the time police arrived at his home, near the
railway station, and went on to attack the synagogue. When he returned around
5am, police tried to apprehend him but shot him dead after he opened fire on
them.

In an indication that the gunman may have had accomplices, four people were
arrested when a dozen armed police raided an internet café in central
Copenhagen. Among the four were a Pakistani and an Arab, according to Danish
media reports.

Witnesses at both attacks said further killings were only averted by the swift
intervention of the police, who have been on high alert in the Danish capital
since the Paris shootings.

Despite the increased tensions, Copenhagen, which is considered one of the
safest capitals of the world, was bustling with people defiantly strolling and
cycling in the historic city centre on Sunday.

"We should not be afraid," said Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the prime minister, who
was among hundreds of people who laid floral tributes at the synagogue and the
café.

"We have tasted the ugly taste of fear and powerlessness that terror would like
to create. But we have also, as a society, answered back."

The shootings came as little surprise to most Danes. "It was not a question of
if, but when," said Malte Bern Jensen, 29, a civil servant.

"Everybody knew it was coming after the Charlie Hebdo shootings because a Danish
newspaper also published cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed," he said.

Twelve people were killed in an attack on the office of the French magazine
Charlie Hebdo. They included cartoonists who had caricatured the prophet.

A Swedish cartoonist, Lars Vilks, who had angered many Muslims by depicting the
prophet's head on the body of a dog, was at the free speech debate in Copenhagen
during the attack, leading many to conclude that he may have been the main
target.

The French ambassador was also present at the debate at the arts café,
Krudttonden, which means "powder keg' in Danish.

Vilks, 68, the target of several attempted attacks in recent years, was spirited
away to an undisclosed location under police guard after the shootings, during
which he hid in a cold store.

He told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet by telephone that he had been
expecting another attack.

"It is a tragedy, obviously, but it was expected that this would happen sooner
or later. And it's not the last time either."

He said the presence of his police bodyguards had helped to avert "a bloodbath"
as the gunman failed to get past a policeman at the door of the café.

"I saw a policeman who had been shot in the leg," he said.

"Nevertheless he continued his job and wouldn't give in. It could have been a
massacre."

Interactive: Copenhagen Shooting 2

Zubair Butt Hussein of the Danish Islamic Council said most Muslims were
appalled by the attacks, stating: "We are disgusted at what has happened. In
Denmark we are free to think what we want. But there is nothing that can allow
what happened. We must counter this as a united nation."

Queen Margrethe also called for national unity. "It is important that in such a
serious situation we stand together and defend the values upon which Denmark is
built," she said.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, said: "The shootings in Copenhagen are an
appalling attack on free speech and religious freedom. Two innocent people have
been murdered simply for their beliefs and my thoughts are with their loved ones
and all those injured at this tragic time.

"Denmark and Britain are both successful multi-ethnic, multi-faith democracies
and we must never allow those values to be damaged by acts of violence like
this."

Nine years ago, Denmark's Jyllands-Posten newspaper inflamed the Muslim world by
publishing 12 cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, including one that depicted him
with a bomb in his turban.

A Danish cartoonist, Kurt Westergaard, who survived an axe attack at his home in
2010 after caricaturing the Prophet Mohammed, said: "It can't be right that we
should be afraid to use our right to free speech."

Norgaard, the filmmaker who was killed at the café, was best known for a
documentary made in Australia called The Boy with the Boomerang.

His friend Majken Matzau, a psychologist, described him as "an unbelievable warm
and creative person, dedicated and fantastic. He practised yoga and was a very
spiritual type."

Dan Uzan, the economist who was standing guard at the synagogue when he was shot
dead, was a well-liked former footballer with a Jewish amateur team.

"He was a handsome guy about six foot five and always had a smile," said a
friend, who declined to be named. A note placed outside the synagogue and signed
'Baruch Dayan' read: "Dear Dan, you gave your life to save us."

Both the victims were unmarried.

Security was tightened at a bridge to Sweden outside Copenhagen used daily by
tens of thousands of commuters, and also on the border with Germany.

A carnival in northern Germany was called off at short notice after security
agencies warned of a "specific threat of an Islamist attack".

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 17, 2015 Tuesday 12:36 PM GMT

Copenhagen suspect 'was released from prison two weeks ago';
Copenhagen terror attack suspect named as 22-year-old Omar el-Hussein, who 'had
violent past'

BYLINE: By David Chazan and Julian Isherwood in Copenhagen

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1151 words


Terror returned to Europe at the weekend when a suspected Islamist extremist
gunned down two people in separate attacks on a Copenhagen café and a synagogue
before being killed by police in a predawn shoot-out on Sunday.

The dead suspect, named on Sunday night as Omar el-Hussein, had reportedly been
released from prison two weeks ago after serving a two-year sentence for
grievous bodily harm.

In a rampage with parallels to the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris five weeks
earlier, the 22-year-old Danish-born assailant fired around 40 shots at a free
speech debate in an arts café on Saturday afternoon, killing a 55-year-old
documentary filmmaker, Finn Norgaard.

After fleeing in a stolen car, the gunman went on to target a girl's bat mitzvah
party at Copenhagen's main synagogue at one o'clock on Sunday morning, shooting
dead Dan Uzan, 37, an economist at the Danish treasury, who was acting as a
volunteer security guard.

The gunman was then later killed after a shoot-out with police at a train
station in central Copenhagen. Up to four other people were being held by police
on Sunday night following raids across the country.

As with the Charlie Hebdo attackers, the head of the Danish security and
intelligence service, Jens Madsen, said on Sunday that the gunman had been
identified as a potential threat.

"He was on the radar but he was not known to have travelled to conflict areas
like Iraq or Syria," Mr Madsen said. "We cannot yet say anything concrete about
the motive ... but we are considering that he might have been inspired by the
events in Paris," he told a news conference.

Police traced the killer from CCTV footage from the arts café attack, which
showed him abandoning his getaway car, a stolen Volkswagen Polo, and taking a
taxi. They questioned the driver, and went to the address in the mainly
immigrant area of Norrebro where he had dropped off the suspect.

The gunman had left again by the time police arrived at his home, near the
railway station, and went on to attack the synagogue. When he returned around
5am, police tried to apprehend him but shot him dead after he opened fire on
them.

In an indication that the gunman may have had accomplices, four people were
arrested when a dozen armed police raided an internet café in central
Copenhagen. Among the four were a Pakistani and an Arab, according to Danish
media reports.

Witnesses at both attacks said further killings were only averted by the swift
intervention of the police, who have been on high alert in the Danish capital
since the Paris shootings.

Despite the increased tensions, Copenhagen, which is considered one of the
safest capitals of the world, was bustling with people defiantly strolling and
cycling in the historic city centre on Sunday.

"We should not be afraid," said Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the prime minister, who
was among hundreds of people who laid floral tributes at the synagogue and the
café.

"We have tasted the ugly taste of fear and powerlessness that terror would like
to create. But we have also, as a society, answered back."

The shootings came as little surprise to most Danes. "It was not a question of
if, but when," said Malte Bern Jensen, 29, a civil servant.

"Everybody knew it was coming after the Charlie Hebdo shootings because a Danish
newspaper also published cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed," he said.

Twelve people were killed in an attack on the office of the French magazine
Charlie Hebdo. They included cartoonists who had caricatured the prophet.

A Swedish cartoonist, Lars Vilks, who had angered many Muslims by depicting the
prophet's head on the body of a dog, was at the free speech debate in Copenhagen
during the attack, leading many to conclude that he may have been the main
target.

The French ambassador was also present at the debate at the arts café,
Krudttonden, which means "powder keg' in Danish.

Vilks, 68, the target of several attempted attacks in recent years, was spirited
away to an undisclosed location under police guard after the shootings, during
which he hid in a cold store.

He told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet by telephone that he had been
expecting another attack.

"It is a tragedy, obviously, but it was expected that this would happen sooner
or later. And it's not the last time either."

He said the presence of his police bodyguards had helped to avert "a bloodbath"
as the gunman failed to get past a policeman at the door of the café.

"I saw a policeman who had been shot in the leg," he said.

"Nevertheless he continued his job and wouldn't give in. It could have been a
massacre."

Interactive: Copenhagen Shooting 2

Zubair Butt Hussein of the Danish Islamic Council said most Muslims were
appalled by the attacks, stating: "We are disgusted at what has happened. In
Denmark we are free to think what we want. But there is nothing that can allow
what happened. We must counter this as a united nation."

Queen Margrethe also called for national unity. "It is important that in such a
serious situation we stand together and defend the values upon which Denmark is
built," she said.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, said: "The shootings in Copenhagen are an
appalling attack on free speech and religious freedom. Two innocent people have
been murdered simply for their beliefs and my thoughts are with their loved ones
and all those injured at this tragic time.

"Denmark and Britain are both successful multi-ethnic, multi-faith democracies
and we must never allow those values to be damaged by acts of violence like
this."

Nine years ago, Denmark's Jyllands-Posten newspaper inflamed the Muslim world by
publishing 12 cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, including one that depicted him
with a bomb in his turban.

A Danish cartoonist, Kurt Westergaard, who survived an axe attack at his home in
2010 after caricaturing the Prophet Mohammed, said: "It can't be right that we
should be afraid to use our right to free speech."

Norgaard, the filmmaker who was killed at the café, was best known for a
documentary made in Australia called The Boy with the Boomerang.

His friend Majken Matzau, a psychologist, described him as "an unbelievable warm
and creative person, dedicated and fantastic. He practised yoga and was a very
spiritual type."

Dan Uzan, the economist who was standing guard at the synagogue when he was shot
dead, was a well-liked former footballer with a Jewish amateur team.

"He was a handsome guy about six foot five and always had a smile," said a
friend, who declined to be named. A note placed outside the synagogue and signed
'Baruch Dayan' read: "Dear Dan, you gave your life to save us."

Both the victims were unmarried.

Security was tightened at a bridge to Sweden outside Copenhagen used daily by
tens of thousands of commuters, and also on the border with Germany.

A carnival in northern Germany was called off at short notice after security
agencies warned of a "specific threat of an Islamist attack".

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 18, 2015 Wednesday

Romanian patriarch deplores use of religion as pretext for terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Patriarch Daniel, about ISIS killing 21 Christians in
Libya: Religion, pretext for terrorist acts"]

Bucharest, Feb 18 /Agerpres/ -Romanian Orthodox Church Patriarch Daniel believes
the killing by militants of the Islamic State group of 21 Egyptian Christians in
Libya represents a sad proof of the use of religion as a pretext to justify
terrorist acts.

'I found with sorrow and concern about the 21 Egyptian Christians belonging to
the Coptic Church, killed in Libya by militants of the Islamic State (ISIS)
group. This action is another sad proof of the use of religion as a pretext for
justifying terrorist acts through which the role of religion as spiritual and
social peace factor is, in fact, denied. In the name of the hierarchs, the
clergymen and the believers of the Romanian Orthodox Church, we address
condolences to the families of those killed and to the entire Coptic Church. We
pray that such acts directed against innocent people don't happen again and that
religion will no longer be used to justify violence, but to promote peace among
peoples,' Patriarch Daniel says in a condolence message addressed on Tuesday [17
February] to Tawadros II, Pope and Patriarch of the Coptic Church.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0853 gmt 18 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 18, 2015 Wednesday

Danish report says Jewish radio station, school shut after terror attack

LENGTH: 441 words


Text of report in English by website of Danish English-language newspaper The
Copenhagen Post on 17 February

[Report by Ray Weaver: "Jewish Community Radio Station Shuts Down in Wake of
Terror Attacks"]

Radio Shalom advised by PET [Danish Security and Intelligence Service] to take a
break while Jews across Europe demand more protection

For the first time in the station's history, Radio Shalom did not broadcast its
usual blend of programmes about Jewish culture, music and history on Monday
evening [16 February].

The control board located in a basement in Norrebro was silenced for what host
Abraham Kopenhagen called "security reasons".

"PET says it's too dangerous," Kopenhagen told DR Nyheder [news programme on
public broadcaster DR]. "We do not feel that it is too dangerous, but we respect
the information we are given."

No Cops in the Doorway

Kopenhagen said that Radio Shalom will be back on the air when PET tells them
that it is safe. The security agency offered to protect the station while it was
on air, but Kopenhagen turned them down.

"We must do as instructed, but we will not have police standing outside the
door," he said. "We would rather close down until it is quiet again. I do not
know how long that will take."

The radio station was not the only Jewish institution in Copenhagen that chose
to shut its doors following the weekend's attacks, which included the fatal
shooting of 37-year-old Dan Uzan, a guard standing in front of the synagogue on
Krystalgade [street] by Omar Abdel El-Hussein. The Jewish school Carolineskolen
was also closed yesterday.

Calls for Greater Protection Across Europe

Jews across Europe are fearful and calling for better protection in the wake of
the Copenhagen attacks. Rabbis in both Britain and France called for better
protection at synagogues and schools.

"There is much fear; people are afraid to go to synagogue," Rabbi Menachem
Margolin from the organization European Jewish Community told DR Nyheder.

Rabbi Barry Marcus from London Central Synagogue called the weekend's attacks
"very uncomfortable, very disturbing and extremely troubling".

A War on Democracy

Margolin said he was "not surprised" by the Copenhagen attacks and wants all
Jewish institutions in Europe to be given 24/7 police protection.

"We are disappointed that European governments still do not listen to our cries
for help and ensure that all Jews are protected," he said.

Rabbi Marcus said that simply beefing up security is not enough.

"For us it is very clear what is happening in Europe," he said. "There is an
attack on western European democracy and its values."

Source: Copenhagen Post website in English 0000 gmt 17 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                    February 18, 2015 Wednesday 2:34 PM GMT

Islamic State HARVESTING ORGANS from dead bodies to fund terror attacks

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 387 words


THE ISLAMIC State is harvesting ORGANS from dead bodies to bankroll its regime
of terror.

Dozens of corpses have been found with kidneys and other vital organs missing,
Iraq's UN ambassador has said.

Shallow graves have been found piled high with human remains.

"It is clear they are missing certain parts," Mohamed Alhakim told the UN.

He also claimed doctors have been murdered by the terrorists for refusing to
remove organs from dead bodies.

There is a thriving black market for human organs across the world with a kidney
fetching as much as £130,000.

It has emerged the terror group are using VIAGRA in an attempt to swell their
ranks and breed a new army of jihadists.

Hundreds of women have been imprisoned by IS only to be used as playthings by
fighters.

A resident in Raqqa, the unofficial capital of IS, said: "A large section of IS
members suffer from sexual anomalies and a brutal, instinctive desire for sex,
sadism and perversion.

"Many marry more than one wife and go in search of sexual captives despite the
presence of a wife.

"They have blue pills in order to increase the desire to have more sex."

IS positions have been heavily bombed following the release of a gruesome video
showing the beheading of 21 Egyptian Christians.

The video, titled "A Message Signed With Blood To The Nation Of The Cross",
shows a line of men wearing orange jumpsuits being marched down a beach in
Libya.

After forcing the men to kneel, one of the militants steps forward and speaks in
North American-accented England.

He says: "All crusaders: safety for you will be only wishes, especially if you
are fighting us all together.

"Therefore we will fight you all together.

"The sea you have hidden Sheikh Osama Bin Laden's body in, we swear to Allah we
will mix it with your blood."

After the grotesque executions the militant warns: "We will conquer Rome, by
Allah's permission."

Related articles Countdown for Cantlie: IS captive John Cantlie tells family
'get on with your lives' EXCLUSIVE: 'Save the last bullet for YOURSELF' in
Islamic State fight, SAS soldiers warned Sickening Islamic State video shows
'savage beheading of 21 Christians on a beach' Egypt bomb IS militants after
sick beheading video of 21 Christians Hard and ready: Islamic State thugs taking
Viagra to 'breed jihadist fighters'

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    February 18, 2015 Wednesday 12:03 PM GMT

Mass surveillance warning after European terror attacks;
Human rights watchdog says counter-terrorism proposals such as encryption ban
suggest 'little has been learned from Snowden affair'

BYLINE: Alan Travis home affairs editor

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


Europe's human rights watchdog has issued a strong warning on the dangers of new
mass surveillance counter-terrorism measures being adopted by governments in the
aftermath of the Paris and Copenhagen terror attacks.

Nils Muiznieks, the Council of Europe's human rights commissioner, says
proposals such as banning encryption, as advocated by David Cameron, and giving
the security services unfettered access to digital communications suggests
"little has been learned from the Snowden affair about the danger to human
rights".

The human rights watchdog also warns that plans to make internet companies
responsible for removing content that "incites terrorism" without any
possibility of being challenged in court are "highly problematic".

In a report to the Council of Europe's 47-member committee of ministers,
Muiznieks, a Latvian political scientist, says governments need to be cautious
in adopting new anti-terrorist legislation and urges them to reinforce
democratic oversight of the security services which he describes as "woefully
inadequate" across much of Europe.

"The aftermath of the Paris attacks has ... seen a broader debate about
counter-terrorism in France and Europe. Some proposals - giving security
services unfettered access to digital communications, banning encryption, etc -
suggest that little has been learned from the Snowden affair about the dangers
to human rights, especially the right to privacy, of mass surveillance," the
human rights commissioner says in his report.

European interior ministers have given a high priority to trying to secure a
EU-wide agreement to set up a passenger name record database tracking the
movements of all passengers flying in and out of Europe and to securing the
agreement of internet companies to take down material that promotes terrorism or
extremism.

It also comes as the home secretary, Theresa May, is due to join Barack Obama at
a Washington summit on tackling international violent extremism. The US
president is due to speak at the summit on Wednesday. It is expected to produce
an action plan leading to a second meeting before the opening of the UN general
assembly in September.

The White House has described the summit as highlighting "domestic and
international efforts to prevent violent extremists and their supporters from
radicalising, recruiting, or inspiring individuals or groups in the United
States and abroad to commit acts of violence".

It is expected, in particular, to include discussion of greater
information-sharing on action to stem the flow of foreign fighters to and from
Syria and Iraq. The home secretary is due to address the summit on Thursday in a
closed session.

A Home Office spokesman said the summit would provide an opportunity to discuss
issues such as the use of social media by terrorists and extremists to
radicalise the vulnerable as well as programmes such as the Prevent strategy to
counter them.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 18, 2015
                                 First Edition

Man 'plotted to blow up Manchester shopping centre in 9/11-style attack';
TERROR TRIAL

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 353 words


A Pakistani man plotted to blow up Manchester's Arndale shopping centre as part
of a global plan to repeat the "devastation of 9/11" with attacks on targets in
Britain, the US and Denmark, a court in New York heard yesterday.

Abid Naseer, who was arrested in the UK in 2009 and later released without
charge, headed a terror cell located in Manchester according to the prosecutor
Celia Johnson. She said he was part of an al-Qaeda effort to infiltrate Western
society. "That was the whole point of the Western operatives," Ms Johnson told
the court. "They knew how to blend in and conduct reconnaissance and pick the
best target. [Their goal] was to repeat the devastation of 9/11."

Details of the alleged international terror plot were revealed at the start of a
trial that will see M15 agents give testimony wearing wigs and make-up in order
to protect their identities.

Mr Naseer, 28 (pictured), was one of 12 people arrested in Britain amid
suspicions they were members of an al-Qaeda-backed terror cell. As it was, when
no explosives were found and the Crown Prosecution Service was unable to collect
sufficient evidence, the men were released without being charged but ordered to
leave the country.

Mr Naseer avoided being sent to Pakistan after arguing he would be mistreated
there. He was eventually deported to the US in 2013 after prosecutors announced
they wanted to charge him with trying to blow up the New York subway and the
Arndale shopping centre in Manchester. Mr Naseer has denied the charges and said
that he wanted to represent himself. He said that the time he spent on Muslim
internet sites like Qiran.com was part of his quest to find a woman to marry.

Mr Naseer referred to himself in the third person and said: "He has no extremist
or jihadist views."

US District Judge Raymond Dearie ruled last month that six agents who conducted
surveillance on Mr Naseer in Manchester could protect their identities after
hearing they still worked on sensitive undercover cases. The trial continues.

This hearing will be the first to include evidence found in the Abbottobad
compound of Osama bin Laden by US forces.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 18, 2015 Wednesday 5:14 PM GMT

Tearful Danish Prime Minister joins mourners at the funeral of Jewish security
guard shot dead in Copenhagen terror attack as police snipers keep watch

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 567 words



     ·    PM Helle Thorning-Schmidt today attended the funeral for shooting
          victim
     ·    Dan Uzan was killed on Sunday by gunman Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein
     ·    Hundreds attended his ceremony at a Jewish cemetery in Copenhagen
     ·    It was heavily guarded, with police sniper teams and sniffer dogs
          deployed
     ·    Police have confirmed the shooter used an assault rifle and two
          handguns


Denmark's Prime Minister today joined mourners at the funeral of Copenhagen
shooting victim Dan Uzan as hundreds gathered to pay their respects to the slain
security guard.

Both prime minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt and the country's justice minister
Mette Frederiksen attended the funeral, held at a Jewish cemetery in Copenhagen.

Mourners entered and exited the ceremony under the watch of a heavy police
presence, with snipers and sniffer dogs deployed throughout the area.

Scroll down for video

Mr Uzan was killed by gunman Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, 22, while guarding a
synagogue nine hours after El-Hussein had shot dead a Danish filmmaker across
town.

Soon afterwards, he was killed in a firefight with police which concluded a
shooting spree that authorities say may have been inspired by the terror attacks
in Paris last month.

In the first attack, El-Hussein killed a Danish filmmaker outside the building
hosting the free speech seminar Saturday with a single shot from a M95 assault
rifle, police spokesman Joergen Skov said.

El-Hussein then sprayed the entrance with 27 bullets, wounding three police
officers inside.

That type of weapon was used by the Danish military between 1995 and 2010, said
Rene Gyldensten, a spokesman for the Danish Defence Acquisition and Logistics
Organization. It is also used by other NATO forces.

'It could be one of our weapons,' Gyldensten said, adding that police had not
yet asked the Defense Ministry to check serial number records.

It was unclear how El-Hussein obtained the weapon, which cannot be purchased
legally in Denmark.

Investigators said police returned fire, including Swedish officers who were in
Copenhagen as bodyguards for Lars Vilks, a Swedish artist who has received
numerous death threats for caricaturing the Prophet Muhammad and who may have
been the main target of the attack.

It was unclear whether they missed or whether the gunman was wearing a
bullet-proof vest that stopped their bullets.

After fleeing the scene, El-Hussein appeared nine hours later outside a
synagogue in Copenhagen where he fired nine rounds with two hand guns, killing a
Jewish security guard and wounding two police officers. Skov says El-Hussein
carried the two handguns when he was shot by a SWAT team early Sunday.

A Denmark native with Palestinian parents, El-Hussein had been in and out of
prison for violence and weapons offenses and had recently served time for a
stabbing on a commuter train, court documents show.

The Danish Security and Intelligence Service, known by its Danish acronym PET,
acknowledged Tuesday that El-Hussein was flagged in September under a program
meant to alert PET to 'inmates who are at risk of radicalization.'

What prompted prison authorities to sound the alarm is unclear, but PET said
that the information gave the agency 'no reason to believe' that he was plotting
attacks.

El-Hussein's family have asked for him to be buried in a Muslim cemetery in a
Copenhagen suburb but police have not yet released his body, said Kasem Said
Ahmad of the Danish Islamic Funeral Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 19, 2015 Thursday

Source in police headquarters has hands in terrorist attack in Afghan east

LENGTH: 638 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 18 February

[Presenter] The latest attack on the police headquarters in [eastern] Logar
Province has been carried out in cooperation with some circles inside the
headquarters. The Logar police criminal investigation chief said that it is not
possible for suicide bombers to enter the police headquarters and that some
circles have cooperated with them to enter the headquarters. The Logar police
headquarters reported that four suicide bombers in police uniform have attacked
the headquarters, killing 32 people, including eight civilians, and wounding 12
others. Sharif Amiri reports.

[Correspondent] The first biggest terrorist attack of 2015 has taken place in
Logar Province. This is the Logar police headquarters. This is an eastern
neighbour of the capital. Officials reported that four suicide attackers stormed
the Logar police headquarters just before 1200 Tuesday afternoon [17 February],
disguised in Afghan national police and Afghan local police uniforms. The
assailants killed 32 people in total, including eight civilians, and wounded
eight others. The attack was said to have taken place inside the dining hall of
the police headquarters, when the first bomber entered and detonated his bomb
vest. After the first explosion took place in the dining hall, the other three
bombers tried the police headquarters. The victims never thought that their food
would be soaked in blood like this and their plates would be filled with blood
instead of food. Here are some caps whose users are no longer alive.

[Unidentified police officer talking to correspondent] One leg of the enemy was
at this spot and his other leg was over there. Our soldiers gathered at this
spot to have their lunch. There was a table as well.

[Correspondent] The suicide bomber was transferred to the dining hall at 1100.
In fact, it is too hard to enter this place due to security checks. One has to
be checked at seven spots to enter the headquarters. At the final gate, all
military personnel should be checked before entering the dining hall.

[Unidentified police officer talking to camera] I am astonished that how one of
the suicide bombers entered the dining hall beforehand. How did he pass the
first security gate. We have very organized and proper security checks there. It
is guarded by security personnel from various detective offices. Whoever enters
the headquarters has to be registered first.

[Correspondent] After the first explosion took place, three other bombers tried
to get inside the headquarters. They were all dressed in police uniforms and
equipped with suicide vests and automatic weapons, but never succeeded in
entering the police headquarters. This man fought the attackers face to face and
told the story as follows:

[Unidentified police officer talking correspondent in Pashto] One of them came
over there and I was a little far from him. I thought he was one of our
personnel and I asked him why he was firing. When he fired at me, I realized
that he was a suicide bomber. I shot him at the spot and the others were
eliminated at the gate.

[Correspondent] The Logar city no longer has happiness and crowd and the police
are adopting serious measures.

[Unidentified local young man talking to camera] How can the police protect us
when they cannot protect themselves?.

[Second unidentified local young man talking to camera] The police should be
vigilant and make sure everything is fine.

[Correspondent] There are 128 security checkpoints in Logar Province, but
efforts by the security forces may thwart part of security threats.

[Video shows some officials, local people talking to correspondent, destroyed
offices, blood stained walls, equipment, caps, desks, correspondent reporting
from the site, a view of the Logar city]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 18 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 19, 2015 Thursday 4:09 PM GMT

Jerusalem 'terrorist attack': British-born grandfather and three US citizens
identified as four killed in synagogue;
Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg lived in London before moving to Israel

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 756 words


A British-Israeli national has been identified as one of five people killed by
knife-wielding attackers in a Jerusalem synagogue today.

Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, 68, and three US-Israeli citizens died when two
assailants, described by Israeli police as 'terrorists' went on a killing spree
armed with a pistol and a meat cleaver in a synagogue in the ultra-Orthodox Har
Nof  neighbourhood. An Israeli police officer, 30-year-old Zidan Saif, died
later after being taken to hospital with critical injuries.

Rabbi Goldberg lived in Golders Green, London, for a number of years before
moving to Israel, Haaretz reports.

Haaretz identified the other victims as US-born Aryeh Kupinsky, 43, and Kalman
Zeev Levine, 55, both residents of Har Nof, and Mosheh Twersky, 59, the grandson
of one of the founders of the Modern Orthodox movement and a teacher at a
Jerusalem seminary.  A spokesperson for the Foreign Office said: "We are aware
of the death of a dual British-Israeli national in Israel on 18 November 2014. "

Rabbi Goldberg's cousin, Michelle Hirschfield, said he "was a peaceful man, not
politically involved. He only wanted peace."

Eight others were injured in the attack. One worshipper at the service said
about 25 people were praying when shooting broke out. He told Israel Radio: "I
looked up and saw someone shooting people at point-blank range. Then someone
came in with what looked like a butcher's knife and he went wild."

Photos distributed by Israeli authorities showed a man in a prayer shawl lying
dead, a bloodied butcher's cleaver on the floor and prayer books covered in
blood.

Police said the attackers, who were shot dead by police, were Palestinian
cousins from East Jerusalem.

Unrest in Jerusalem

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a militant group, said the
cousins were its members.

Palestinian media named the attackers as Ghassan and Udai Abu Jamal, cousins
from the Jerusalem district of Jabal Mukaber, where clashes broke out as Israeli
security forces moved in to make arrests.

On Tuesday evening, police said they were investigating claims that a
Palestinian was stabbedin the leg and hospitalised by three Jewish assailants in
downtown Jerusalem.

Meanwhile, thousands of people have attended a joint funeral for Mr Kupinsky, Mr
Levine and Mr Goldberg held before sundown outside the synagogue where the
attack occurred.

Following the incident, Israel's public security minister, Yitzhak Aharonovitch,
vowed to ease restrictions on carrying firearms for self-defense.

It was not clear when the new measures would be put into place, but Mr
Aharonovitch said the rule would apply to anyone licensed to carry a gun in
Jerusalem such as private security guards and off-duty army officers, the Times
of Israel reported.

Mr Aharonovitch added that the government had instructed synagogues to place
security guards at their entrances.

In addition, police officers have raised the threat level in the city to one
below the highest, and patrols around religious buildings and holy including
mosques and synagogues would be enhanced.

Read more: Israeli PM vows to respond with 'heavy hand'

Earlier, Hamas praised the attack, saying it was a "response to continued
Israeli crimes, the killing, desecrating al-Aqsa (mosque)".

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  condemned Tuesday's violence as a
"cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and were killed by despicable murderers
and vowed to "respond with a heavy hand".

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the attack, the first time he has
done so since a recent spike in deadly violence.

In a statement, his office said he "condemns the killing of the worshippers in a
synagogue in west Jerusalem". The statement called for an end to the "invasion"
of the mosque at the holy site and a halt to "incitement" by Israeli ministers.

US President Barack Obama also expressed his disapproval of the attack in which
three US-Israeli dual nationals were killed, and called on both sides to
co-operate with each other and "reject violence".

"I strongly condemn today's terrorist attack on worshipers at a synagogue in
Jerusalem," Obama said in a statement. "There is and can be no justification for
such attacks against innocent civilians," he said.

He added: "At this sensitive moment in Jerusalem, it is all the more important
forIsraeli and Palestinian leaders and ordinary citizens to work cooperatively
together to lower tensions, reject violence, and seek a path forward towards
peace."

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 19, 2015 Thursday 4:08 PM GMT

Synagogue attack: Israeli PM Netanyahu vows to won 'battle for Jerusalem' after
deadly assault;
Netanyahu promised to 'settle the score with every terrorist' after attack

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 587 words


The Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to win "a battle for
Jerusalem" after four rabbis and a policeman were killed in a frenzied attack on
a synagogue.

The attack during morning prayers in the west Jerusalem neighbourhood of Har Nof
was carried out by two Palestinian cousins wielding meat cleavers and a pistol.
They were shot dead by police at the synagogue.

Three of the fatally wounded were born in the United States and the fourth was a
British-born grandfather. A police man later died of his injuries and at least
seven others were wounded.

Mr Netanyahu declared Israel is "in a battle over Jerusalem, our eternal
capital" after the bloodshed and vowed to "settle the score with every terrorist
and their dispatchers".

However, he warned that "no-one may take the law into their own hands, even if
spirits are riled and blood is boiling".

Unrest in Jerusalem

The Israeli PM also denounced what he described as "shouts of joy" from the
dozens who celebrated in the streets of Gaza after the killing spree.

In an act of retaliation, he also ordered the demolition of the homes of the
attackers.

US President Barack Obama branded the attack "horrific" and without
justification and urged cooperation from both sides to ease tensions.

But Mr Netanyahu said he wanted to see "outrage" from the leaders of Western
countries over the "massacre". He pledged to increase security on the streets
but did not detail exactly what this would involve.

Read more: ISRAEL VOWS 'HEAVY HANDED' RESPONSE TO ATTACKBritish-born grandfather
and three US citizens killedEDITORIAL: AN EVER DEEPER DIVIDE

On Wednesday, Jewish worshippers returned to the Jerusalem synagogue and sought
comfort in prayer.

The attacks appeared to mark a turning point after weeks of unrest, with the
gruesome scene in a house of worship shocking a nation long accustomed to
violence.

Two weeks ago, a Palestinian driver was shot dead by Israeli police after
ramming his car into a crowd at a tram stop in East Jerusalem, killing a border
policeman and wounding 13 others.

A Palestinian bus driver was found hanging in his vehicle in a Jewish part of
Jerusalem late Sunday, which was ruled a suicide by an inquest. This verdict was
disputed by his family members and others, who claim he was murdered for being
Arab.

Shortly after Tuesday's attack, the Israeli government released a photo of a
bloody meat cleaver it said came from the crime scene. Government video showed
blood-soaked prayer books and prayer shawls on the floor of the synagogue.

"I saw people lying on the floor, blood everywhere," one worshipper at the
synagogue told Israel Radio.

"People were trying to fight with (the attackers) but they didn't have much of a
chance."

Police identified the synagogue assailants as Ghassan and Oday Abu Jamal,
cousins from the Jabal Mukaber neighbourhood in East Jerusalem. The Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), a militant group, said the cousins
were its members.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas denounced the bloodshed in a statement,
saying: "The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in their place
of prayer and condemns the killing of civilians no matter who is doing it.

But Mr Netanyahu said the Palestinian leader's condemnation of the attack was
insufficient and accused Abbas of inciting the recent violence.

The synagogue attack was the worst in the city since 2008, when a Palestinian
gunman killed eight people in a religious school.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                           February 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Did terror suspect plot attack on city shops?

BYLINE: OLIVIA RUDGARD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 234 words


A TERROR suspect who enrolled at Liverpool John Moores University to get his
visa has gone on trial in New York.

Abid Naseer, 28, is suspected of plotting terror attacks in Manchester, New York
and Denmark.

The alleged al-Qaida member may also have examined Liverpool One shopping centre
as a potential target.

He was briefly enrolled at Liverpool John Moores and was one of 12 men
originally arrested in April, 2009, in counter-terrorism raids in Liverpool and
Manchester.

He was released without charge and subsequently won the right to stay in
Britain, but was rearrested in 2010 after US authorities issued a warrant, and
was extradited to the US in 2013.

Witnesses in the New York trial will include British secret agents who will wear
wigs and make-up in the witness box to conceal their identities.

The agents conducted surveillance on Naseer and other terror suspects in Britain
before their arrests in April, 2009. In opening statements in his trial, US
attorney Celia Cohen told jurors that Naseer, who is representing himself, led a
cell in Manchester where he attended college as part of his cover and
communicated in coded emails with his al-Qaida handler about plans to attack a
shopping mall.

She said: "That was the whole point of the western operatives. They knew how to
blend in and conduct reconnaissance and pick the best target."

She said their intention was to "repeat the devastation of 9/11".

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A court in New York has heard how former Liverpool JMU student Abid
Naseer, ¦ ¦ inset, top left, may have examined Liverpool One, left above, as a
potential terror target

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           February 19, 2015 Thursday

UN official says recent terror attacks represent 'exact opposite' of values of
peace, stability

LENGTH: 405 words


February 18, 2015

The High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, Nassir
Al-Nasser, said today that the "vicious forces" of extremism, violence and
terrorism should not hamper international efforts to prevent and combat such
forces.



"Peace, stability, intercultural harmony and sustainable development are closely
interlinked and mutually reinforcing," said Mr. Al-Nasser in a press statement
released today which spoke of new and emerging ideological threats of the 21st
century. "They are key factors to accomplishing an environment conducive to
prosperity and human rights. Therefore, we need to protect our future and our
generations from the forces that fuel tensions, hatred and violence."

The High Representative cited several recent terrorist attacks around the world
as an portraying the "exact opposite" of the core values that should prevail
among peaceful communities and said increasing religious-based intolerance had
led to targeted killings of innocent people from different faiths and the
perpetuation of stereotyping, xenophobia and racism.He stressed that such acts
violated the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and International Law and
ran counter to the values of the UN Alliance of Civilizations, which embraces as
its core mission the promotion of cultural diversity, religious tolerance, and
inclusiveness.

"These values are best promoted through, peaceful and meaningful dialogue in
accordance with universally accepted norms and shared values," he said, adding
that existing UN resolutions, along with other international and regional
instruments, provide the international community with legal and moral tools to
prevent and combat conditions conducive to the spread of extremism, violence and
terrorism.

"Sadly and despite the efforts made, certain ideological mind-sets continue to
project their uncivilized face in our world," he said, calling for universally
agreed parameters to combat hate speech and incitement in all their forms.

He added that further efforts to prevent tackle such extremism should range from
measures to reform the UN to better adherence to international law."Preventive
action should entail the empowerment and reform of the relevant existing
instruments needed by the International Community to respond to and cope with
the new and emerging ideological threats, for the sake of our collective
security and Human Rights for all," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 20, 2015 Friday

Russian presidential envoy praises Groznyy restoration work after terror attack

LENGTH: 721 words


Text of report by Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website, specializing in news from the
Caucasus, on 19 February

Russian presidential envoy in the North Caucasus Federal District Sergey Melikov
has taken part in a session of the Council for the Youth Policy in Groznyy. At
the beginning of the event he said that he is pleased with how quickly the
destroyed Press House and School No 20 have been restored. Melikov arrived in
Groznyy on 18 February.

Alongside Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov, today he laid flowers at the monument
to the Soviet soldier at the brotherly cemetery of the warriors of the Red Army
who perished while defending the Caucasus. He noted the "ideal state" of the
monument, Kadyrov wrote on his Instagram page.

The programme of Melikov's visit included participation in the session of the
Youth Policy Council under the presidential envoy, the inspection of a number of
facilities in Groznyy and districts of the republic, the official portal of the
head and the government of the Chechen republic reported.

During the session of the Youth Council, the presidential envoy said that his
excursion around Groznyy and its places of interest left him with vivid
impressions.

"It is noteworthy that School No 20 and the Press House which suffered during
the terrorist attack on 4 December 2014 were rebuilt within a short period of
time. We certainly hope that such attacks by bandits are not repeated in the
future. However, the example of how quickly these buildings were restored
indicates that the organization of the work of the agencies of the executive
government is placed at the highest level in Chechnya," Groznyy-Inform agency
quoted Melikov as saying.

On 4 December 2014, militants attacked officers of the law enforcement agencies
in Groznyy. A counterterrorism operation regime was introduced in the centre of
the city. The Press House and School No 20 were seriously damaged as a result of
the combats. The school building was fully restored ahead of the New Year
celebrations on 31 December. The ceremonial opening of the repaired Press House
was held on 25 December.

Before visiting Chechnya, Melikov had arrived in Ingushetia where he discussed
the region's socio-economic and socio-political situation. Melikov noted areas
where it is necessary to step up work, including the adoption of anti-crisis
measures, preparation for the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great
Patriotic War and the 245th anniversary of the unification of Ingushetia with
Russia, according to the official website of the Republic of Ingushetia.

Earlier, Kavkazskiy Uzel reported about Melikov's two visits to Dagestan in
January 2015. It is noteworthy that heads of North Caucasus regions, with the
exception of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov, arrived in the republic alongside
Melikov on 13 January.

[In an Instagram post on 19 February, Kadyrov wrote: "Today Groznyy has become
the centre of the youth policy of the North Caucasus Federal District.
Representatives from across the North Caucasus have gathered here. The Russian
presidential envoy in the North Caucasus Federal District, Sergey Melikov, held
a session of the Council for the Youth Policy. He said that Chechnya had not
been selected accidentally as a venue for such a large forum since issues of the
spiritual and moral education, organization of the access, education and
employment of young people are being systematically and successfully addressed
here. Work for countering youths' involvement in a number of foreign terrorist
and extremist organizations was assessed in a particularly positive manner.
Participants in the session discussed in detail plans for the preparation of the
Victory Day celebrations. I assured them that we are prepared to share our
experience of the implementation of a single concept of the spiritual and moral
education and development [of the youth]. In a video accompanying the Instagram
post, Kadyrov was shown saying "we are doing very much for the implementation of
the youth policy and are allocating significant funds to unite the youth".
Melikov replied, saying: "I would like to express my gratitude to you and your
colleagues for rightfully assessing the situation and for taking these measures
in a timely and rightful manner."

Sources: Kavkazskiy Uzel, in Russian, 1245 gmt 19 Feb 15; Instagram, in Russian,
19 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 20, 2015 Friday

Tokyo on high alert against terror attacks ahead of marathon 22 February

LENGTH: 364 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, 20 February: Tokyo is on high alert against terrorist attacks ahead of a
major annual marathon event Sunday [22 February] in the Japanese capital, with
the organizer banning runners from carrying plastic bottles and police planning
a unique way to protect participants by having dozens of officers actually run
the marathon course.

The steps follow the recent murders of two Japanese men taken hostage by Islamic
State militants, and could also be a trial run for security measures ahead of
the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

About 10,000 people from the public and private sectors are expected to join
forces to enhance security for the Tokyo Marathon, in which about 36,000 runners
will make a start at the Tokyo metropolitan government building in Tokyo's
Shinjuku Ward.

There will be 64 "Running Police" officers, aged in their 20s to 40s, who will
watch for suspicious movements or behaviour along the course as well as on the
roadside where spectators will gather.

They will wear white vests bearing the word "POLICE" and will each run about 10
kilometres while carrying special batons, whistles and tear-gas spray. Live
video images will also be sent to the police headquarters through small cameras
attached to the heads of the officers.

An official of the Metropolitan Police Department said it is rare for security
activities to be conducted "from the viewpoint of the runners."

The Tokyo Marathon Foundation, the organizer of the event, will also increase
the number of metal detectors to 50 from four last year, while prohibiting
runners from bringing in cans as well as glass and plastic bottles.

The marathon course will take the participants near sightseeing spots such as
the Imperial Palace, Tokyo Tower, the Ginza shopping district and the
Kaminarimon Gate in the Asakusa district, before finishing at the exhibition
complex Tokyo Big Sight on the waterfront area.

As a massive number of people will run a long distance, the MPD will also
largely restrict traffic in the area, such as by closing entrance and exit ramps
for the Metropolitan Expressways.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0832gmt 20 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 20, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Fitzgerald: Terror attack possible

BYLINE: SARAH BARDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 132 words


IRELAND is not immune from a terrorist threat and an attack is possible, the
Justice Minister admitted yesterday.

Frances Fitzgerald confirmed the country could not rule out being targeted by
groups and has discussed the issue with Garda Commissioner Noirin O'Sullivan.

Ms Fitzgerald said it is a high priority and remains under constant review from
the force. She said: "Like any country with democratic values, Ireland is not
immune from a threat from international terrorism and an attack on Ireland is
possible but it is not assessed as likely.

"There is no specific information in relation to a threat to Ireland."

The minister said 30 Irish people have gone to Syria and Iraq and three have
died in the conflicts.

She said there are people helping to facilitate others' travel to conflict
zones.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Minister Frances FitzgeraldCIGARETTES 53 million were seized by
Revenue last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 20, 2015 Friday 7:00 AM GMT

Meet the Kurdish female politician fighting the Islamic State;
Kurdish politician Bayan Sami Abdul Rahman tells Sofia Barbarani how her family
were murdered in a terrorist attack and why she's battling Isil

BYLINE: By Sofia Barbarani Erbil, Iraq

LENGTH: 861 words


Bayan Sami Abdul Rahman speaks to me from the comfort of her home in London,
where she is finalising the last bit of packing before relocating to Washington
DC with her husband and son to start work as the new Kurdistan Regional
Government Representative to the US.

But moving is not a novelty for the Kurdish diplomat, whose childhood in Iraq
was too often spent fleeing from one village to another to avoid being killed by
Saddam Hussein.

"We would be in one village and it would be bombed, so we'd have to flee. One
time we lived in an empty school, another time in a shelter for nomads," she
says conjuring images reminiscent of the recent mass displacements in Iraq.

As the daughter of the late Sami Abdul Rahman, former deputy prime minister of
the KRG and key player in the Kurdish struggle against Saddam Hussein, Bayan and
her family were prime targets for the dictator's ruthless regime, which in the
1980s killed approximately 180,000 Kurds in a systematic genocidal campaign
called Al Anfal, 'the spoils of war' .

The mother-of-one has been relentlessly vocal about the urgent need for the West
to step up its support to the Kurds and protect innocent civilians. She
specifically recalls August and the mass exodus of the Yazidi population from
Sinjar in Nineveh, where her family is originally from.

"It's where my parents were born, it's the dialect that we speak at home, it's
the cuisine. We are still very Shingali [Sinjar in Kurdish]," she explains. The
images of tens of thousands of people scrambling for safety on the barren slopes
of Mt Sinjar and the subsequent tales of rape and murder at the hands of IS
fighters shocked the world.

"How many genocides do we Kurds have to go through just because we are part of
this God forsaken country called Iraq? How much longer do we have to suffer
because Iraq has a misguided leadership and the world is married to this idea of
a one-Iraq policy?" she asks critically.

'I'm defending Kurdish rights'

Bayan knows well what it means to lose someone to terrorism. Her father and
brother were killed in early 2004 in a terrorist attack in the Kurdish capital
of Erbil, which also saw 96 other people killed and hundreds injured.

Despite the similarities between the violence endured by her family and the
harrowing circumstances Iraqis and Syrians are going through today, the young
diplomat is adamant that her battle against Isil is not a personal one.

"I'm not getting revenge for my father or my brother, I don't think of it in
those terms, I look at it as a continuation of his struggle to defend Kurdish
rights. It's an attack on Kurdistan, on Kurdish values, on the Kurdish way of
life," she says.

Approximately 1.9 million Iraqis have been forced out of their homes because of
the current conflict, 47 per cent are estimated to have sought refuge in the
Kurdish enclave.

"Every Kurd that I know has been a refugee or displaced, this is why the people
of Kurdistan have been so compassionate and generous to the million or so people
who just turned up out of the blue last year." Her family fled Iraq in 1976 and
relocated to Britain, where Bayan grew up. Today she speaks perfect English, but
her roots are firmly set in Kurdistan.

She worked as a journalist for 17 years, writing for the Financial Times among
other newspapers - but being a spectator was not enough, she explains. By early
2004 she had been in serious talks with her father about how to join the Kurdish
government - "then he was killed and that finalised the decision for me."

'There's a tradition of Kurds having female fighters'

"To me it's more than a career, it's not just climbing the ladder, it's service
to my country," she says of her transfer to Washington, a coveted diplomatic
post. During her ten years as a representative to the UK, Bayan represented
Kurds in general as well as Kurdish women in particular, being one of three
female Kurdish representatives out of 14.

"Of course half of the representatives abroad should be women, but the fact that
we have three is a start and it is something we can build on," she says.

In a region of the world where women are often excluded from politics,
Kurdistan's 30 per cent quota in Parliament has facilitated the partaking of
Kurdish women in politics. While admitting that Kurdistan has much work to do in
terms of gender equality, Bayan is also adamant that on a regional level they
are at the forefront of the struggle. "The quota forces the political parties to
look for them, to nurture them, to educate them, to train," she points out.

Militarily, says Bayan, the Kurds have always had a history of women fighters.
"There is a tradition of taking up arms and what we've seen particularly in
Kobane is so admirable," she says in reference to the newly-liberated border
town of Kobane in Syria's Kurdish region. "They are defending their own dignity
after hearing what IS has been doing to women," Bayan explains with a hint of
pride in her voice.

"In everything - in social affairs, in politics, in military terms. Kurdish
women have been elevated by these very heroic and courageous women."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 21, 2015 Saturday

UN representatives for Somalia condemns terrorist attack in Somali capital

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of report by Somali news website Raxanreeb on 20 February

The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia (SRSG),
Nicholas Kay, condemns, in the strongest terms, today's attack on the Central
Hotel in Mogadishu that resulted in the death and injury of dozens of people,
including senior members of the Federal Government of Somalia. Al-Shabaab has
claimed responsibility for the attack.

"I condemn today's appalling attack against innocent civilians and dedicated
government officials, many of whom were gathered for Friday prayers," said SRSG
Kay.

"Such an indiscriminate attack against the Somali people is a cruel and
despicable crime intended to rob Somalis of their hope for a better future,"
SRSG Kay added. "We remain resolute in our support for the Somali people.
Despite such inhuman atrocities, Somalis are successfully rebuilding their
government institutions and security forces after more than two decades of state
failure and conflict. The United Nations in Somalia will continue to work to
help Somalis realise their hopes and aspirations for a peaceful and stable
future."

SRSG Kay offers his sincere condolences to the families and friends of those who
lost their lives as a result of this barbaric act, as well as to the people and
Federal Government of Somalia.

Source: Raxanreeb website in Somali 20 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 21, 2015 Saturday

Libyan GNC condemns "terrorist" attack on the town of Al-Qubbah

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report by Libyan news agency WAL (also known as LANA)

Tripoli, 21 February 2015. WAL  The General National Congress [GNC] has strongly
condemned the terrorist act which targeted the town of Al-Qubbah. It described
it as aiming at obstructing the political process to restore stability in Libya.

In a statement it issued today, Saturday [21 February], the GNC expressed its
sincere condolences to the victims' families and prayed to God Almighty to rank
them among the martyrs.

The statement said that these terrorist acts aimed at obstructing the dialogue
process and the efforts exerted by the congress and the other political forces
and the international community to restore stability to Libya and to increase
the state of fighting, and gave justifications for the military intervention in
Libya.

The statement pointed out that the GNC called on all the political and social
forces in Libya to abide by the peaceful solution and to sit at the dialogue
table as a strategic option to which there was no alternative.

The statement added that the GNC asked from the international community to
continue to support the dialogue process and to oppose any military intervention
which could complicate the scene even further and delay the arrival at the state
of stability.

Source: WAL (also known as LANA) news agency, Tripoli, in Arabic 1801 gmt 21 Feb
15

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 21, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shop terror as gunmen attack worker in raid;
In Brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 79 words


MASKED robbers wielding a gun ransacked a shop in Rugby.

Two men entered Kings store in Cambridge Street at around 7.30pm on Thursday.

One of the men, who was carrying the gun, stood near the door and blocked
customers from entering while the other punched a staff member in the face and
stole cash and cigarettes.

They left towards Abbey Street and the station.

Police are appealing for wtinesses.

If you can help call Warwickshire Police on 101 quoting incident 289 of February
19.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2015 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 21, 2015 Saturday 3:33 PM GMT

Sochi Winter Olympics: UK warns terrorist attacks are 'very likely' to occur;
Whitehall officials have warned attacks could occur during the Games

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 366 words


UK officials are warning more terrorist attacks are "very likely to occur" in
Russia either before or during the Winter Olympics in Sochi, which are due to
begin next week.

A threat assessment has named a Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz (IK) as causing
the main danger, according to the BBC.

The assessment highlights the IK's leader, Emir Doku Umarov, who called on his
followers to try their hardest to disrupt the Games in July 2013.

However, the document questions whether the group are capable of targeting the
event within such a narrow time frame, the BBC reports, with the Games running
from 7-23 February.

It notes that the IK has not attacked non-Russian interests previously and
focuses its fight on Russia, not the West.

Last week Olympic committees in Germany, Hungary, Italy, Slovenia and the UK
received messages threatening their delegations at the Winter Olympics, but
these were dismissed by officials as unfounded.

Meanwhile, Russian authorities have been conducting a manhunt for three women
they fear may be planning suicide attacks targeting the Games. Police leaflets
in Sochi warned that Ruzana Ibragimova, a 22-year-old "Black Widow" of a
militant killed by security forces, was at large in the city.

Winter Olympics 2014: Race to find Sochi 'bomber' casts chill over Sochi Games

Security officials also put out wanted posters for Oksana Aslanova, 26, and
Dzhannet Tsakhayeva, 34, saying the women were planning attacks in
Rostov-on-Don, where the Olympic torch procession arrived on 22 January.

But President Vladimir Putin has pledged the Games will be safe, and Russian
authorities are deploying over 37,000 extra law enforcement personnel around
Sochi. As part of their "ring of steel" operation, the city has been closed off
to all vehicles not registered in the city since 7 January.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising all travel to Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan and the districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky,
Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in Stavropol Krai.

It also advises against all but essential travel to all travel to Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan and the districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky,
Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in Stavropol Krai.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      February 22, 2015 Sunday 7:04 PM GMT

Masked terrorist calls for deadly attack in the heart of London

BYLINE: Aaron Brown

LENGTH: 336 words


A NEW terror video has called on militants hidden within the UK to launch a
devastating attack on London's iconic Oxford Street.

Fighters from the al Shabaab group made the plea to target Oxford Street and
other major shopping centres, in their latest video message.

Oxford Street is home to more than 300 shops and visited by an estimated five
million people each week.

In the footage, the radicals highlight the iconic street before listing GPS
coordinates for the Westfield shopping centres in Stratford and Shepherd's Bush.

US authorities confirmed they are taking the video threat "seriously".

Jeh Johnson

The Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command is aware of the video and is
assessing the content, Sky News has reported.

The al Shabaab group have previously claimed responsibility for a terrorist
attack on a Kenya shopping mall - which killed some 67 people.

Several American shopping malls were also threatened in the terror video, which
was released yesterday.

The masked radical in the video message also calls for similar attacks on
several American shopping malls.

Related articles Islamic State HARVESTING ORGANS from dead bodies to fund terror
attacks Teen, 16, held on TERROR charges accused of trying to buy 'biological
weapon' EXCLUSIVE: Oscar ceremony on terror alert as FBI launch security
operation

One of the malls, the Mall of America, in Minnesota, has already stepped up
security in response to the call for an imminent attack.

Chief of homeland security in the US Jeh Johnson said: "Anytime a terrorist
organisation calls for an attack on a specific place, we've got to take that
seriously."

"I would say that if anyone is planning to go to the Mall of America today,
they've got to be particularly careful.

"This latest statement from al Shabaab reflects the new phase we've evolved to
in the global terrorist threat, in that you have groups such as al Shabaab and
ISIL publicly calling for independent actors in their homelands to carry out
attacks."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     February 22, 2015 Sunday 10:20 AM GMT

Hamilton keeper Michael McGovern says football is helping heal wounds of terror
attack in Enniskillen;
TRAGEDY still hangs over goalie's home town after bombing horror but Accies ace
reveals that a love of the beautiful game is uniting the community.

BYLINE: By Scott McDermott

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,FOOTBALL NEWS

LENGTH: 823 words


WHENEVER it's mentioned that Michael McGovern hails from Enniskillen he knows
what's coming next.

Since 1987, the country town in Northern Ireland has been synonymous with one
thing - the IRA bombing atrocity which killed 11 people and left 63 injured.

He was only three years old at the time of the explosion, which happened during
a Remembrance  Sunday ceremony.

But the effects of it would have a long-lasting effect on Enniskillen and its
people. For years, the tragedy is what the town has been remembered for.

Now, McGovern is doing his bit - along with a few others - to give the place
credit for producing talented footballers.

The Hamilton Accies goalkeeper is one of the best in Scottish football and
pushing to be Northern Ireland's No.1.

Ironically, the guy he's trying to dislodge in Michael O'Neill's side is Roy
Carroll, another of Enniskillen's local heroes.

When McGovern was a kid, he didn't think he'd make it as a professional as only
Carroll had so far achieved that status in the game.

Now the 30-year-old is proving even himself wrong.

At 17, he earned a contract at Celtic and a new life in Scotland began.

But despite the devastating impact of that bombing 28 years ago, McGovern
insists it wasn't a relief to leave his home town - because he loved being part
of a football-mad community.

McGovern said: "I don't have too many memories of the bomb but it has hung over
the town. When people ask where you're from, when they hear the name of the
place. I suppose it's a bit like Omagh, which isn't too far away from us.

"Growing up, it was difficult seeing it all the time on the news. There would be
bombings and stuff, but thankfully everything is a lot better now.

Ireland marks anniversary of historic IRA ceasefire

"It was a tragic event, one of many unfortunately. We're at peace now, nearly.
It's been brilliant since the mid-1990s. We had the Remembrance Day bomb but we
were mostly sheltered from The Troubles, compared to the likes of Belfast and
Derry.

"It's a nice wee country town and although that threat was hanging over you, in
the 1990s, it wasn't a release for me to get away.

"Football is a big part of the community there, it's huge. It's the one sport
everyone plays and it's good because it can bring things together.

"To be honest, there's still some segregation. You get Catholic and Protestant
teams but, in general, football brings people together. There are more
integrated schools now and people mix more.  Football has been a big help in
that.

"It was brilliant for me to get a deal at Celtic because in Enniskillen no-one
had gone into  full-time football apart from big Roy. He was the only one and I
was after him so I didn't ever really think it would happen for me.

"People talk about wanting to be a footballer but no-one had done it since him
so to get a chance was brilliant. Since me, Andy Little and Kyle Lafferty have
also done it from Enniskillen."

Unfortunately for McGovern, his move to Celtic in 2001 didn't go to plan in that
he failed to force his way into Martin O'Neill's first team with the likes of
Rab Douglas and David Marshall for company.

But he has no regrets, especially as he's carved out a successful career for
himself in Scotland at Ross County, Falkirk and Accies.

He said: "I'd have liked to play more first-team games at Celtic.

"I was on the bench all the time although I played in a few friendlies,
including Henrik Larsson's  testimonial. I had to leave for first-team football
as it was too hard to get into the side.

"If I'd gone on loan and done well it may have been easier to go back and
challenge. But they were in the Champions League and wanted three keepers so it
was an awkward situation.

Video: Hamilton Academical 0 Aberdeen 3, February 15 2015

"Don't get me wrong, it was brilliant, amazing. But I've gone on and I'm proud
to have played for my country. My debut for Northern Ireland was a big moment in
my career.

"I've also been involved in a lot of cup shocks. With Ross County, beating
Celtic in the Scottish Cup semi-final was a big thing. I was proud of that, and
I'm enjoying this year with Hamilton too."

So far a terrific campaign for Accies has included a 1-0 victory at Celtic Park
with McGovern between the sticks. It was Accies' first win there in 76 years and
as the goalie prepared to face the Hoops in Glasgow again today, he says that
result in October gave Hamilton credibility in the top flight.

He said: "It was one of the highlights of the season. It sort of established us.
Obviously, we had done well in the league but it was a massive scalp.

"It put us on the map. I only had a few saves. When you go to Celtic you expect
the keeper to have a tough day but it wasn't like that. We played really well,
we were excellent, and Celtic weren't at their best.

"It was our best result but I wouldn't say our best performance. It doesn't
happen very often so you have to soak up results like that."

Quick Quiz: Sport 22/2/15

Daily Record Facebook promo

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      February 22, 2015 Sunday 7:22 PM GMT

New terror video calls for deadly attack on London's iconic Oxford Street

BYLINE: Aaron Brown

LENGTH: 429 words


ISLAMIST terrorists have called on militants stationed within the UK to launch a
devastating attack on Oxford Street and other major shopping centres.

FOX NEWS·GETTY

A masked man reads out the GPS coordinates for the Westfield shopping centres
around London

Fighters from the al Shabaab group made the terrifying plea to attack the heart
of the capital in their latest video message.

Oxford Street, which is hugely popular amongst tourists visiting London, is home
to more than 300 shops and visited by an estimated five million people each
week.

In the footage, the radicals specifically mention Oxford Street, and give GPS
coordinates for the Westfield shopping centres in Stratford and Shepherd's Bush.

The masked militant in the terror video speaks with a British-sounding accent.

US authorities have confirmed they are taking the threats made in the video
"seriously".

The Metropolitan Police told Sky News its Counter Terrorism Command is aware of
the video and is assessing the content.

FOX NEWS

In the video, the al Shabaab member talks about malls in the UK and in the
United States

GETTY

The iconic Oxford Street, in the heart of London, is home to some 300 shops and
department stores

GETTY

It is estimated more than five million people visit the street every week

The Somali-based militants have previously claimed responsibility for a terror
attack on an upmarket shopping mall in Kenya, which left 67 dead.

Several American shopping malls were also threatened in the terror video, which
was released yesterday.

One of the US malls highlighted - the Mall of America, in Minnesota - stepped up
security overnight amid fears radicalised Muslims are preparing an imminent
attack.

Minnesota is home to a large Somali population.

Last week, a Minnesota man was indicted on charges of conspiring to support the
Islamic State, also referred to as IS, ISIS and ISIL.

Related articles 'Just wait...' Islamic State reveals it has smuggled THOUSANDS
of extremists into Europe On Europe's doorstep: Islamic State have now
infiltrated TURKEY and are 'plotting attack'

Chief of homeland security in the US Jeh Johnson said: "Anytime a terrorist
organisation calls for an attack on a specific place, we've got to take that
seriously.

"I would say that if anyone is planning to go to the Mall of America today,
they've got to be particularly careful.

"This latest statement from al Shabaab reflects the new phase we've evolved to
in the global terrorist threat, in that you have groups such as al Shabaab and
ISIL publicly calling for independent actors in their homelands to carry out
attacks."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 22, 2015 Sunday 7:00 PM GMT

Australia has entered an 'era of terrorism' and can expect more attacks, warns
Tony Abbott... as he reveals authorities are following up THOUSANDS of leads on
extremists and plans for a national 'terror tsar'

BYLINE: FREYA NOBLE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 753 words



     ·    In a speech on Monday, Prime Minister Tony Abbott will announce new
          counter-terrorism measures
     ·    He will reveal ASIO is currently investigating thousands of terror
          leads and 400 'high risk' suspects
     ·    A review will show that Australia has entered a 'long term era' of
          terrorism
     ·    This comes a day after a review into the Sydney siege was released
     ·    It found that gunman Man Haron Monis 'slipped through the cracks'


ASIO is currently investigating thousands of terror leads and suspects, with at
least 400 people being deemed high risk, it will be announced by Prime Minister
Tony Abbott on Monday.

This is double last year's figure, and Mr Abbott will also warn that Australia
is heading for a 'long-term era' of heightened terror threat, when he announces
the appointment of a National Counter-Terrorism Co-ordinator.

In a major secutiry speech, the prime minister is also expected to announce the
creation of new strategies for counter-terrorism, following a review of
Australia's current defence,  Fairfax  reported.

The review, separate to the one into the Sydney siege whose findings were
released on Sunday, will show that 'Australia has entered a new, long-term era
of heightened terrorism threat, with a much more significant home-grown
element,' Mr Abbott will say, according to Fairfax.

Scroll down for video

'It assesses that the terrorist threat in Australia is rising. On all metrics,
the threat to Australia is worsening,' he also says, according to Fairfax.

The prime minister is expected to announce an increase in funding for national
security agencies, and present a more cohesive plan that would see state and
national efforts brought in alignment.

Plans to strip dual citizens of their citizenships should they present as a
terror threat and a crackdown on extremists groups are also believed to be
included in Monday's address.

The public will have more information available to them about the country's
current terror threat - which now sits at high - so they can better understand
the system and its levels.

On Sunday when Mr Abbott released the review into the Sydney siege, he said that
a shift in the balance between individual freedoms and community safety.

'There is an ongoing and inevitable debate in a country such as ours ... between
the rights of the individual and the protection of the community,' he said.

'My judgment is that - while having always to respect both - the question of
precisely where we draw the line in the era of terrorism will have to be
reconsidered and the line may have to be redrawn.'

Meantime The Australian  reported that Mr Abbott will also announce that another
terrorist attack is likely given the current climate.

This comes as the review into Sydney's Martin Place siege was released,
revealing crazed gunman Man Haron Monis 'slipped through the cracks of the
system'.

Despite an apparent 18 calls to ASIO in the days leading up to December 15 when
Monis took 18 people hostage in the Lindt Cafe, authorities had deemed him as
not a threat.

The inquiry report made a number of recommendations and Mr Abbott and NSW
Premier Mike Baird said governments needed to learn lessons from the siege.

'Plainly, this monster should not have been in our community,' Mr Abbott said.

'The difficulty is that while he was well and truly on a lot of radar screens,
he was routinely assessed as not being a threat to himself or to the community.

'Plainly, at some stage he did become a threat. We obviously do need more checks
and more scrutiny in the visa process, in the citizenship process.'

The new counter-terrorism measures set to be announced on Monday are going to
deal increasingly with 'home-grown terrorists', like Australia's most wanted
jihadists Mohammed Elomar and Khaled Sharrouf.

Sharrouf and Elomar both fled Australia to join the Islamic State insurgents
fighting in Syria and Iraq in 2013 and in July 2014 the Australian Federal
Police issued arrest warrants for the disturbed pair.

Sharrouf flew out of Sydney in December 2013 using his brother's passport and
was soon followed by his convert wife Tara Nettleton who brought their five
children to the Middle East with her.

The men gained notoriety as part of the more than 100 Australians who have
joined Islamic State after they posted disturbing photos of themselves holding
up decapitated heads of Syrian soldiers last year.

Sharrouf even got his seven-year-old son to hold up the severed head of a
soldier in the Syrian city of Raqqa, accompanied with the caption 'that's my
boy', in an image that shocked the world.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 22, 2015 Sunday 1:19 PM GMT

MoD scientists assess threat of Ebola being used by ISIS or Al-Qaeda terrorists
to attack Britain

BYLINE: SARA MALM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 790 words



     ·    Scientists at MoD research centre explored use of Ebola as bio weapon
     ·    Documents revealed MoD considered use of virus by terrorist groups
     ·    Heavily redacted memo reveals at least three 'potential scenarios'


Ministry of Defence scientists have been exploring the possible use of Ebola as
a biochemical weapon, newly released documents confirm.

Staff at the MoD's research centre at Porton Down, Wiltshire, have been
assessing the risk of the virus being used by terrorists such as ISIS or
Al-Qaeda to attack the UK.

The documents, released under the Freedom of Information Act, reveal that
scientists have been looking into at least three potential scenarios

The request from an unnamed source was for Porton Down staff to provide
'guidance on the feasibility and potential impact of a non-state actor
exploiting the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.'

Three potential scenarios are outlined in the document, marked 'UK secret UK
eyes only', although the details are withheld.

No information is provided regarding the first scenario, and the only detail
revealed about the second scenario is that it would be both logistically and
technically challenging for a non-state group to undertake'.

Following the blacked-out scenario, the team concludes: 'Clearly there are
practical issues involved with such a scenario that of themselves are often not
insurmountable but taken together add enormously to the complexity of
successfully undertaking this attack.'

A third, also heavily redacted, scenario 'constitutes the most technically
challenging of the scenarios considered here', The Observer  reports.

This comes after yesterday's report that the nurse who became the first Briton
to be diagnosed with Ebola in the UK faces disciplinary action over claims she
concealed being unwell when she returned from Africa.

THE WEST AFRICA EBOLA OUTBREAK

Ebola is virus is transmitted to people from wild animals and spreads in the
human population through human-to-human transmission.

Ebola spreads via direct contact with the blood, secretions, organs or other
bodily fluids of infected people, and with surfaces and materials (e.g. bedding,
clothing) contaminated with these fluids.

The incubation period is 2 to 21 days, but the humans are not infectious until
they develop symptoms.

First symptoms are the sudden onset of fever fatigue, muscle pain, headache and
sore throat.

This is followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, symptoms of impaired kidney and
liver function, and in some cases, both internal and external bleeding.

Laboratory findings include low white blood cell and platelet counts and
elevated liver enzymes.

People remain infectious as long as their blood and body fluids, including semen
and breast milk, contain the virus.

The current outbreak in west Africa is the largest and most complex Ebola
outbreak since the Ebola virus was first discovered in 1976.

There have been more cases and deaths in this outbreak than all others combined.



There are currently no licensed Ebola vaccines but two potential candidates are
undergoing evaluation.

Source: World Health Organization

Pauline Cafferkey, who spent almost a month in an isolation unit in London
earlier this year while her life hung in the balance, is one of five medics
having their 'fitness to practise' assessed by regulators.

According to one unsubstantiated report, a temperature test showed that Ms
Cafferkey was over the limit - and others present were aware of it - but the
result was not reported.

In theory, if any of the five are judged to have broken professional standards,
they could be 'struck off'.

Last year's outbreak of Ebola in West Africa has been recorded as the worst in
known history with 22,894 cases and 9,177 deaths reported around the globe so
far.

A majority of confirmed cases have been found in Guinea, Libera and Sierra
Leone, with the latter the worst affected, with 10,934 cases to date, according
to the World Health Organisation.

The steep decline in case numbers has leveled off over the past month and the
development is a cause for concern, the WHO said this week.

The United Nations has said ten times fewer people are being diagnosed with
Ebola each week than in September.

Over the past four weeks, however, the line of the graph has flattened out, with
the rate around 120 to 150 new cases a week.

Health officials have expressed optimism in recent weeks that the tide seems to
be turning in the fight against the deadliest Ebola outbreak in history.

The presidents of the three worst affected countries, Liberia, Sierra Leone and
Guinea, this week said they hope to reduce the number of new cases to zero by
April 15.

MailOnline has contacted the Ministry of Defence for comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 22, 2015 Sunday 7:57 PM GMT

Muslims urged to attack UK shopping malls including Westfield in video from
terror group al-Shabaab;
In the unverified video, the extremist Somali group asks what would happen if a
terror attack happened in Oxford Street like the one in Kenya two years ago

BYLINE: By Sam Rkaina

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


Al Shabaab Islamist Militants Threaten Attacks On Malls Worldwide

Muslims have been urged to attack shopping malls in the UK and other western
countries, in a video claiming to be from the Al-Qaida-linked terror group
al-Shabaab.

In the 76-minute clip the extremist group names the Westfield mall in Stratford
as a specific potential target, along with the Mall of America in Minnesota and
the West Edmonton Mall in Canada.

The narrator, his face wrapped in a black-and-white kaffiyeh-type scarf and
wearing a camouflage jacket, spoke with a British accent and appeared to be of
Somali origin.

He said: "What if such an attack were to occur in the Mall of America in
Minnesota? Or the West Edmonton Mall in Canada? Or in London's Oxford Street?"
the masked man said, then called for Britain's Westfield mall to be targeted.

The authenticity of the clip, which features footage from news reports, has yet
to be verified.

During the video, released late Saturday, the extremist group again said its
September 2013 attack on the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, Kenya, was in reprisal
for Kenyan military involvement in Somalia.

Sixty-seven people died in the attack.

Speaking on morning talks shows in the US, Department of Homeland Security
Secretary Jeh Johnson, called the video "the new phase" of the global terrorist
threat and said the US took such threats seriously.

"These groups are relying more and more on independent actors to become
inspired, drawn to the cause and they'll attack on their own," Johnson said.

"I am very concerned about serious potential threats of independent actors here
in the United States. We've seen this now in Europe, we've seen this in Canada."

The Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota, and the Edmonton Mall both issued
statements saying they have increased security since the warning.

In Kenya, the government dismissed the al-Shabaab video.

"They're using propaganda to legitimize what cannot be legitimized. When you
lead a group to go and attack a shopping mall and kill innocent shoppers that
cannot be legitimized, those were not soldiers," Interior Ministry spokesman
Mwenda Njoka said.

"Muslims also died in the Westgate attack.

"It's in our interest to ensure Somalia is stabilized because the instability
affects us.

"The video is cheap propaganda trying to re-write history and to get more
support from those support them."

Nairobi terrorist attacks: Live updates as Kenyan forces mount gun battle to end
shopping mall crisis

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            February 22, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Nuclear power plants open to terrorist attack

BYLINE: Caroline Wheeler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 412 words


BRITAIN'S nuclear plants are at risk from a terrorist strike by unmanned drone
aircraft.

Such an attack could kill tens of thousands of people, a Government adviser has
warned - but authorities are "burying their heads in the sand", according to
John Large, a nuclear engineer who has carried out work for Britain's Atomic
Energy Authority.

His call for an urgent security overhaul comes as figures showed nuclear power
plants suffered 37 security breaches last year - the highest number in three
years.

No-fly zones have also been breached a dozen times since 2011, including by at
least one drone.

Islamic State terrorists have already recruited chemical weapons specialists and
counterterrorism experts say they are intent on building a "dirty bomb".

Last night Mr Large demanded a major exercise to test the resilience of the
nation's power stations against acts of terrorism.

Mr Large, who has advised the French government after a growing number of
mysterious unmanned flights over that country's nuclear plants, said drones also
pose a risk to the UK's 16 operational reactors.

"On application to UK nuclear power plants, I believe that much the same
security and vulnerability issues apply," he said.

"The accessibility of the UK plants to small UAV's [unmanned airborne vehicles]
is relatively unimpeded."

Asked whether a security review is needed in the wake of the terrorist attacks
in Denmark and France, Mr Large said: "Absolutely yes."

Too much focus is placed on the risk assessment surrounding accidents at nuclear
power stations, rather than terrorist threats, Mr Large said.

The last nuclear power plant built in the UK was completed in the 1990s, but the
Government is planning a new generation of reactors, starting with Hinkley Point
C in Somerset.

Last night Tory MP Mark Pritchard, a member of the Joint Committee on the
National Security Strategy, said Mr Large's recommendations would be taken "very
seriously".

A spokeswoman for the Department for Energy and Climate Change said: "The
Government works closely with the Office for Nuclear Regulation, the independent
security regulator, to ensure security measures at UK civil nuclear sites are of
the highest possible standard.

"Security is kept under review to ensure its effectiveness, and arrangements
take account of international guidance and best practice."

A spokeswoman for the Office for Nuclear Regulation added: "Security at all the
UK's civil nuclear sites is subject to a comprehensive security plan."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               February 22, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK nuclear sites warned over drone terror attack;
Terror threat to N-plants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 442 words


BRITAIN'S nuclear plants are at risk from a terrorist strike by unmanned drone
aircraft, writes Caroline Wheeler.

Such an attack could kill tens of thousands of people, a Government adviser has
warned. But authorities are "burying their heads in the sand," according to John
Large.

His call for an urgent security overhaul comes as figures showed nuclear power
plants suffered 37 security breaches last year - the highest number in three
years. No-fly zones have also been breached a dozen times since 2011, including
by at least one drone.

Islamic State terrorists have already recruited chemical weapons specialists and
counterterrorism experts say they are intent on building a "dirty bomb".

Last night Mr Large, a nuclear engineer who has carried out work for Britain's
Atomic Energy Authority, demanded a major exercise to test the resilience of the
nation's power stations against acts of terrorism.

Mr Large, who has advised the French government after a growing number of
mysterious unmanned flights over that country's nuclear plants, said drones also
pose a risk to the UK's 16 operational reactors.

"On application to UK nuclear power plants, I believe that much the same
security and vulnerability issues apply," he told the Sunday Express.

"The accessibility of the UK plants to small UAV's [unmanned airborne vehicles]
is relatively unimpeded."

Asked whether a security review was needed in the wake of the terrorist attacks
in Denmark and France, Mr Large said: "Absolutely yes."

Too much focus is placed on the risk assessment surrounding accidents at nuclear
power stations, rather than terrorist threats, Mr Large said. The consequences
of the attack scenarios he examined would range from one casualty to tens of
thousands of deaths, he added.

The last nuclear power plant built in the UK was completed in the 1990s but the
Government is planning a new generation of reactors, starting with Hinkley Point
C in Somerset.

Last night Tory MP Mark Pritchard, a member of the Joint Committee on the
National Security Strategy, said Mr Large's recommendations would be taken "very
seriously".

A spokeswoman for the Department for Energy and Climate Change said: "The
Government works closely with the Office for Nuclear Regulation, the independent
security regulator, to ensure security measures at UK civil nuclear sites are of
the highest possible standard. Security is kept under review to ensure its
effectiveness and arrangements take account of international guidance and best
practice."

A spokeswoman for the Office for Nuclear Regulation added: "Security at all the
UK's civil nuclear sites is subject to a comprehensive nuclear site security
plan."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AT RISK: Nuclear plants like Dungeness in Kent could be a target for
terroristsDRoNe: Unmanned aircraft could be used in attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               February 22, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR VICTIM ATTACKS PUP BOSS;
EXCLUSIVE POLICE PROBE INTO STREET INCIDENTRelative of murdered man confronts
loyalist leader Hutchinson in estate showdown

BYLINE: claran Barnes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 68 words


By Ciaran Barnes Chief Reporter POLICE are probing an attack on PUP leader Billy
Hutchinson by a relative of a UVF murder victim.

The Belfast city councillor and loyalist double killer was forced to call cops
after being confronted in the Mount Vernon estate.

A PUP spokesman last night confirmed that a man had approached him in an
"aggressive, intimidatory and very threatening manner".

FULL STORY TURN TO PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEADER: PUP chief Billy Hutchinson had to call police when confronted
in the street by a relative of a UVF victim

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2015 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      February 23, 2015 Monday 3:36 AM GMT

Shopping mall terror attacks call

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 892 words


A video purported to be by Somalia's al Qaida-linked rebel group al-Shabab urged
Muslims to attack shopping centres in the US, Canada, Britain and other Western
countries.

United States authorities said there was "no credible" evidence suggesting a US
attack was in the works.

The threat by the al Qaida affiliate came in the final minutes of a more than
hour-long video in which the extremists also warned Kenya of more attacks like
the September 2013 assault on the Westgate Mall in Nairobi when 67 people were
killed.

The masked narrator concluded by urging Muslims to attack shopping centres,
specifically naming the Mall of America in the Minneapolis suburb of
Bloomington, as well as the West Edmonton Mall in Canada and Westfield in
Stratford, east England.

The FBI and department of homeland security (DHS) provided local law enforcement
agencies and private sector partners with "relevant information regarding the
recent al-Shabab propaganda video," DHS press secretary Marsha Catron said.

"However, we are not aware of any specific, credible plot against the Mall of
America or any other domestic commercial shopping centre," she said.

The Bloomington police department said additional security measures had been put
in place at the Mall of America, one of the largest malls in the nation.

DHS secretary Jeh Johnson called the video "the new phase" of the global
terrorist threat and warned the public to be vigilant.

"These groups are relying more and more on independent actors to become
inspired, drawn to the cause and they'll attack on their own," he said.

"I am very concerned about serious potential threats of independent actors here
in the United States. We've seen this now in Europe, we've seen this in Canada."

Asked about the specific threat against the Mall of America, Johnson said: "Any
time a terrorist organisation calls for an attack on a specific place we've got
to take that seriously.

"What we're telling the public is you've got to be vigilant. There will be
enhanced security there that will be apparent, but public vigilance, public
awareness and public caution in situations like this is particularly important."

In the slickly produced video posted online, a masked man, his face wrapped in a
black-and-white kaffiyeh-type scarf and wearing a camouflage jacket, declared:
"Westgate was just the beginning."

The video included footage from major news organisations showing the assault on
the mall and said it was in reprisal for alleged abuses by Kenyan troops against
Muslims in Somalia.

"What if such an attack were to occur in the Mall of America in Minnesota? Or
the West Edmonton Mall in Canada? Or in London's Oxford Street?" said the man,
who spoke with a British accent and appeared to be of Somali origin.

The Mall of America said it was "aware of a threatening video which includes a
mention and images of the mall," and that extra security had been put in place.

Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton was monitoring the situation and has been in
regular contact with the commissioner of the Minnesota department of public
safety which is co-ordinating with law enforcement agencies and the Mall of
America "to assure the safety of all Minnesotans," said his press secretary Matt
Swenson.

Shoppers yesterday seemed undeterred by the threat.

"I'm more afraid of the cold today than any terrorists," said Mary Lamminen, of
St Paul.

David Modrynski said he talked with his wife and son about whether to visit the
mall after hearing about the video: "But we can't stop living our lives because
somebody says they're going to do something."

While al-Shabab has carried out attacks in neighboring Kenya, Uganda and
Djibouti, which all have troops fighting the extremists as part of the
multinational African Union force, it has never operated outside East Africa and
the Horn of Africa.

Minnesota, home to the largest Somali population in the US, has been the target
of terror recruiters in the past.

Since 2007, more than 22 young Somali men from Minnesota have travelled to
Somalia to join al-Shabab, and a handful of Minnesota residents have also gone
to Syria to fight with militant groups within the last year.

At least one Minnesotan has died while fighting for the Islamic State group.

On Thursday, a 19-year-old Minneapolis man who was stopped at a New York City
airport in November as he and three others were allegedly attempting to travel
to Syria was indicted on charges associated with supporting the Islamic State
group.

Last week US attorney Andy Luger led a Minnesota delegation, including law
enforcement officials and Somali community leaders, to a White House summit on
countering extremism and radicalisation.

In his remarks, vice president Joe Biden held up Minneapolis, Boston and Los
Angeles as examples of communities moving ahead with programs to counter
extremism locally.

In Kenya, the government dismissed the al-Shabab video.

"They're using propaganda to legitimise what cannot be legitimised. When you
lead a group to go and attack a shopping mall and kill innocent shoppers that
cannot be legitimised, those were not soldiers," interior ministry spokesman
Mwenda Njoka said.

"Muslims also died in the Westgate attack. It's in our interest to ensure
Somalia is stabilised because the instability affects us.

"The video is cheap propaganda trying to re-write history and to get more
support from those support them."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 23, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Extremists call for terror attacks on major London shopping centres

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead; Peter Foster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 303 words


ISLAMIST terrorists have called for attacks on Oxford Street and the West-field
shopping centres in London in the latest jihadist threat to Britain.

A video released by the Somalia-based al-Shabaab called on its followers to
"hasten to heaven" as it also threatened major retail complexes in North America
and "Jewish-owned" centres.

Counter-terrorism police in the UK were assessing the video, while the head of
US homeland security warned shoppers to be "particularly careful".

The video, which lasts more than an hour and was released over the weekend,
centred on al-Shabaab's attack on the Westgate shopping centre in Kenya in 2013
that left 62 people dead and more than 100 injured.

A terrorist, dressed in army fatigues with his face covered, said: "Can you
imagine what a dedicated mujahideen [soldier] in the West could do to the
American and Jewish-owned shopping centres across the world."

He names Oxford Street and the two Westfield centres in London, alongside
coordinates for them, adding: "What would be the implications of such an attack,
one can only imagine and all it takes is a man with firm determination, of which
our Muslim ummah (community) has plenty of.

"So hurry up, hasten towards heaven and do not hesitate." He said disbelievers
had no right to feel safe.

Jeh Johnson, the US homeland security secretary, said: "This latest statement
from al Shabaab reflects the new phase we've evolved to in the global terrorist
threat, in that you have groups such as al Shabaab and Isil publicly calling for
independent actors in their homelands to carry out attacks.

"We're beyond the phase now where these groups would send foreign operatives
into countries after being trained some place."

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said: "We remind the public that downloading
extremist material may constitute an offence."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    DRAPERS

                            February 23, 2015 Monday

Terror group calls for attacks on Oxford Street and Westfield centres

LENGTH: 157  words


A Somalia-based terror group has called for attacks on London's Oxford Street
and the Westfield shopping centres in the latest jihadist threat to the UK.

Al-Shabaab released a video, which lasts for more than an hour, calling on its
followers to "hasten to heaven" by attacking some of the country's busiest
shopping areas, reported The Telegraph.

The film focuses on the fall-out from Al-Shabaab's attack on the Westgate
shopping centre in Kenya in 2013 that left 62 people dead and more than 100
injured.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "The MPS Counter Terrorism Command is aware of
the video and is assessing the content.

"We remind the public that downloading extremist material may constitute an
offence."

@Tara_Hounslea

Also in the news today...

     ·    Sports Direct ranks low in staff pension payments
     ·    Primark like-for-like sales draw level with last year
     ·    New Look appoints bankers to work on stock market listing


tara.hounslea@emap.com (Tara Hounslea)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Drapers


                            Copyright 2015 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 23, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Jihadists call for UK attacks on shoppers;
Al-Shabaab terror threat to Oxford StreetMilitants call for attacks on shopping
centres

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes ; Sean O'Neill ; Michael Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 724 words


British counterterrorism police were on alert last night after a militant
Islamic group urged Muslims to attack Oxford Street and two shopping centres in
London.

A video purporting to be from al-Shabaab extremists in Somalia also called on
followers to "hasten to Heaven" by targeting shopping centres in the United
States, Canada and France, including those that are "Jewish-owned" and the two
Westfield sites in London.

The threat was made by a masked militant, believed to be of Somali origin, who
was speaking in a British accent.

The US said that it was taking the threat seriously. Security was being stepped
up at the Mall of America in Minnesota and the public were being asked to be
vigilant.

"I am very concerned about serious potential threats of independent actors here
in the United States," Jeh Johnson, the homeland security secretary, said.
"We've seen this now in Europe, we've seen this in Canada," he told a US
television network.

Al-Shabaab has previously wreaked havoc in a shopping centre, and they are seen
as a soft target. An attack by four militants at the Westgate mall in Nairobi in
September 2013 killed more than 60 people and injured 175.

British counterterrorism police were assessing the 76-minute video, which
appeared on the internet on Saturday, to establish its credibility, a
spokeswoman said. In the footage, the narrator, wearing a camouflage jacket and
with his face wrapped in a blackand-white kaffiyeh-type scarf, says the group
also plans to launch more assaults in Kenya. He adds that the Westgate attack
was a reprisal for Kenyan military involvement in Somalia.

"What if such an attack were to occur in the Mall of America in Minnesota? Or
the West Edmonton Mall in Canada? Or in London's Oxford Street?" the man says,
before calling for the two Westfield centres in London - in Shepherds Bush and
Stratford - to be attacked.

The threat level in Britain is at "severe", meaning that a terrorist attack is
highly likely. It was raised last year after growing concerns about British
jihadists who had travelled to Iraq and Syria to join Islamic State returning to
cause carnage at home.

Up to 100 Britons are also thought to have gone to Somalia to fight or train
with al-Shabaab, which is linked to al-Qaeda. Some will have returned. There are
known links between Britons who have gone to Somalia and extremists in London as
well as members of London street gangs.

"This video shows just how diverse and complex the security threat is at the
moment," a counterterrorism source said. "Everyone has been focusing on Syria
and IS [Islamic State] but this is al-Shabaab reminding us that they are still
active and still a threat.

"The immediate danger is that ... this could spur sympathisers into doing
something. It makes a volatile situation even more difficult."

Mr Johnson said that militant groups Continued on page 2, col 3 Continued from
page 1 were increasingly relying on inspiring lone wolves to carry out attacks
on their behalf.

Asked specifically about the Mall of America, he said: "Any time a terrorist
organisation calls for an attack on a specific place we've got to take that
seriously.

"What we're telling the public is you've got to be vigilant ... There will be
enhanced security there that will be apparent ... but public vigilance, public
awareness and public caution in situations like this is particularly important.
It's the environment we're in."

Olivier Guitta, a security expert, said of the video: "It is significant. They
specify targets in the US, France, the UK and Canada. They have had experience
of Westgate and they are saying they are going to do it again and they are
coming up with the names of the malls. I have never seen that before."

The Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota, and the Edmonton Mall said that
they had increased security. Minnesota is home to the largest Somali population
in the US. Britain also has a large Somali diaspora. The British police and MI5
liaise closely with shopping centres over security and patrols have been stepped
up.

A spokesman for the Kenyan Interior Ministry, Mwenda Njoka, said of the
al-Shabaab video: "They're using propaganda to legitimise what cannot be
legitimised. When you lead a group to go and attack a shopping mall and kill
innocent shoppers that cannot be legitimised. Those were not soldiers." Runaway
brides plea, page 9

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                            February 23, 2015 Monday

Terror attack at march to mark ousting of Yanukovych

BYLINE: by WMN REPORTERS

SECTION: FEATURES:MOTORS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 529  words


Two people were killed and about a dozen injured in a bomb explosion at a march
yesterday in Ukraine's second-largest city.

The event in Kharkiv was marking the first anniversary of the dismissal from
power of president Viktor Yanukovych, the country's interior ministry said.

Officials said the blast was due to an "unknown explosive device" and was being
considered a terrorist act. A police officer was one of the dead.

The violence comes as Ukraine continues to be riven by tension and bloodshed
stemming from Mr Yanukovych's fall a year ago.

The Ukrainian parliament voted on February 22 last year to remove the
Russia-friendly president following months of increasingly violent protests in
the capital Kiev.

The Crimean peninsula, where residents largely regarded his downfall as a coup,
was annexed by Russia a month later.

Armed rebels opposed to the new authorities in Kiev then took over large parts
of two regions bordering Russia, setting off a war that has killed more than
5,600 people.

A peace plan envisioning a ceasefire and pullback of heavy weapons was signed 10
days ago but ceasefire violations continue.

Ukraine plans to begin pulling back heavy weaponry from the front lines today in
accordance with the peace plan, a military spokesman said.

Ukrainian military spokesman Colonel Andriy Lysenko said that the withdrawal was
to begin, but did not give further details.

Rebel spokesman Eduard Basurin said the pullback from both sides is to take
place between today and March 7, but he did not specify whether rebels had made
any moves yet. There was no immediate confirmation that the withdrawal had
begun.

Both sides are to pull back their big guns and rockets from 15 to 43 miles away
from the conflict line - depending on the weapons' size - creating a buffer zone
of between 31 and 87 miles.

The buffer zone was a main element of a peace agreement worked out in marathon
negotiations 10 days ago in Minsk, Belarus. It also calls for a full exchange of
war captives.

Late yesterday, 139 Ukrainian soldiers and 52 rebels were exchanged; it remains
unclear how many prisoners in total are on each side and when other swaps might
take place.

The ceasefire that was the first element of the Minsk plan was called into
effect last Sunday.

Ukraine said Russia-backed separatists violated the ceasefire a dozen times
during the night with artillery and rocket attacks and an attempt to storm a
Ukrainian encampment.

Mr Lysenko said one serviceman was killed and three wounded over the past day.

Explosions were heard in the main rebel-held city of Donetsk around dawn today
SWand a rebel website says several buildings in the city were damaged by
artillery.

Despite the reported violations, the level of firing appeared to be far lower
than a week ago.

Among the attacks reported by the Ukrainian military was an attempt to storm
positions in the village of Shyrokyne near the port city of Mariupol.

That city remains of strategic concern to Ukraine because rebel seizure of it
could help establish a land corridor between mainland Russia and the
Russia-annexed Crimean peninsula. Kharkiv has considerable symbolic importance
in the drama of Mr Yanukovych's dismissal from power

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

RHINO ATTACKS MUM AND TODDLER;
SAFARI PARK TERROR AS TWO-TON BEAST SMASHES UP FAMILY CAR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5 words


FOR FULL STORY, TURN TO PAGE 4

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vicky Liggins and ¦toddler son Evelyn were terrified when an angry
rhino attacked their car at West Midlands Safari Park

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 24, 2015 Tuesday 8:19 AM GMT

US jury rules that Palestinian Authority is liable for $600m damages to families
of Americans killed in terrorist attacks;
The court heard anguished testimony from relatives of victims of the terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: David Usborne

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 292 words


A New York jury ruled tonight that the Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian
Liberation Organisation are liable for harm caused to American families by
terror strikes inside Israel between 2002 and 2004, a precedent that could open
the way for others to seek similar financial redress.

The verdict, reached at the end of an often emotional seven-week trial in
Manhattan, requires payment of $218.5 million (£141 million) to the dozens of
plaintiffs who had filed suit arising from six different terrorist attacks in
Israel that saw American citizens killed and injured. Under US anti-terrorism
laws, the amount of the award will be automatically tripled to $655.5 million
(£424 million).

It remains unclear how quickly the plaintiffs would actually see any of the
money, not least because of the parlous state of the Palestinian Authority's
finances, which has been made worse by Israel's refusal to give it tax revenue
it is owed as punishment for seeking membership of the International Criminal
Court.

In pictures: Israel-Gaza conflict

The jury's decision may however prove a political fillip for the Israeli
government and for Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu who is fighting for
re-election.

The court heard anguished testimony from relatives of victims of the terrorist
attacks, including a bombing of a cafeteria on the campus of Hebrew University.

A spokeperson from Palestinian Authority called the charges baseless and said
they would appeal. Dr. Mahmoud Khalifa, Deputy Minister of Information, said:
"The New York Court ignored the legal precedent set time and again by other US
courts - including a ruling last week by a Federal Judge in Washington DC - that
established that US localities are not the proper jurisdiction for such a
hearing."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 24, 2015 Tuesday 5:37 PM GMT

Mysterious tunnel found near Canada sports venue as country on edge after terror
attack;
Police in Toronto have discovered a tunnel with electricity supplied by a
generator near one of the venues for this summer's Pan American Games

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


A sophisticated tunnel has been discovered near a major sporting venue and a
university in Toronto, reports said on Monday, with Canada on edge over the
threat of possible extremist attacks.

A municipal worker was walking through woods near York University and the Rexall
Center last month when he spotted a piece of corrugated metal on the ground,
lifted it up and found a passageway, the public broadcaster CBC said.

The tunnel was about 23 feet long and 2.5 meters tall and was lit by an electric
generator. The walls and ceilings had been reinforced and tools had been left
inside.

Toronto is hosting the Pan American Games in July and the Rexall Center is one
of the venues. The facility also hosts major tennis events.

National security officials have been alerted but there was no immediate
suggestion the tunnel posed a threat, CBC said.

Authorities have now filled it in but police were tight-lipped about what its
purpose might have been. CBC said authorities had ruled out the possibility of
it being a drug lab.

Canadian authorities are on alert following two Islamist-influenced attacks last
year that resulted in the deaths of two unarmed soldiers in Ottawa and Montreal.

And in a recent video the Al-Qaeda-linked Shebab insurgent group threatened
Canada's massive West Edmonton Mall, along with a mall in the United States and
a major shopping district in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 24, 2015 Tuesday 9:33 AM GMT

From Westgate to Westfield: does al-Shabaab have the capacity to strike the
West?;
As Somalia-based jihadists al-Shabaab call for terrorist attacks on Western
shopping centres, our latest Big Question asks whether the group pose a real
threat to Britain

BYLINE: By Thomas Colley Kings College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


Al-Shabaab's latest propaganda video                     , calling for terrorist
attacks on a list of Western shopping centres, is the latest attempt by distant
Islamist terrorist groups to incite 'lone wolf' attacks on Western soil.

Yet what threat do the Somali-based terrorists actually pose to the West? Is the
group just seeking publicity at a time when Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(Isil) dominates Western discourse on terrorism?

How far is the group capable of perpetrating such an attack, or persuading
others to do so?

Al-Shabaab's strategy: global or regional?

Al-Shabaab is best known in the West for the horrific attack on the upmarket
Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in September 2013, in which 67 people were
killed.

However, rather than being an indication of the group's global threat, Westgate
reflected its explicitly regional strategy.

Both Westgate and the Kampala bombings, which killed 74 people during the 2010
World Cup Final, were reprisals for Kenya and Uganda's leading roles in the
African Union (AU) mission against al-Shabaab in Somalia.

The group are considered responsible for multiple smaller scale attacks in East
Africa in recent years and are highly likely continue to seek out soft targets
for larger attacks in the region.

What threat do al-Shabaab actually pose?

It is highly doubtful whether the group has either the intent or capability to
launch a direct attack on Western soil, struggling as it is against the AU
counter-insurgency.

Westgate succeeded through years of planning, total surprise and an inadequate
security response. None of these is likely in the UK, given the extensive
measures security forces have in place after repeated targeting of shopping
areas by the IRA.

Threats to shopping areas are also nothing new; listing targets in advance is
hardly conducive to surprise.

The direct threat from al-Shabaab is therefore limited.

The group has also been far less successful than Isil in recruiting foreign
fighters, which reduces the danger of returning jihadists.

Instead, al-Shabaab's threat is mainly indirect - that its propaganda could help
incite attacks by terrorists acting independently.

Unchanging threat to the West?

Arguably, this weekend's al-Shabaab video does not significantly alter the
threat to Britain and the West. Potential lone wolf terrorists already have a
plethora of successful terrorist attacks by which to be 'inspired'.

Amid the flow of propaganda emanating from Isil, al-Shabaab's video is a
somewhat out-dated addition from a group whose global influence is waning.

Nevertheless, the video could pose dangers to the West, depending on the
response to it. Just because London's Oxford Street and the Westfield shopping
centres were named as targets in the video, does not mean we should let our
guard down elsewhere.

The first danger is that to assume that prospective terrorists will merely
attack where they are told to implies they are simply brainwashed and incapable
of independent thought. Such thinking is naïve and underestimates the capability
of terrorists to target vulnerable locations independently.

It also assumes the current threat is predictable; it is not. In recent months
Western soldiers, civilians, cafes, private offices, the media and the
government have all been targeted in different ways by different individuals and
groups.

Overall, the threat to the West is as unpredictable as it was before
al-Shabaab's latest communique. Improving security and public vigilance in
shopping areas is a wise response; assuming attacks are then most likely in
those areas is not.

Thomas Colley is a doctoral researcher in the Department of War Studies, King's
College London. @ThomasColley

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           February 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US jury pins blame for terror attack on PLO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 164 words


A US jury has decided that Palestinian authorities should be held responsible
for terrorist attacks in Israel that killed or wounded Americans.

Jurors also awarded the victims $US218.5m (£141.3m) in damages.

The jury reached the decision at a civil trial in federal court in Manhattan.
The US Anti-Terrorism Act could allow for that award to be tripled.

The plaintiffs sued the Palestine Liberation Organisation and the Palestinian
Authority in 2004 under the US Anti-Terrorism Act, which allows victims of
US-designated foreign terrorist organisations to seek compensation.

The plaintiffs said internal documents showed that Palestinian authorities
sanctioned six attacks from 2002 to 2004 that harmed 10 US families.

Defence lawyers argued that the attackers acted on their own.

The Palestinian Authority, which had argued that the attackers acted on their
own, said it would appeal.

"The charges that were made against us are baseless," deputy minister of
information Mahmoud Khalifa said.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Syrian army repels terrorist attacks, killing many in ongoing operations

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces, SANA -The army continued on Wednesday [25 February] operations
against terrorist organizations, crushing their positions, repelling their
attacks and ambushing their members in various provinces.

Homs

Units of the army and armed forces thwarted an attack launched by terrorists
from the direction of the old Waer neighbourhood in Homs city towards
al-Muhandisin roundabout.

Other army units killed terrorists from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria
(ISIS) in Rahoum village in the eastern countryside of the central province of
Homs.

Idlib

Army units destroyed an armoured vehicle and killed scores of terrorists in an
ambush in the surrounding area of Brouma farms in the countryside of the
northern province of Idlib.

Quneitra

Army units killed a number of Jabhat al-Nusra terrorists in al-Hamidiyeh and Um
Batina in the countryside of the southern province of Quneitra.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1125 gmt 25 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  ENP Newswire

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

-Delta's DSC800 bollards protect Windsor Castle from terrorist vehicle attacks;

These decorative bollards can stop 15,000 pound (6,800 kg) vehicle at 30 mph (50
kph)

LENGTH: 239 words


Delta Scientific, the leading manufacturer of counter-terrorist vehicle control
systems used in the United States and internationally, recently announced that
Windsor Castle, home of the English and British monarchy since the time of Henry
I (1110) and the longest occupied palace in Europe, is being protected from
terrorist vehicle attacks with Delta's DSC800 decorative bollards.



Virtually unlimited in styles and aesthetics, safety consultants can specify
having ornamental steel trim attached directly to the bollard or select cast
aluminum, iron or bronze to slip over the crash tube. If damaged, one simply
slides off the old sleeve and slips on a new one. The designer bollards are
available in stainless steel, cast stone, ceramics and epoxy based stones. They
can be fitted with an internal warning light for increased visibility and
engineered to suit high traffic volumes.

'These decorative bollards come in six different series - traditional,
silhouette, sculptured, omni, lineas and architect,' explains Greg Hamm, Delta
Scientific vice president, sales and marketing. 'Protection levels all meet or
exceed U.S. Department of Defense and Department of State certifications. They
hold the highest ratings ever given to bollard systems.'

The DSC800 is certified at K4, L2, and able to stop a 15,000 pound (6,800 kg)
vehicle at 30 mph (50 kph).

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
]

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: ENPN


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    February 25, 2015 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT

France awaits landmark ruling on 'racial profiling' ID checks;
In the wake of last month's terror attacks, French people of 'Muslim appearance'
complain of being arbitrarily stopped by police

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


The strained relationship between French police and the country's non-white
population is under fresh scrutiny in the wake of last month's terrorist attacks
as a Paris appeals court considers a landmark case brought by black and Arab men
who say they were openly stopped by officers for no other reason than their skin
colour.

Racial profiling - in which French people of black and north African origin are
routinely pulled over on the street and asked to show their identity papers with
no explanation - has long been a fraught issue in France, contributing to
tension and urban rioting on housing estates.

But the current political context, in which France is soul-searching over race
relations, discrimination, antisemitism and hate speech in the wake of January's
terrorist attacks, has thrown the spotlight on equality issues more than ever
before. Campaign groups say that since the attacks, which began with a deadly
assault on the offices of the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo and ended in a
bloody siege at a kosher supermarket, French people of "Muslim appearance" -
black and Arab - are complaining of an increase in incidences of arbitrarily
being pulled over by police.

A Paris appeals court will on Wednesday consider a longstanding civil test case
brought by 13 French men of black or north African origin aged 18 to 35, with
professions ranging from student to teacher, local councillor to professional
sportsman, who all say they were stopped by police in various cities across
France because of their race. The case is supported by the advocacy group, Open
Society Justice Initiative, whose research in 2009 found a black person was six
times more likely to be stopped by police than a white person in Paris, and an
Arab person was almost eight times more likely to be stopped than a white
person.

In 2013, a French court ruled that the men had been unable to prove racial
motives for the identity checks. But their lawyers and campaign groups said they
would pursue the case through all French appeals courts and then to the European
Court of Human Rights. It is the first time the French state has been accused of
racial discrimination in court over its police checks.

Pressure increased this month after Jacques Toubon, the French constitutional
ombudsman appointed to defend citizens' rights, appealed to the government "to
take concrete measures to prevent and crack down on abusive identity checks".

François Hollande, before his election as president in 2012, acknowledged that
racial profiling in police checks was a problem and made a campaign promise to
introduce a form of written receipt for all checks, but so far there has been no
reform.

Sihame Assbague, spokeswoman of the group Stop le Contrôle au Faciès which
campaigns against police racial profiling, said: "Even before the current
climate, this was a very important case - the first time citizens sued the
French state for racial profiling in police checks... But now there are even
more injurious situations and conflations being made. The fight against
terrorism seems to justify a push that is seeing more discrimination.

"Under cover of the fight against terrorism, there seems to be even more reason
to stop and check 'people of Muslim appearance', in other words black or Arab
people. It is very worrying to us."

Hollande has tried to cling to a spirit of "national unity" after the January
attacks, whose victims included two French police officers of ethnic origin: one
a black female officer, the other a man of Algerian descent, and Muslim. As
France comes to terms with the problem of homegrown terrorism, the government
has vowed to address social divisions and segregation, including what the prime
minister Manuel Valls called France's "territorial, social and ethnic
apartheid".

This week Hollande vowed tougher penalties for "racist, antisemitic or
homophobic" remarks in the wake of last month's attacks.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 25, 2015 Wednesday 5:43 PM GMT

Three New Yorkers arrested for trying to join ISIS and plotting terror attack on
NYC

BYLINE: MAIL ONLINE REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 65 words


Three Brooklyn men have been arrested and charged with attempting to travel to
Syria and join ISIS and plotting a terror attack on New York City if they
failed.

The FBI raided the home of then men, aged 19,24, and 30 on Wednesday, according
to NBC New York.

Their arrests follow calls by ISIS for supporters abroad to carry out 'lone
wolf' attacks and the Charlie Hebdo terror attacks in Paris.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Copenhagen Jewish FF sales down after terror attack

LENGTH: 445  words


Pre-sales down 40% following shootings in the Danish capital less than two weeks
ago.

Pre-sales for the 9th Copenhagen Jewish Film Festival are down 40% on last year
in the wake of the shooting in the Danish capital on Feb 14, which left two
people dead - including Danish director-producer Finn Nørgaard - and five police
officers wounded.

"People are scared," festival director Anne Boukris told Danish television TV2
News. "All the time people are asking me about security - after what happened in
Copenhagen, they are anxious about what is going to happen next."

The festival launches tonight and runs till March 21 with a programme comprising
24 international films with Jewish themes, held atthe Cinemateket at
Copenhagen's Film House.

"I am sure people are scared to come," added Boukris.

The festival will open with Golden Globe-nominated Gett, The Trial of Viviane
Amsalem from Israeli directors Ronit and Shlomi Elkabetz, introduced by Danish
member of Parliament Özlem Cekic.

CJFF will also screen several Holocaust films, including UK director André
Singer's Night Will Fall. The documentary, which included shots from the
liberation of Nazi concentration camps Bergen-Belsen and Auschwitz is produced
by Danish producer Signe Byrge, of Final Cut for Real, who will be in attendance

"Just for a while, during the festival, je suis juive is on the map of Danish
culture," said Boukris. "While the political conflicts grow, documentaries on
Jewish themes become increasingly confrontational, critical, authentic and
clarified."

Last night (Feb 24), Copenhagen's Jewish synagogue in Krystalgade held a
memorial service for the two victims of the Copenhagen Shootings - Nørgaard and
synagogus security guard, Dan Uzan - attended by family, friends and Danish
Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt.

The shootings were carried out by Danish Jihadist Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussain
who swore allegiance to Islamic State before hitting a free-speech event at
Copenhagen's Krudttønden culture centre in Østerbro, killing Nørgaard and
wounding three police offers.

El-Hussain then tried to enter the synagogue, celebrating a young Jewish girl's
bat mitzva - during the attempt he murdered Uzan and injured another two
policemen.  The police traced him to the city's Nørrebro district, and in a
final shoot-out with the action force he died from 38 bullets.

The gunman, of Jordanian descent, had two weeks before been released from prison
after serving part of a two-year sentence for stabbing a 19-year-old man on a
subway train. According to Danish Intelligence, he was still "on the radar" of
the service - but eventually slipped the net.

jornrossing@aol.com (Jorn Rossing Jensen)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen


                            Copyright 2015 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

Afghan, Turkish leaders discuss terrorist attack in Kabul

LENGTH: 484 words


Text of report by private Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Kabul: Ashraf Ghani, Recep Tayyip Erdogan speak over phone.

After the convoy of vehicles of a Turkish national, who serves as a high-ranking
NATO civilian representative in Afghanistan, came under suicide attack in Kabul
this morning, the president of Afghanistan, Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, spoke over
the phone with the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in the afternoon
and expressed his condolences to him on killing of a Turkish national.

The president offered his deep condolences and sympathy on behalf of the people
of Afghanistan on the death of a Turkish national in today's terrorist attack in
Kabul city to Erdogan and the Turkish people.

While stressing the need for joint war against terrorism, Ghani said that the
form of threats have now changed, new threats are posed to Afghanistan and the
region and preventing and eliminating them requires joint cooperation and
coordination at a regional and international level.

He appreciated and thanked Turkey for providing comprehensive assistance and
sacrifices to enable security in Afghanistan.

A newsletter received by Afghan Islamic Press from the presidential palace said
that the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, thanked President Ghani for
the telephone contact, saying that such terrorist attacks not only cannot weaken
their fight against terrorism but rather strengthen their determination.

Erdogan expressed confidence that the people of Turkey will stand alongside the
Afghan people as in the past and that Turkey will expand its cooperation with
Afghanistan in the fields of security and economy.

Today's attack on Turkish forces has amazed observers, because the Taleban have
not carried out such bloody attacks on Turkish forces in the past 13 years, who
served in the war in the framework of NATO.

The Taleban also have not used the same language and discourse about Turkey that
they have about other countries involved in the war in Afghanistan. In addition,
the Taleban have had good relations with Turkey. It has been said that Taleban
political representatives have travelled to Turkey several times. The Taleban
also released eight Turks, whom they had arrested in Afghanistan, shortly after
they talked with the country.

Perhaps, it was because of this sensitivity that the Taleban spokesman,
Zabihollah Mojahed, was forced to give a clarification. Shortly after the
attack, he wrote on his Twitter page:

"The target of today's attack in Kabul was a convoy of American forces and heavy
casualties were inflicted on them. Nationals or embassy of some other country
were not the target."

However, the Turkish army said in a newsletter that the attack has been carried
out on Turkish forces who escorted NATO high-ranking Turkish civilian
representatives in Afghanistan.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 1242 gmt 26 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 26, 2015
                                 First Edition

Plan for UK terror attack found at Bin Laden home, court told;
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 341 words


Al-Qaeda documents found in the compound of Osama bin Laden - referring to
planned terror plots in Britain, Europe and Russia - were presented at the trial
of a man accused of plotting to attack the New York subway system and a
Manchester shopping centre.

They include correspondence between Bin Laden and a senior al-Qaeda operative
and mention a plan to attack the US embassy in Moscow. There was also a
reference to a pipeline bombing. The materials were seized by US special forces
who raided Bin Laden's compound in Pakistan in May 2011 and killed him. They
were presented by US prosecutors at the trial of Abid Naseer, 28, (right), who
denies the charges.

The hearing opened a day after five British MI5 agents gave evidence to the
court about their surveillance of suspects in Manchester and Liverpool as part
of Operation Pathway. The agents were identified only by numbers. Among the
items was a letter sent to Bin Laden by a senior aide, Saleh Al-Somali.

While it did not name Mr Naseer, the letter referred to the arrest of alleged
Al-Qaeda operatives. Prosecutors said the letter was important as it showed the
intentions of Al-Qaeda. Zainab Ahmad, a federal prosecutor, told the court the
letter said: "We sent a number of brothers to Russia and Britain."

Mr Naseer was one of 12 people held in Britain in 2009 amid suspicions they were
members of a terror cell backed by al-Qaeda. After no explosives were found,
they were released without charge but told to leave the UK. Mr Naseer was
deported to the US two years ago.

Meanwhile, three men were charged yesterday with conspiring to support Isis,
including two who planned to travel to Syria to fight on behalf of Isis. Akhror
Saidakhmetov, 19, from Kazakhstan, was held at John F Kennedy airport in New
York as he tried to board a flight to Turkey on his way to Syria.

Abdurasul Hasanovich Juraboev, 24, from Uzbekistan, bought a ticket for a March
flight to Istanbul.

Abror Habibov, 30, of Uzbekistan, was accused of helping to fund Saidakhmetov's
efforts, prosecutors in Brooklyn added.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 26, 2015 Thursday 10:10 AM GMT

Osama bin Laden wrote letters about plans to launch terror attacks on the UK,
Russia and the US, Abid Naseer trial told;
Documents refer to plots to attack targets in UK, Europe and Russia

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 380 words


Al-Qaeda documents recovered from the compound of Osama bin Laden and referring
to planned terror plots in the UK, Europe and Russia, have been presented at the
trial of a man accused of plotting to destroy the New York subway and a
Manchester shopping centre.

The documents include correspondence from a senior al-Qaeda operative to Bin
laden and mention a plan to attack the US Embassy in Moscow. There is also a
reference to a plan to bomb a pipeline.

The materials were seized by US special forces who raided Bin Laden's compound
in May 2011 and killed the al-Qaeda founder. They have been presented at the
trial of Abid Naseer, 28, who has denied the charges levelled at him and who has
been defending himself in court.

The Associated Press said the documents were presented by government prosecutors
on Wednesday, a day after five British agents from MI5 gave evidence to the
court about their surveillance of suspects in Manchester and Liverpool as part
of what was called Operation Pathway.

The agents were identified only by numbers and the judge had given permission
for them to wear wigs and make-up to disguise themselves if they wished to.

Among the documents in the possession of the prosecutors is a letter sent to Bin
Laden by senior aide Saleh Al-Somali. While it did not name Mr Naseer, the
letter made a reference to the arrest of alleged Al-Qaeda operatives. The
prosecutors said the letter was important because it showed the intentions of
Al-Qaeda.

"We sent a number of brothers to Russia and Britain," the letter read, according
to federal prosecutor Zainab Ahmad.

Mr Naseer was one of 12 people arrested in Britain in 2009 amid suspicions they
were members of an al-Qaeda-backed terror cell. After no explosives were found,
the men were released without being charged but ordered to leave the country. Mr
Naseer was eventually deported to the US two years ago.

On Tuesday, the agents had testified how they carried out surveillance
operations on suspects to whom they had given the codenames - Small Panel, Glass
Pendant, Happy Skater and Regional Difference. Small Panel was the name given to
Mr Naseer.

Mr Naseer has been handling his own defence with the assistance of a
court-appointed lawyer. He intends to put himself in the dock and testify on his
own behalf.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     February 26, 2015 Thursday 5:36 PM GMT

Liverpool men caught up in Algerian hostage crisis were "unlawfully killed";
Garry Barlow and Paul Morgan lost their lives in a terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Helen Hunt

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 244 words


A judge has ruled two Liverpool men who died when terrorists stormed a gas plant
in Algeria were "unlawfully killed".

Recorder of London Judge Nicholas Hilliard gave the verdicts for Allerton
dad-of-two Garry Barlow, 50, Aigburth security expert Paul Morgan, 46, and five
other men caught up in the Algerian hostage crisis in 2013.

At the Old Bailey in London, he said he hoped the families of the men would
"gain some comfort" from the inquest.

On January 16, 2013, gunmen linked to al-Qaeda attacked the In Amenas gas plant
in Algeria, taking staff hostage.

In all 40 staff and 29 militants died.

Judge Hilliard's verdicts followed a 30-day inquest.

He ruled Mr Barlow was unlawfully killed by multiple injuries in an explosion
and Mr Morgan was unlawfully killed during a terrorist attack.

In addition, he said Carlos Estrada Valencia, 44, was unlawfully killed, saying
he was shot and the victim of explosion; Sebastian John, 26, was unlawfully
killed while being held hostage by terrorist; Carson Bilsland, 46, was
unlawfully killed in an explosion; Kenny Whiteside, 59, was unlawfully killed
while being held as a human shield; and Stephen Green, 47, was unlawfully
killed.

The coroner said that even though Mr Green was probably shot by Algerian forces,
the extremist militants bore responsibility for his death.

Gunmen began the assault before dawn, taking numerous hostages and killing some
workers, but the Algerian army regained control of the plant on January 19.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 26, 2015 Thursday 7:47 AM GMT

Al-Qaeda documents uncovered in Osama Bin Laden's Pakistani compound contained
details of planned attack on UK soil, terror trial told

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and STEPH COCKROFT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 630 words



     ·    Papers presented at trial of Abid Naseer, 28, accused of bomb plots in
          UK
     ·    Documents were uncovered during special forces raid on house in 2011
     ·    Also included plans of attacks across Europe and U.S embassy in Moscow
     ·    Naseer is alleged to have planned attack on Manchester shopping centre
     ·    Pakistani national, deported in 2013, denies charges at court in
          Brooklyn


Plans for an attack on UK soil were found at the Pakistani compound of Osama Bin
Laden when it was raided by U.S special forces in 2011, a terror trial has been
told.

The Al-Qaeda paperwork, featuring correspondence from senior al-Qaeda
operatives, also described planned attacks across Europe and Russia, including
plans to bomb a pipeline or the U.S embassy in Moscow.

The declassified papers were presented at the trial of Abid Naseer, who is
accused of plotting to attack Manchester's Arndale shopping centre in 2009.

The 28-year-old is alleged to have been at the helm of a British al-Qaeda terror
cell that was part of a broader conspiracy 'to repeat the devastation of 9/11'.

Prosecutors called it one of the most serious terror plots since the 9/11
attacks on New York and Washington.

As well as blowing up the Arndale Centre, the terror group planned to set off
bombs in the New York subway and at the offices of a Copenhagen newspaper that
had published cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, it is alleged.

Naseer, a former student in the UK studying English and computer science, denies
the charges.

He is being tried in the United States because of the supposed link to the
subway. He faces life in prison if he is convicted.

At today's hearing in Brooklyn, New York, the documents were read to the court
by an FBI linguist who translated them from Arabic.

The court was told how the documents discussed a range of al-Qaeda business,
from operational tactics to training methods. They also offered suggestions on
how to avoid detection by police or secret services, the court heard.

One letter stressed the importance of attacking the U.S. 'in its heartland'
because it 'has the most significance' and 'cannot be compared' to an attack
outside the country, the court heard.

The goal of an attack would be 'to pressure 300 million Americans,' who vote for
their elected officials, to end the nation's war against al-Qaeda and its goal
of establishing an Islamic state, the letters said.

None of the letters mentioned Naseer by name, but the court was told they made a
reference to the arrest of an alleged al-Qaeda operative, showing the intentions
of the terror group.

Among the documents in the possession of the prosecutors is a letter sent to Bin
Laden by senior aide Saleh Al-Somali.

'We sent a number of brothers to Russia and Britain,' the letter read, according
to federal prosecutor Zainab Ahmad.

Those sent to the UK were given free rein to decide what to do when they got
there, the court heard.

Through the letter, Bin Laden was then told things had gone smoothly but that
there were concerns over a some terror suspects who had been held by British
police, the court heard.

The letter read: 'We have not ascertained if these had anything to do with us.'

Naseer was first arrested in 2009 in Britain with 11 other men suspected of
preparing an attack against the Manchester mall, and was extradited to the
United States from Britain in 2013.

The other men were released without charge, but Naseer was arrested again in
July 2010 at the request of U.S prosecutors.

Yesterday, five British agents from MI5 gave evidence to the court about their
surveillance of the 12 suspects in Manchester and Liverpool as part of what was
called Operation Pathway.

They told how they given the suspects codenames - Small Panel, Glass Pendant,
Happy Skater and Regional Difference. Small Panel was the name given to Naseer.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 26, 2015 Thursday 12:40 AM GMT

Pictured: Three Brooklyn men arrested for 'trying to join ISIS, plotting terror
attack on New York and offering to assassinate Obama'

BYLINE: EVAN BLEIER FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1655 words



     ·    Akhror Saidakhmetov, 19, was arrested at JFK airport early this
          morning
     ·    Abdurasul Hasanovich Juraboev, 24, arrested during a FBI raid in
          Brooklyn
     ·    Abror Habibov, 30, was arrested in Jacksonville, Florida, overnight
     ·    Police say two of the men  planned to return to NY if they couldn't
          join ISIS
     ·    All are charged with conspiracy to provide material support to terror
          group
     ·    Saidakhmetov and Juraboev in Brooklyn federal court and were ordered
          held without bail
     ·    NYC Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said 'it was quite plain' the men
          planned to obtain weapons and attack in US if they were unable to join
          ISIS


Two men appeared in a Brooklyn courtroom Wednesday afternoon to face charges of
plotting to travel to Syria to join the Islamic State terrorist group and wage
war against the US by bombing Coney Island and killing law enforcement officers.



Akhror Saidakhmetov, 19, was arrested at Kennedy Airport, where he was
attempting to board a flight to Istanbul, authorities said. Abdurasul Hasanovich
Juraboev, 24, had a ticket to travel to Istanbul next month and was arrested in
Brooklyn, federal prosecutors said. The two were held without bail after a brief
court appearance in New York.

A third defendant, Abror Habibov, 30, is accused of helping fund Saidakhmetov's
efforts and was ordered held without bail in Florida.

Scroll down for video

Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn said the trio of suspects schemed to hijack a
commercial plane, set off a bomb in New York City, kill FBI agents and police
officers - and one of the men allegedly offered to assassinate President Obama.

Habibov, who is from Uzbekistan, was arrested in Jacksonville, Florida while
Juraboev, who is also from Uzbekistan, was apprehended in Brooklyn.

All three men have each been charged with attempt and conspiracy to provide
material support to ISIS and face up to 15 years in prison.

During a press conference this afternoon, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said
'it was quite plain' the men 'would seek to acquire weapons here and seek to
attack' in the US if they were unable to join ISIS.

Commissioner Bratton said ISIS was adept at using social media propaganda to
spread its message and the organization poses a 'real' threat in the United
States.

He noted the group continues to encourage supporters who are unable to travel
and join ISIS internationally to act in their home countries.

Bratton said 'If you can't get a gun, if you can't make a bomb, get a knife.

'This is real.

'This is the concern about the lone wolf, inspired, to act without going to the
Middle East.'

Juraboev, who is also known as Adbulloh Ibn Hasan, came to the attention of
authorities after he posted threatening messages to an Uzbek-language website in
August 2014, according to a criminal complaint filed in US District Court in
Brooklyn.

This is real. This is the concern about the lone wolf, inspired, to act without
going to the Middle East NYC Police Commissioner Bill Bratton

'We too wanted to pledge our allegiance and commit ourselves while not present
there,' Juraboev wrote while using the name Abdulloh ibn Hasan.

'I am in USA now but we don't have any arms,' he wrote.

'But is it possible to commit ourselves as dedicated martyrs anyway while here?

'What I'm saying is, to shoot Obama and then get shot ourselves, will it do?'

During a meeting with law enforcement officials at his Brooklyn home, Juraboev
said he would kill the president because 'of Allah,' and that he would also bomb
Coney Island if asked to do so.

Juraboev also said he 'wanted to be a martyr' against the 'polytheists and
infidels'

The Uzbek-language website Juraboev was using was also visited by Saidakhmetov.

He commented about a video on the site showing individuals pledging allegiance
to ISIS and mass executions of Iraqi forces being carried out.

According to charging documents, Saidakhmetov wrote: 'Allohu Akbar I am very
happy after reading this, my eyes joyful so much victory.'

Saidakhmetov told a confidential informant that if he couldn't get travel
documents to Syria, he would 'just go buy a machine gun, AK-47, and shoot all
police', according to the charging documents.

THE FBI ANNOUNCES THE ARRESTS

He continued: 'It is legal in American to carry a gun. We will go and purchase
one handgun and then go and shoot on police officer.

'Boom.

'Then we will take his gun, bullets and bulletproof vest.

'Then we will do the same with a couple of others.

'Then we will go to the FBI headquarters and kill the FBI people.'

While discussing his trip, Saidakhmetov allegedly 'proposed finding an excuse to
gain access to the pilot's cabin and diverting the plane to the Islamic State,
so that the Islamic State would gain a plane,' the complaint said.

Federal officials say Juraboev identified Saidakhmetov as a friend with a shared
ideology. The two exchanged messages on how to get overseas, and Saidakhmetov
and an informant watched videos of Islamic State training camps in Syria,
according to court papers.

Saidakhmetov told the informant in September that he wanted to travel to Syria
for jihad, or holy war, but that his concerned mother confiscated his passport
so he couldn't travel, the complaint said. He said he would lie and tell her he
planned to go to Uzbekistan to visit relatives. When he called to ask for his
passport back, she hung up the phone.

'The flow of foreign fighters to Syria represents an evolving threat to our
country and to our allies,' said state US Attorney Loretta Lynch, who is Obama's
choice to be U.S. attorney general.

Saidakhmetov's attorney, Adam Perlmutter, said his client was a 'young, innocent
kid' who would plead not guilty.

'This is the type of case that highlights everything that is wrong with how the
Justice Department approaches these cases,' Perlmutter said. Juraboev's attorney
had no immediate comment.

Saidakhmetov booked a flight to Turkey on Feb. 19 and seemed like just another
'regular American teenager,' said workers at Nil Travel in Coney Island who
helped him.

'He was just like anyone around us. He was totally normal. He wasn't nervous,'
said assistant manager Frank Cakir. 'It's just scary.'

Cakir said Saidakhmetov asked for the least expensive flight to Turkey and paid
$571 by credit card for a round-trip ticket.

Juraboev purchased a plane ticket to Istanbul and was scheduled to fly on March
29.

Authorities believe he was planning to bump up his departure date so he could
join Saidakhmetov and ISIS abroad more quickly.

Habibov, 30, of Uzbekistan, was accused of helping to fund Saidakhmetov's
efforts to join ISIS.

He operates kiosks that repair phones and sell kitchenware in malls in
Jacksonville, Florida; Savannah, Georgia; and Philadelphia. He employed
Saidakhmetov last fall and winter and said he would help fund his travel,
prosecutors said.

The two were spotted in Brooklyn purchasing a ticket for Saidakhmetov to travel
to Turkey, officials said.

Farhod Sulton, president of the Brooklyn-based Vatandosh Uzbek-American
Federation, knew Habibov and said he was a "lost man."

'Abror was not educated. He was so eager to learn Islam, and he had a lot of
questions,' Sulton said. 'A couple of times I remember warning him about his
thoughts and where he was getting his information.'

The alleged terror financier appeared at the US Courthouse in Jacksonville for
his arraignment earlier today and is due back in court March 3.

During today's press conference, it was revealed that while all three men had
been in the US legally, Habibov had overstayed his visa.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said: 'We all take the threat of ISIS very
seriously.

'The vigilance levels that we maintain every day are our best shield. We are
going to continue to deepen our anti-terrorism capacity.

'A lot of what we are trying to do is not only making sure we have the number of
officers on anti-terror duty that we need, the training, the equipment, but that
we are constantly deepening our relationship with communities all over the city
so that there is a flow of information.'

News may be happening at #Brooklyn Federal Court #NYC

A photo posted by Bryan Pace (@brypace) on Feb 25, 2015 at 1:30pm PST

In a statement released by the FBI, Commissioner Bratton said: 'ISIL calls on
its followers to come fight for the terrorist organization in Syria.

'In messages to followers outside Syria, ISIL has called on them to attack
police, intelligence officers, or the military in their home countries including
the United States.

'By pledging allegiance to ISIL, these defendants allegedly conspired to fight
for a designated foreign terrorist organization, either in Syria or even New
York.'

Defense lawyers for the three men could not immediately be identified.

The government's case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys
Alexander Solomon, Douglas M. Pravda, and Amanda Hector.

United States Attorney Loretta Lynch, the top federal prosecutor in Brooklyn,
said: 'The flow of foreign fighters to Syria represents an evolving threat to
our country and to our allies.

'As alleged in the complaint, two of the defendants in this case sought to
travel to Syria to join ISIL but were also prepared to wage violent jihad here
in the United States.

'We will vigorously prosecute those who attempt to travel to Syria to wage
violent jihad on behalf of ISIL and those who support them.

'Anyone who threatens our citizens and our allies, here or abroad, will face the
full force of American justice.'

Diego Rodriguez, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI's New York field
office, added: 'The defendants violated the true tenants of their faith in
pursuit of their radical, violent agenda.

'We rely on help from the community, the public and religious leaders to be
mindful of those who could be radicalized.

'We cannot do this alone.'

About 20,000 foreign fighters have joined ISIS and other militant groups
fighting in Syria and Iraq, according to US estimates.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 27, 2015 Friday 5:09 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo front cover: Prophet Mohamed cartoon published in first magazine
edition since Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 972 words


An "international" edition of Charlie Hebdo is set to be published tomorrow and
will be ostentatiously blasphemous and ungrateful - biting back at extremist
Islam but also at many of its new-found friends.

Libération newspaper, now temporarily housing Charlie Hebdo operations, revealed
the front page late last night. The magazine, appearing for the first time since
the terrorist massacre at its offices last week, will lampoon radical Islam and
publish new cartoons of the Prophet Mohamed, one of which on its front cover.

It will also mock many of the politicians - in France, and around the world -
who have championed the stricken magazine as a symbol of democracy and freedom.

In other words, the grieving Charlie Hebdo will remain as scurrilous,
anti-religious, anarcho-leftist and offensive as ever. It will refuse to be
turned into the sanctified "Charlie" of the "Je suis Charlie" campaign which has
encircled the globe in the past six days.

Read more: Video purports to show gunman's girlfriend in IstanbulAl-Qaeda gains
ground in Yemen as country descends into civil warCoulibaly 'accomplice on the
loose'

At the same time, the magazine will try to use its sudden fame to repair its
perennially disastrous finances. Instead of its normal print run of 40,000, the
magazine will publish three million copies in 16 languages, including Arabic.

The magazine's lawyer and spokesman, Richard Malka, said yesterday: "We are not
giving an inch. The spirit of 'Je suis Charlie' also implies a right to
blaspheme."

He said tomorrow's magazine would include new cartoons mocking radical Islam but
also attacks on politicians who have belatedly claimed "Charlie" as their own.

Charlie Hebdo, founded in 1970, has always been fiercely anti-religious,
anti-establishment, anti-capitalist and anti-good taste. Although usually
described as "satirical", its humour ranges from gentle mockery to scurrilous
aggression. In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

On several occasions in recent years, the magazine has published special
editions lampooning radical Islam, including cartoons of the Prophet Mohamed
(who was usually shown to agree with the magazine about the barminess of his
more radical followers).

Four of Charlie Hebdo's best-known cartoonists, six other employees or visitors
and two policemen were killed when the Kouachi brothers, self-proclaimed
"avengers of the Prophet", attacked the magazine's offices in Paris last
Wednesday. The "Je suis Charlie" movement began when the slogan was posted on
the magazine's own website a few hours after the massacre.

The emergence of global legions of self-proclaimed "Charlies" - including
centre-right politicians in France and right-wing or repressive foreign leaders
that the magazine detests - has angered some of Charlie Hebdo's surviving
cartoonists.

Willem (real name Bernard Holtrop), a 73-year-old Dutch cartoonist long based in
France, said at the weekend that he wanted to "throw up on all those who
suddenly say that they are our friends". He went on to reel off a list of
unwanted "Charlies" ranging from the Queen to Vladimir Putin, the Pope and the
far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders. A Charlie Hebdo columnist, Iegor Gran,
went further. He said that he hated the idea of the magazine becoming a
short-hand term for Western democratic values.

"Charlie has become a symbol," he said. "But Charlie has always been
anti-symbol. It has always mocked people who exploited symbols."

Another cartoonist, Luz (Renald Luzier) said: "It is not easy to be supported by
idiots such as Angela Merkel."

The surviving members of the Charlie team were especially angry that politicians
not usually known for their defence of "freedom" - from the Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov to the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu - joined
the march "against hatred" in Paris on Sunday. They considered making large,
unflattering caricatures of visiting dignitaries that they disliked and carrying
them on the march. Only pressure of time prevented it, Luz said.

The scurrilous honour, and irreverent spirit, of Charlie Hebdo was saved by a
pigeon. Just as President François Hollande came over to salute the magazine's
survivors and the relatives of those who had died, a small, discreet, white bird
dropping fell on the shoulder of his blue suit.

"It did us the world of good," said the cartoonist, Jul (Julien Berjeaut). "We
all paid homage to the President, saying 'He's unbeatable this Hollande. He even
made us sick with laughter on a day like this."

Charlie Hebdo's attempt to refuse international martyrdom misses the point. Many
of the people at the Paris demonstration admitted that they disliked and had
never bought the magazine. "It always seemed to me predictable and stuck
somewhere in the 1960s or 1970s," said David, a lawyer. "It is sometimes funny
but it often resorts to nastiness and scatology instead of wit."

Like many other people, however, David said he absolutely supported Charlie
Hebdo's right to exist and provoke and push out boundaries as a kind of "advance
guard" of the more mainstream press's freedoms.

Some Charlie Hebdo survivors accept this point. Not all are distressed by the
fact that most of the world now claims - Spartacus-like - to be "Charlie".

Patrick Pelloux, a doctor who writes a weekly column for the magazine and was
one of the first people to reach the scene of the massacre, said: "The warmth of
all these people, coming together calmly to defend freedom of expression, must
be the beginning of something new."

The unidentified wife of one of the dead cartoonists told Le Monde: "It was
surreal to see all of these people supporting us. It was beautiful and strange.
Who has managed to unite so many world leaders around a symbol? Only Nelson
Mandela and Charlie."

That won't stop Charlie Hebdo biting the hands that defied it tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 27, 2015 Friday 11:47 AM GMT

Dutch town terrorised by rogue owl attacks;
European eagle owl is among the world's largest owl species and has been preying
on the inhabitants of a northern Dutch town

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: WEIRD NEWS

LENGTH: 276 words


Residents of a northern Dutch town have been forced to carrying umbrellas at
night for protection after a spate of vicious attacks by a rogue owl.

The attacks, thought to be the work of a European eagle owl, have landed dozens
with serious injuries over the past two weeks.

In the most recent incident, two members of the local athletics team were
attacked, with one member requiring a tetanus shot after the owl accosted him.
In another confrontation, one individual required stitches for five separate
head wounds.

Pumerend's residents have been advised to arm themselves with umbrellas against
the bird, one of the world's largest owl species. A full grown European eagle
owl can weigh up to three kilograms and possesses a wingspan of roughly 6ft.

Residents of the local care home, nearby the location of many of the attacks,
have been left terrified by the nocturnal vigilante.

"During the day there's no problem, but at night we now only venture outside
armed with umbrellas, helmets and hats, anything really, to protect ourselves,"
spokesperson Liselotte de Bruijn of Prinsenstichting home for the disabled told
AFP.

Wildlife experts remain perplexed at the owl's unusual behaviour.

READ MORE: Owl bar is London's latest 'just one thing' hip barOwl accosts early
morning joggers and park visitors to steal hatsVideo: Owl swims to safety

The bird usually feasts on small mammals - such as small mammals or other birds
- but local animal trainers believe that the owl may have been bred in captivity
and has learnt to associate humans with food.

Another theory is that the owl's hormone levels may have dramatically increased
in the run-up to breeding season.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    February 28, 2015 Saturday 11:42 PM GMT

Brutal Jihadi John had links to failed 21/7 London terror attacks;
The IS executioner was a member of a 12-strong terror cell which had connections
with the four would-be bombers

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 374 words


Jihadi John extremist Mohammed Emwazi had links to the failed 21/7 London terror
attacks, it has emerged.

The Islamic State executioner was a member of a 12-strong terror cell which had
connections with the four would-be bombers who planned to bring carnage to the
streets of London.

On the day of the failed attacks, one leading member of Emwazi's network chatted
on the phone with Hussein Osman, who was later jailed for life for placing an
explosive at Shepherd's Bush tube station.

And associates of of the West London terror cell - set up in 2007 to recruit for
al-Shabaab -had been at a training camp on Cumbria with the four 21/7
masterminds just a year before they carried out their plot.

The revelations, contained in secret court papers, have raised questions about
how Emwazi was able to evade security services to slip out of the country in
2013 for Syria.

He had been on MI5's radar for six years before he appeared on an Islamic State
hostage video for the first time in August 2014 when he apparently killed the US
journalist James Foley.

He was later thought to have been pictured in the videos of the beheadings of US
journalist Steven Sotloff, British aid worker David Haines, British taxi driver
Alan Henning, and American aid worker Abdul-Rahman Kassig, also known as Peter.

Last night shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, called for an urgent review
into whether the coalition's decision to scrap Labour's control orders favour of
TPIMs - terrorism prevention and investigation measures - had made it easy for
Emwazi to slip thought the net.

She said: "We need to know whether Theresa May's decision to ignore all our
warnings and weaken counter-terror powers has made it easier to organise and
recruit for Isil."

The failed 21/7 plot came a fortnight after four men blew themselves up on tubes
and a bus, killing 52 people and injuring more than 700, the worst terrorist
atrocity committed on British soil.

The bombers had targeted three Tube trains and a bus - in an attempted repeat of
the 7/7 attack - but their devices failed to explode.

Muktar Ibrahim, 29, Yassin Omar, 26, Ramzi Mohammed, 25, and Hussain Osman, 28,
were found guilty of conspiracy to murder and were each sentenced to life with a
minimum of 40 years' imprisonment.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    February 28, 2015 Saturday 10:02 AM GMT

Boris Nemtsov murder: Was Islamic State behind assassination of Russian
politician shot dead on Moscow street?;
Russia says it is treating the case as a possible terror attack after the former
Deputy Prime Minister, 55, was shot four times in the back

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


A top politician gunned down on a Moscow street may have been assassinated by
the Islamic State, Russian investigators have claimed.

Former Deputy Prime Minister Boris Nemtsov was blasted four times in the back
before a march against the war in Ukraine.

The Kremlin said Vladimir Putin, who condemned the killing, would oversee the
investigation into his death.

Today an investigative committee said there are several lines of inquiry,
including a possible Islamic extremist terror attack.

Another line of enquiry is that is was politically motivated, the Interfax news
agency reported.

Mr Nemtsov served as the first Deputy Prime Minister under late president Boris
Yeltsin in the 1990s.

The 55-year-old had said he feared President Mr Putin would have him killed.

Mr Nemtsov died just before a march in Moscow against the war in Ukraine which
he was actively promoting.

According to Russian-language news website Meduza, "several people" got out of a
car and shot him.

President Barack Obama has condemned the "brutal murder" of Russian opposition
politician Boris Nemtsov, the White House National Security Council said on
Friday on Twitter.

The White House called on the Russian government to conduct a "prompt, impartial
and transparent investigation" and to "ensure those responsible are brought to
justice."

Russian chess grandmaster and political activist Garry Kasparov said:
"Devastated to hear of the brutal murder of my long-time opposition colleague
Boris Nemtsov. Shot 4 times, once for each child he leaves."

Kasparov followed up with a series of tweets critical of Putin.

One read: "Politkovskaya was gunned down. Mhl was shot out of the sky. Now Boris
is dead. As always, Kremlin will blame opposition, or CIA, whatever."

A police spokeswoman on the scene said he had been walking on a bridge over the
Moskva River with a Ukrainian woman.

Putin condemned the killing and took the investigation under presidential
command, saying it could have been a contract killing and a "provocation" on the
eve of a big opposition protest that Nemtsov had been due to lead in Moscow on
Sunday.

Boris Nemtsov shooting aftermath

Police cars sealed off the bridge close to the red walls of the Kremlin and Red
Square, and an ambulance was on the scene.

Mikhail Kasyanov, a fellow opposition leader, told reporters at the bridge:
"That a leader of the opposition could be shot beside the walls of the Kremlin
is beyond imagination. There can be only one version: that he was shot for
telling the truth."

Kasyanov, a former prime minister under Putin, called Nemtsov a "fighter for the
truth".

Like other opposition leaders, Nemtsov was a fighter against corruption.

Boris Nemtsov was shot dead in Moscow on February 27, 2015

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 1, 2015 Sunday 7:16 PM GMT

Bremen on high alert after cache of sub-machine guns found following warnings of
imminent terror attack;
Two suspects were arrested and an unspecified number were detained in a city
considered an Islamic extremist stronghold

BYLINE: Tony Paterson

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 210 words


Police in the German port city of Bremen arrested two suspected Islamic
extremists and detained several others following warnings of an imminent
terrorist attack and the discovery of a large cache of Israeli manufactured
sub-machine guns in the city.

Scores of heavily armed police patrolled key points including Bremen's historic
town hall and a synagogue over the last two days after federal intelligence
reported the port had been targeted for an imminent attack. "We are not sure how
long we will have to combat this situation," a spokesman for the police
anti-terrorism unit said. "Danger levels are high and we have cast a security
net over the city."

Police were said to have raided an Islamic cultural centre, a mosque and dozens
of homes in the city. Two suspects were arrested and an unspecified number were
detained. Radio Bremen reported that the arrests were made in connection with
the discovery of a large cache of Israeli sub-machine guns.

Bremen is considered an Islamic extremist stronghold. The city-state's
intelligence service has some 360 militants under surveillance, according to its
Interior Ministry.

In February the authorities in Braunschweig in Lower Saxony cancelled carnival
celebrations at short notice because of a terrorist threat.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 1, 2015 Sunday 5:21 PM GMT

Home Office unable to kick out Jihadi John's friend accused of organising
al-Qaeda terror attacks after he claimed it would breach his human rights

BYLINE: JENNY AWFORD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 727 words



     ·    Terror suspect accused of planning attacks has avoided deportation
     ·    Man, identified as J1, is believed to be a leading member of
          al-Shabaab
     ·    He was accused of playing part in failed 2005 Underground bombing
     ·    J1 is an associate of Jihadi John - unmasked as Mohammed Emwazi
     ·    Case collapsed when diplomat conceded system was not working
     ·    Lawyers argued he could face detention and possible torture in
          Ethiopia


A friend of Jihadi John accused of organising al-Qaeda terror atrocities has
used the Human Rights Act to avoid being deported despite being deemed a threat
to national security.

The terror suspect, originally from Ethiopia, is believed to be a leading member
of al-Shabaab, an al-Qaeda affiliate based in Somalia.

He was accused of playing a part in the 2005 plot to blow up the London
Underground and is an associate of ISIS executioner Jihadi John - unmasked this
week as Mohammed Emwazi.

But the deportation case against the man, who can only be identified as J1,
collapsed after a five-year court battle when a British diplomat admitted the
system was not working.

Lawyers argued the man's human rights would be breached if he was sent back to
Ethiopia, where he could face detention and possible torture.

The terror suspect is now living in London and has also been linked to two
al-Qaeda extremists killed in US drone attacks in Somalia.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said the Government has 'serious questions'
to answer about the case and questioned why he wasn't placed under special
controls.

She told the Telegraph : 'This man (J1) has been linked to planned terror
attacks, associated with known terrorists, and identified as a risk to the UK.
So why didn't Theresa May at least put him on a TPIM in 2013 when he was
released from immigration detention?

'And what is being done now? Are they reconsidering TPIMs, deportation
assurances or prosecution options? Or do they no longer believe he is a
significant threat?'

A TPIM is a Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measure which allows
authorities to impose a curfew and limit communications on someone they
'reasonably believe' is involved in terror activities.

J1 has been accused by the Government of being a senior organiser for
al-Shabaab.

Court papers disclose that 'on the morning of the failed London bombings of 21
July 2005, a mobile telephone which the appellant (J1) now accepts was used by
him, was in contact with a telephone used by one of the bombers, Hussein Osman'.



The Government argued he was a threat to national security and should be
deported, court papers show.

They claimed he was an associate of Londoners Mohammed Sakr and Bilal Berjawi,
both of whom died in US drone strikes in Somalia.

Sakr and Emwazi were friends and Sakr attended Quintin Kynaston academy in St
John's Wood along with Emwazi.

It was revealed this week that Emwazi was a 'person of interest' to MI5 as a
member of a cell known as The London Boys, which was set up to recruit and raise
funds for al Shabab.

MI5 was also aware of Emwazi for six years before he appeared on a hostage video
for the first time in August 2014.

They had a file on Emwazi from at least 2009, when he was stopped as he arrived
in Tanzania.

British agents suspected that he was trying to travel to Somalia to join up with
al-Shabaab, an accusation that Emwazi denied. He was never charged with a terror
offence.

Michael Adebolajo, convicted of Lee Rigby's murder, is also believed to be
linked to the Somali group.

The case has heightened calls for the Human Rights Act to be scrapped.

It collapsed when Anthony Layden, the British diplomat in charge of negotiating
his deportation, admitted the system was not working.

He is believed to have blamed the Home Office for the failure.

This comes as the Government admitted that hundreds of ISIS extremists like
Emwazi have been free to leave Britain because they were not being properly
monitored by the security services.

A spokesman for the Home Office said yesterday: 'Control orders were not working
and were being struck down by the courts.

'TPIMs have been endorsed by the courts, counter-terrorism reviewers, the
police, and the Security Service. Following a review of the powers available to
manage the terrorist threat, the range of measures available under the TPIM Act
is being extended, including a measure to allow TPIM subjects to be relocated to
different parts of the country.'

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        March 1, 2015 Sunday 7:02 PM GMT

Pakistan school massacre: Taliban killed his brother and burned teacher alive
but won't defeat our son;
Ahmad Nawaz, 14, is being treated in hospital in Britain after surviving the
terrorist attack on his school and his family say he refuses to be intimidated
by the terrorists

BYLINE: By Emily Retter

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1099 words


Lying in his hospital bed with his arm in bandages, Ahmad Nawaz stares steadily
at the camera, his face tight with pain.

The 14-year-old's face looks haggard. It is not only his arm which is shattered,
his innocence is too.

Behind the glare sits bloody memories he endures after surviving the Pakistan
school massacre, where Taliban gunmen slaughtered 141 children and staff - many
of whom were decapitated, burnt alive or executed at point-blank range.

Ahmad's life was saved by his quick-thinking, when he hid under a chair and
played dead while terrorists blasted his fellow pupils to death.

Despite being shot in the arm, Ahmad knew he must not move. Nor could he respond
to his teacher's cries of "save me" as savage gunmen set her on fire in front of
his eyes.

Ahmad could feel the heat around him, yet still he did not move.

Little did he know that elsewhere in the Peshawar Army Public School, his
beloved brother Haris, 13, lay dead after being shot in the face.

Despite Ahmad's nightmare, he has told his parents he is still determined to
join the army and fight those who destroyed his family.

After being flown 6,000 miles to Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital for
treatment, Ahmad has become the poster boy for survivors of the December 16
massacre.

Speaking for the first time to a British newspaper, his parents Muhammad, 39,
and Samina, 36, today reveal what Ahmad saw on that fateful day.

Muhammad says: "Ahmad has told us as that as he lay on the floor pretending to
be dead, he saw the terrorists throw chemicals on his teacher and set her
alight. She was crying, 'Save me'. He watched her burn until she was black like
a coal."

The father looks broken, struggling to comprehend how on earth his son can live
with that devastating image.

"Every day our son says, 'Why did I survive and not Haris?'" adds Samina, a tear
running down her cheek. "He does not seem satisfied until he has cried every
day."

Ahmad had been in the main school auditorium when three gunmen arrived. Four
more were heading to the classrooms. He told his parents how he threw himself
under a chair on the floor. Miraculously, the gunmen did not move it and only
shot his left arm.

When they left, he managed to flee to a nearby changing room where a number of
other injured pupils were hiding. There was a teacher with a bullet in her
chest, she was crying," says Muhammad. "Ahmad decided to lie down and pretend he
was dead."

And when the gunmen returned they did not shoot him, however they did fire at
the other injured boys. They left after setting the teacher on fire.

"Ahmad could feel the heat by his feet," the dad tells us. "There were flames
around him and smoke. But he waited. Finally he heard voices. The military had
arrived."

He was taken to hospital and operated on. His arm was saved by medics who
transplanted a vein from his leg into the devastated limb. Samina and Muhammad -
whose third son Umar, seven, attended another school - reveal that Haris died
trying to save his best friend.

Muhammad says: "His friends told me Haris was running away with them but then
turned back. He said he could not leave his friend.

"They shot him. The bullet went through his head and mouth. His friend did not
survive either."

Heartbreakingly, the night before, Haris had begged his father not to go to
school. Samina was away visiting relatives and Muhammad was in charge. He is
haunted by his decision to send the boys to school as usual.

"Haris was awake late in bed," recalls Muhammad, who runs a small business. "He
was smiling. When I asked why he said it was because he wasn't going to school
tomorrow as his mum was away. I told him he had to go otherwise he would lose
marks.

"The next morning Ahmad came to my bed and tugged at my toes and said Haris
wasn't up. We argued, I said he had to go to school. It kills me to think about
it."

Muhammad received a call from a relative around 11am telling him the school had
been attacked. As he headed there he ran into 20 ambulances and decided to
follow them instead.

At the hospital Muhammad was confronted with a scene that will never leave him.

He recalls: "Paramedics were putting bodies on the ground, there was at least
80, all of their faces slashed. I saw children with no heads, executed.

"Later I learnt the hospital stitched the heads back on before they returned the
children to their parents. I looked at the face of every single child."

Amid the chaos, his phone rang. It was Ahmad, who told him he was at another
hospital.

"He was actually consoling me," says Muhammad, in disbelief. "He said he was
injured and told me, 'It will be fine'. I was the one crying."

At the next hospital he saw more horrors. "Boys with half heads, you could see
their brains, their eyes were moving," he whispers.

Amid it all he found Ahmad. Then, at 5pm, a cousin found Haris' body. Muhammad
says quietly: "To this day I cannot believe it. I still believe he will come
home."

He buried his son the next morning, but did not dare tell Ahmad. The parents
tried to protect him from the news until he was stronger. But he found out 15
days later through Facebook.

"He was very angry, he cried we had lied to him," says the dad, still torn with
guilt. "But we feared for his health."

When medics in Pakistan could no longer offer Ahmad the care he needed,
government officials offered to fund his treatment in the UK and the family
arrived a fortnight ago.

So far, Ahmad has had 14 hours of surgery to repair bone and nerve damage. A
metal plate was placed in his arm and another artery was taken from his leg and
transplanted there.

He has also had a further operation to graft skin from his thigh onto the wound.
If the surgery works, he will undergo physiotherapy and may remain here for a
year.

Despite his injuries, Muhammad reveals Ahmad still hopes to attend cadet college
and sign up.

"If he is able physically and mentally he wants to continue his education and
join the army," he says, proudly.

But Muhammad then reveals that the extremists, members of Tehrik-i-Taliban
Pakistan, have not done with his family yet.

Because he has spoken about the attack, he has received death threats.

He says: "They telephoned me. First they threatened to blow up the ward where
Ahmad was in Peshawar so the hospital had to move him every day.

"Then they threatened to blow up the vehicle we were to travel in to Islamabad.
It is too early to know yet whether we will ever return home."

Samina says: "These men do not deserve to be called Muslim - they do not deserve
to be called human.

"They are wild animals, and when we are all together against them, the whole
world, only then will we beat them."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                        March 1, 2015 Sunday 9:09 AM GMT

Isis killer Mohammed Emwazi had link to 2005 London bomb plot;
Key figure in Mohammed Emwazi terror cell talked to 21/7 attacker who was later
jailed for life over failed attack at tube station

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey and Mark Townsend

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 942 words


Mohammed Emwazi, the Islamic State (Isis) extremist behind the beheading of
western hostages, was able to flee Britain and the scrutiny of the security
services, despite being a member of a terror cell that was known to have links
to the failed 21/7 attacks on London in 2005, the Observer can reveal.

One leading member of Emwazi's network had a telephone conversation on the day
of the attacks with Hussein Osman, who was later jailed for life for placing an
explosive at Shepherd's Bush tube station.

The security services were also aware that associates of the 12-strong west
London terror group had joined the four 21/7 bombers at a training camp in
Cumbria a year before the attempt to bring carnage to London's streets.

The revelations, contained in court documents seen by this newspaper, raise
urgent questions over how Emwazi, who became known as "Jihadi John", was able to
evade surveillance, slip out of the country in 2013 using false papers and
re-emerge in Syria a year later to become the world's most wanted terrorist.

Not only was Emwazi a "person of interest" for MI5 as a member of a London
jihadi cell set up in 2007 to recruit for al-Shabaab, an al-Qaida affiliate, but
at least one member of his network had a connection with one of the most
infamous crimes in British history.

Related: My meeting with Mohammed Emwazi's friend as they sought a radical path

The failed 21/7 attacks came a fortnight after four men blew themselves up on
tubes and a bus, killing 52 people and injuring more than 700, the worst
terrorist atrocity committed on British soil.

The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, called for an urgent review into
whether the coalition's decision to weaken counter-terrorism laws had played a
role in Emwazi being given the chance to travel to Syria and become a figurehead
for Isis.

MI5 had been aware of Emwazi for six years before he appeared on a hostage video
for the first time in August 2014, but appears to have been unable to control
the network of which he was a part.

It is understood that three members of Emwazi's network had been subject in 2011
to control orders brought in by the last Labour government, which meant they had
to live outside London. However, those control orders were disbanded by the
coalition; they were instead subject to Tpims - terrorism prevention and
investigation measures - which allowed them to return to London and re-engage
with Emwazi.

Two of the men on these weakened orders - known only as BX and CC in court
documents - later absconded. Emwazi fled to Syria shortly afterwards.

Cooper said: "We need to know whether Theresa May's decision to ignore all our
warnings and weaken counter-terror powers has made it easier to organise and
recruit for Isil [Isis].

"Suggestions of possible links between those carrying out atrocities on behalf
of Isil [Isis], and those behind the 21/7 planned attack on London, are very
concerning.

"It has been clear from the outset that Tpims are too weak, and it is striking
that only one person is currently on a Tpim, despite everything we have been
told about the increased threat. At the very least, the prime minister should
now ask the intelligence and security committee to examine the period following
the scrapping of control orders. Parliament needs to know whether the
legislation to alter counter-terror powers affected the UK's ability to prevent
known terrorists continuing to develop networks in London."

Related: Isis's promise of certainty is what lures the likes of Mohammed Emwazi
| Jonathan Freedland

A former deputy chief of MI6, Nigel Inkster, told the Observer that it had now
become clear that the previous control-order regime had been a better way of
monitoring and controlling subjects.

"Control orders seem to be rather more effective than what has replaced them.
They [the government] need to be careful about coming up with new measures of
the Tpims variety, which clearly haven't been wildly successful.

"The problem with UK counter-terrorism legislation over the past decade is that
it has become a patchwork of knee-jerk responses to specific events, rather than
something that has really been thought through," Inkster added.

The home secretary did seek to deport the man who spoke to Osman on the day of
the 21/7 attacks - known in court papers only as J1 - on national security
grounds in 2011. The 35-year-old, who has lived in the UK since 1990, won an
appeal in 2013 on the grounds that it would be an infringement of his human
rights to be sent back to Ethiopia.

Former home secretary David Blunkett said he, too, was concerned that the
coalition had weakened its efforts to engage with Muslim communities. He said
that while the former Prevent strategy, which had been criticised for funding
groups with links to extremists, had "room for improvement", it had been "quite
wrong" for the coalition to "throw the baby out with the bath water".

A Home Office spokesman said: "Control orders were not working and were being
struck down by the courts. Tpims have been endorsed by the courts,
counter-terrorism reviewers, the police, and the security service. Following a
review of the powers available to manage the terrorist threat, the range of
measures available under the Tpim Act is being extended, including a measure to
allow Tpim subjects to be relocated to different parts of the country.

"Additionally the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act, which became law this
month, will bolster our already considerable armoury of powers to disrupt the
ability of people to travel abroad to fight, reduce the risks they pose on their
return, and combat the underlying ideology that feeds, supports and sanctions
terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                              March 2, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My terror as armed raiders attacked

BYLINE: Sarah Dale

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 314 words


A DAD-OF-TWO has told of the shocking moment two men wearing motorcycle helmets
stormed into his office brandishing a knife.

Chris Rigby, 35, said he "went on autopilot" when faced with two men demanding
money at Metcalfe, Kime & Co Financial Services on Allensway in Thornaby on
Friday afternoon to defend his father, Keith, 60, who was stabbed in the abdomen
during an attempted robbery.

A couple of hours earlier, Chris said his wife, Diane, and one-year-old son,
Teddy, would have been in the office as they had called in to have lunch with
him.

"It could have been a different story if they had been there, you just don't
know," said Chris, a finance clerk at the insurance services firm where his dad
is the manager.

"I was on autopilot, just natural instinct kicked in."

Keith Rigby was stabbed twice during the incident in the back and the arm.

"He had a suspected broken leg at first but it's not broken just very swollen,"
said Chris, who also has a four-year-old daughter, Isabella. He was released
from hospital on Friday night.

Chris also received an injury to his face.

"I'm fine," he said, "It's just one of those things.

"My wife is obviously upset about it."

Police investigating the attempted robbery are continuing to appeal for
witnesses to come forward.

The incident took place at around 4pm on Friday at the offices in Langham House.

A motorbike which was missing a registration plate was abandoned at the scene
and two men made off on foot.

An extensive area search was carried out with assistance from air support and
the dog section. Three men aged 23, 22 and 20 were arrested on suspicion of
robbery. They have now been released on bail pending inquiries.

Any witnesses or anyone with information regarding the incident is asked to
contact Detective Sergeant Amy Campbell from the major crime team on the
non-emergency number 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Armed ¦police, above, and, right, an abandoned motorbike at the
sceneKATIE LUNN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2015 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       March 2, 2015 Monday 12:03 AM GMT

Schools at risk of terrorist or racist attack given funds to employ security
guards;
Justice minister says 54 schools will share $18m pot to take 'sensible
precautions' following an increased general threat

BYLINE: Shalailah Medhora

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


Schools deemed at risk of racist incidents or lone-wolf terrorism attacks will
be given extra money to boost security, in what the justice minister has called
a "confidence-building measure".

Michael Keenan has set aside $18m for schools to employ security guards, after
the previous Labor government's decision to fund security arrangements for
at-risk schools.

"It's not about any specific threat. We're not aware of any specific threat to
any of the 54 schools that are receiving this funding but it's a sensible
precautionary measure to make sure that we can improve the confidence of
students, parents and teachers who come to these institutions," Keenan said on
Monday morning.

The justice minister denied sectarian violence was on the rise in Australia.

"We're just taking sensible precautions to make sure we're doing everything we
can so that when kids go to school, they are safe," Keenan said. "There has been
an increase in threat in Australia in general but there isn't specific threat to
any of the institutions that we are funding through the secure schools program."

"It's about making sure we're doing everything we can, but people shouldn't read
anything specific into the fact that we've created this program and that we're
funding schools to do everything they can to increase their security."

The secure schools program was a Coalition election promise.

More than half of the 54 schools identified as at risk are Jewish or Islamic
schools. The 17 Jewish schools identified will receive nearly $7.6m, and the 15
Islamic schools will receive $4.4m. The 22 remaining schools, which are
government and independent schools, will share $4.6m.

Most are in Sydney, though schools in all states and territories apart from
Tasmania have received funding.

Nearly 100 schools applied for the funding, in what Keenan called "a competitive
process".

"We worked very closely with state education departments and we also worked
closely with the peak bodies to identify what was an appropriate response to the
slightly increased risk that some schools might have because of the profile of
the student body and the community in which they are," Keenan said.

The deputy prime minister, Warren Truss, told Channel Seven on Monday morning it
was unfortunate the federal government had to fund security in schools.

"I wish we didn't. I wish we could go to school in all the innocence of the era
when I went to school. It is a pity that we have to provide this level of
protection," he said. "On the other hand, we know that almost every public place
is a potential target and therefore, governments have a responsibility to do
what we can to keep people safe."

Truss said the funding would be targeted to specific schools.

"It would be an appalling thing if in fact there was to be some kind of terror
attack in our schools. Clearly we need to take all reasonable precautions to
prevent that from happening. It's not as though every school will have guards
and additional security measures. But where there are particular risks,
identified risks, I think governments have to respond," he said.

The prime minister, Tony Abbott, last week warned that Australia was entering an
era of heightened terrorist threats.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 2, 2015 Monday 9:53 PM GMT

Isis and al-Qaeda sending coded messages through eBay, pornography and Reddit;
Some of the messages related to terror attacks

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


Isis and al-Qaeda members are communicating with each other via coded messages
hidden on websites including eBay, Reddit, and inside pornographic photos,
according to a new book.

Gordon Thomas, who has sources inside Israel's Mossad spy agency, has revealed
that the organisation's cyber warfare department's most skilled cryptologists
mastered a technique known as steganography, which is used to to conceal secret
information within a digital file.

The spies found that al-Qaeda had used the technique to hide messages in goods
offered for sale on eBay, according to extracts from Gideon's Spies: The Secret
History of the Mossad published by The New York Post.

Timeline: The emergence of IsisRead more: Isis release 19 of 200 Assyrian
ChristiansIsis wages war Twitter: Militants threaten to behead employees for
deleting accounts

They also discovered that the method was in play on Reddit, and on more than one
occasion found that a terrorist had used hexadecimal characters and prime
numbers as code. Sometimes, the decoded messages related to terror attacks.

One intelligence source told Thomas that messages are often hidden in
pornographic pictures, which contain code for documents and "order for the next
target".

Despite their similar tactics online, al-Qaeda broke all ties with Isis last
year as it viewed the group as too extreme. In that time, Isis has claimed
swathes of Iraq and Syria and named the regions the Islamic State.

Today, Iraq's armed forces attacked Isis strongholds north of Baghdad as they
launched an offensive to reclaim the city of Tikrit and the surrounding Sunni
Muslim province of Salahuddin.

The offensive is the biggest military operation in the province since the Sunni
Islamist radicals seized large areas of northern Iraq last June and advanced
towards the capital Baghdad.

Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi declared the start of the Salahuddin operations
on Sunday during a visit to the government-held city of Samarra, where some of
the thousands of troops and Shi'ite militia had gathered for the offensive.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 2, 2015 Monday 4:14 PM GMT

'This is what Islam tells us to do': A rare glimpse inside a Saudi Arabian
prison - where Isis terrorists are showered with perks and privileges;
The Saudis are often accused of supporting Islamist radicals. In response, they
insist they are more at risk from terror attacks than any other country. During
a rare tour of the high-security Al-Hair facility, their 'pragmatic and
effective' approach to rehabilitating terrorists is laid bare

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1929 words


Except for the machine guns and guard towers, the al-Hair high-security prison
looks remarkably like a hotel - especially the conjugal-visit wing.

Beyond a heavy iron gate, its bars painted a cheerful lavender, a red carpet
stretches the length of a long hallway, where each of the 38 private cells has a
queen-size bed, a fridge, a television and a shower.

Here, just around the corner from the prison ATM, married inmates are allowed to
spend three to five private hours with their wives at least once a month, with
fresh linens and tea and sweets on the nightstand.

Nearly 1,100 high-security prisoners, all of them jailed on terrorism-related
charges, are serving time in this prison a few miles south of Riyadh. Al-Hair is
the largest of five high-security Saudi prisons established in the past decade
to deal with a growing terrorism threat, first from al-Qaeda and more recently
from Isis.

Saudi prisons long have been largely off-limits to journalists and human rights
monitors. But officials said Interior Minister Mohammed bin Nayef, the deputy
crown prince, has ordered that journalists be allowed to visit, hoping to refute
allegations from human rights groups that Saudi Arabia tortures prisoners.

So on a recent Sunday afternoon, Warden Mohammed al-Ahmed led me on a rare visit
inside the al-Hair prison.

"We have nothing to hide," he told me. "Point at any building, point at any
cell. You can see anything you want to see."

For the next six hours, I was able to direct my own tour, and the warden gladly
took me wherever I wanted to go. We saw cell blocks, the hospital,
solitary-confinement cells, classrooms and recreation areas. He never declared
anything off-limits, though I wasn't allowed to take photos.

We started with tea, in typical Saudi style, and a PowerPoint presentation that
detailed the government's strategy of showering inmates with perks rather than
locking them down in harsh, Guantanamo Bay-style conditions.

The Saudi government essentially puts each inmate's family on welfare. The
government gives them money for food, rent and school fees, and it pays for
airfare and hotel expenses for families to come visit - even for foreign
prisoners whose families live overseas. Escorted by guards, many prisoners
(except those convicted of murder) are allowed to attend funerals and weddings
of close family members, and they are given as much as $2,600 in cash to present
as a wedding gift.

After the presentation, we visited the Family Home, a hotel within the prison
that is used to reward prisoners for good behavior. The hotel has 18 large
suites, which can sleep as many as nine family members and have lots of fresh
flowers, a well-stocked buffet and a playground for children.

Officials said the government spent $35 million last year on those perks.

"Just because someone is a criminal, we do not punish his family, too," Ahmed
said. "Our strategy is to take care of these people to make the community
better. This is what Islam tells us to do."

The majority of the 3,500 inmates in the five high-security prisons have been
convicted of terrorism-related offenses, including al-Qaeda attacks inside the
Saudi kingdom, that happened before the rise of Isis last year.

Gen. Mansour al-Turki, spokesman for the powerful Ministry of Interior, whose
Mabahith secret police run the five high-security prisons, said taking care of
inmates' families is part of the Saudi strategy of trying to rehabilitate
radicals.

The Saudis have a long-standing program of placing those convicted of
terrorism-related offenses in an intensive program of education and religious
study designed to try to alter their thinking and behavior.

Inmates in the five high-security prisons start with months-long in-depth
courses inside the prisons. When they finish their sentence, they are
transferred to one of two large rehabilitation centers, in Riyadh and in Jiddah,
for further studies.

In pictures: Raif Badawi release protests

"If you lose these inmates when they are in prison, they will come out of prison
more radical," Turki said, adding that supporting their families also helps make
sure they, too, don't "fall into the hands of the terrorists."

Turki said that about 20 percent of those who have gone through the
rehabilitation program have returned to terrorism-related activities. Many
rights activists think the failure rate is higher than Saudi officials admit.

Critics often argue that Saudi Arabia, or at least many rich Saudis, supports
violent Islamist radicals, and that the government's emphasis on rehabilitation
reflects a certain sympathy with terrorists.

But Saudi officials argue that no country, except for Syria and Iraq, is more
directly threatened by Isis. They say their approach to convicted terrorists is
more pragmatic and effective than simply throwing thousands of them in prison
for decades and hoping that their friends and family don't become radicalized.

Read more: Morality police arrest men for dancing at birthday partyWoman
publicly beheaded in Mecca while screaming innocencePrince Charles raises human
rights issues in Saudi Arabia

"I don't think we should be reflexively opposed to these programs," said Bruce
Hoffman, director of the Center for Security Studies at Georgetown University.
"The hard-core, wild-eyed fanatics we are never going to rehabilitate, but a
solution that says they are all the same and we should lock them away forever
isn't effective, either."

Hoffman said a 20 percent recidivism rate is far better than the 70 to 75
percent recidivism rate for violent criminals in the United States. He said
prisons without rehabilitation programs can become "terrorist universities" that
turn minor offenders into hardened militants. He also said that inmates who are
coaxed away from radical thinking can also provide valuable intelligence about
terror groups.

"Programs like this can be enormously effective," he said.

To be absolutely clear, Saudi Arabia has a poor human rights record, and the
fact that no prisoners were tortured in front of me is not proof that it doesn't
happen.

According to the U.S. State Department and human rights groups, the Saudis
practice arbitrary detention, and torture allegations are rampant. Saudi Arabia
executed 79 people by beheading in 2013, and its extreme interpretation of
sharia law still calls for medieval punishments, including amputations and the
stoning of adulterers.

Most recently, Saudi courts sentenced Raif Badawi, a blogger who questioned the
dominant role of the Saudi religious establishment in daily life, to 10 years in
prison and 1,000 public lashes, a punishment condemned as barbaric by rights
groups.

Human Rights Watch and others also have alleged that the Saudi government has
used its tough anti-terrorism laws to lock up hundreds of people virtually
indefinitely, often for simply criticising the government, and has convicted
others in secret and unfair trials.

They also have condemned Saudi prisons for being overcrowded and often dangerous
places, but those allegations usually concern the prison system for those
convicted of crimes not related to terrorism. The Saudi government operates
about 20 regional prisons, roughly the equivalent of a U.S. state prison, and
about 90 local lockups, similar to U.S. city or town jails. Those facilities
house about 50,000 prisoners, nearly half of them foreigners.

Rights groups have cited reports of violence among prisoners and cases of guards
subjecting prisoners to strobe lights, loud music, cold temperatures and long
periods of solitary confinement.

Turki denied those allegations. He said that more than 11,500 people have done
time in the five high-security prisons since 2003 and that about 8,000 of them
have been released.

"Do you hear them going out in public and saying, 'I was tortured'?" he said.
"There are thousands and thousands of them. If we were torturing people, they
would say so."

As the tour continued, Ahmed, the warden, drove me through a vast open yard to
the main prison building, where we passed through huge metal doors, metal
detectors and a couple of sets of iron gates.

"What would you like to see?" he asked.

I picked a hallway at random, and he ordered the guards to open the gate. The
hallway was at least 50 yards long, with paintings of desert scenes hanging on
the walls between cell doors.

Halfway down, I chose a random cell and asked to interview the prisoners inside.
Six surprised-looking young men, all in their early to mid-20s, wearing long,
prison-issued gray robes, greeted me.

The cell, identical to several I saw later, was a large cube about 20 feet by 20
feet, with 20-foot-high ceilings. High on one wall were four windows that filled
the cell with natural light.

The six men slept on single mattresses on the carpeted floor and watched a TV
mounted high on one wall. The room was spartan but clean, with a large bathroom
and shower area. Plastic bags filled with cookies, candy bars, apples and
bananas hung on pegs on the wall.

One young inmate, Fahad, told me that he was awaiting trial on terrorism
charges. He said he travelled to Syria last year to join Isis because he wanted
to fight against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

"But when I got there, it was not like they told us," he said.

Fahad, 25, said Isis was fighting not against Assad, but against other rebel
groups. He said Isis militants took his passport, but after two months, he
escaped and found his way to the Saudi embassy in Ankara, Turkey, where he
turned himself in. He was returned to Riyadh and sent to al-Hair.

"We're not happy to be in prison," Fahad said. "But we have good conditions
here."

With the warden sitting right there, what else could he say? I was still
skeptical.

I called Sevag Kechichian, an Amnesty International researcher, who said
allegations of mistreatment and torture of prisoners in Saudi prisons are
widespread. He said the poor treatment probably happens more frequently in
overcrowded local jails, but he said that torture can still happen even in
nice-looking prisons - when no one is looking.

I also called Gary Hill, whose work for the International Corrections and
Prisons Association, a nonprofit affiliated with the United Nations, has taken
him to prisons in 80 countries.

Hill, a Nebraskan, has been going to Saudi Arabia for 20 years to help Saudi
officials design training programs for prison staff. He said what I found in
al-Hair "doesn't surprise me at all."

"Prisoners there are to be treated nicely - that's their religion," Hill said.
"From all the interactions I've had over many years, they believe that, and they
do it."

Kechichian and Hill have never been inside a Saudi prison. So I also arranged a
telephone call with Mohammed al-Qahtani, a Saudi economist who was sentenced to
10 years in prison in 2013 for criticizing the government. He is serving his
sentence in a general prison close to al-Hair.

Qahtani said that many prisoners' families receive money from the prison, though
his family, now living in the United States, has turned it down on principle.

Qahtani said he has access to newspapers, books, television - and daily phone
calls with his family. He said that many of his fellow inmates have been
convicted of violent crimes or drug trafficking and that there is regular
violence among prisoners. He said that one inmate committed suicide after being
left in solitary confinement for more than a month.

Qahtani is angry about being imprisoned for simply speaking his mind, but he
said he had no serious complaints about his living conditions.

"It's not bad," he said.

Copyright: The Washington Post

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

May attacks Cage campaigners;
'Excusing terrorism'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 140 words


Theresa May has accused the campaign group Cage of attempting to "excuse
barbarism" after it blamed MI5 for radicalising Jihadi John.

The campaign group was criticised after accusing the British security services
of "systematically" harassing young Muslims, leaving them with no legal redress.

Speaking in the Commons, the Home Secretary said: "As regards to the comments
that have been made by Cage, I have to say there can be no excuse for the
barbarism that has been shown by those operating in the name Isil. I condemn
anyone who attempts to excuse the barbarism in the way that has been done by
Cage."

Isil is using psychologists to spot potential brutal killers like Jihadi John
and promoting them through the ranks, a defector has revealed. Abu Aymam said
Mohammed Emwazi would have been identified as a candidate when he was in London.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       March 3, 2015 Tuesday 8:20 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing trial to begin two years after deadly terror attack;
Jury seated in trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the younger and only survivor of the
two brothers accused in the 2013 attack that killed three and injured hundreds

BYLINE: Nicky Woolf in Boston

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 712 words


It has been almost two years since two backpack bombs, made from pressure
cookers and stuffed with nails and ball-bearings, were detonated at the finish
line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring hundreds of
others in the most jarring terror attack on US soil since 9/11.

On Wednesday, just two miles from where the bombs went off, the trial of the
younger of the two alleged perpetrators is finally set to begin.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, a Kyrgyzstan-born naturalised US citizen from nearby
Cambridge, is the younger of the two brothers accused of perpetrating the 2013
attack.

His elder sibling, Tamerlan, was killed in a shootout with police four days
after the bombing; less than 24 hours later, Dzhokhar was captured by police
after a manhunt of unprecedented scale, drenched in blood and near-unconscious,
hiding under a boat's tarpaulin in a backyard in the Boston suburb of Watertown.

In a case expected to provide unvarnished answers to an episode thatcaptivated
the world, Tsarnaev faces 29 charges, including the use of a weapon of mass
destruction, conspiracy to bomb a place of public use resulting in death,
bombings of places of public use resulting in death, and possession and use of a
firearm in relation to a crime of violence.

On Tuesday in court, presiding judge George O'Toole said the long-awaited words
to 12 Massachusetts citizens: "You have now been selected as the trial jurors."

And so begins the highest-profile federal terrorism trial on American soil since
the 1997 conviction - and later execution - of Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma
City bomber. Like McVeigh, Tsarnaev faces the possibility of the death sentence
if convicted.

The Boston Marathon trial is expected to drag out through a lengthy sentencing
phase, but Wednesday's opening statements follow a jury selection process which
has taken several months. In January, more than a thousand potential jurors were
summoned for the first stage, in which they each filled out a 28-page,
100-question form.

After the first stage began six weeks of voir dire, interrupted intermittently
by the record-breaking winter weather, 256 potential jurors were cross-examined
by the court to establish their suitability, finally whittling the potential
jury pool down to 75.

Because the charges carry a potential death sentence, the jury must be what is
known as "death-qualified", meaning that anyone who confesses an absolute
philosophical opposition to capital punishment - or an absolute philosophical
commitment to it - is automatically ineligible.

On Tuesday, in the final stage of jury selection, the defence and prosecution
rejected more people from the jury pool without giving a reason before the final
group and six alternates - eight men and ten women - were seated.

With the jury finally ready, all eyes turned to possible tactics available to
the defence. It is considered fairly likely that they will not aim to argue for
Tsarnaev's innocence outright, but instead look to paint him as a junior partner
in the attack, an impressionable stoned teenager in thrall to his elder brother.

So far, Tsarnaev's defence team had filed a barrage of motions to delay, defer
and relocate the trial. They have claimed that Tsarnaev can never receive a fair
trial in Boston, and that the jury pool does not contain enough minorities. They
even requested on Monday that the boat in which Tsarnaev was eventually found
hiding in should be brought into the courtroom to be admitted as evidence.

In the defence's latest motion for a change of venue - its fourth - filed on
Tuesday, Tsarnaev's attorneys observed that 42 of the 75 qualified
jurorsself-identified as having a connection with the events or people at issue
in the case, and 23 of them stated in their questionnaires that in their opinion
Tsarnaev is guilty.

So far, however, Judge O'Toole has rejected all such requests, and an appellate
court has also turned down two appeals. O'Toole is acting - and questioning the
jury pool - from an oft-stated belief that, even in Boston, jurors can be found
who can honestly and in good faith put aside their biases, ignore the blanket
media coverage and return a fair verdict based on the facts presented to them in
court.

It will remain to be seen whether the judge is correct in his insistence.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       March 3, 2015 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Terrorists 'plotting attack on Kenyan parliament'

BYLINE: Hannah McNeish and Tom Coghlan

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 224 words


Kenyan security forces were hunting a cell from the al-Shabaab terrorist group
in Nairobi last night, amid fears that it is preparing to attack the parliament
building or another high-profile target.

It is believed that 12 jihadists are plotting to mount a "spectacular" attack in
the Kenyan capital using a car bomb.

Terrorists from al-Shabaab, which is allied to al-Qaeda and based in
neighbouring Somalia, seized control of the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in
September 2013, starting a four-day siege in which 67 people died.

News of the plot comes a fortnight after two suicide attacks in Somalia's
capital killed 25 people, including several politicians. The Mogadishu attack
was followed days later by a mortar bomb attack on the Somali presidential
palace.

Al-Shabaab has recently stepped up its propaganda machine, last weekend
releasing a glossy magazine, largely in English, called Amka. The publication
promised vengeance for the death of Ahmed Godane, al-Shabaab's leader, who was
killed by a US drone last September.

Masudi Mwinyi, a spokesman for the Kenyan police, said: "This threat that has
been reported by our intelligence sources and officers cannot be taken lightly.
From previous experience we know that they're capable of a big attack." Forces
would be "extra vigilant and enhance their presence in all areas", he added.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 4, 2015 Wednesday

Four civilians killed by "terrorist" attacks on Syrian capital, its countryside

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces, SANA - Four civilians were killed and five others were wounded by
terrorists' mortar shells and gunfire in a number of areas in Damascus and its
countryside on Wednesday.

A source at the Police Command said that a 10 year-old girl was killed and five
other civilians were injured by 5 mortar shells that hit al-Sayida Zeinab area.

Meanwhile, terrorists opened fire on a number of vehicles on Harasta highway,
killing two civilians.

A woman was killed also by sniper gunfire in Abasyeen area near Jobar
neighbourhood, and material damage was caused to al-Adawi area by mortar shells.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1550 gmt 4 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 4, 2015 Wednesday

Tanzanian leader links February attack on police stations to terrorism

LENGTH: 483 words


Text of report by Christopher Kidanka entitled "Kikwete hints at possible
terrorist operations in Tanzania" published by Kenyan newspaper The EastAfrican
website on 4 March

Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete has suggested possible terror links to last
month's attack on police stations and exchange of gunfire between security
officers and armed men in the port city of Tanga.

This comes after the police had down-played the incident which left one military
officer dead and five others seriously injured in what was believed to be an
organized terrorist operation. Tanga regional police chief, Fresser Kashai, said
the incident was an ordinary banditry.

But President Kikwete's comments on the incident in his end-month address to the
nation have become the first statement by a top government officials on possible
terrorist links to the attack which sent the nation into a panic last month.

An 11-minute video footage circulating on social media depicted a man calling
himself Kaisy bin Abdullah warning the authorities of further attacks on prisons
to free people who were 'inappropriately jailed.'

The Inspector-General of Police, Ernest Mangu, told The EastAfrican that they
have not established whether the man in the clip has any association with terror
groups but added that security forces were investigating the incident.

Despite saying that the incidents had "banditry characteristics and terrorist
inclination", the president appealed for calm, saying that security organs were
doing everything possible to bring those who have been implicated to justice.

In the last two months, incidences of people storming police stations and
confronting cops on patrol have been reported at Newala southern Tanzania in
natural gas-rich region of Mtwara and Bukombe in the gold-rich region of Geita
where invaders got away with 18 guns.

President Kikwete said all the 18 guns seized in Bukombe have been recovered and
10 people booked over the incident. "Concerning the Tanga incident, one gun out
of two has been recovered and seven culprits have been arrested. Four of them
are those who were hiding in Kiomoni caves (in Tanga suburbs)...already four of
those who allegedly participated in Ikwiriri incident have been arrested," he
said.

Other incidents were reported in Tanga, north-eastern Tanzania and Songea in the
south. Overwhelmed police had at one point sought help from the Tanzania
People's Defence Force (TPDF) which deployed commandoes.

Speaking to The EastAfrican, the Inspector General of Police maintained that no
terror link to the incidents had yet been established and that some of the
culprits nabbed appear not to have any foreign connection. "We have booked some
of the culprits and there is no any foreign connection established. All of them
are Tanzanian nationals and our investigation sees no foreign connection," he
said.

Source: The EastAfrican website, Nairobi, in English 4 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            March 4, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Paedophile's wife in terror of attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 409 words


A PAEDOPHILE'S wife lived in terror after he was jailed for his years of sex
crimes, a court was told.

Every window was smashed in their home on a Teesside estate, it was repeatedly
burgled and an attempt was made to set  re to the family's car.

His wife became yet one more victim of 44-year-old Simon Evans' depravity while
he was securely locked up in Holme House Prison, Stockton.

Evans's barrister Kate Dodds told Teesside Crown Court that the vigilante
attacks began immediately that Evans's address was made public in unrestricted
reports of his case and she successfully applied for a ban on its further
publication.

Making the order today judge Recorder Felicity Davies said: "It was extremely
unfortunate that acts of damage were caused to the property, which must have
been extremely frightening for his wife."

Evans, who ran discos with his wife, had breached a Sexual O‹ences Prevention
Order by twice contacting a 17-yearold girl on Facebook when he was banned from
having contact with anybody under 18.

Prosecutor Rachel Masters said that he was jailed for four years in 1992 for
serious sexual o‹ences against a boy.

He completed 70 hours on a sex o‹enders' treatment programme while in prison,
and on his release he was monitored and given a Life Plan to support him in
future relationships.

In 2005 there was a risk assessment report on him compiled by the NSPCC but he
did not comply with the plan and in April 2010 Social Services applied to
magistrates for a Sexual O‹ences Prevention Order against him. But Evans
repeatedly breached it by contacting single mothers on UK Chatterbox sometimes
staying overnight with them and their children in their homes, and he fathered a
child with one of them.

He was later jailed for 30 months for breaches of the order and he was released
in December 2013. He is now on licence recall in prison until March 21.

Miss Dodds told the judge: "He invites the court to see that giving him some
help rather than a prison sentence would be the most practical way of dealing
with him."

še judge told him: "šis latest o‹ence was a ›agrant breach of this order as you
well knew.

"You seem to fail to grasp that Social Services have a duty to protect children
from sexual o‹enders such as you, and that is why they are vigilant about your
behaviour and that is why the order was obtained against you in 2010."

Evans, whose address cannot be published, was jailed for 10 months after he
pleaded guilty to breaching the order.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2015 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      March 4, 2015 Wednesday 8:09 PM GMT

Abid Naseer: The man who wanted to blow up Manchester in the biggest terror
attack since 9/11;
Prosecutors painted a bleak picture of Naseer's plans in courtroom drama that
revealed his plot to blow up the Manchester Arndale

BYLINE: By Chris Slater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


"Blood, mangled bodies and dead families."

That's what prosecutors said would have been the scene in Manchester city centre
had Abid Naseer not been foiled in his evil plan to mastermind the biggest
terror attack since 9/11.

Naseer, 28, was plotting to blow-up the Arndale Centre in 2009 and cause the
biggest loss of life since the Twin Towers were hit on that fateful day eight
years earlier.

The planned atrocity would have killed even more people than the July 7 bombings
in London 2005, a court heard.

Naseer planned to explode bombs near glass fronted shops such as Next as the
debris would "pierce the eyes, the skin and the hearts of Easter shoppers" a
court was told.

Former FBI agent Manny Gomez said: "The terror that this would have created
would have been devastating to those cities' economies, to just the mindset of
these people carrying on day-to-day," he said.

"It would have been huge, it would have been only second to 9/11 in terms of
death, damage, devastation to the psyche of the people being affected by it, it
would have been significant."

And Naseer now faces life behind bars after a jury in New York found him guilty
of plotting bomb attacks in the US and the UK.

He was found to be part of a terror cell that was planning attacks on the New
York subway and a newspaper office in Copenhagen as well as Manchester.

Abid Naseer

READ: Al Qaida terrorist Abid Naseer plotted to blow up Manchester Arndale and a
New York subway

There had earlier been the bizarre scene of a number of burly MI5 officers
taking to the stand to give evidence against Naseer at the Brooklyn court
dressed in wigs and make-up to disguise their identities.

One said she had followed Naseer around Manchester and Liverpool in 2009 with
surveillance pictures showing him walking just yards from the centre in March of
that year.

Photos were also recovered from a USB drive showing Naseer's pal Tariq ur-Rehman
at a number of locations including at the Trafford Centre, Cathedral Gardens,
Piccadilly Gardens in 2007 and 2008.

Two further sets taken nine days apart in August 2008 show him only in and
around the Arndale Centre, a fact the prosecution alleges shows the cell were
'closing in' on their target.

Whilst documents seized during the raid which killed Al-Qaeda chief Osama Bin
Laden in Abottabad, Pakistan were also used as evidence.

Naseer, himself a Pakistani who moved to Cheetham Hill, claimed the whole case
against him was a fantasy.

He said he was a professional cricketer and was living in England merely to find
a wife.

Thousands of hours of online chat and e-mails were found where Naseer repeatedly
refers to different women's names and to a 'wedding'.

However, prosecutors said that was merely a rouse for the attack itself with the
women's names were chillingly said to refer to different chemicals such as
'Huma' for Hydrogen Peroxide.

Naseer was one of 12 men arrested during raids at three addresses in Cheetham
Hill including one in Galsworthy Avenue and a cybercafe in Cheetham Hill Road as
well as in Liverpool and London.

The raids had to be brought forward after Britain's most senior counter
terrorism police officer at the time, Assistant Commissioner Bob Quick, was
caught on camera clutching sensitive documents.

All 12 men were later released without charge but Naseer was extradited to the
US in 2013 in order to face trial after more evidence emerged.

And that evidence was what persuaded the jury to condemn him to facing a life
without liberty.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      March 4, 2015 Wednesday 5:48 PM GMT

Parents living in terror of son, 9, who bites and attacks them;
Toby has already been in trouble with the police for causing permanent damage to
a fellow child's mouth after hitting them with a brick

BYLINE: By Kathryn Williams

SECTION: NEWS,REAL LIFE STORIES

LENGTH: 494 words


Parents who are abused by their children. My Violent Child

A young mother and father have revealed how they are living in terror - of their
nine-year-old son.

They say their child bites, kicks and attacks his own parents and siblings,
including threatening his older brother with a knife when he was just four, and
they expect him to end up in jail when he grows up.

The schoolboy features on Channel 5 documentary My Violent Child: Tearing Us
Apart, which will be screened on March 4 at 9pm.

And parents Sara and Richard, whose surname is not being disclosed by
programme-makers, are at the end of their tether.

Toby has already been in trouble with the police for causing permanent damage to
a fellow child's mouth after hitting them with a brick and has threatened his
older brother with a knife.

Richard told Wales Online: "From a very young age he was very aggressive. When
he was about four, he held a knife to Casey and threw bricks at Casey.

"We've had police at the house where he's thrown brick - a child ended up
injured and needing dental treatment.

"I expect for Toby in his teens to be locked up, we're expecting that. Because
he doesn't care."

The couple have three other children - Casey, 10, Corey, seven, and Jacob, four
- and have been unable to control Toby's behaviour since he was small, with no
clue what can set him off on a violent outburst.

Sara said: "Absolutely anything sets Toby off, it can be anything as daft as two
items of food touching on his plate, a noise, a smell or something he sees - it
can be anything.

"He's physically abusive, he's mentally abusive, he really gets to you - to the
point that he makes me want to cry sometimes.

"Sometimes I just let him pinch me and hit me and then he'll calm down and
sometimes he does.

"I don't want to live on edge every day when he wakes up, I should be able to
enjoy being his mum."

Sometimes his behaviour is so bad the couple are too scared to leave him alone
with his other brothers and the pair have even been on the verge of splitting
up.

Richard said: 'It has driven us to the point where we could have parted ways
many times.

"When there's no more you can do for each other and we're struggling, it gets to
the point where it would be easier to turn and walk away."

The show brings in parenting expert Jane Evans who tries to get to the route of
the problem while encouraging the parents to develop their bond with Toby.

Sara admits that having her two eldest children so close together caused her
great stress but as she starts to take on Jane's advice - which includes being
more tactile with Toby -she sees her son become calmer more quickly.

She also emphasises the importance of Richard spending quality time with his
family.

The family then spend a day at the farm together and the couple admit that they
are beginning to see big improvements in their son.

Sara said: "It is early days but I hope that if I persevere with it then we'll
get results down the line and I think that day will come."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                      March 4, 2015 Wednesday 10:38 PM GMT

Man guilty of plotting terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 124 words



HIGHLIGHT: Man guilty of terror attack plots


A 28-year-old man faces life in prison after being convicted in New York of
involvement in an al-Qaeda plot to carry out terror attacks in Britain, the
United States and Denmark, US authorities have said.

Abid Naseer, from Pakistan, is to be sentenced at a later date after being found
guilty by a federal jury in New York following his extradition to the US from
Britain.

Prosecutors said Naseer and other al-Qaeda operatives had planned to attack a
busy shopping centre in Manchester, England and had also targeted the New York
subway and a newspaper office in Copenhagen.

Three other men have already been convicted in connection with the conspiracy,
which prosecutors said had been intended to "send a message to the United States
and its allies".

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2015 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 5, 2015 Thursday 10:53 AM GMT

CPS accused of 'risking lives' after freeing Al Qaeda ringleader eventually
convicted in America of plotting biggest terror attack since 9/11

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2250 words



     ·    Abid Naseer, 28, was found yesterday found guilty in an American court
     ·    Police in Britain arrested him in 2009 over Manchester and New York
          plots
     ·    But CPS said there was not enough evidence to convict him in UK court
     ·    Attempt to deport Pakistani Naseer failed and he was freed on to
          streets
     ·    Four years later US authorities extradited him and put him on trial
     ·    UK police say CPS potentially 'risked lives' and decision needs
          probing
     ·    Naseer faces life in US jail after convictions for three terror
          offences


The Crown Prosecution Service was today accused of 'risking lives' after it
freed a student later convicted of orchestrating the biggest terror plot since
9/11.

Pakistani-born Abid Naseer, 28, was yesterday found guilty in the United States
of planning to send suicide bombers into a Manchester shopping centre and the
New York subway.

But the CPS let him go in 2009 claiming there was 'very little' evidence to
prove in court he was one of the world's most dangerous terrorists.

Today the Manchester's chief constable Sir Peter Fahy said he 'absolutely'
believed the Al Qaeda terrorist should have prosecuted in the UK.

And Manchester's police and crime commissioner Tony Lloyd said: 'The reality is
that, had the Americans not acted, a dangerous man who was intent on causing
death and destruction here in Greater Manchester could potentially still be
walking our streets'.

Naseer was a student sent to Britain by Al Qaeda to carry out an attack.

He had wanted ten men to blow themselves up in the Arndale Centre in Manchester
and as the Easter shoppers fled he would be outside to set off a car bomb in a
plan which could have killed 'hundreds' of innocent people.

The 28-year-old also planned separate plots on the New York subway and a
Copenhagen newspaper office that had published cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.

He was only brought to justice after being extradited from the UK to America in
2013.

But in 2009 the Crown Prosecution Service decided not to charge him despite
having police and MI5 testimony used to convict him in the United States
yesterday.

He was originally arrested with 11 others in police raids in Manchester and
Liverpool in April 2009 when counter-terrorism officers thought the attack was
imminent.

Police and secret services had compiled a cache of emails from him to his Al
Qaeda handler where he discussed the date of an Islamic wedding - code for his
attack on Manchester.

But the CPS said there was not enough evidence to prosecute but critics said
that the decision could have had fatal consequences.

Tony Lloyd said: 'This is deeply worrying and I will be raising this issue with
the Home Secretary because we need real assurances that whatever went wrong here
is never repeated.

'There are real questions that need to be answered about why Abid Naseer had to
be tried in a court in New York rather than here in Britain.

TIMELINE: HOW NASEER WAS FREED IN UK BUT CONVICTED IN AMERICA

April 2009: Abid Naseer is arrested with 11 others in police raids in Manchester
and Liverpool counter-terrorism officers thought a terror attack was imminent.

Two weeks later all were released because the CPS said the evidence compiled
over several months was not enough for a conviction.

May 2010: Naseer, who was put forward for deportation, is not sent back to
Pakistan and freed from custody.

July 2010: United States announces it wants to put Naseer and four others on
trial and applies for extradition.

January 2013: After a series of appeals Naseer, who said going to America would
breach his human rights, is told he cannot avoid extradition and will be sent to
the United States.

March 2015: Jury in New York agrees Naseer was found guilty of all three counts
of providing material support to Al Qaeda and conspiracy to use a destructive
device.

'We should not have had to wait for the Americans to step in to extradite Abid
Naseer. The public will want to know why he wasn't brought to trial here.'

Retired Detective Chief Inspector Allan Donoghue, who was second in command on
the counter-terrorism operation that investigated Naseer, said the decision not
to charge him was 'wrong'.

'The whole command team believed that there was sufficient evidence. And these
were people who were senior police officers with a vast amount of experience in
investigations and in counter-terrorism,' he told the BBC.

'And every one of them believed that this man should have been charged in
Manchester. He (Naseer) was a threat. He was a risk. He had the potential to
kill people.'

Det Supt Smith of Greater Manchester Police said the decision to arrest him
saved dozens of British lives.

He said: 'I was convinced from the outset that Abid Naseer is a terrorist sent
to the UK by Al Qaeda to the UK to carry out an attack.

'Every day since that time I've thought about this case and wondered exactly
what would have happened if we didn't detain him. I've always been convinced
that we prevented an atrocity in Manchester.'

Police working on the case handed their file to the CPS but UK prosecutors
decided not to pursue him.

An attempt to deport him then failed, so he was released back on to Britain's
streets.

The CPS maintains the evidence in relation to Naseer was 'very limited'.

A spokesman said: 'The evidence in our possession in relation to Abid Naseer
which would have been admissible in a criminal court was very limited.

'Crucially, there was no evidence of training, research or the purchasing of
explosives. We had no evidence of an agreement between Abid Naseer and others
which would have supported a charge of conspiracy in this country.

There are real questions that need to be answered about why Abid Naseer had to
be tried in a court in New York rather than here in Britain. We should not have
had to wait for the Americans to step in to extradite Naseer. The public will
want to know why he wasn't brought to trial here Tony Lloyd, police and crime
commissioner for Greater Manchester

'The evidence used by the US authorities to extradite a suspect does not need to
meet the same tests as set out in the Code for Crown Prosecutors'.

After his extradition, Naseer pleaded not guilty to providing and conspiring to
provide material support to al Qaida and conspiring to use a destructive device.

He acted as his own lawyer throughout the trial, often referring to himself in
the third person as he set about portraying himself as a moderate Muslim who was
falsely accused.

'Abid is innocent,' Naseer said in closing arguments on Monday, adding: 'He is
not a terrorist. He is not an al Qaida operative.'

In her closing argument, assistant US attorney Zainab Ahmed told jurors the
arrests of Naseer and other members of his cell averted mass murder.

'If the defendant hadn't been stopped, hundreds of innocent men, women and
children wouldn't be alive today,' she said.

During the trial MI5 agents testified wearing disguises and the trial marked the
first time documents recovered in the 2009 Navy Seal raid against Osama bin
Laden's compound were used as trial evidence.

Most of the case hinged on email exchanges in 2009 between Naseer and a person
described by prosecutors as an al Qaida handler who was directing plots to
attack civilians in Manchester, New York City and Copenhagen.

Naseer insisted the emails consisted only of harmless banter about looking for a
potential bride after going to England to take computer science classes.

He 'wanted to settle down', he said, adding: 'Is there anything wrong with
that?'

But the prosecutor accused Naseer of lying on the witness stand by claiming the
women he wrote about were real.

She said the women's names were actually code for home-made bomb ingredients:
Nadia stood for ammonium nitrate and Huma for hydrogen peroxide.

The prosecutor dismissed Naseer's explanations as 'blather', saying: 'This man
wanted to drive a car bomb into a crowded shopping centre and watch people die.'

Naseer was found guilty of all three counts of providing material support to Al
Qaeda and conspiracy to use a destructive device

Naseer's father Nasrullah Jan Khattak told the BBC: 'He was a good boy. I'm not
saying that because I'm his father, he really was a good boy. He used to go to
the mosque and he played a lot of cricket. There was nothing suspicious about
Abid.

'Only God can tell you why this tragedy happened. He was religious, he was
quiet, and I think because of his clothes and his beard he was pulled into this
mess by the authorities.'

HEAD OF A UK CELL ON A STUDENT VISA: HOW ABID NASEER CAME TO ENGLAND TO STUDY...
AND PLOT A 9/11-STYLE TERROR ATTACK

Bookish, cricket-loving college student Abid Naseer came to England to study and
learn - while plotting a terror attack to rival 9/11.

Naseer, 28, was the head of a UK-based cell of young al Qaeda recruits under
orders to infiltrate and attack Western society.

They planned the biggest operation since the Twin Towers were brought down in
2001, with a shopping centre in Manchester and the New York subway among the
targets.

His trial at the District Federal Court in Brooklyn heard evidence linking him
with declassified documents seized during the US Navy Seal raid in 2011 that
left the al Qaeda leader and figurehead Osama bin Laden dead.

Naseer grew up in Peshawar, Pakistan, in a wealthy, middle-class family, his
father working as a government contractor and property developer.

They were moderates and he never thought much about politics, he claimed.

But he became more religious aged around 16, joining Tablighi Jamaat, a
grassroots religious organisation he claimed gave him more discipline in life.

He came to the UK in 2006 aged 19 on a student visa, he said to improve his
English language and study computer science at a college in Manchester, living
in the Cheetham Hill area of the city, with its large Pakistani population.

Naseer told the US court he quite liked living in the UK with its religious
freedoms, that terrorism was incompatible with Islam and he came to study, not
attack the West.

He acted as his own defence lawyer because, he told the jury, he 'wanted the
people to hear my voice and hear my story', which was that the man before them
was just an innocent overseas student, who enjoyed playing cricket, watching
films, attending mosque and chatting to girls online.

He worked as a security guard and spent time on the internet on sites such as
Qiran.com as part of his quest to find a woman to marry.

But his real goal was to wreak devastation on the country that had given him a
new home, the jury was told.

Naseer and the Manchester cell, the court heard, were designed to blend in,
conduct reconnaissance and pick the best target.

An email sent by Naseer suggested he was planning a niqah - an Islamic marriage
ceremony - on Easter weekend 2009, a message the prosecution alleged was
actually a coded description of the attack.

Though the British plot has not been fully outlined, the US court was shown
photographs found on a computer drive of one of his friends, showing dozens of
images of the Arndale Centre in Manchester - the alleged target.

The centre had previously been the target of an IRA bomb attack in 1996.

Large quantities of cooking oil and flour were found in Naseer's kitchen,
materials prosecutors said could be used to make a bomb.

Naseer, in contrast, said he was planning a wedding.

He objected several times during the trial when evidence was given by the first
prosecution witness, former New York resident Najibullah Zazi, who had pleaded
guilty to involvement in the New York City part of the plot, which targeted the
subways.

The court heard about his emails to a friend who used the address
sana-pakhtana@yahoo.com

He was cross-examined for two days as prosecutor Celia Cohen picked holes in his
testimony until he had to concede that the only people corresponding with
sana-pakhtana were himself and admitted al Qaida operative, Zazi, who had
confessed that the email address was that of his al Qaida contact.

Naseer had been under surveillance by MI5 as the plot unfolded.

British spies, who wore wigs and glasses to protect their identity in court,
told how an agent followed Naseer onto a coach and observed him watching a
mobile phone video of the 9/11 attacks.

He was originally arrested with 11 others in police raids in Manchester and
Liverpool in April 2009.

MI5 was forced to swoop early after then Metropolitan Police assistant
commissioner Bob Quick accidentally showed secret documents with details of the
plan to photographers outside Downing Street.

At the time, Naseer's father, Nasrullah Jan Khattak, said his son was innocent.

Speaking to reporters outside his home in Peshawar, Pakistan, Mr Khattak said:
'This is all about his prayers and his beard.

'I am his father and I know him. He is not involved in any mysterious plot. We
have done nothing wrong. We have nothing to hide.'

After no explosives were found, the men were released without being charged but
ordered to leave the country, a fate Naseer avoided after a judge ruled it was
likely he would be mistreated if he were sent to Pakistan.

Naseer was rearrested in July 2010 at the request of US prosecutors and in
January 2011 his extradition across the Atlantic was approved.

He spent the next two years fighting the decision, going to the European Court
of Human Rights after exhausting his domestic appeal options.

But the Strasbourg court threw out his case in December 2012, paving the way for
his extradition, which took place in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      March 5, 2015 Thursday 10:45 AM GMT

Abid Naseer: Why was terrorist free to walk British streets? Questions raised
over UK bomb plotter;
Pakistani-born Abid Naseer, 28, was part of a terror plot planning attacks on
both sides of the Atlantic to rival the 9/11 atrocity

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 885 words


Police chiefs have questioned why an al Qaida terrorist was not prosecuted in
the UK after planning to kill hundreds of people in Greater Manchester.

Pakistani-born Abid Naseer, 28, was part of a terror plot planning attacks on
both sides of the Atlantic to rival the 9/11 atrocity.

He was convicted by a jury in a court in New York, after being extradited to the
US almost five years after he was first arrested by counter-terrorism police in
the UK in 2009.

The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) defended its decision not to charge him but
questions have been raised why the terrorist was free to be "walking our
streets" until prosecuted by the Americans.

Tony Lloyd, police and crime commissioner for Greater Manchester, said: "The
reality is that, had the Americans not acted, a dangerous man who was intent on
causing death and destruction here in Greater Manchester could potentially still
be walking our streets.

"This is deeply worrying and I will be raising this issue with the Home
Secretary because we need real assurances that whatever went wrong here is never
repeated.

"The work by police and security services in this case has been tremendous. This
investigation ensured that potentially hundreds of people were not killed on the
streets of Greater Manchester. I have no doubt that lives were saved.

"However there are real questions that need to be answered about why Abid Naseer
had to be tried in a court in New York rather than here in Britain.

"His conviction shows there was a strong and compelling case that he is a
dangerous terrorist, which is why he is likely to rightly serve a long sentence.

"But we should not have had to wait for the Americans to step in to extradite
Abid Naseer. The public will want to know why he wasn't brought to trial here."

After his arrest police submitted a file to the CPS but it was deemed there was
not enough evidence to prosecute him.

The Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police (GMP) Sir Peter Fahy told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme: "We did absolutely think he should have been
prosecuted here.

"We put evidence in front of the Crown Prosecution Service, but at the end of
the day we have an independent system in this country and that is their
decision.

"I had to be driven at the time by the need to protect the people of Greater
Manchester, and the difficulty we had was because we were very concerned about
the nature of the threat that was being run and governed by a foreign terrorist
organisation, and because we were unsure at the time about exactly what was
going to happen, we had to intervene early to disrupt the plot.

"That obviously meant we didn't have all the evidence we might have had later in
the investigation."

Sir Peter added: "We are obviously pleased now that a conviction has arisen, but
the case does need to be reviewed. It was part of this balance between security
and liberty, when you are faced with this kind of threat, but at the same time,
obviously, we have to abide by the rules of prosecution in this country,
otherwise we are undermining the very rights and freedom that we are trying to
protect.

"There was a robust debate at the time and we put in a lot of challenge. But you
have also got to take into account that the Americans have been able to draw
together further evidence since our investigation, including the evidence from
(Osama) bin Laden's house. We accept that - that's why we have an independent
prosecution service."

The CPS said the evidence against Naseer at the time was not enough to put
before a jury.

"The evidence in our possession in relation to Abid Naseer which would have been
admissible in a criminal court was very limited," said a spokeswoman.

"Crucially, there was no evidence of training, research or the purchasing of
explosives.

"We had no evidence of an agreement between Abid Naseer and others which would
have supported a charge of conspiracy in this country.

"The evidence used by the US authorities to extradite a suspect does not need to
meet the same tests as set out in the Code for Crown Prosecutors."

Detective Chief Superintendent Tony Mole of GMP said he wanted to reassure the
public of its safety after locations in the city were mentioned during the trial
as potential targets.

"Throughout his trial, a number of locations in Manchester were mentioned as
potential targets for Naseer. I want to stress that these locations were part of
a plot that is now six years old.

"There is no current intelligence or evidence to suggest any of these locations
are under threat or at risk of a terrorist attack.

"I want shoppers and residents to be reassured by that and continue to use the
shopping facilities in Manchester without fear or trepidation."

After his extradition, Naseer pleaded not guilty to providing and conspiring to
provide material support to al Qaida and conspiring to use a destructive device.

During the trial at Brooklyn Federal Court, MI5 agents testified wearing
disguises and the trial marked the first time documents recovered in the 2009
Navy Seal raid against bin Laden's compound were used as trial evidence.

Most of the case hinged on email exchanges in 2009 between Naseer and a person
described by prosecutors as an al Qaida handler who was directing plots to
attack civilians in Manchester, New York City and Copenhagen.

Naseer faces a life sentence in a US jail.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 5, 2015 Thursday 5:06 PM GMT

Police chiefs question why Abid Naseer was not prosecuted in the UK;
Police chiefs question why Abid Naseer, who was part of a terror plot planning
attacks on both sides of the Atlantic, was not prosecuted in the UK after the
Crown Prosecution Service decided not to charge him

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and AP, video source ITN

LENGTH: 343 words


A row has erupted between police and prosecutors over the failure to bring
charges in the British courts against an al Qaida terrorist who plotted to blow
up a Manchester shopping centre .

Pakistani-born Abid Naseer, 28, was convicted by court in Brooklyn, New York,
yesterday of being part of a transatlantic conspiracy, almost six years after he
was arrested in Manchester in a major counter-terrorism operation.

Officers involved in the original investigation said they had all believed he
should have been charged in the UK, but complained they were overruled by the
Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which decided there was insufficient evidence.

Greater Manchester police and crime commissioner Tony Lloyd said it was "deeply
worrying" that Nasser could still be walking the British streets if the
Americans had not moved to extradite him.

He said he would be raising the case with Home Secretary Theresa May to ensure
that "whatever went wrong here" could never happen again.

However the CPS said it had "nowhere near" the evidence available to the US
authorities and complained that - contrary to normal practice - the police had
not involved it in the case until after Naseer was arrested.

Naseer was originally detained in 2009 during the Operation Paveway raids
carried out by counter-terrorism police, only to be released after the CPS
decided there was insufficient evidence to prosecute and an attempt to deport
him failed.

He was subsequently made the subject of a control order and then taken back into
custody while the US authorities launched extradition proceedings.

Greater Manchester Chief Constable Sir Peter Fahy said there had been a "robust
debate" as to whether charges could be brought in the UK.

"We did absolutely think he should have been prosecuted here. We put evidence in
front of the Crown Prosecution Service, but at the end of the day we have an
independent system in this country and that is their decision," he told the BBC
Radio 4 Today programme.

"There was a robust debate at the time and we put in a lot of challenge."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

Security service says thwarted two terror attacks in south Ukraine

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 6 March: The Security Service of Ukraine [SBU] has prevented two terrorist
attacks in Kherson.

The crime was to be committed by members of the so-called Russian Orthodox Army,
an illegal anti-Ukrainian armed group, the SBU's press centre has reported,
quoting Markiyan Lubkivskyy, an aide to the SBU's head.

The militants were plotting to blow up the offices of two Ukrainian public
organizations in Kherson using almost 3 kg of a plastic explosive. The crime was
being prepared on the social networking websites, which is standard practice for
terrorists and saboteurs. Mercenaries fighting in the ranks of the illegal armed
groups in eastern Ukraine are recruited in the same way.

A courier who had to bring the explosive to Kherson was detained in Odessa. He
is a citizen of Ukraine. Born in Donetsk in 1963, he has been living in Odessa
since 2000. A bag with the explosive was seized.

Crimes like this are instigated from Russia, including through the social
networking websites, and are, as a rule, committed by traitors living on the
temporarily occupied territories, the SBU said.

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1943 gmt 6 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 6, 2015 Friday 6:09 PM GMT

Legal loophole allowing drones to fly with impunity over Balmoral and Chequers;

Criminals and terrorists could launch an attack or steal vital information,
security experts warn

BYLINE: Jamie Merrill

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 768 words


Security measures protecting the Prime Minister and the Royal Family have been
called into question, after it was a revealed a legal loophole allows civilian
drones to fly over sensitive sites across the country.

The loophole in Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) rules means that despite obvious
security concerns, it is legal to operate an unmanned aerial vehicle over
numerous Government and royal sites, including the Prime Minister's country
retreat at Chequers and the Balmoral and Sandringham estates.

Security experts reacted with alarm to the loophole last night amid suggestions
that criminals and terrorists could use drone technology to launch an attack or
gain vital information on the movements of the Prime Minister or Royal Family.

There have been repeated calls for more drone regulation in recent months after
suggestions terrorists could use drones to deliver explosive devices, disperse
chemical or biological weapons or even spray and ignite flammable liquids.

Buildings not covered by Civil Aviation Authority rules

Most recently, these concerns were raised in a report produced by Sir David
Omand the former head of Britain's surveillance agency GCHQ. However, The
Independent has established that drone flights are still permitted over several
royal homes, including Highgrove House, the country home of the Prince of Wales,
as well as the grace-and-favour homes used by the Deputy Prime Minister and
Foreign Secretary.

More worryingly for the security services, drone flights are also permitted over
GCHQ in Cheltenham, from where Britain's surveillance agencies monitor global
signals traffic.

Last night, Admiral Lord West, a former Labour security minister and senior
Royal Navy officer, said the loophole was a "great concern" and that the
Government should "take action urgently".

CAA rules do ban drones from congested urban areas, nuclear power plants,
military sites, high-security prisons and airports, while elsewhere they must
remain at least 50m away from any person, building or vehicle and are not
allowed to go above 122m in attitude. However there have been calls for rules to
be toughened and this week a House of Lords report called for "geo-fencing" to
hardwire "no-fly" zones into drones.

Professor David H Dunn, head of Political Science at Birmingham University, who
contributed to Sir Omand's report last year, said that the "rapidly expanding"
availability of drones posed a "major security risk". "The danger is twofold.
Firstly, criminals and terrorists could use drone technology as lookouts to
observe the Prime Minister or the Royal Family, giving them real-time
intelligence on where to strike. The Prime Minister's protection is based on the
concept of security by seclusion, loitering drones take that away.

"Then there's the risk that terrorists could use a drone to deploy a weapon and
that could be as simple as spray a vapour of petroleum then igniting it to
devastating effect. Police are not geared up for that and drones are almost
untraceable."

Read more:Inquiry calls for app to track suspicious dronesFrance acts to halt
rise of drone flights over 'sensitive areas'Stunning drone footage captures
iconic London landmark

His concern was echoed by Professor Anthony Glees, from the Centre for Security
and Intelligence Studies, who said he was particularly shocked that drone
flights were permitted over GCHQ. He said: "It's surprising that at a time of
considerable security anxiety we should continue to operate our national
communications centre as if we were living in the peaceful days after the Cold
War. Even a small incident there could be massively disruptive."

The risk from drone was put in sharp focus this week after French police said
they were considering deploying radio-jamming devices and water cannon to
protest sensitive sites after 60 illegal flights over nuclear submarine bases,
nuclear power plants and the Elysée Palace.

In Britain, the CAA is currently investigating four serious breaches of existing
drone regulation. It will not confirm the nature of the breaches, however it is
understood at least one relates to flights over central London reported last
month, while another is thought to relate to an incident last July when a drone
flew within 6m of an Airbus A320 as it landed at Heathrow Airport.

A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police Service ﻿said that it "works with the
CAA and other policing partners to ensure that there is a cohesive and
proportionate response to the negligent, malicious or reckless use of unmanned
aerial vehicles". "When an allegation of crime involving a UAV is made, it will
be thoroughly investigated."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                              March 6, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Convicted terrorist may have plotted Liverpool attack;
Ex-JMU student planned bomb blast atrocities

BYLINE: HELEN DAVIES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 574 words


ECHO Reporter helen.davies@trinitymirror.com helenafdavies @ A TERRORIST who
enrolled at Liverpool John Moores University to get his visa has been found
guilty by a US jury.

Abid Naseer, 28, was suspected of plotting terror attacks in Manchester, New
York and Denmark.

The al-Qaida member may also have examined Liverpool One shopping centre as a
potential target.

Naseer, 28, who acted as his own lawyer during the trial in New York and had
pleaded not guilty to the charges, faces a possible life sentence.

During the trial, four MI5 agents - who were disguised using make-up - described
weeks of surveillance they conducted on Naseer in 2009, including movements to
and from an Islamic centre A still from a ¦ ¦surveillance video made in 2009,
showing Abid Naseer, right, talking on a phone while walking along a street in
Manchester and a cyber cafe. Pakistaniborn Naseer, who said he travelled to
England to take computer science classes, was extradited from the UK to the
United States in 2013.

Police chiefs have questioned why an al-Qaida terrorist was not prosecuted in
the UK after planning to kill hundreds of people on Britain's streets.

Naseer was convicted by a jury in a court in New York yesterday, after being
extradited to the US almost five years after he was first arrested in the UK in
2009.

The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) defended its decision not to charge him but
questions have been raised why the terrorist was free to be "walking our
streets" until prosecuted by the Americans.

Tony Lloyd, police and crime commissioner for Greater Manchester, said: "The
reality is that, had the Americans not acted, a dangerous man who was intent on
causing death and destruction here in Greater Manchester could potentially still
be walking our streets.

"This is deeply worrying and I will be raising this issue with the Home
Secretary because we need real assurances that whatever went wrong here is never
repeated.

"The work by police and security services in this case has been tremendous. This
investigation ensured that potentially hundreds of people were not killed on the
streets of Greater Manchester. I have no doubt that lives were saved.

"However, there are real questions that need to be answered about why Abid
Naseer had to be tried in a court in New York rather than here in Britain. His
conviction shows there was a strong and compelling case that he is a dangerous
terrorist, which is why he is likely to rightly serve a long sentence.

"But we should not have had to wait for the Americans to step in to extradite
Abid Naseer. The public will want to know why he wasn't brought to trial here."

After his arrest, police submitted a file to the CPS, but it was subsequently
deemed there was not enough evidence to prosecute.

The Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police, (GMP), Sir Peter Fahy, told
BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We did absolutely think he should have been
prosecuted here.

"We put evidence in front of the Crown Prosecution Service, but at the end of
the day we have an independent system in this country and that is their
decision."

After his extradition, Naseer pleaded not guilty to providing and conspiring to
provide material support to al-Qaida and conspiring to use a destructive device.

Most of the case hinged on email exchanges in 2009 between Naseer and a person
described by prosecutors as an al-Qaida handler who was directing plots to
attack civilians in Manchester, New York City and Copenhagen.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtroom ¦ ¦ drawing shows Abid Naseer listening to the guilty verdict
against him in New York

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 6, 2015 Friday 12:28 AM GMT

Why could U.S. prosecute bomb plotter when Britain couldn't? Questions asked
after CPS freed Al Qaeda ringleader now convicted of plot for biggest terror
attack since 9/11

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE and JAMES SLACK, HOME AFFAIRS EDITOR FOR
THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2295 words



     ·    Abid Naseer, 28, was found yesterday found guilty in an American court
     ·    Police in Britain arrested him in 2009 over Manchester and New York
          plots
     ·    But CPS said there was not enough evidence to convict him in UK court
     ·    Attempt to deport Pakistani Naseer failed and he was freed on to
          streets
     ·    Four years later US authorities extradited him and put him on trial
     ·    UK police say CPS potentially 'risked lives' and decision needs
          probing
     ·    Naseer faces life in US jail after convictions for three terror
          offences


Lives were put in danger because prosecutors refused to bring charges against an
Al Qaeda fanatic who wanted to blow up a shopping centre, police said yesterday.

Officers heaped criticism on the Crown Prosecution Service after Abid Naseer was
convicted of the plot to cause mass casualties by a court in America.

The CPS had insisted the 'limited' evidence against him was insufficient to
secure a conviction in the UK.

He was then released on to Britain's streets despite having the capacity to
kill, police said. It was left to the US to step in and extradite the
Pakistani-born terrorist.

A jury in New York took little over a day to find him guilty of planning to
attack Manchester's Arndale Centre after MI5 officers flew to the US to give
evidence in disguise.

US prosecutors said his 2009 plot to detonate a car bomb outside the glass
frontage of a branch of Next, with suicide bombers stationed at exits to kill
shoppers, would have brought 'carnage' to the city.

Yesterday retired detective chief inspector Allan Donoghue, who was deputy
commander of the operation, said there was no doubt he should have been
prosecuted here.

He said: 'The whole command team believed that there was sufficient evidence. He
was a threat. He was a risk. He had the potential to kill.'

Tony Lloyd, Greater Manchester's police and crime commissioner, demanded to know
why the CPS had taken the 'deeply worrying' decision to abandon the case against
Naseer.

He said: 'This investigation ensured that potentially hundreds of people were
not killed on the streets of Greater Manchester. I have no doubt that lives were
saved.

'However there are real questions that need to be answered about why Abid Naseer
had to be tried in a court in New York rather than here in Britain.

'His conviction shows there was a strong and compelling case that he is a
dangerous terrorist, which is why he is likely to rightly serve a long sentence.
But we should not have had to wait for the Americans to step in to extradite
Abid Naseer.'

Sir Peter Fahy, the Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police, said: 'We did
absolutely think he should have been prosecuted here. We put evidence in front
of the CPS, but at the end of the day we have an independent system in this
country and that is their decision. We are obviously pleased now that a
conviction has arisen, but the case does need to be reviewed.'

Naseer, who entered Britain on a student visa, was arrested in 2009 during a
series of police raids.

The operation took place after senior counter-terrorism officer Bob Quick was
pictured walking into Downing Street with details of the planned operation.

But police insist the blunder had no impact on the amount of evidence collected.
The CPS concluded that although the evidence against Naseer was admissible, it
was 'very limited'.

TIMELINE: HOW NASEER WAS FREED IN UK BUT CONVICTED IN AMERICA

April 2009: Abid Naseer is arrested with 11 others in police raids in Manchester
and Liverpool counter-terrorism officers thought a terror attack was imminent.

Two weeks later all were released because the CPS said the evidence compiled
over several months was not enough for a conviction.

May 2010: Naseer, who was put forward for deportation, is not sent back to
Pakistan and freed from custody.

July 2010: United States announces it wants to put Naseer and four others on
trial and applies for extradition.

January 2013: After a series of appeals Naseer, who said going to America would
breach his human rights, is told he cannot avoid extradition and will be sent to
the United States.

March 2015: Jury in New York agrees Naseer was found guilty of all three counts
of providing material support to Al Qaeda and conspiracy to use a destructive
device.

Retired Detective Chief Inspector Allan Donoghue, who was second in command on
the counter-terrorism operation that investigated Naseer, said the decision not
to charge him was 'wrong'.

'The whole command team believed that there was sufficient evidence. And these
were people who were senior police officers with a vast amount of experience in
investigations and in counter-terrorism,' he told the BBC.

'And every one of them believed that this man should have been charged in
Manchester. He (Naseer) was a threat. He was a risk. He had the potential to
kill people.'

Det Supt Smith of Greater Manchester Police said the decision to arrest him
saved dozens of British lives.

He said: 'I was convinced from the outset that Abid Naseer is a terrorist sent
to the UK by Al Qaeda to the UK to carry out an attack.

'Every day since that time I've thought about this case and wondered exactly
what would have happened if we didn't detain him. I've always been convinced
that we prevented an atrocity in Manchester.'

After an attempt to deport him failed, the 28-year-old was released and put
under a control order. At this point, the US stepped in and requested his
extradition.

He was put on a plane to New York, where the law allows for suspects to be
prosecuted for alleged acts on foreign soil, in 2013.

US prosecutors argued he was also part of a wider conspiracy to carry out
bombings in Denmark and America in an attempt to repeat the devastation of the
9/11 attacks.

The jury also heard evidence linking him with declassified documents recovered
by the US military from Osama Bin Laden's compound.

A CPS spokesman said yesterday: 'The evidence in our possession in relation to
Abid Naseer which would have been admissible in a criminal court was very
limited.

'Crucially, there was no evidence of training, research or the purchasing of
explosives.'

Naseer, who is expected to receive a life sentence, is planning to appeal.

He acted as his own lawyer throughout the trial, often referring to himself in
the third person as he set about portraying himself as a moderate Muslim who was
falsely accused.

'Abid is innocent,' Naseer said in closing arguments on Monday, adding: 'He is
not a terrorist. He is not an Al Qaeda operative.'

There are real questions that need to be answered about why Abid Naseer had to
be tried in a court in New York rather than here in Britain. We should not have
had to wait for the Americans to step in to extradite Naseer. The public will
want to know why he wasn't brought to trial here Tony Lloyd, police and crime
commissioner for Greater Manchester

In her closing argument, assistant US attorney Zainab Ahmed told jurors the
arrests of Naseer and other members of his cell averted mass murder.

'If the defendant hadn't been stopped, hundreds of innocent men, women and
children wouldn't be alive today,' she said.

During the trial MI5 agents testified wearing disguises and the trial marked the
first time documents recovered in the 2009 Navy Seal raid against Osama bin
Laden's compound were used as trial evidence.

Most of the case hinged on email exchanges in 2009 between Naseer and a person
described by prosecutors as an Al Qaeda handler who was directing plots to
attack civilians in Manchester, New York City and Copenhagen.

Naseer insisted the emails consisted only of harmless banter about looking for a
potential bride after going to England to take computer science classes.

He 'wanted to settle down', he said, adding: 'Is there anything wrong with
that?'

But the prosecutor accused Naseer of lying on the witness stand by claiming the
women he wrote about were real.

She said the women's names were actually code for home-made bomb ingredients:
Nadia stood for ammonium nitrate and Huma for hydrogen peroxide.

The prosecutor dismissed Naseer's explanations as 'blather', saying: 'This man
wanted to drive a car bomb into a crowded shopping centre and watch people die.'

Naseer was found guilty of all three counts of providing material support to Al
Qaeda and conspiracy to use a destructive device.

Naseer's father Nasrullah Jan Khattak told the BBC: 'He was a good boy. I'm not
saying that because I'm his father, he really was a good boy. He used to go to
the mosque and he played a lot of cricket. There was nothing suspicious about
Abid.

'Only God can tell you why this tragedy happened. He was religious, he was
quiet, and I think because of his clothes and his beard he was pulled into this
mess by the authorities.'

HEAD OF A UK CELL ON A STUDENT VISA: HOW ABID NASEER CAME TO ENGLAND TO STUDY...
AND PLOT A 9/11-STYLE TERROR ATTACK

Bookish, cricket-loving college student Abid Naseer came to England to study and
learn - while plotting a terror attack to rival 9/11.

Naseer, 28, was the head of a UK-based cell of young al Qaeda recruits under
orders to infiltrate and attack Western society.

They planned the biggest operation since the Twin Towers were brought down in
2001, with a shopping centre in Manchester and the New York subway among the
targets.

His trial at the District Federal Court in Brooklyn heard evidence linking him
with declassified documents seized during the US Navy Seal raid in 2011 that
left the al Qaeda leader and figurehead Osama bin Laden dead.

Naseer grew up in Peshawar, Pakistan, in a wealthy, middle-class family, his
father working as a government contractor and property developer.

They were moderates and he never thought much about politics, he claimed.

But he became more religious aged around 16, joining Tablighi Jamaat, a
grassroots religious organisation he claimed gave him more discipline in life.

He came to the UK in 2006 aged 19 on a student visa, he said to improve his
English language and study computer science at a college in Manchester, living
in the Cheetham Hill area of the city, with its large Pakistani population.

Naseer told the US court he quite liked living in the UK with its religious
freedoms, that terrorism was incompatible with Islam and he came to study, not
attack the West.

He acted as his own defence lawyer because, he told the jury, he 'wanted the
people to hear my voice and hear my story', which was that the man before them
was just an innocent overseas student, who enjoyed playing cricket, watching
films, attending mosque and chatting to girls online.

He worked as a security guard and spent time on the internet on sites such as
Qiran.com as part of his quest to find a woman to marry.

But his real goal was to wreak devastation on the country that had given him a
new home, the jury was told.

Naseer and the Manchester cell, the court heard, were designed to blend in,
conduct reconnaissance and pick the best target.

An email sent by Naseer suggested he was planning a niqah - an Islamic marriage
ceremony - on Easter weekend 2009, a message the prosecution alleged was
actually a coded description of the attack.

Though the British plot has not been fully outlined, the US court was shown
photographs found on a computer drive of one of his friends, showing dozens of
images of the Arndale Centre in Manchester - the alleged target.

The centre had previously been the target of an IRA bomb attack in 1996.

Large quantities of cooking oil and flour were found in Naseer's kitchen,
materials prosecutors said could be used to make a bomb.

Naseer, in contrast, said he was planning a wedding.

He objected several times during the trial when evidence was given by the first
prosecution witness, former New York resident Najibullah Zazi, who had pleaded
guilty to involvement in the New York City part of the plot, which targeted the
subways.

The court heard about his emails to a friend who used the address
sana-pakhtana@yahoo.com

He was cross-examined for two days as prosecutor Celia Cohen picked holes in his
testimony until he had to concede that the only people corresponding with
sana-pakhtana were himself and admitted Al Qaeda operative, Zazi, who had
confessed that the email address was that of his Al Qaeda contact.

Naseer had been under surveillance by MI5 as the plot unfolded.

British spies, who wore wigs and glasses to protect their identity in court,
told how an agent followed Naseer onto a coach and observed him watching a
mobile phone video of the 9/11 attacks.

He was originally arrested with 11 others in police raids in Manchester and
Liverpool in April 2009.

MI5 was forced to swoop early after then Metropolitan Police assistant
commissioner Bob Quick accidentally showed secret documents with details of the
plan to photographers outside Downing Street.

At the time, Naseer's father, Nasrullah Jan Khattak, said his son was innocent.

Speaking to reporters outside his home in Peshawar, Pakistan, Mr Khattak said:
'This is all about his prayers and his beard.

'I am his father and I know him. He is not involved in any mysterious plot. We
have done nothing wrong. We have nothing to hide.'

After no explosives were found, the men were released without being charged but
ordered to leave the country, a fate Naseer avoided after a judge ruled it was
likely he would be mistreated if he were sent to Pakistan.

Naseer was rearrested in July 2010 at the request of US prosecutors and in
January 2011 his extradition across the Atlantic was approved.

He spent the next two years fighting the decision, going to the European Court
of Human Rights after exhausting his domestic appeal options.

But the Strasbourg court threw out his case in December 2012, paving the way for
his extradition, which took place in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 7, 2015 Saturday 2:10 PM GMT

Mali nightclub attack: EU citizens among five dead after attackers storm club;
Officials say shooting may be a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 239 words


Three EU citizens are believed to be among five people killed after gunmen armed
with a machine gun and grenades stormed a nightclub in Mali.

A French man was shot dead at the La Terrasse bar in the capital of Bamako and
two Malian men were shot and fatally wounded as the gunmen fled the building.
One of the Malian men is understood to be a police officer.

A Belgian man was killed when a grenade was thrown at his car and a third
European national died in hospital, according to the BBC.  At least eight people
have been injured.

Witnesses say the attackers shouted "Allahu Akbar" (God is great). Officials
told Reuters two people had been arrested in connection with the attacks,
although little is known about the identity of the suspects.

President Francois Hollande said in a statement on Saturday that security had
immediately been tightened around French facilities while the embassy set up a
crisis cell to help expatriates.

World News in Pictures

The bar, in the busy Hippodrome district, is reportedly popular with
expatriates.

Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius condemned the "cowardly" attack and confirmed
one man had been killed in a statement on Saturday.

He warned the shooting strengthened France's resolve to "fight terrorism in all
its forms".

Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders also denounced the violence and said it
may have been a terrorist attack.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Legal loophole allows drones to fly with impunity over Balmoral and Chequers;
Criminals and terrorists could launch an attack or steal vital information,
security experts warn. JAMIE MERRILL reports

BYLINE: JAMIE MERRILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words


Security measures protecting the Prime Minister and the Royal Family have been
called into question, after it was revealed a legal loophole allows civilian
drones to fly over sensitive sites across the country.

The loophole in Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) rules means that despite obvious
security concerns, it is legal to operate an unmanned aerial vehicle over
numerous Government and royal sites, including the Prime Minister's country
retreat at Chequers and the Balmoral and Sandringham estates.

Security experts reacted with alarm to the loophole last night amid suggestions
that criminals and terrorists could use drone technology to launch an attack or
gain vital information on the movements of the Prime Minister or Royal Family.

There have been repeated calls for more drone regulation in recent months after
suggestions terrorists could use drones to deliver explosive devices, disperse
chemical or biological weapons or even spray and ignite flammable liquids.

Most recently, these concerns were raised in a report produced by Sir David
Omand the former head of Britain's surveillance agency GCHQ. However, The
Independent has established that drone flights are still permitted over several
royal homes, including Highgrove House, the country home of the Prince of Wales,
as well as the grace-and-favour homes used by the Deputy Prime Minister and
Foreign Secretary.

More worryingly for the security services, drone flights are also permitted over
GCHQ in Cheltenham, from where Britain's surveillance agencies monitor global
signals traffic.

Last night, Admiral Lord West, a former Labour security minister and senior
Royal Navy officer, said the loophole was a "great concern" and that the
Government should "take action urgently".

CAA rules do ban drones from congested urban areas, nuclear power plants,
military sites, high-security prisons and airports, while elsewhere they must
remain at least 50m away from any person, building or vehicle and are not
allowed to go above 122m in attitude. However there have been calls for rules to
be toughened and this week a House of Lords report called for "geo-fencing" to
hardwire "no-fly" zones into drones.

Professor David H Dunn, head of Political Science at Birmingham University, who
contributed to Sir Omand's report last year, said that the "rapidly expanding"
availability of drones posed a "major security risk". "The danger is twofold.
Firstly, criminals and terrorists could use drone technology as lookouts to
observe the Prime Minister or the Royal Family, giving them real-time
intelligence on where to strike. The Prime Minister's protection is based on the
concept of security by seclusion, loitering drones take that away.

"Then there's the risk that terrorists could use a drone to deploy a weapon and
that could be as simple as spray a vapour of petroleum then igniting it to
devastating effect. Police are not geared up for that and drones are almost
untraceable."

His concern was echoed by Professor Anthony Glees, from the Centre for Security
and Intelligence Studies, who said he was particularly shocked that drone
flights were permitted over GCHQ. He said: "It's surprising that at a time of
considerable security anxiety we should continue to operate our national
communications centre as if we were living in the peaceful days after the Cold
War. Even a small incident there could be massively disruptive."

The risk from drone was put in sharp focus this week after French police said
they were considering deploying radio-jamming devices and water cannon to
protest sensitive sites after 60 illegal flights over nuclear submarine bases,
nuclear power plants and the Elysée Palace.

In Britain, the CAA is currently investigating four serious breaches of existing
drone regulation. It will not confirm the nature of the breaches, however it is
understood at least one relates to flights over central London reported last
month, while another is thought to relate to an incident last July when a drone
flew within 6m of an Airbus A320 as it landed at Heathrow Airport.

A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police Service ?said that it "works with the
CAA and other policing partners to ensure that there is a cohesive and
proportionate response to the negligent, malicious or reckless use of unmanned
aerial vehicles". "When an allegation of crime involving a UAV is made, it will
be thoroughly investigated."

SENSITIVE SITES

BUILDINGS NOT COVERED BY CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY RULES

Balmoral Castle

One of the residences of the Royal Family in Royal Deeside, Aberdeenshire

GCHQ

Headquarters of the intelligence and security organisation, known as 'The
Doughnut', in Cheltenham

Chevening House

Large country house in Sevenoaks, Kent, is an official residence of the Foreign
Secretary

Dorneywood

The house in Buckinghamshire used as a grace-and-favour home by the Chancellor
George Osborne

Chequers

The country house near Ellesborough in Buckinghamshire, a private retreat of the
Prime Minister

Sandringham House

The Grade II*-listed country house in Norfolk is a private retreat for the Queen

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       March 7, 2015 Saturday 8:07 PM GMT

Brit terror attack risk as airport customs officer offers to NOT check bags for
£10 bribe;
Footage obtained by the Sunday Mirror captures the Pakistani aviation official
at Islamabad Airport telling a British traveller he won't check his luggage if
he pays him

BYLINE: By Simon Wright

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


Customs officer tells traveller: 'Pay £10 bribe and your bags won't be searched'
at Islamabad airport - Sunday Mirror

A customs officer risks a deadly terror attack on a plane bound for Britain - in
exchange for a £10 backhander.

Footage obtained by the Sunday Mirror captures the Pakistani aviation official
at Islamabad Airport telling a British traveller he won't check his luggage if
he pays him the bribe.

He says: "Sort me out and I'll look after you as well. Give me £10."

The man's luggage was later loaded on to an Emirates Boeing 777 with 350
passengers and crew on board, bound for Birmingham via Dubai.

The damning footage has horrified security experts. Philip Baum, editor of
Aviation Security magazine, called for an urgent enquiry and said: "It is
shocking and extremely worrying."

And the Department for Transport is now demanding the Pakistani authorities take
immediate action.

Security at Islamabad's Benazir Bhutto International Airport should be the
tightest in the world.

It is the gateway to Europe for terrorists and drug smugglers, many from
neighbouring Afghanistan. Hundreds of thousands of people en route to the UK
pass through it every year.

The three-minute video was filmed by a Birmingham businessman who was tipped off
about airport bribery by Pakistani relatives before he returned home on February
23.

As he pushed his three large suitcases towards the departures desks he was
immediately approached by one of several uniformed officials responsible for
checking luggage.

Speaking in Urdu, the official goes through the usual check-in questions, then
says: "Do you want us not to open the suitcases?"

The businessman replies: "If you want to check, you're more than welcome. That's
your right. Please check them. I'm getting late."

Glancing around nervously, the official says: "Checking is compulsory. But if
you give me a drink, we won't open your bags.

"Sort me out and I'll look after you as well."

The passenger asks: "A drink? How much are you after?"

The official replies: "Give me £10."

The businessman refuses to pay and insists his bags are checked as the angry
official moves on to other travellers.

In 2008 it was revealed that 22 of the 30 terror plots foiled in the UK had been
planned in Pakistan.

On a visit to Islamabad that year, Gordon Brown pledged £6million to fight
extremism and improve airport security.

Back home this week, the businessman, who did not want to be named, said: "I
fitted the stereotype.

"I was a Pakistani man, travelling alone, in a hurry. I could have been a
terrorist."

A Transport spokesman said: "This footage is extremely concerning and we are
glad it has been brought to our attention.

"We are contacting the Islamabad authorities and will make clear we expect them
to investigate this as a matter of urgency."

Mr Baum added: "Normally, the worry centres around baggage handlers or catering
staff.

"For a uniformed border official to be taking bribes is a huge cause for
concern.

An urgent enquiry is needed." Is security at airports tough enough?

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                      March 7, 2015 Saturday 10:48 PM GMT

Tory cuts will increase risk of terror attacks - police chief;
Sir Hugh Orde, outgoing president of Acpo, fears policing system is nearing a
'tipping point' if resources continue to be reduced

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey policy editor

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 914 words


The British state will no longer be able adequately to protect the public from
criminals and the growing threat of homegrown terrorists if the Conservatives
push through their plans to cut further into police numbers, the outgoing leader
of the country's chief constables has told the Observer.

Sir Hugh Orde, the retiring president of the Association of Chief Police
Officers (Acpo), the body responsible for the strategic coordination of police
forces in times of national emergency, claimed that under Tory plans to take
another 20% from the police budget on re-election, the risk to citizens would
rise "exponentially".

The coalition has already slashed the police budget by around 26% over the last
five years, at a cost of 35,000 officers, and has signalled its intention to
maintain that rate of cuts.

New figures from the House of Commons library show that if Tory spending cuts
announced in last year's autumn statement - which would lead to public spending
falling to just 35% of GDP - were applied equally across un-ringfenced
departments, they would lead to the loss of 29,900 police officers and 6,700
community support officers by 2019/20, bringing the ratio of officers to
population to its lowest level since records began.

On Saturday it emerged that forces were already drafting radical plans to deal
with next year's cuts.

In the face of the significant growing threats from terrorism and cybercrime,
Orde admitted he now had doubts that the state would any longer be able to
fulfil its fundamental obligation to keep the public safe if further policing
cuts of the size proposed were made.

He said that wider cuts to the public services had already put an increased
burden on the police as a "service of last resort", with officers having to fill
in for ambulance crews and deal with those let down by depleted mental health
care.

Orde, who said he had concerns about the future of community policing, said:
"The police force is shrinking and the population is growing. And the diversity
and the complexity of the population is growing at the same time.

"The notion that you can take money out of policing and numbers out of policing
without increasing the risk exponentially is flawed. The question is, where is
the tipping point? My sense is that it is getting very close.

"The bit I struggle with is when spending on police is 0.89% of public
expenditure, if you take 26% out of that, and then another 20% out, there is a
question about the state's responsibility for citizens' security. I think that
will need to be seriously considered by whoever comes to power."

Asked whether the police would have sufficient resources to adequately protect
the public in the face of such cuts, Orde, who left Acpo two weeks ago, said:
"In my professional judgment the answer is no.

"I think there are ways we can minimise the impact, some of which requires
political leadership that is absent. The force structure is now fundamentally
flawed: 44 police forces is far too many. Collaboration, which is the current
government's solution, is important, but it is faintly ridiculous to think that
all this huge bureaucracy of getting agreement across forces, and across police
and crime commissioners, will deliver a consistent and efficient police service.
It is just not going to happen.

"The last defence the home secretary mounted of why she wouldn't [merge forces]
was at the superintendents' conference last year which was a hopeless defence.

"In Scotland, Sir Stephen House is one chief constable, he has amalgamated eight
forces. He is still delivering, crime is at an all-time low, their confidence is
at an all-time high. It is a bizarre obsession with cap badges."

Orde, who took over at Acpo after seven years as chief constable of the Police
Service of Northern Ireland, said he was particularly concerned at how a
depleted unreformed police force would be able to deal with "disorganised
terrorism".

He said: "No one is saying policing should be exempt from cuts and we have
proved we can deliver. The question is how much further can one go.

"If one looks at the emerging threats to the citizens: the disorganised, almost
franchisee terrorist, who decides today to be a member of al-Qaida who goes on
the internet to create some device and plant it in a shopping centre, is a very
different animal to deal with. Dying was never part of the plan with the IRA.
Which makes it a completely different threat that requires huge resource.

"The critical element, it seems to me, with dealing with people who will start
to behave differently in their communities is the confidence in that community
to speak to the local cops. If the cops aren't there and that relationship has
not been built we won't get the intelligence."

Orde admitted that relations between the police and the home secretary, Theresa
May, had been strained in recent years. He claimed that tensions about the
tactics used during the 2011 riots had exacerbated the situation, with ministers
questioning why baton rounds (plastic bullets) were not being used on rioters.

He said: "To use excessive force in what was a unique experience even in our
history, to overreact by using excessive force, will cost the service for the
next three, four, five generations. Baton rounds were raised [by ministers]. If
you look at the YouGov polls most citizens would happily have us shoot them.
With leadership, the role is sometimes not doing what the citizen wants and
therefore what their representatives want."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 7, 2015 Saturday 8:18 PM GMT

Five dead including Frenchman and Belgian in Mali restaurant terror attack;
French and Belgian nationals and three locals dead after suspect opened fire on
restaurant in the capital

BYLINE: By David Chazan Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 520 words


A hooded assailant has killed five people including a Frenchman and a Belgian in
a gun and grenade attack on a nightclub popular with expatriates in Mali's
capital Bamako.

A policeman, a security guard and a young woman were the three Malians who died.

The attacker shouted "Allahu akbar" (Arabic for 'God is great') as he burst into
the nightclub, La Terrasse, at about one am and sprayed bullets from an
automatic rifle, witnesses said.

French troops intervened in the west African country two years ago against
groups linked with al-Qaeda.

The Frenchman was shot dead in the first-floor bar. The Belgian, a security
officer with the European Union delegation in Bamako, was killed in front of his
house in a nearby street as the attacker made his getaway in a car driven by an
accomplice who also wore a hood concealing his face, police said.

As they drove away, the attacker hurled a grenade at a police car, killing the
policeman.

Nine people were wounded, including two Swiss soldiers serving as UN experts,
who were described as being in "stable but critical condition", and a Swiss
woman.

Two suspects were arrested, police said.

No group has claimed responsibility. French troops intervened in Mali two years
ago against extremists linked with al-Qaeda who had overrun more than half of
the west African country.

French troops rushed to the nightclub minutes after the attack and the area was
cordoned off by Malian soldiers while they searched for unexploded grenades.

A local resident told France Info radio that gunfire continued for at least 10
minutes. "I saw a flash, I heard shooting and saw people running in all
directions," he said.

The French embassy advised French residents of Bamako to stay at home where
possible and to exercise caution if they went out. More than 6,000 French
citizens live in the city.

French and Belgian leaders condemned what President François Hollande described
as a "cowardly attack". Mr Hollande said he had offered the Malian president,
Ibrahim Boubakar Keita, "the aid of France" to combat extremism.

Three months after the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris, the French prime minister,
Manuel Valls, said he was "horrified" by the attack in Bamako. "We will never
yield," he said in a tweet.

France, the former colonial power in Mali and several other north and west
African countries, has 3,000 troops in the region whose role is to prevent
jihadist groups from seizing territory.

French forces intervened in Mali in January 2013 after Islamist groups took
control of the vast deserts in the north of the country, imposed sharia law, and
started advancing towards the capital in the more fertile south.

The French drove them out of towns in the north, including Timbuktu, but the
Islamists continue to roam across the desert and carry out attacks. However,
this is the first such violence for years in the capital. About 1,000 French
soldiers are still based in Mali.

The country faces a threat not only from Islamists but also from several
northern-based Tuareg rebel groups demanding independence or more autonomy.

The government signed a cease-fire with a Tuareg rebel alliance last weekend.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 7, 2015 Saturday 9:35 AM GMT

Europeans shot dead in Mali restaurant terror attack;
French and Belgian nationals and two locals dead after suspect opened fire on
restaurant in the capital

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 189 words


Four people, including French and Belgian nationals, have been shot dead in a
restaurant on a busy street in the Malian capital Bamako.

Witnesses said they saw four people running away and shouting "God is Great" in
Arabic ("Allahu Akbar") as they fired machine guns and throw a grenade at La
Terrace in Bamako's lively Hippodrome district following the attack shortly
after midnight.

"This is a terrorist attack, although we're waiting for clarification.
Provisionally, there are four dead - one French national, a Belgian and two
Malians," a policeman told AFP, adding that the dead included a police officer
passing the scene at the time of the shooting.

A source at the Gabriel Toure hospital in Bamako said a third European, whose
nationality was not immediately clear, had died on arrival while eight people
were wounded.

Dozens of police officers secured the area, a popular nightspot among
expatriates, but the few witnesses to the attack were initially refusing to
testify, fearing reprisals.

The French embassy in Bamako issued a message to all French nationals in the
city to exercise caution if they had to leave their homes.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      March 7, 2015 Saturday 7:37 AM  EST

PM O'BRIEN MP ENVOY FOR SAHEL CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN BAMAKO

LENGTH: 135 words


LONDON, March 7 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Stephen O'Brien MP, the Prime Minister's Envoy for the Sahel, condemns terror
attacks in Bamako

Stephen O'Brien said:

I utterly condemn today's cowardly and barbaric terrorist attacks in Bamako,
Mali. I offer my sincerest condolences to the families and friends of those
killed and I wish a speedy recovery to those injured.

The UK stands shoulder to shoulder with Mali in its efforts to counter the
threat of terrorism and extremist violence. We will continue to support the
Malian people and urge all parties to join the peace process and to work
together to deliver a more stable and prosperous country. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 8, 2015 Sunday

Morocco Condemns Mali Terror Attack

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Mar. 7, 2015 (MAP) - Morocco has strongly condemned the attack
perpetrated Friday [6 March] against a restaurant in Bamako, in which five
people were killed, the Foreign Ministry said.

"Morocco condemns in the strongest terms the armed attack that targeted Friday a
restaurant in the Malian capital Bamako, causing several casualties among
civilians, including foreigners," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

"While presenting its sincere condolences and sympathy to the families of the
victims and wishes of quick recovery to the wounded, the Kingdom of Morocco
expresses its solidarity with the Republic of Mali, government and people, and
reiterates its support to the efforts of Malian authorities in their fight
against violence and extremism to achieve peace and security and safeguard the
country's unity and sovereignty", the same source added.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1258 gmt 8 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 8, 2015 Sunday 6:25 AM GMT

Lebanon's Isis prison: A rare glimpse inside the jail from which terror attacks
have been directed;
Raid exposes hundreds of mobile phones, computers, multiple internet connections
and video conferencing capabilities in the the Islamist bloc

BYLINE: Fernande van Tets

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1077 words


The trigger was the apparent planning of a suicide operation from inside the
jail. The man who detonated himself out of a café in the city of Tripoli on 10
January, was directed from the third floor of Bloc B of Roumieh, a prison housed
behind a thick, stone, barbed wire topped wall just north of Beirut.

A raid that followed two days later exposed hundreds of mobile phones,
computers, multiple Internet connections, video conferencing capabilities. Even
satellite phones, illegal outside the prison walls, were found in Bloc B -
widely known as the Islamist bloc. The bloc housed 865 prisoners who are
incarcerated on terrorism charges. Despite assurances that the Internal Security
Forces are now fully in control of the facility, the new third floor islamist
quarters are still off limits to visitors, and even to the man in charge of the
prisons himself.

"I can confirm that Roumieh prison is an operations room for Isis," interior
minister Nohad al-Machnouk told the local press following the raid. Little of
that remains now. In the abandoned building, a clean-up is under way. Sparks fly
as new 200 kilogram doors are installed, and the damage done by the inmates, who
set fire to their foam mattresses in protest at the raid, is repaired. Al-Qaeda
in Sham [the Levant], the black graffiti on the door on the first floor still
reads. A crumpled up pink prayer mat lies on one of three slabs which are used
as beds. A number of prisoners reside in every 2.5 by 4 metre cell - seven
inmates to a cell is common.

The inmates were stripped and moved to an identical, recently renovated building
called Bloc D. The Independent on Sunday was not allowed to talk to prisoners
while visiting the facility in the company of General Antoine Zikra, head of the
Lebanese correctional facilities, and the third floor was completely off limits.

Most of the 865 prisoners in the Islamist bloc were arrested during the 2007
operation in Nahr el Bared, a Palestinian camp in the north of the country. An
Islamist group called Fatah al-Islam battled with the Lebanese army. Thousands
were arrested and eight years later, hundreds have yet to be sentenced.

Their fate has returned to the spotlight following the kidnapping of around 30
Lebanese soldiers and policemen in August 2014. Those soldiers were battling
militants from Jabhat al-Nusra and the Isis. In order to return the soldiers;
the groups have demanded hundreds of prisoners be let go from Roumieh. The
Lebanese state has, so far, refused that, yet negotiations are ongoing with
al-Qaeda offshoot Jabhat al-Nusra. According to some reports, four of the
soldiers have been executed and a number more released in recent months.

It was long known that inmates in Roumieh with the right connections lived a
life of relative comfort. The Islamist block, which, unlike the rest of prison,
was free of drugs but where local sheikhs enforced the rules of Islam with an
iron fist, was almost completely left to its own devices. Families could visit
loved ones daily, for up to 1.5 hours at a time.

In addition to the mobile phones, which were flaunted by inmates calling in to
tv chat shows, there were 62-inch flat-screen TVs, fridges, and inmates received
regular deliveries from family and the country's finest restaurants. One inmate
was careful to chronicle his extensive delivery of sushi on Facebook.

General Zikra spreads his hands in a 'what can I do' fashion when confirming
these details. He suspects the communications equipment entered under
mountainous platters of food that used to enter the prison, unchecked, a
practice that has now ended.

A mobile phone and fridge were said to be standard items, with phone credit
transferred from outside used as currency within the prison for cigarettes and
other amenities. General Zikra refuses to comment on the recent sacking of two
officers for allowing contraband material, including drugs, into the prison as
"they were my friends."

The sprawling prison complex, which encompasses four jails, houses more than
3,000 inmates. General Zikra says his staff is "less than what is needed." A
third of his inmates are there for terrorism charges. Their fate is potentially
politically sensitive. Although a plan to clean up the prison started last year,
only in January did security, the political establishment and the logistics
converge to tackle bloc B, General Zikra said. And it required a hooded, Special
Forces team to do it.

It would have been easier to cut off reception. The prison installed a state of
the art communications interceptor in 2011. But it was never used, until after
the raid.

Those connections on the outside include contact with those who took the
kidnapped soldiers. "The biggest threat and the main danger about these people
was that through their established communication capability from inside the
prison, they were activating their networks in the service of those new emerging
radical groups, whether the Nusra front [Jabhat al-Nusra] or the Islamist state
[Isis], and they were pledging allegiance to those groups," explains Mario
Abou-Zeid, a research analyst at the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut.
"It's like they were graduating terrorists from inside the prison," he adds
warning for a scenario similar to Iraq, where prisons proved hothouses of
radicalisation.

Family members say their sons are innocent, and that the way the government is
treating them isn't helping. Fatoum Kamel Yaghi, 50, is from a poor
neighbourhood in Tripoli and has three sons in jail. Her eldest, Bilal, now 32,
was arrested in 2006. "He had a beard, he prayed, he used to pick up and sell
junk," his mother claims. The court recently sentenced him to 10 years in prison
for terrorism. Her second son, Kifah, was taken 8 months ago. "I'm not against
the State but I hate the state for what they have done to my sons," she says.

Although trials are speeding up, the risk of on-site radicalisation persists.
The phones are gone, and the interceptor activated to block any device that
hasn't been found. But inside, communication is difficult to stop. Those fresh
off the battlefield are mixing with veterans who have fought against the
Lebanese Army. Lebanon restricts isolation to four days, and only as a
punishment. A cell houses roughly seven inmates, and there are tricks to get
moved, such as fighting with a cellmate. The men have daily recess, 40-50 people
at a time. "We can't prevent them from talking," admits general Zikra, "they
will communicate."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        March 8, 2015 Sunday 4:30 PM GMT

We Stand Together campaign urges London communities to unite in wake of Europe
terror attacks

BYLINE: Alexandra Rucki

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 302 words


A campaign has launched urging communities in London to unite following the
recent terror attacks in Europe.

An event at the London Central Mosque, in Regent's Park, Westminster, saw faith
leaders and Metropolitan Police officers unveil the We Stand Together campaign.

It follows increased concern in the capital sparked by the terrorist attacks in
Paris, Belgium and Copenhagen.

The campaign is urging people to sign a pledge of solidarity, in a move to
celebrate diversity and drive out forms of hatred.

Rabbi Herschel Gluck, founder of the Muslim Jewish forum, spoke to the crowd
about building stronger communities during the event.

#Shomrim participating at the London #WeStandTogether launch, making a stand
against hatred and intolerance pic.twitter.com/3DUhCicf9a - Shomrim N.E. London
(@ShomrimOfficial) March 8, 2015

Dr Ahmad Al Dubayan, of  The London Central Mosque Trust, said: "Let us be
united and reject the incitement of hatred being spread among people.  We stand
united in preserving our heritage, our civilization in our united declaration
that life is sacred irrespective of creed, faith, race or colour of skin."

Fiyaz Mughal OBE, Director of @TellMamaUK standing against intolerance and hate.
#WeStandTogetherpic.twitter.com/l7a5p6EEVz- Shomrim N.E. London
(@ShomrimOfficial) March 8, 2015

Commander Mak Chishty said: "London is the most diverse city in the world with
communities living and working side by side, demonstrating mutual respect, trust
and care for one another every day.

Related stories

"We are making a statement to those who seek to drive us apart that we are
strong and united and that our differences are something we celebrate and
cherish.

 "An attack on one community is an attack on the whole community. We will stand
together to denounce race and faith hatred in all its forms."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              March 8, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Five killed in terror attack on disco bar

BYLINE: KIERAN DINEEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 120 words


TERRORISTS have killed five people in a gun attack on a popular nightspot in
Mali.

A French national and a Belgian citizen were among the dead after the attack at
1am yesterday at La Tarrasse bar and restaurant, which is popular with
foreigners. At least one masked gunman sprayed bullets inside the venue in
Bamako, which is also a salsa dancing haunt, before making a getaway.

Witnesses claimed the attackers shouted "God is Great" in Arabic.

It is the first attack of its kind in the capital.

Police in the African country said two people connected to the incident had been
detained.

It is not clear who carried out the attack, but al-Qaeda-linked Islamist
militants have been fighting the army in northern Mali for years.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cops ... at blast scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                 March 8, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TV BOMB PLOT FOILED;
MP's role in helping thwart terrorist attack is revealed ; DISSIDENTS TARGETED
EX-COPS ON SET OF GAME OF THRONES

BYLINE: Ciaran Barnes

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 106 words


POLICE have foiled a dissident plot to target ex-security force members working
on the Game of Thrones TV set in Belfast.

Republican terrorists planned to leave a bomb next to a catering unit at the
Paint Hall studios where former cops, who were working on the set of the hit HBO
show, were gathering for meals.

But the bomb bid was prevented when an informant tipped-off his former police
handler.

He told the DUP's Sammy Wilson who alerted PSNI chiefs, allowing them to mount a
counter-operation which thwarted the planned attack.

The PSNI later said: "It cannot be emphasised enough the importance of this
information."

FULL STORY: PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATION: Sammy WilsonTARGET: Paint Hall studios and (right) Game of
Thrones

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2015 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 8, 2015
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Five killed in terror attack on Mali nightclub

BYLINE: DAVID CHAZAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 212 words


A HOODED assailant killed five people, including a Frenchman and a Belgian, in a
gun and grenade attack on a nightclub popular with Europeans in Mali's capital
Bamako early yesterday.

The attacker shouted "Allahu akbar" (Arabic for "God is great") as he burst in
at around 1am and sprayed bullets from an automatic rifle, witnesses said. Three
Malians were killed.

The Frenchman was Fabien Guyomard, 30, who worked in Bamako for an American
construction firm. His friend, Zakaria Maiga, said they were on the dancefloor
at La Terrasse when the shooting began. "There was panic," he added. "I threw
myself on the ground then jumped out of the window."

The Belgian victim, a security officer with an European Union delegation in
Bamako, was killed in front of his nearby house as the attacker made his getaway
in a car driven by an accomplice. They also hurled a grenade at a police car,
killing an officer.

Two suspects were arrested, police said. The attack was claimed by
Al-Murabitoun, an al-Qaeda splinter group led by Mokhtar Belmokhtar, who became
internationally notorious for masterminding the massacre of 40 hostages at a gas
plant in Algeria in 2013.

President François Hollande described the attack, which follows the Charlie
Hebdo killings in January, as "cowardly".

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       March 8, 2015 Sunday 10:44 AM GMT

EU security officer among dead in Mali terror attack

BYLINE: David Rankin

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 564 words


Five people, including a Belgian security officer and a French citizen, have
been killed in a militant attack on a café and expatriate area in the Malian
capital Bamako.

At least two people are thought to have carried out the gun and grenade attack
at about 1am on Saturday morning on the La Terrasse restaurant, which is in an
area popular with expatriates.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, but suspicion
will fall on al-Qaeda linked separatist militants who previously controlled a
large area of northeastern Mali.

The desert north is plagued by frequent political violence, but the militant
attack was the first for years in the southern city of Bamako.

Ibrahim Coulibaly, who was in the café, said: "I saw a masked person with a
great weapon like a machinegun go up the stairs to the bar and at first I
thought it was a joke, but a few second later I heard a first shot. People
started shouting and then came a burst of gunfire. It was then that I realised
it was serious. I hid.

"Then the hooded man came down the stairs, past the bar, and he saw the Belgian
citizen who was getting into his car and he shot him. And then the attacker got
in a car and left. He did not talk to anyone, he said nothing."

Falaye Kante, a senior police officer, said: "There were two individuals who
were armed and hooded. One burst into the La Terrasse restaurant and opened fire
on people. Then he got into a vehicle in which the other was waiting.

"As they fled down a neighbouring street, they shot a Belgian man who was in
front of his house. He's dead. Not far away they came across a police vehicle
and threw a grenade, killing the driver."

Three Malians, including a girl and a security guard, were among those killed.

Federica Mogherini, the European Union foreign policy chief, said that the
Belgian victim was as a member of the EU security team in Mali.

Two Swiss soldiers taking part in the UN stabilisation mission in Mali were
reported to among nine people wounded.

Police closed the road outside the café for fear of unexploded grenades, one
witness said.

President François Hollande said he "condemns with the greatest force the
cowardly attack" and added that security would be tightened in response around
French facilities and a crisis centre.

Laurent Fabius, the French foreign minister, confirmed that a French citizen was
among the dead and said the attack strengthened France's resolve to "fight
terrorism in all its forms".

He warned French people to exercise caution if leaving their homes, and said: "I
condemn this odious and cowardly act that has caused the death of several
people, among them a French citizen."

The Belgian foreign minister, Didier Reynders, also criticised the violence
while speaking to reporters during a conference of foreign ministers in Riga,
and confirmed that it may have been a terrorist attack.

French forces took control of northern Mali two years ago and the country has
about 3,000 soldiers in west Africa fighting militants with al-Qaeda links.

Mali has long been divided by ethnic rivalries, most notably between the
government and Tuaregs living in the north of the country, with further unrest
from al-Qaeda militants who occupied large areas of desert until the French
intervention.

The government signed a preliminary peace deal on Sunday, but the Tuareg rebels
demanded more time to consider the accord.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 9, 2015 Monday 7:17 PM GMT

Paramedic tells Boston bombing trial how he put tourniquet on six-year-old Jane
Richard to stop her from dying after her leg was blown off in the terror attack

BYLINE: REUTERS and LOUISE BOYLE FOR DAILY MAIL ONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1952 words



     ·    Survivor Danling Zhou wept in court as she recalled being told that
          friend Lingzi Lu, 23, had died in the Boston bombing
     ·    First survivor to testify on Monday was Jessica Kensky who lost her
          left leg in the wake of the bombing and recently had right leg
          amputated
     ·    Ms Kensky, a nurse, went to watch the marathon with her husband
          Patrick. She told the court she tried to shield him from the fact he
          lost his foot
     ·    The nurse described the bombs as 'dirty', tearing the flesh from
          victim's bodies and leaving them with infections which made it
          difficult to heal
     ·    Attorneys for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, opened their case last week by
          bluntly declaring that the defendant was responsible for the attack


A paramedic has described the moment he saved the life of six-year-old Boston
bombing victim Jane Richard by grabbing a belt to use as a tourniquet where her
leg had been blown off.

The federal death penalty trial of bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev resumed on Monday
with more witness testimony about the twin blasts that ripped through the crowd
at the race's finish line two years ago.

Matthew Patterson, from Lynn Fire Department, testified that he was at Abe &
Louie's restaurant on Boylston Street to watch the marathon.

He described first blast as an 'energy release' and the second explosion felt
'like a punch in the chest'. He shouted to people in the restaurant to take
cover.

As he raced to help those in the smoke-filled street, the first victim he
encountered was Jane Richard, who was missing her leg.

Her hair was so singed that at first he thought she was a little boy, the
emergency responder told the court.

Mr Patterson testified that Jane's leg amputation was going to claim her life,
so he grabbed a stranger's belt and made a tourniquet for her.

He then lifted her into his arms and raced through the devastation carrying her
with her father, Bill Richard, by his side.

A still image shown to the court revealed the horrific injuries that Jane
Richard had suffered.

The little girl's parents, Bill and Denise Richard, were in court on Monday to
hear the paramedic's testimony.

The paramedic described racing back to second victim, Jane's brother
eight-year-old Martin Richard.

'There was nothing that could be done at that time,' Mr Patterson told the
court. Mrs Richard lowered her head at this point, CBS  reported.

Scroll down for video

Dr James Bath, who was also enjoying the marathon that day, was next to give
testimony. Following the explosions, he ran to see who he could help.

He told the court he had seen a man run past him who was bloody and his clothes
were in tatters, screaming: 'All my friends are dead.'

Dr Bath said there was the smell of burning flesh and blood in the air and
'people had dropped like puzzle pieces' and he could see body parts.

The doctor came across a 'young Asian woman' lying on the ground - who was the
fatally injured Lingzi Lu.

Dr Bath said that she was 'writhing' and had a laceration the length of her
legs. As the doctor and another man tried to tourniquet her legs, he noticed all
her blood had left her body. She was taking her last breaths, the doctor said.

The medic then moved on to see if he could help more who were injured. By Forum
bar and restaurant a couple were lying on top of each other, the man apologizing
to the woman for bringing her to watch the marathon. She was repeated that it
was ok.

The woman, who was Adrianne Haslet-Davis, had lost her foot. Dr Bath got both
victims on to stretchers.

He then passed the body of Martin Richard who was already covered with a
tablecloth.

Before the lunchtime recess, the court also heard from a friend of Lingzi Lu,
one of the three people killed in the Boston marathon bombing along with Martin
Richard and 29-year-old Krystle Campbell.

Danling Zhou wept on the stand as she described how she clutched her own
internal organs in the devastating aftermath of the blast.

Miss Zhou, a 24-year-old Chinese native, told the court how she and best friend
Lingzi, 23, had gone to the marathon on April 15, 2013 because they wanted to
immerse themselves in the city while studying at Boston University.

The two friends were on Boylston Street when the first bomb went off near the
finish line.

Lingzi was holding her arm and Miss Zhou testified that she turned to reassure
her friend that everything was going to be ok, when the second bomb exploded
exactly where they were standing.

The young woman began to cry as she told the court she remembered feeling 'safe'
before waking up on a fence, unable to hear anything and seeing blood all over
the ground.

She described seeing a man in front of her who looked scared and was yelling
words that she could not hear.

'His legs are not there anymore,' Miss Zhou told the court.

She said that her legs were intertwined with Lingzi's who had an injury to her
thigh. Miss Zhou said she believed her friend would be ok.

Miss Zhou said she was unable to stand up and realized that her stomach was cut
open and she was holding her organs in her hand. 'I push,' she told the court.

She said that she tried to save her energy because she was bleeding heavily and
sat down to wait for an ambulance. 'I felt like all my senses shut down,' she
said.

Miss Zhou was taken to hospital with abdominal injuries, nerve damage and
perforated eardrums.

She also had complications following her release from hospital, getting an
internal infection from shrapnel.

She remembered that every time she woke up in hospital, she asked for her
friend. Finally she was told that Lingzi had died. Miss Zhou leaves the stand
without being questioned by the defense.

Throughout her testimony, Tsarnaev did not look at Miss Zhou and rested his head
on his hand.

Many bombing survivors and the family of victims returned to Boston federal
court on Monday as the trial entered its second week.

Among those in the public gallery were survivors Adrienne Haslet-Davis and
Jessica Kensky.

The first survivor to testify on Monday was Ms Kensky who lost her left leg in
the wake of the Boston Marathon bombing and recently had her right leg
amputated.

She was assisted up a ramp to the witness stand in her wheelchair by a court
officer. She brought her dog, called Rescue, with her to the stand.

She told the court how she and her husband, Patrick Downes, had taken the day
off work to watch the marathon on April 15, 2013, having each run it before.

That morning she went to the gym, Ms Kensky, who is a nurse, told the court. 'I
ran, for the last time, with two legs,' she said, according to CBS.

Her and her husband went to the marathon's finish line because they wanted to
cheer on people running the race.

They arrived around 15 minutes before the bomb went off. Ms Kensky testified
that the last thing she could remember was watching the runners over her
husband's shoulder and feeling happy.

Then she felt like she 'was on a rocket', Ms Kensky testified. Around her people
were screaming, there was blood and smoke. Her eardrums had been blown out and
she could just hear herself breathing.

She told that court that she could see her husband's foot was 'hanging on by a
thread' but that she didn't want to panic him and tried to stop him from seeing
it.

A man then rushed to help her, yelling that she was on fire but other than that,
she couldn't see how badly she was injured and was very worried about her
husband bleeding to death on the street, she told the jury.

Strangers began tearing off her clothing, Ms Kensky said and emergency
responders arrived, shouting that she was critical due to the horrific injuries
to the backs of her legs.

As she described the horrific pain and graphic nature of her injuries, bomber
Tsarnaev looked away from Ms Kensky. Last week, he also refused to look those
survivors giving their testimony.

The couple were then separated and taken to different hospitals. Ms Kensky
described hearing the 'animalistic screams' of victims being brought in.

She said that when she saw the expressions of the doctors and nurses at the
hospital she knew how bad her injuries were. Her left leg was amputated
immediately.

Ms Kensky still has between 30 and 40 ball bearings in her body which are too
dangerous to remove. She also told the court about the 'phantom pain' she
suffers from her missing legs.

The nurse described the bombs as 'dirty', tearing the flesh from victim's bodies
and leaving them with infections which made it difficult to heal.

She was separated from her husband Patrick for several weeks before she was able
to visit him in hospital. He had also lost his left leg.

She told the court that over the past two years, the couple have lost count of
the number of surgeries they have had.

Ms Kensky later went to Walter Reed military hospital in Maryland where she
spent time with an Iraq veteran who had similar injuries. She told the court
that at that point, she was 'not wanting to live'.

In August, a surgery to save her remaining leg was unsuccessful and she made the
extremely painful choice to have a second amputation.

The nurse told the court that she also suffered shrapnel and burns across her
body including her private parts, calling it 'embarrassing and terrifying'.

Federal prosecutors then asked Ms Kensky to circle herself and her husband
Patrick in a picture of marathon crowds from the day of the bombing. She drew a
love heart around them.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev is visible in the photograph shown to the court along with
bombing survivors Jeff Bauman and Karen Rand. Ms Kensky describes them as
friends.

The nurse's clothing from the day of bombing was also shown to the jury. Her
hoodie and shirt were covered in dirt and blood along with burn holes.

Ms Kensky described it was 'a horrendous reminder' of the terrorist attack.

Last week, attorneys for Tsarnaev, 21, opened their case by bluntly declaring
that the defendant and his older brother were responsible for the attack as well
as the fatal shooting of a police officer three days later, in an effort to
focus attention on the brother's role in the plot.

Defense lawyers contend that Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, who died following a gun
battle with police three days after the bombing,was the driving force behind the
attack, with Dzhokhar following along out of a sense of submission.

By pinning the bulk of the blame on Tamerlan, defense lawyers hope to persuade
the jury at U.S. District Court in Boston not to sentence their client to death.

Prosecutors maintain that Dzhokhar also read jihadist magazines online and
'believed that he was a soldier in a holy war against Americans.'

In the first two days of testimony, the jury heard from 16 prosecution
witnesses, including survivors of the blasts who lost legs, first responders and
the father of 8-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest person to die in the
attack.

Despite his lawyers' admission of responsibility, Tsarnaev has not changed his
plea from not guilty.

In the first weeks of the trial, prosecutors say evidence will focus on the
ethnic Chechen's actions leading up to the bombing and in the four chaotic days
that followed, before he was found hiding in a dry-docked boat at the end of a
long manhunt.

U.S. District Judge George O'Toole has worked to keep both defense and
prosecution attorneys focused on direct evidence of Tsarnaev's guilt, leaving
the question of how his responsibility compared with his brother's until the
trial's sentencing phase.

The trial moved along at a quicker than expected pace for its first two days as
defense attorneys declined to cross-examine all but one of the witnesses who
testified.

The bombing killed restaurant manager Krystle Campbell, 29, and graduate student
Lingzi Lu, 23, as well as Martin. Massachusetts Institute of Technology police
officer Sean Collier, 27, was fatally shot three days later.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 9, 2015 Monday 1:50 PM GMT

Teenage cadet defies warnings of terror attack to wear her uniform to school
because she has been brought up to not be 'scared of anything'

BYLINE: LARISA BROWN, DEFENCE REPORTER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 797 words



     ·    Michelle Hughes was told to carry her Cadet uniform in her backpack
     ·    Was warned to do so after fears of Woolwich copycat attack on soldiers
     ·    But proud cadet, 17, ignored advice as she is not 'scared of anything'


     ·    Children were told in December not to wear her uniform outside of
          school


A teenager has defied the threat of a terror attack by wearing her cadet uniform
to school despite being warned against the idea.

Michelle Hughes was told to carry her Army uniform in a bag when travelling to
and from school after fears of a Woolwich copycat attack on soldiers.

But the proud 17-year-old cadet ignored advice, insisting she had not been
brought up to be 'scared of anything'.

Her show of courage comes after children in cadet forces across the country were
warned in December not to wear their uniform outside school.

Pupils were also told to carry out searches of training areas, ranges and
accommodation before setting up camp while on trips.

Individual units were told to ensure with 'immediate effect' that 'appropriate
security measures' were put into place in all detachments.

Michelle's mother, Rose Hughes, said: 'I am not going to be afraid of evil
frustrated people. That is the way I brought up my children. I brought them up
to work hard and achieve and fulfil their potential.

'There are crazy people out there who take out their frustrations in life on
other people, but this country is peaceful and I do not want my children to be
afraid.

'Let the terrorists be afraid, they are the ones who should hide.'

When the guidance was issued by some units, a Combined Cadet Force (CCF) source
said it was a 'terrible shame' that children were no longer able to wear their
uniforms proudly on the streets.

Andrew Halls, headmaster of King's College School in Wimbledon, south west
London, wrote to the parents of pupils who belong to its CCF, to advise that
concerned pupils should carry their uniforms in a bag when travelling to school.

Miss Hughes, a single mother, wrote back to say her daughter would not bow to
the threat.

Michelle, who has 12 A* GCSEs and has represented England at athletics, told the
Sunday Times: 'I saw the email from the headmaster and so did my mum, but I was
going to wear the CCF uniform anyway.

'I don't really feel at risk. My mum wrote back to the school saying she had not
brought us up to be scared of anything.'

Her mother, from Essex, added: 'It is a wonderful privilege to be alive and to
live in a country like Britain.

'Nothing is risk free, but on the whole this country is safe. I want my children
to be on the right side of life, to do the right thing and fulfil their
potential. The only thing you have to be afraid of in life is fear.'

Michelle, who was previously a member of the Air Training Corps, is one of a
number of CCF members at her school who are not prepared to hide their uniforms
in public.

The teenager hopes to secure a place at an Ivy League university in America and
train to be a doctor, possibly with the Royal Air Force.

Mr Halls said he felt he had to pass on the army's advice, but respected the
decision by most of his pupils to ignore it.

He said: 'I respect Michelle's mum's message. I think it is admirable, but I
would not want to enforce it if anyone did not feel comfortable with it.

'What would be really awful would be if we packed in the CCF because we thought
it was two risky.'

Some schools have been stricter with the guidance and told pupils they must not
wear their uniform in public.

Richard Cairns, the headmaster of Brighton College, said his pupils changed into
their CCF uniforms only after they arrived at school.

He said: 'You've got to put the potential risk to children first.'

Thomas Garnier, the headmaster of Pangbourne College in Berkshire, who is in
charge of liaison between schools with CCFs and the army, said it was for
individual head teachers to interpret advice from the army.

He said: 'Given the different situations schools are in, a school in an inner
city might take a different view to a school in the country where pupils board.'

He said the decision to ignore guidance did 'seem brave', adding: 'They have a
right to say they are not afraid of this threat.'

A CCF source said in December: 'It is such a terrible shame that children are
being told not to wear uniforms. It is sad they can't proudly walk the streets.'

Last year serving soldiers were also told not to wear their uniform outside
barracks amid fears of an another attack similar to the murder of Fusilier Lee
Rigby in Woolwich in 2013.

Rigby was wearing a top bearing the logo of Help for Heroes, the charity for
injured service personnel, when he was attacked.

The threat level for the armed forces was raised from 'substantial' to 'severe'
at the end of last year, meaning a terrorist attack on military personnel is
highly likely.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

Danish Islamist group spokesmen comment on Copenhagen terror attacks

LENGTH: 1028 words


Excerpt from report by Danish leading privately-owned independent newspaper
Politiken website, on 28 February

[Reprot by Birgitte KjA¦r: "Hizb ut-Tahrir: 'A Ban Cannot Stop Us'"]

At a press conference on Saturday [28 February], the organization made it clear
that it will not be forced off its political track.

[Passage omitted describing the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen]

Standing front of a banner with the text "Krudttonden and the Political
Aftermath -Where do We Muslims Stand?" is a table covered with a white cloth and
two flags -a black one and a white one -with Arabic wording on them.

Sitting at the table are two young men, both wearing light-blue shirts and
well-trimmed, short full beards. On the left is the red-haired media
representative for Hizb ut-Tahrir, Junes Kock, and on the right, the deputy
media representative, Elias Lamrabet.

We are in Norrebrohallen, where the organization has called a press conference
prior to today's debate meeting. Ritzau's microphone and a few other media
representatives' Dictaphones have been placed on the table between the two
spokespersons and in front of the journalists, who have been brusquely told to
take seats in the rows of chairs.

Jyllands-Posten is out in the cold, literally speaking. The newspaper's
photographer and journalist have been refused entrance due to the newspaper's
pre-history -it printed the Muhammad caricatures - and they are now standing
outside Norrebrohallen considering what they should do next.

The press conference was called after a majority in the Folketing said it would
request that the Director of Public Prosecutions investigate whether this
controversial Islamic organization could be banned under Section 78 of the
current legislation banning associations that "seek to achieve their goals by
violence, incitement to violence, or similar illegal influence on other persons'
thinking."

But at the press conference, the spokesmen say that Hizb ut-Tahrir rejects any
form of violence against civilians.

The response to that statement is a question: why then has the organization been
unwilling to condemn the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen on 14 and 15 February?

Lamrabet replies that Islam, as a principle, forbids the killing of civilians,
and that the organization absolutely refuses to become involved in the debate on
the terrorist attacks, because it is "absurd and boring." As a Muslim
organization, Hizb ut-Tahrir rejects the premise that Islam is under indictment
in connection with the terrorist attacks. The organization insists on talking
about the attacks "in the right context" and not in the context that the media
and politicians are putting it.

"When you occupy people's land, shoot at their families and kill them, and
insult the things that are most holy to these people, you know you are creating
hatred. Hatred is created by the policies that are pursued in both this country
and abroad. The causal explanation should be heard here," said Lamrabet on
behalf of Hizb ut-Tahrir.

[Kjaer] What would you do if you discovered that someone in your organization
sympathized with terrorism?

"I can assure you that no one in Hizb ut-Tahrir sympathizes with terrorism," was
the categorical reply.

"Our party rejects this. That is what Islam involves."

Growing Membership

The two spokesmen are not worried that the politicians and the Director of
Public Prosecutions will be allowed to ban the organization, whose declared aims
are to abolish democracy and establish an Islamic caliphate. A ban has already
been imposed in several other countries, including Germany, Tunisia, and Egypt.

Information on Hizb ut-Tahrir

An international Sunni-Islamic party that was founded in Jerusalem in 1953.

Active in more than 40 Muslim countries.

Works to unite all Muslims under an Islamic regime (caliphate), the removal of
all Western influence in the Islamic world, and life governed by Islamic law,
Shari'ah.

In Denmark, Hizb ut-Tahrir works "to protect Muslims' identity by informing and
cultivating Islamic thought among Muslims. Muslims in the West are constantly
subjected to aggressive indoctrination and emotional control, because the
authorities want to assimilate them and deprive them of the Islamic identity."

There are somewhere between 100-150 full members of Hizb ut-Tahrir among the
approximately 250,000 Muslims living in Denmark (cf. report in Information, 14
October 2014). The association itself has refused to confirm or deny that
figure.

"There is no legal basis for a ban. This is political bankruptcy on the part of
Christiansborg. We are a global party that has existed since 1953. We operate in
more than 40 countries, in both democracies and dictatorships, and membership is
growing. A ban would not stop us," Lamrabet said.

The Director of Public Prosecutions had previously investigated whether it would
be possible to ban the organization but came to the conclusion in 2008 that it
was not "illegal for an organization to have the objective of working for a
regime -as is the case with a caliphate state -that is fundamentally different
from the current social order." But recently, radicalization experts have said
that Islamic groups like Hizb ut-Tahrir could function as stepping stones for
young Syria fighters, for example.

But the organization will not be stopped, Kock said.

"We will carry on with what we are doing today. We meet people and talk to them
where they are, at the street level. That will not change at any level at all."

"Did you know Omar," asks one journalist, referring to the presumed perpetrator
of the shooting attacks in Copenhagen, Omar el-Hussein.

Kock denies any personal acquaintance, adding that "there are quite a few people
who have never formed any acquaintance with him," and says he has no idea what
Internet cafe Omar al-Hussein visited or where he did his shopping.

"It is my understanding from the media that he spent his recent months in jail,
so if you want to look at what caused this, you should perhaps direct your
attention to that established system rather than looking at a Muslim fellowship
with which he did not have particularly much contact," he said.

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 0000 gmt 28 Feb 15

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

Xinjiang remains stable despite terror attacks: official

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 105 words


BEIJING -The overall situation in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous
region remains stable and controllable despite terror attacks, a senior official
said Tuesday.

"Violent terror attacks have provoked strong condemnation and opposition in the
region," said Shohrat Zakir, chairman of the Xinjiang regional government, at a
panel discussion during the ongoing annual session of the National People's
Congress, the country's top legislature.

With concerted efforts of people from all ethnic groups, violent terrorist
crimes were cracked down resolutely in accordance with the law and the sanctity
of law was safeguarded, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

isis hack dublin rape crisis webpage;
Group's site hit in global cyber attack by terrorists

BYLINE: BRYNMOR PATTISON ;KATHY ARMSTRONG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 294 words


ISIS targeted the Dublin Rape Crisis Centre as part of a worldwide cyber attack.

The banner at the top of the support group's website was replaced by the Islamic
terror gang's notorious black flag on Sunday.

There was also a message that read: "Hacked by Islamic State (ISIS). We are
everywhere ;)."

Officials from the charity reassured the public the breach had been fixed and
security had been tightened. Chief Ellen O'Malley-Dunlop said yesterday: "It has
been taken off the site.

"It wasn't actually our site that was hacked, it was just the banner that was
placed at the top of the Wordpress page.

"We have been assured our privacy was not breached.

"We have updated our security as a precaution and have been given new passwords.

"We have reported it to the guards and they are investigating it." Ms
O'Malley-Dunlop said she was first alerted to the incident on Sunday morning but
it was not able to be changed until yesterday.

When people clicked on the DRCC website, music could be heard and there was a
link to a Facebook page, which has since been deleted.

Ms O'Malley-Dublop also said she hoped people were not distressed by the image.

She explained it is a breach of their Wordpress but could not affect the whole
site. It was a wider attack on a vulnerability in the Wordpress system and was
not targeting the DRCC specifically. Other companies around the world reported
being hit as well.

The Icelandic Museum website, the Eldora Speedway in the US and other businesses
were reported as being hacked in the exact same manner.

It is thought that the message may have come in through a plug-in file.

The news follows a weekend when Nigerian Islamist terror group Boko Haram
pledged allegiance to the Islamic State in a chilling message to the world.

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHILLING Islamist fighter in Iraq

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police raids 'foil jihadist terror attack on Spain'

BYLINE: Gerard Couzens ; Michael Howie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 331 words


SPANISH police today arrested two suspected jihadist extremists in the country's
north African enclave of Ceuta, saying they had been preparing a terrorist
attack on the mainland.

The men, of Spanish and Moroccan origin, were detained during raids at 5am. A
spokesman for Spain's National Police said: "The men under arrest formed part of
a terror cell which was fully prepared and ready to commit an attack on the
Spanish mainland."

Police searched the men's homes throughout the morning.

The operation is linked to anti-terror arrests on January 24 when two sets of
brothers were detained in Ceuta and flown to Madrid for questioning.

Police said at the time that the suspects were "determined to carry out
terrorist acts" and had a "very similar profile" to the Kouachi brothers, whose
gun attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris killed 11 people
and injured 12 on January 7. Ceuta is known as a hotbed of Islamist extremism
but arrests in the past have largely been related to fundraising and
recruitment.

Western nations are increasingly worried about the threat from jihadists in
north Africa who could be plotting attacks in Europe.

Islamic State has taken advantage of political turmoil in Libya to seize control
of parts of the country including Sirte, the home city of the late ruler Muammar
Gaddafi.

IS militants were today said to have kidnapped nine foreign oil workers in a
raid in Libya on Friday, when they reportedly beheaded eight guards.

Austrian officials said that four Filipinos, an Austrian, a Bangladeshi, a Czech
and a Ghanaian were taken with an unidentified ninth foreigner.

The foreign ministry in Vienna said IS had attacked the al-Ghani oil field.

A Libyan army spokesman said that one oil worker died of a heart attack after
seeing the beheadings.

The spokesman did not elaborate on how the army knew about the beheadings but
the force serving as oil guards is closely allied to the Libyan military, which
answers to one of Libya's two rival governments.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      March 11, 2015 Wednesday 9:26 PM GMT

Woman, 18, on terror attack charge

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 86 words


An 18-year-old woman has been charged with preparing to carry out a terrorist
attack during October 2014, the Metropolitan Police have said.

Silhan Ozcelik, of Highbury Quadrant, north London, was arrested at Stansted
Airport after she arrived on a flight from Germany on January 16.

She was taken to a police station in London and bailed the following day.

A police statement said that the alleged offence took place between October 1
and October 27 2014.

She will appear before Westminster Magistrates' Court tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Crawley News

                            March 11, 2015 Wednesday

Firms given police advice to prevent a terror attack

SECTION: NEWS:999; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 253  words


THE threat of attacks from Isis and other extremist groups has prompted
businesses in Crawley to get together to discuss how they can identify
potentially dangerous activity in the town.

Crawley and Gatwick Business Watch (CGBW) hosted an awareness event on February
26 at Moka nightclub in the town centre.

Members of CGBW were told what sort of things to be aware of and how they could
have a key role to play in preventing a terror attack.

When five men, including three from Langley Green, plotted to target a shopping
centre and nightclub with a giant fertiliser bomb, it was partly thanks to
several local businesses reporting their suspicious activity to police which led
to them being arrested.

Omar Khyam, Jawad Akbar and Waheed Mahmood, from Langley Green, together with
Salahuddin Amin and Anthony Garcia were jailed in 2007.

Sussex Police's PREVENT team attended the event and spoke about radicalisation
and how everyone has a key role to play in identifying those with extremist
ideas and views.

They also gave out details on how to report concerns, reassuring members that
their concerns will be treated confidentially.

The use of social media to spread extremist views was also talked about.

Police also spoke about the work they are doing to engage with the local
community, including schools and religious groups.

This was followed by a talk by the Sussex Police firearms unit about what to do
if people hear gun shots.

The advice was to have an exit plan from the business just as you would for a
fire.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAUGHT: The fertiliser bomb attack planned by Omar Khyam and his fellow
plotters was foiled partly because businesses reported their suspicious
behaviour to police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 11, 2015 Wednesday 3:14 PM GMT

Lindt cafe to reopen within days - with memorial to siege victims - two months
after Australia's worst terror attack

BYLINE: NELSON GROOM FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and EMILY CRANE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 382 words



     ·    Lindt will reopen their Martin Place cafe by the end of the week
     ·    It was damaged during the infamous 17-hour Sydney siege on December 16
     ·    Hostages Katrina Dawson and Tori Johnson died when police stormed the
          building
     ·    The cafe will include a memorial to honour the 'bravery' of the two
          victims


After three months of closure, the Lindt Chocolate Café at the centre of the
Sydney Siege is set to reopen in a matter of days.

Workers at the scene of one of Australia's most infamous terror attacks told
The Daily Telegraph the Sydney CBD cafe will reopen by the end of the week.

The café made headlines around the world in December when gunman Man Haron Monis
held staff and patrons hostage there for about 17 hours.

Scroll down for video

Lawyer and mother Katrina Dawson, manager Tori Johnson and Monis died when
police stormed the building on December 16.

The sudden opening comes only one month after Lindt's chief executive Stephen
Loane announced plans to recommence business.

Mr Loane revealed in a statement that a key feature of the new store would be a
memorial to the siege victims.

'We have taken this decision after careful consideration of a number of
­factors, the most important of which was consultation with our staff,' he said.

Some of the hostages who were held alongside Mr Johnson and Ms Dawson shared the
agony and fear they felt in televised interviews on 60 Minutes and Seven News
this week.

They told of how Monis forced them to call emergency services to tell them his
demands, and how the gunman became more frustrated as night fell.

Louisa Hope, 52, who suffers from multiple sclerosis and needs a walking stick
to move around, was one of the hostages that failed to get away and told 60
Minutes how she saw Mr Johnson die.

Hostage Marcia Mikhael, 43, said Monis, who had a history of violence and
extremism, told her he had a 'plan' to die in the standoff.

In their store reopening announcement, Lindt encouraged people to visit the
charity page set up in Mr Johnson's honour.

'Tori was someone who had a very positive approach to life and this page was set
up in Tori's memory after the event to raise funds for beyondblue, a charity
chosen by his family,' the spokesman said.

'We know that all concerned, including Tori's family, are deeply grateful for
the donations being made.'

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     March 11, 2015 Wednesday 11:41 AM GMT

Islamic State attacks Iraq's Ramadi with seven coordinated car bombs;
Islamic State terrorists launch coordinated car bomb attacks on city in western
Iraq and take Syrian border town

BYLINE: By Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant                      launched a coordinated
attack on government-held areas of the western Iraqi city of Ramadi on
Wednesday, involving seven almost simultaneous suicide car bombs, police said.

At least 10 people were killed and 30 wounded in the attack, according to
initial reports by police and hospital sources in the city, capital of Anbar
province.

Isil also launched a major offensive on Wednesday to try to capture a strategic
town on the Syrian-Turkish border, sparking fierce clashes with Kurdish militia,
a monitor said.

"Fighters from the Islamic State group started a huge assault towards Ras
al-Ain, and were able to take over a village nearby," said the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights.

Ras al-Ain, in Hasakeh province, was the scene of major fighting in 2013 before
Kurdish forces ousted rebels and al-Qaeda-linked jihadists from the town, which
has a border crossing with Ceylanpinar in Turkey.

Ras al-Ain and surrounding villages are under the control of the Kurdish
People's Protection Units (YPG), and the new clashes have left dozens dead from
both sides, the Britain-based Observatory said.

A spokesman for the Democratic Union Party (PYD), the YPG's political arm,
confirmed the intense battles.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Woman in court charged with planning terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Courts - Crime; Courts

LENGTH: 55 words


Silhan Ozcelik, 18, of Highbury, north London, in court charged with preparing
to carry out a terror attack after being arrested at Stansted Airport following
a flight from Germany on 16 Jan. The charge relates to an offence which
allegedly took place between 1 and 27 Oct 2014

Event Start Date: 2015-03-12

Event End Date: 2015-03-12

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 4:53 PM GMT

Car-jacking victim of Boston bombers tells court how they admitted to terror
attack, wanted GPS to get them to New York and played CDs of 'religious music'

BYLINE: REUTERS and LOUISE BOYLE FOR DAILY MAIL ONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 812 words



     ·    Dun Meng was carjacked by the bombers in Watertown, Massachusetts on
          April 18, 2013
     ·    Mr Meng also told the court how Tamerlan Tsarnaev asked him if his
          car, a Mercedes SUV, had GPS and could get them to New York
     ·    Dzhokhar 'was concerned about connecting his iPhone to play music'
     ·    The judge said on Wednesday that autopsy photos of Officer Sean
          Collier, 27, will be shown only to the jury out of respect for his
          family
     ·    The officer was shot three times in the head and twice in the right
          hand
     ·    First bullet entered Collier's head, traveled down his neck and became
          lodged there
     ·    If convicted of carrying out the bombing and of killing Collier,
          Tsarnaev could be sentenced to death


A student who was carjacked by the Boston bombers told the court on Thursday
that Tamerlan Tsarnaev admitted to him they were behind the marathon explosions
and had just killed a police officer.

Dun Meng, a Chinese national who was studying engineering at Northeastern
University at the time, said he had pulled over at 10.30pm on April 18, 2013
because he wanted to text - and it was unsafe to do so while driving. The
brothers then raced up behind and carjacked him.

Mr Meng said Tamerlan asked him if his car, a Mercedes SUV, had GPS and could
get them to New York - while Dzhokhar was concerned about connecting his iPhone
to play music.

Scroll down for video

The trial earlier heard that police officer Sean Collier was shot three times in
the head at point-blank range by the bombers as they tried to flee days after
the terror attack.

Medical examiner, Dr Renee Robinson, told the Boston court that the gun was
about 12-18 inches from the MIT cop's head when he was shot between the eyes on
April 18, 2013.

The officer was shot three times in the head and twice in the right hand.

The first bullet entered Collier's head, traveled down his neck and became
lodged there.

Several jurors broke down in tears as they viewed the autopsy photos of the
27-year-old cop.

U.S. District Judge George O'Toole said on Wednesday that autopsy photos of
Collier will be shown only to the jury out of respect for his family.

A second bullet entered his left cheek went through the cheekbone and becomes
lodged in Collier's brain, Dr Robinson told the court.

She added: 'He's essentially dead right away. Major parts of his brain have been
disrupted.'

The medical examiner also said she found blood in the officer's lungs and that
he had inhaled it as a result of the trauma he had suffered.

He also had three wound to the head including one bullet which entered near his
thumb and exited at 'the base of the pinky'.

Dr Robinson said that it was not clear whether the hand wounds occurred after
the cop was shot in the head.

The jury also viewed the bullets which had been removed from the slain officer's
body.

Prosecutors have said Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev murdered Officer Collier
three days after the deadly bombing.

Tsarnaev, 21, is accused of fatally shooting Collier as he and his older
brother, Tamerlan, prepared to flee hours after the FBI released pictures of the
pair, calling them suspects in the attack.

In the first five days of testimony, the full court has seen gruesome photos and
video of the injuries caused by the twin pressure-cooker bombs that killed three
people and injured 264.

If convicted of carrying out the bombing and of killing Collier, Tsarnaev could
be sentenced to death.

Defense attorneys opened the trial last week by admitting that Tsarnaev
committed the crimes of which he is accused.

They are seeking to spare him the death penalty by demonstrating that he was
following the lead of his older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan, who died after a
gun battle with police following Collier's shooting.

Scroll down for video

Federal prosecutors contend that the younger Tsarnaev, who emigrated with his
family from Chechnya a decade before the attack, was driven by an extremist view
of Islam and a desire to strike back at the United States in revenge for
military campaigns in Muslim-dominated countries.

Collier's death marked the start of a chaotic 24 hours. The brothers carjacked a
man and hurled explosives at police during a gunbattle that ended when Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev roared off in a car, running over and killing his brother before
disappearing into a drydocked boat in the Boston suburb of Watertown.

Police found him the next evening, after a day-long lockdown of the Boston area
when hundreds of thousands of people hid in their homes.

The jury on Wednesday heard from MIT police dispatcher David Sacco, who tried to
reach Collier by phone and radio after getting an emergency call about
gunshot-like sounds near Collier's location on campus.

'We didn't get any response,' Sacco testified. 'It became an amount of time that
wasn't comfortable.'

The bombing killed restaurant manager Krystle Campbell, 29, and graduate student
Lingzi Lu, 23, as well as 8-year-old Martin Richard.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 1:53 PM GMT

Boston jury to see autopsy photos of slain MIT police officer who was shot dead
by bomber as he fled after terror attack

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words



     ·    Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, is accused of fatally shooting Officer Sean
          Collier on April 18, 2013
     ·    The judge said on Wednesday that autopsy photos of Collier, 27, will
          be shown only to the jury out of respect for his family
     ·    If convicted of carrying out the bombing and of killingCollier,
          Tsarnaev could be sentenced to death


The jury hearing the Boston Marathon bombing trial on Thursday is due to view
autopsy photos of a university police officer whom prosecutors charge defendant
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev murdered three days after the deadly bombing.

Tsarnaev, 21, is accused of fatally shooting Massachusetts Institute of
Technology police officer Sean Collier on April 18, 2013, as he and his older
brother prepared to flee hours after the FBI released pictures of the pair,
calling them suspects in the attack.

In the first five days of testimony, the full court has seen gruesome photos and
video of the injuries caused by the twin pressure-cooker bombs that killed three
people and injured 264.

But U.S. District Judge George O'Toole said on Wednesday that autopsy photos of
Collier, 27, will be shown only to the jury out of respect for his family.

If convicted of carrying out the bombing and of killing Collier, Tsarnaev could
be sentenced to death.

Defense attorneys opened the trial last week by admitting that Tsarnaev
committed the crimes of which he is accused.

They are seeking to spare him the death penalty by demonstrating that he was
following the lead of his older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan, who died after a
gunbattle with police following Collier's shooting.

Federal prosecutors contend that the younger Tsarnaev, who emigrated with his
family from Chechnya a decade before the attack, was driven by an extremist view
of Islam and a desire to strike back at the United States in revenge for
military campaigns in Muslim-dominated countries.

Collier's death marked the start of a chaotic 24 hours. The brothers carjacked a
man and hurled explosives at police during a gunbattle that ended when Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev roared off in a car, running over and killing his brother before
disappearing into a drydocked boat in the Boston suburb of Watertown.

Scroll down for video

Police found him the next evening, after a day-long lockdown of the Boston area
when hundreds of thousands of people hid in their homes.

The jury on Wednesday heard from MIT police dispatcher David Sacco, who tried to
reach Collier by phone and radio after getting an emergency call about
gunshot-like sounds near Collier's location on campus.

'We didn't get any response,' Sacco testified. 'It became an amount of time that
wasn't comfortable.'

The bombing killed restaurant manager Krystle Campbell, 29, and graduate student
Lingzi Lu, 23, as well as 8-year-old Martin Richard.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT

Tiger Woods was 'at risk of terrorist attack' at 2002 golf tournament in New
Zealand;
The American was due to take part in a competition in 2002 just a month after a
cyanide-laced letter containing a threat was delivered to Wellington's US
Embassy

BYLINE: By Liam Corless

SECTION: SPORT,GOLF

LENGTH: 236 words


Tiger Woods was in danger of a terrorist attack at a tournament in New Zealand
in 2002, it has been revealed.

Trevor Mallard, a Labour MP in New Zealand, has divulged information about a
cyanide-laced letter which was received just a month prior to a competition in
January 2002.

The letter, which contained traces of a poisonous cyanide compound, was
delivered to the US Embassy in Wellington in December 2001.

Enclosed in the letter was a threat of a terrorist attack at the following
month's New Zealand Golf Open - an event which Woods was scheduled to play at.

Mallard told the New Zealand Herald: "It resulted in a pretty major alert. Much
heavier both plain and uniformed police presence, and significant army presence
at the golf but also on routes to the golf.

Golf major winners

Mallard was speaking after one of New Zealand's biggest dairy providers
announced this week, they had received anonymous letters threatening to poison
milk formula.

"It [The golf threat] is different to the current one [the 1080 contamination
threat], because the threat was more limited.

"It was limited to an event, and there was very close monitoring of the
particular product [sugar] at the event."

Police confirmed at a later date that the letter contained enough cyanide to
kill several people.

Woods walked away from tournament golf in February and said he won't return
until he's good enough.

Will Tiger Woods ever win another major?

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM BST

WOMAN, 18, ON TERROR ATTACK CHARGE

BYLINE: Jack Hardy, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 85 words


An 18-year-old woman has been charged with preparing to carry out a terrorist
attack during October 2014, the Metropolitan Police have said.

Silhan Ozcelik, of Highbury Quadrant, north London, was arrested at Stansted
Airport after she arrived on a flight from Germany on January 16.

She was taken to a police station in London and bailed the following day.

A police statement said that the alleged offence took place between October 1
and October 27 2014.

She will appear before Westminster Magistrates' Court today.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 6:34 PM GMT

UK's largest cyber-terror simulation gets underway on HMS Belfast;
A massive cyber-terror attack simulation is underway aboard HMS Belfast, in a
bid to find the next generation of cyber security professionals

BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis

SECTION: TECH

LENGTH: 791 words


Hunkered around tables in a stuffy cabin aboard the battleship HMS Belfast, 42
of the most talented amateur 'cyber defenders' in the UK are racing to avert a
plot by a cyber terrorist group to seize control of a naval gun system, which is
pointing at London's City Hall.

These individuals are battling against the clock to find out how the group,
known as the Flag Day Associates, broke into the network, and wrestle back
control of the gun systems before it is too late.

They are also searching for similar 'holes' within the IT system of a water
treatment and manufacturing facility to ensure the terrorist group is not able
to infiltrate these as well.

This is the Cyber Security Challenge Masterclass - the culmination of more than
10 months of qualifying rounds for the Cyber Security Challenge UK, which aims
to bring talented people into the cyber security profession and address a
critical skills shortage.

Thousands of registered participants have been whittled down to 42 of the UK's
most talented amateur cyber defenders, and on Friday night one will be crowned
the new Cyber Security Challenge UK Champion.

Although the cyber terrorist group is fictitious, and the attack itself no more
than a simulation, the tension in the cabin is palpable. Those who excel in this
challenge will be rewarded not only with glory, but with the possibility of a
job in one of the country's major defence organisations.

"Both government and business need skilled and talented people to feed the
demand for better cyber security in the UK," said Francis Maude, Minister for
the Cabinet Office with responsibility for the Cyber Security Strategy and
National Cyber Security Programme, whose department was one of the original
founders of the Challenge.

"This competition is the biggest and best yet and events like this play an
important role in helping provide the next generation of cyber professionals."

While the winner is not guaranteed a job, it is no accident that the Challenge
is developed and sponsored by a consortium of cyber experts, including BT, GCHQ,
the National Crime Agency (NCA), Lockheed Martin, Airbus Group, PGI, C3IA and
Palo Alto Networks.

Many of these organisations are crying out for talented people with an interest
in cyber security and a desire to work in the industry, to help address the
critical skills shortage that affects government bodies, businesses and citizens
alike. Female cyber security professionals are in particularly short supply,
with only one woman reaching the final of the Cyber Security Challenge.

Moreover, the security of critical national infrastructure is a growing concern
as more systems are brought online, and physical services like
telecommunications, power and utilities - as well as commercial logistics and
supply chain networks - are increasingly linked to the internet.

"Fighting cyber crime is a vital part of safeguarding the security of people and
businesses in the UK, and there are increasing opportunities in law enforcement
for people with the right technical skills to continue their own development
while helping to pursue criminals and protect the public," said Andy Archibald,
deputy director of the NCA's National Cyber Crime Unit.

"Previous Cyber Security Challenge competitors are already working with the NCA
across a number of projects, and those involved in this year's Masterclass have
the best possible platform not only to showcase their talents, but also to learn
more about how they can contribute to the UK's cyber security in the real
world."

Now in its fifth year, the Cyber Security Challenge UK incorporates a range of
competitions, including a schools-specific programme. Stephanie Daman, chief
executive at the Cyber Security Challenge, said this was the largest and most
realistic cyber-terror attack simulation yet.

The Masterclass runs over two days, and tests a wide variety of skills. While
technical ability is key, candidates are also scored on their ability to operate
within appropriate legal and ethical frameworks - a crucial skill for would-be
cyber specialists.

Ms Daman said that around half of last year's finalists are already in their
first cyber security jobs, and the majority of the rest are well on their way,
taking training courses, accreditations or internships to boost their CVs.

"There is no reason why all 42 of our finalists today can't follow in their
footsteps," she said.

Registrations are open now to take part in next year's programme, which will
feature a range of brand new competitions, to be released over the coming
months. Anyone can also visit the Challenge website, and assess their potential
for a career in the cyber security industry, using the new 'play-on-demand'
platform.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 6:21 PM GMT

Terror attacks 'price you pay for living in free society', say civil liberty
groups;
Full transcript of exchange between civil liberty campaigners from groups
including Liberty, Justice and Big Brother Watch revealed by Intelligence and
Security Committee

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


Transcripts have been disclosed of the moment civil liberty campaigners told a
Parliamentary committee that terror attacks on the UK are a "price worth paying"
to ensure the secret service does not conduct mass surveillance.

Representaitves from the groups - including Liberty, Justice and Big Brother
Watch - told members that privacy was more important than forms of bulk
surveillance .

The Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee dismissed the claims and
concluded that GCHQ, MI5 and MI6 do not conduct mass, indiscriminate
surveillance .

Here is a transcript of the exchange, revealed in the committee's report:

Hazel Blears, leading Labour member of committee: "You are saying that bulk
collection is a step too far in terms of infringement of privacy and, therefore,
that if we are unable to analyse targets and develop targets in a way that,
subsequently, would contribute to national security, you are prepared to forgo
this possibility because of the intrusion into people's privacy.

"Your balance falls in not having bulk collection at all."

Isabella Sankey, director of policy at Liberty: "Absolutely."

Blears: "If there were evidence that the ability to have bulk collection and
then to interrogate it through targeted searches that are properly authorised
under a legal framework had helped to develop targets, prevent plots and
contribute to national security, would your view be different?"

Dr Eric Metcalfe, appearing on behalf of human rights gropu Justice: "No."

Sankey: "No."

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, former committee chairman: "If evidence emerged through
bulk interception that even you acknowledged had led to terrorists being
arrested or prevented from carrying out their objectives, are you saying that,
as a matter of principle, you believe so strongly that bulk interception is
unacceptable in a free society that you would say that that was a price we
should be willing to pay, rather than allowing intelligence agencies to use bulk
interception methods?"

Sankey: "Yes."

Metcalfe: "Yes."

Rifkind: "And that is the view of your colleagues as well?"

Emma Carr, director of Big Brother Watch: "Yes."

George Howarth, committee member: "You object to that in principle, which is
fair enough, but do you accept the corollary to that, which is that some things
might happen that otherwise might have been prevented?"

Sankey: "Yes. That is always the case in a free society. Some things might
happen that could have been prevented if you took all of the most oppressive,
restrictive and privacy-infringing measures. That is the price you pay to live
in a free society."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 5:36 PM GMT

Civil liberty campaigners attacked for saying terror attack is "price worth
paying" to prevent mass snooping;
Views are branded "unacceptable" as watchdog report finds GCHQ, MI5 and MI6 do
not carry out indiscriminate snooping

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 802 words


Civil liberty campaigners are under fire after insisting terror attacks on the
UK are a "price worth paying" to ensure the spy agencies do not conduct mass
surveillance.

The groups, including Liberty and Justice, said privacy was more important than
forms of bulk surveillance that have proven to stop terror atrocities.

The comments emerged during an 18-month investigation in to the methods of the
intelligence agencies ordered after former CIA contractor Edward Snowden claimed
in the Guardian that GCHQ conducted unrestricted mass surveillance programmes on
the public.

The parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee dismissed the claims and
concluded that GCHQ, MI5 and MI6 do not conduct mass, indiscriminate
surveillance.

· Full transcript: Civil liberty groups' exchange with Parliamentary committee

However, it called for a complete overhaul of the law governing the use of
surveillance techniques to improve transparency.

The committee, which oversees the work of the spy agencies, attacked the views
of the civil liberty groups as "unacceptable".

However, the report did reveal for the first time that the agencies amass
millions of records on the general public in "bulk personal data sets" which
they sift through when targeting suspects.

In immediate response, David Cameron announced a crackdown on how the use of the
databases is monitored after it emerged some spies have been sacked for misusing
them.

In 2013, Mr Snowden revealed the tactics of GCHQ and the US National Security
Agency in a series of Guardian articles after stealing tens of thousands of
secret files.

The agencies were accused of mass surveillance and circumventing snooping laws
but the exposes were also attacked for putting national security at risk.

After a lengthy investigation, the ISC has cleared the spy agencies of any wrong
doing and found that while there is "bulk interception" of communications there
is no blanket surveillance of the public.

Due to targeted filtering of data, only a tiny percentage of all information
collected is ever seen by a "human eye", the report said.

Speaking on behalf of the committee, Hazel Blears MP, said: "Given the extent of
targeting and filtering involved, it is evident that while GCHQ's bulk
interception capability may involve large numbers of emails, it does not equate
to blanket surveillance, nor does it equate to indiscriminate surveillance.

"GCHQ is not collecting or reading everyone's emails: they do not have the legal
authority, the resources, or the technical capability to do so."

However, in evidence to the committee, privacy campaigners said bulk collection
of data, even if it stopped terror attacks, was not worth the intrusion on
privacy.

Then committee chairman Sir Malcolm Rifkind asked Liberty, Justice and Big
Brother Watch that if there was evidence that bulk interception had prevented
atrocities, as a matter of principle, it was still "unacceptable and a price we
should be willing to pay?".

The three bodies said: "Yes".

Ms Blears said on Thursday: "Their view was even if terrorist plots happened
they would not be prepared to allow this capability to collect information."

She said such a view was "unacceptable".

· First look inside GCHQ                                          · Ed Snowden:
hero or traitor?

The report did reveal, however, that the agencies have "bulk personal data sets"
to help identify suspects that vary from "hundreds to millions of records".

The committee refused to detail them but they will include innocent members of
the public and could be anything from financial records, to Government
department files to passport records.

It also emerged that some spies have been sacked for inappropriately accessing
the data for personal reasons - potentially to spy on partners.

A separate report, from the Interception of Communications Commissioner,
revealed that a GCHQ agent had been fired for unauthorised searches of
communications data.

Mr Cameron immediately announced that oversight of the use of the data sets will
now be put on a statutory footing.

The Prime Minister said: "Our commitment to transparency is reflected in the
text of the report, which has only been redacted where absolutely necessary to
protect our national security.

"The result is a substantive report that provides a comprehensive account of all
the intrusive activities of the agencies and the relevant safeguards and
oversight."

There is also to be a review of the use of older legislation by the spy agencies
to access communications data.

The committee fears such tactics, while legal, are not subject to the same
safeguards as authorisations under the main snooping legislation - the
Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. (Ripa)

Liberty labelled the Committee "a mouthpiece for the spooks".

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 13, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks are the price of freedom, say civil liberties groups

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 512 words


CIVIL liberty campaigners are under fire after insisting terrorist attacks on
the UK are a "price worth paying" to ensure the spy agencies do not conduct mass
surveillance.

The comments by the groups, which included Liberty and Justice, were made during
an 18-month investigation by a Commons committee into the methods of the
intelligence agencies.

It was ordered after Edward Snowden, a former CIA contractor, claimed in The
Guardian that GCHQ conducted unrestricted mass surveillance programmes.

The parliamentary intelligence and security committee dismissed the claims, but
did call for a complete overhaul of the law governing the use of surveillance
techniques to improve transparency.

The committee, which oversees the work of the spy agencies, attacked the
campaigners' views as "unacceptable".

However, the report did disclose for the first time that the agencies had
amassed millions of records on the general public in "bulk personal datasets"
which they sift through when targeting suspects. In response, David Cameron
announced a crackdown on how the use of data was monitored after it emerged some
spies had been sacked for misusing them.

In 2013, Mr Snowden disclosed the tactics of GCHQ and the US National Security
Agency after stealing tens of thousands of secret files. The agencies were
accused of circumventing snooping laws.

The committee eventually cleared the spy agencies of any wrongdoing and found
that while there was "bulk interception" of communications there was no blanket
surveillance of the public.

Due to targeted filtering, only a tiny percentage of the information was ever
seen by a "human eye", the report said.

Speaking on behalf of the committee, Hazel Blears said: "GCHQ is not collecting
or reading everyone's emails: they do not have the legal authority, the
resources, or the technical capability to do so."

While being questioned by the committee, representatives of Liberty, Justice and
Big Brother Watch agreed that, as a matter of principle, the bulk collection of
data was "unacceptable and a price we should be willing to pay" even if it
stopped terrorist attacks.

Ms Blears, a former Labour minister, said: "Their view was even if terrorist
plots happened they would not be prepared to allow this capability to collect
information." She said such a view was "unacceptable".

The report did disclose, however, that the agencies had "bulk personal datasets"
that vary from "hundreds to millions of records". The committee refused to
detail them but they will include innocent members of the public and could be
anything from financial records, to government department files to passport
records.

It also emerged that some spies have been sacked for accessing the data for
personal reasons -potentially to spy on partners. A report, from the
Interception of Communications Commissioner, found that a GCHQ agent had been
fired for unauthorised searches of data.

Mr Cameron immediately announced that oversight of the use of the datasets would
now be put on a statutory footing.

Liberty labelled the committee "a mouthpiece for the spooks".

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       March 13, 2015 Friday 1:13 PM GMT

UK terror attacks 'a price worth paying for privacy' say civil rights groups

BYLINE: Paul Baldwin

LENGTH: 727 words


UK VICTIMS of terrorist atrocities today attacked civil liberties groups who
appeared to claim that terror attacks were a price worth paying to protect
individual privacy.

They accused some privacy campaigners of protecting terrorists and being
'isolated from the real world', after the comments were exposed in a major
report on the snooping activities of Britain's major spy agencies.

According to The Times, civil liberties groups namechecked in the report
included Liberty, Big Brother Watch, Justice and Rights Watch UK.

Eyevine

A price worth paying? Emergency workers help victim of 2005 London bombings

Isabella Sankey, director of policy for Liberty which campaigns on human rights
issues, was asked for her views as members of Parliament's intelligence and
security committee gathered data for the report.

She was reported to have said it was better to let 'some things happen' than to
give UK security services 'privacy-infringing measures' designed to catch
extremists plotting atrocities in the UK and overseas.

However the MPs and peers who compiled the report criticised some of the groups.

ISC members concluded: "We do not subscribe to the point of view that it is
acceptable to let some terrorist attacks happen to uphold the individual right
to privacy - nor do we believe that the vast majority of the British public
would,"

However, the report revealed that a staggering half million warrants were
granted to police, spy agencies and public bodies to gather communications data
last year.

Privacy at a price: Isabella Sankey, director of policy for Liberty [Liberty]

It also showed that intelligence officials hold a massive amount of personal
data containing millions of records on a wide range of people without statutory
oversight.

But the ISC concluded MI6, MI5 and GCHQ should be allowed to continue intercept
large volumes of data in the hunt for terrorist suspects and plots.

In an 'evidence session' last October Hazel Blears, a leading member of the ISC
quizzed Isabella Sankey, the director of policy for Liberty.

Ms Blears said that she and other committee members had seen classified
documents which  demonstrated that such interception had exposed terrorist
threats and plots.

However asked whether she would change her mind if there were evidence that
showed bulk data collection had helped to prevent terrorist plots. Ms Sankey was
quoted as saying: "No."

She said such mass surveillance techniques were wrong in principle and added:
'Some things might happen that could have been prevented if you took all of the
most oppressive, restrictive and privacy-infringing measures. That is the price
you pay to live in a free society.'

Also present at the hearing were Emma Carr, the director of Big Brother Watch,
Eric Metcalfe, of Justice, and Hanne Stevens, the interim director of Rights
Watch UK. When Ms Blears asked whether Ms Sankey's colleagues shared that view,
Ms Carr said: "Yes."

Graham Foulkes, whose 22-year-old son David, was killed in the 7/7 London
bombings said: "The question that should be asked is, what's the minimum
interference in our freedom that gives us maximum protection?"

"Liberty is isolated from the real world. Because it is so lauded and courted by
politicians, it has lost sense of what it's all about."

And Ray McClure, the uncle of Fusilier Lee Rigby, who was murdered by
self-styled Islamic terrorists close to his barracks in Woolwich, south London,
said that privacy groups were protecting terrorists and that their comments
showed "how little they value life".

The 7/7 London bombings in 2005 left 52 dead and more than 700 injured.

Last night Ms Sankey sidestepped the furore and accused the committee of
attempting to put words in her mouth.

She said: "Instead of attempting to put words into the mouths of privacy
campaigners, the ISC should have put its efforts into scrutinising the agencies.

'There is absolutely no excuse for terrorism and society must take all
proportional steps to deal with it - but the real story here is that, despite
their best efforts, the committee has been unable to present any evidence that
mass surveillance of innocents' calls and emails is saving any lives."

Related articles Harriet Harman: I do regret links between paedophile campaign
and civil rights group Michael Ealy to play civil rights activist Journey to the
heart of the Magna Carta: On the trail of the original copy

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             March 13, 2015 Friday

Woman in court charged with planning terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Courts - Crime; Conflict & Terrorism

LENGTH: 84 words


Silhan Ozcelik, 18, of Highbury, north London, in preliminary hearing charged
with preparing to carry out a terror attack after being arrested at Stansted
Airport following a flight from Germany on 16 Jan. The charge relates to an
offence which allegedly took place between 1 and 27 Oct 2014 after allegedly
travelling to by train from London to Brussels and attempting to join the
Kurdistan Workers' Party based in Germany to fight against IS in Syria

Event Start Date: 2015-04-01

Event End Date: 2015-04-01

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 13, 2015 Friday 4:39 PM GMT

US drone strike kills terrorist behind Westgate shopping mall attack which left
67 people dead in Nairobi

BYLINE: JULIAN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 273 words



     ·    Adan Garar and two others killed in US drone strike in Bardhere in
          Somalia
     ·    Garar helped to plan attack on Westgate mall in Nairobi that left 67
          dead
     ·    Also suspected of planning failed attacks in Kenya and Ugandan last
          year


A US drone strike has killed the terrorist behind the Westgate shopping mall
attack which left 67 people dead in Kenya's capital Nairobi.

Adan Garar and two others are suspected to have been killed after their car was
targeted near the town of Bardhere in Somalia.

Senior US and Kenyan officials say Garar, a top member of the al-Shabab
extremist group, was thought to have helped plan the devastating attack on the
Westgate mall in 2013.

A Kenyan official, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorised to
give the information to the media, says Garar is also suspected of planning
failed attacks on Kenya's coast and in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, last year.

The U.S official also insisted on anonymity.

Anti-terror police foiled a planned attack in the coastal city of Mombasa after
they intercepted a car packed with explosives in March 2014, according to Kenyan
authorities.

According to police, al-Shabab militants had planned simultaneous attacks on the
international airport in Mombasa, the ferry crossing and a supermarket.

The car laden with explosives was to be detonated on a ferry.

Al-Shabab, an Islamic extremist group, has vowed to inflict violent attacks on
Kenya and Uganda because the two countries have contributed troops to the
African Union force supporting the government in Somalia.

Sixty-seven people were killed in the Westgate attack, which was carried out by
four gunmen from al-Shabab.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 13, 2015 Friday 11:14 AM GMT

Terror attacks are a 'price we should be willing to pay' to protect us from
being snooped on, says privacy group

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1251 words



     ·    Isabella Sankey said GCHQ should not use bulk data collection at all
     ·    Some terror plots getting through is a 'price we should be willing to
          pay'
     ·    Labour MP Hazel Blears branded policy director's views as
          'unacceptable'


A terror attack in Britain is a 'price we should be willing to pay' if it means
spy agencies do not have access to masses of personal data, a human rights group
has claimed.

Isabella Sankey, Liberty's director of policy, said it was better to let 'some
things happen' than to give security services 'privacy-infringing measures'
designed to catch extremists plotting atrocities in the UK and overseas.

The claim that privacy should be put before national security was condemned as
'unacceptable' as a report revealed the extent of snooping by GCHQ.

Scroll down for video

Liberty, which campaigns on civil liberties and human rights issues, was at the
forefront of the criticisms of the security and intelligence services when the
claims from whistle-blower Edward Snowden broke in June 2013.

Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee found that agents at GCHQ, the
government listening post, monitor 'large numbers of items' using 'bulk
interception' powers to uncover terror threats.

But the committee dismissed the claims that GCHQ had 'blanket coverage' of web
communications and was rooting indiscriminately through private messages.

It said GCHQ can access only a small part of the web and operatives see only a
'tiny fraction' of the messages collected after a sophisticated filtering
process.

But this probably still means that thousands of texts, emails and Facebook
messages are read every day by Government spies.

Privacy campaigners argue the security services already have too much power to
gather and read personal communications.

Giving evidence on behalf of Liberty, Miss Sankey was asked by the committee in
October if she opposed bulk collection even if it was used in a 'targeted' way
to 'prevent plots and contribute to national security'.

Such techniques were, she said, wrong 'in principle' and could not be justified
even if they were lawful and authorised.

She added: 'Some things might happen that could have been prevented if you took
all of the most oppressive, restrictive and privacy-infringing measures. That is
the price you pay to live in a free society.'

Her claims were backed by privacy campaign group Big Brother Watch.

But the ISC said: 'We do not subscribe to the point of view that it is
acceptable to let some terrorist attacks happen to uphold the individual right
to privacy - nor do we believe that the vast majority of the British public
would.'

Labour MP Hazel Blears, a member of the Intelligence and Security Committee
branded Liberty's views 'unacceptable'.

Pointing to the comments, Ms Blears said: 'Their view was even if terrorist
plots happened they were not prepared to allow this capability to collect
information whereas that's not a view we take.'

'The public will want to see they have that capability but absolutely
constrained by a proper legal framework.

'To not have the capability you're going to accept that some plots will happen
and innocent people will lose their lives because you do not want agencies to
have this capability. I think it's unacceptable.'

EXTENT OF SNOOPING BLANKED OUT FOR 'NATIONAL SECURITY'

The long-awaited report into Britain's spy agencies blanks out almost every
detail which would reveal the true extent of the Government's state snooping
programme.

The report reveals there are around 100,000 'bearers' - or underwater cables -
which transmit information over the internet.

All of these cables - carrying people's emails, Facebook messages and other
communications - can potentially be hacked by GCHQ, the committee reveals.

But only a small percentage are actually accessed by Britain's spies, the report
says.

The committee also blanks out the exact percentage of information accessed off
these chosen cables every day.

It says only a 'tiny fraction' of the billions of items that are sent over the
internet on a daily basis are snooped on.

The report says: 'Only the communications of suspected criminals or national
security targets are deliberately selected for examination.'

It says: 'Fewer than *** of *** per cent of the items that transit the internet
in one day are ever selected to be read by a GCHQ analyst.'

the report says 'around *** thousand items a day' are read by the spooks.

These are 'only the ones considered to be of the highest intelligence value',
the report adds.

Amnesty International said the report could 'absolutely no way be considered
adequate'.

Yesterday Miss Sankey accused the committee of attempting to put words in her
mouth.

She said: 'Instead of attempting to put words into the mouths of privacy
campaigners, the ISC should have put its efforts into scrutinising the agencies.

'There is absolutely no excuse for terrorism and society must take all
proportional steps to deal with it - but the real story here is that, despite
their best efforts, the committee has been unable to present any evidence that
mass surveillance of innocents' calls and emails is saving any lives.'

Graham Foulkes, whose son David, 22, was killed in the 2005 London bombings,
told The Times: 'The question that should be asked is, what's the minimum
interference in our freedom that gives us maximum protection?

'Liberty is isolated from the real world. Because it is so lauded and courted by
politicians, it has lost sense of what it's all about."

The committee's 18-month inquiry said Britain's spy agencies were not breaking
the law - but called for a complete overhaul of the rules governing what they
were allowed to do in the interests of national security.

The report says a single law is needed to keep in check the powers of the
intelligence agencies to snoop on private communications, because the current
legal framework governing the likes of GCHQ, MI5 and MI6 is 'unnecessarily
complicated' and 'lacks transparency'.

Human rights and civil liberties groups dismissed today's report as a whitewash
and accused the committee of being 'a mouthpiece for the spooks'.

Shami Chakrabarti, director of rights campaign group Liberty, said: 'The ISC has
repeatedly shown itself as - so clueless and ineffective that it's only thanks
to Edward Snowden that it had the slightest clue of the agencies' antics.

'The Committee calls this report a landmark for 'openness and transparency' -
but how do we trust agencies who have acted unlawfully, hacked the world's
largest sim card manufacturer and developed technologies capable of collecting
our login details and passwords, manipulating our mobile devices and hacking our
computers and webcams?'

Rachel Logan, Amnesty UK's Legal Programme Director, said: 'The oversight of the
security services should be the responsibility of a properly independent body.

'The Prime Minister holds a veto over who sits on the ISC, what it can examine,
and what it can report so there is absolutely no way it can be considered an
adequate independent regulator of the activities of our spies.'

Open Rights Group executive director Jim Killock added: 'The ISC should have
apologised to the nation for their failure to inform Parliament about how far
GCHQ's powers have grown.

'This report fails to address any of the key questions apart from the need to
reform our out-of-date surveillance laws. This just confirms that the ISC lacks
the sufficient independence and expertise to hold the agencies to account.'

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             March 13, 2015 Friday

Pakistani court orders release of Mumbai terror attacks suspect

LENGTH: 271  words


A Pakistani court has ordered the release of the main suspect in the 2008 Mumbai
terror attacks by cancelling a government order under which he had been detained
for the past three months.

But Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi is unlikely to be freed quickly because he still faces
charges in a separate kidnapping case, prosecutor Jahangir Jadoon said.

Islamabad High Court "cancelled the detention order for Lakhvi after concluding
that no solid evidence was available to keep him in jail", he said.

Defence lawyer Rizwan Abbasi said his client had been implicated in the
kidnapping case in December to block his release. Another court has already
granted Lakhvi bail in that case, and the government has no authority to keep
him in jail, the lawyer said.

"The government may show rigidity and it may use delaying tactics in releasing
Lakhvi to appease India," Mr Abbasi said. Lakhvi is one of seven suspects being
tried by Pakistan in connection with the attacks, which killed 166 people.

India has repeatedly urged Pakistan to actively pursue the case against Lakhvi,
who was accused of planning the attack, and other suspects. India's Ministry of
External Affairs summoned the Pakistani high commissioner in New Delhi yesterday
and conveyed India's disappointment at the court's ruling.

India's junior home minister, Kiren Rijiju, said Islamabad had not produced
conclusive testimony against Lakhvi despite possessing sufficient evidence.

Mr Abbasi said his client has been in government custody since 2009. Lakhvi has
remained in custody under a special detention order even though a court granted
him bail in December in the Mumbai case.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 14, 2015 Saturday

Civilian injured in "terrorist" mortar attack in Syria's capital

LENGTH: 79 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

A civilian was injured in an attack with a mortar shell fired by terrorists on
al-Manakhlya market in al-Amara neighborhood in Damascus.

A source at the Police Command said that a shell landed on the dome of Sinan
Agha mosque in al-Manakhlya ancient market, injuring the mosque's custodian and
inflicting material damage in the mosque.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1905 gmt 13 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      March 14, 2015 Saturday 12:56 PM GMT

'Terror owl' caught after attacking more than 50 people in a year-long reign on
havoc

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 296 words


A VICIOUS owl that attacked more than 50 people in a year-long reign of havoc on
a Dutch town has finally been caught.

GETTY

An owl has been blamed for a series of attacks in Purmerend

Dubbed the "terror owl" by terrified residents of Purmerend, north of Amsterdam,
the wicked bird is suspected of leaving some its victims bloody and bruised.

The giant eagle owl would sweep down silently from above before attacking its
prey.

In one incident, two members of a local athletics club were struck by the bird,
leaving one of the victims needing stitches for six head wounds.

After its attacks gained widespread notoriety, horrified residents resorted to
carrying around umbrellas to protect themselves.

But now its troublesome ways are believed to have finally come to an end, after
officials in the country announced that the bird has been captured.

"The animal was trapped by a falconer," Purmerend city council said in a
statement.

"It's in good health and is currently being kept in a temporary facility
awaiting a transfer once a proper permanent home has been found."

City council member Mario Hegger described mixed feelings about the erratic
owl's capture.

"On the one hand, you would of course rather leave such a magnificent beast
alone," Mr Hegger said in the statement.

"But on the other hand, the situation could not continue. We had to do
something."

Experts suggest that the owl's unusual mood was either caused by being raised in
captivity or hormone levels due to breeding season.

The eagle owl is one of the biggest owl species, and can grow to see a wingspan
of almost 6 feet in length.

Related articles Owl goes for 10-mile car ride trapped in roof rack Feathers fly
as owl fights hawk Unbelievable! Owl snapped hundreds of miles from land as
Scandinavian birds invade Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 14, 2015 Saturday 2:00 AM GMT

Alleged terrorist mastermind behind Kenya mall attack that claimed 67 lives
killed in U.S. drone strike

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER and MAIL ONLINE REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words



     ·    Adan Garar and two others are suspected to have been killed after
          their car was targeted near the town of Bardhere
     ·    Garar is also suspected of planning failed attacks on Kenya's coast
          and in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, last year
     ·    The strike was carried out Thursday as Garar was traveling in a car
          fired on by a Predator drone.


A U.S. drone strike in Somalia on Thursday is believed to have killed a senior
member of the al-Shabab extremist group who allegedly helped plan the 2013
Westgate Mall attack in Nairobi, officials said.

Adan Garar and two others are suspected to have been killed after their car was
targeted near the town of Bardhere, the Kenyan and U.S. officials said.

The senior Kenyan official, who insisted on anonymity because he wasn't
authorized to give the information to the media, says Garar is also suspected of
planning failed attacks on Kenya's coast and in the Ugandan capital, Kampala,
last year.

Scroll down for video

The U.S official also insisted on anonymity.

The 2013 attack claimed the lives of 67 people.

CBS News reports the strike was carried out as Garar was traveling in a car
fired on by a Predator drone.

Anti-terror police foiled a planned attack in the coastal city of Mombasa after
they intercepted a car packed with explosives in March 2014, according to Kenyan
authorities.

According to police, al-Shabab militants had planned simultaneous attacks on the
international airport in Mombasa, the ferry crossing and a supermarket.

The car laden with explosives was to be detonated on a ferry.

Al-Shabab, an Islamic extremist group, has vowed to inflict violent attacks on
Kenya and Uganda because the two countries have contributed troops to the
African Union force supporting the government in Somalia.

Sixty-seven people were killed in the Westgate attack, which was carried out by
four gunmen from al-Shabab.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 14, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorist attacks suspect to be released

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 100 words


Mumbai India summoned Pakistan's high commissioner last night, after a Pakistani
court ordered the release of the alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks
(Robin Pagnamenta writes).

Narendra Modi, India's prime minister, said the Islamabad High Court's decision
to cancel the detention of Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, who has been accused of
directing the attack in which 166 people died, was a "shock to all those who
believe in humanity". Abdul Basit, Pakistan's top diplomat in Delhi, was called
in to explain the decision.

Mr Lakhvi's lawyer said that he expected his client to be released imminently.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 15, 2015 Sunday 9:05 AM GMT

Boots worker who sent fake bomb package to store on anniversary of 7/7 terror
attacks is spared prison

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words



     ·    Ashley Parkes sent the rectangular package to a Boots store in Leeds
     ·    26-year-old attached a note that read: 'Handle with care - bombs
          explode'
     ·    Experts discovered it was a hoax and contained hair dye and tissue
          paper
     ·    Given 18-month suspended sentence at Nottingham Crown Court


A Boots worker who sent a fake bomb to a store on the anniversary of the 7/7
London terror attacks has been spared jail.

Ashley Parkes attached a chilling note to the rectangular package, which read:
'Handle with care - bombs explode.'

Police were alerted and a store in Leeds, where the parcel was delivered last
year, was evacuated until experts examined the package.

They quickly discovered it was a hoax and only contained hair dye and blue
tissue paper, Nottingham Crown Court was told.

The 26-year-old, who worked in a Boots warehouse at the time, admitted
dispatching a parcel with the intention of inducing a belief that it was likely
to explode or ignite and cause personal injury or damage to property.

He was sentenced to 12 months in prison, suspended for 18 months, and ordered to
carry out 150 hours of unpaid work.

Judge Michael Stokes QC , sentencing, said: 'Sending you immediately to prison
would perhaps misrepresent the seriousness of what you did.

'In the present day society anybody who produces a package and even pretends it
is a bomb is creating a great deal of trouble and potential risk to innocent
people.

'It had been a pathetic attempt by Parkes but it still resulted in a store being
evacuated and a great deal of public expense and inconvenience to a large number
of people.'

Julia King, prosecuting, told the court Parkes sent the hoax bomb after seeing a
film on YouTube of gravestones being desecrated.

She said: 'It affected him and that was why he acted in the way he did.'

Ms King added that the manager had been left shocked and nervous after the
incident.

The court heard Parkes, of Bestwood, Nottingham, has mild learning difficulties
and is on medication for depression.

Steven Gosnell, defending, acknowledged it was a peculiar case and said Parkes
was never intending to cause injury.

He said: 'Parkes, who lost his job, did what he did on the spur of the moment
and has apologised.'

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 16, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Paris store attacked by terrorist is reopened;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 116 words


The Jewish supermarket in Paris attacked by a jihadist linked to the shootings
at Charlie Hebdo magazine reopened yesterday. Four Jewish men were shot dead at
the store by gunman Coulibaly on Jan 9, two days after the brothers Cherif and
Saïd Kouachi killed 12 people in the attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, attended the reopening of the
shop, which has been repaired after being damaged during the assault by special
forces to kill Coulibaly and free hostages. A new team of staff is working at
the kosher supermarket, while employees who survived the attack are free to
decide "their new posting in one of the group's stores", the management said.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       March 16, 2015 Monday 12:37 PM GMT

Campaign to keep terror out of the world's classrooms;
With deadly attacks on schools increasing worldwide, governments are being urged
to help save education from the bullet and the bomb

BYLINE: Louise Tickle

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 933 words


In February 2009, the Pakistan Taliban blew up the school where Ali Khan taught.
"I heard about the blast from my neighbour before I left my house that morning,"
he says. "He was just passing by the school, and it was completely destroyed.
Everything was ashes."

Khan rushed to where the school in Charbagh had stood to find distraught
children and horrified parents gazing at the ruins. The Pakistan Taliban had
blown it up to underline its opposition to education: it was one of many times
it demolished schools in a campaign to control the Swat region.

"There was a panic-like situation in the community," says Khan. But despite the
fear, the teachers and principal decided not to let the bombers win, and they
reopened the school. "We knew we had to reopen. We were 52 teachers at that
time. Not one resigned." A local primary school opened its doors and children
were taught on a double-shift system: primary in the morning, secondary school
in the afternoon. Khan says the effect on their education was serious. "For a
long time, the children feared very much. Around 150 did not return. Classrooms
built for 40 students instead had to hold 120. It became difficult for teachers
to teach and for children to learn."

Khan's story is far from unique. According to the global education coalition A
World at School, between 2009 and 2014 there were at least 920 attacks on
educational institutions in Pakistan, including the terrible massacre at the
Peshawar army school last December, in which 132 children and nine teachers
died.

This week, the Guardian is teaming up with A World at School to support its
campaign for children across the world to be secure in their classrooms, and is
backing the organisation's petition calling on world leaders to keep promises
made at the United Nations in 2000, to remove barriers stopping girls and boys
from going to school, especially in conflict affected countries and where there
are attacks on schools.

Meanwhile, diplomatic efforts to make schools safer are increasing. In June, the
Norwegian government and others will call on governments to support a safe
schools declaration to ensure that schools are protected from military use
during armed conflict, by making them sacrosanct spaces in international law, as
hospitals are.

Gordon Brown, the UN special envoy on global education, who is championing the
declaration, says: "We want to show that we are doing everything in our power to
make it possible to go to school... free of intimidation and free of fear. No
terrorist group should interfere with a child's right to get something that is
absolutely basic to their future. It is their human right to have an education."
Brown is asking governments not only to sign the declaration, but to commit more
money to a fund that countries can draw on to provide better school security as
well as to support effective community backing for schools.

With more than half of the world's out-of-school girls and boys now living in
conflict hotspots and in response to the growing number of attacks on
classrooms, A World at School has also launched a series of Safe Schools
Initiatives: the first one was recently adopted by Nigeria. And in Pakistan,
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif last month agreed a 15-point plan created by A World
at School to increase security for pupils and staff. Later this week, Brown and
the Pakistani government will announce new measures as part of the Pakistan
initiative.

Human rights reports suggest that in Pakistan at least 19 education staff were
killed between 2009 and 2012, including five female teachers shot as they
returned home from a community event, and a female teacher murdered in front of
her son on her way to school.

The number of Pakistani children murdered either at school or on school
transport since 2009 is conservatively estimated at 172. And Pakistan is not the
only country where children and teachers risk their lives to go to school.
According to the Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack (GCPEA) ,
schools in at least 70 countries were subjected to assault between 2009 and
2014, with many attacks specifically targeting girls, parents and teachers who
spoke out for gender equality.

The attempted murder in 2012 of Malala Yousafzai and two other girls, Kainat
Riaz and Shazia Ramzan, as they travelled on a school bus, made world headlines.
Many girls and women were killed and injured before them, and more have died
since.

The GCPEA says that, in addition to Pakistan, the most dangerous places to go to
school are Colombia, Sudan, Afghanistan, Gaza, Syria and Nigeria. In Gaza last
summer, 148 schools were bombed, while in Syria, one in five has been struck,
with children being killed by mortar attacks while at school. In Nigeria, by the
end of last year, 338 schools had been destroyed, at least 196 teachers and 314
students had been killed, and more than 276 students had been abducted.

Khan says he briefly considered whether he should leave teaching. The wobble
didn't last long. "I was born a teacher, and I will die in the profession
because of my passion for educating children," he says. "We have so much talent
here. Pakistan has the potential to become a leading and developed nation in
south Asia. But we must focus on education."

Some names have been changed.

Find out more about A World at School's
#UpForSchool petition


     ·    This article was amended on 16 March 2015. An earlier version
          incorrectly described A World At School as a charity.


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 16, 2015 Monday 10:56 PM GMT

Memo to WPCs: When terrorists attack, hit 'em with your handbag - CHRISTOPHER
STEVENS reviews last night's TV

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS FOR DAILY MAIL

SECTION: TV&SHOWBIZ

LENGTH: 740 words


Fair Cop: A Century of British Policewomen (BBC4)

Rating:

Kew On A Plate (BBC2)

Rating:

Downing Street, 1975: a young Met officer was about to take her first turn
standing guard outside the famous black door of No 10. She was the first
policewoman ever detailed to protect the Prime Minister.

As she reported for her shift, the copper on doorstep duty looked her up and
down. 'Hope you don't mind me asking,' he said with interest, 'but where do you
keep your gun?'

WPC Mary Routledge didn't have a gun. All she had been issued with to safeguard
the Premier was a black leather shoulder bag. If a terrorist showed up, her job
was to handbag him.

That's a great story. Trouble was, Fair Cop: A Century Of British Policewomen
(BBC4) didn't know what to do with it, nor with any of the fantastic material
that went to waste in this 90-minute dose of history through a Leftie lens.

Like too many Beeb documentaries, it was tangled up in its right-on agenda,
obsessed with proving how the sisterhood was eternally oppressed by male
chauvinists.

What producer and director Martina Hall failed to grasp was that in the police,
PC does not stand for Politically Correct. That goes for both sexes: the women
in blue are rarely strident feminists.

If the film-maker doesn't understand the subject, viewers won't learn anything.
Current and former policewomen were queuing up to recount their memories, but
they didn't want to be treated as victims of all-male conspiracies - they wanted
to celebrate what they had achieved.

Of course, the force in the Z Cars and Sweeney era was sexist. That's just how
it was, and any woman with an ambition to be a copper got on with the job. She
certainly didn't burn her bra in Trafalgar Square. Some interviewees had enjoyed
the banter. One gleefully revealed her nickname in the station had been Norma...
short for Norma's T*ts.

EMPLOYEE OF THE WEEK

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's manservant, Woodie (Charles Edwards), really earned his
pay in Arthur And George (ITV).

He ferreted out clues, then knocked the villain unconscious with a plank of wood
- and ended up carrying hat boxes on a shopping expedition. What a treasure.

Another happily recalled how she once got stuck climbing over a fence in her
regulation tight skirt - and her male colleague was laughing so hard he couldn't
help her down.

What the Beeb should do is round up these women in a pub, provide unlimited free
drinks, and record the conversations. Then we'd hear some tales. Few of the
anecdotes would beat former Met Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dicks's story of
a training exercise where Princess Diana turned up.

The young bobbies were learning how to deal with the aftermath of a motorbike
crash, and an instructor was writhing in the road, covered in fake blood and
screaming.

Di leaned over to Cressida and whispered: 'Oh, men, they do make a fuss, don't
they?'

Kew On A Plate (BBC2) didn't have much idea what to do with itself either. This
four-part series promised to be an all-the-year-round guide to growing veg in
the Royal Botanic Gardens, but it couldn't decide whether to concentrate on
gardening, history or cookery.

It tried to do all three and failed at everything. The lessons on how to build a
bamboo wigwam for your crop of peas, and how to spot potato blight before it
rotted your King Edwards, were too short to be useful.

The detours into the past were so brief as to be nonsensical. Presenter Kate
Humble took a ride on the footplate of a steam engine, which was something to do
with watercress.

And chef Raymond Blanc showed us what to do with our produce when we'd grown it
- though there wasn't time for a main course, so Raymond just demonstrated his
recipe for rhubarb and custard.

He also had a go at singing the theme song from Roobarb And Custard, a favourite
cartoon from his childhood. 'Deedle-ee-duermm, deedle-ee-duermm,' he hummed.
'Zumzing like zat airneeway, I yave neffer bin a grairt zinger.'

Those without subtitles might wish to know Raymond was saying, 'Something like
that anyway. I have never been a great singer.'

Perhaps you remember those dreadful Pink Panther rip-off sequels, cobbled
together from out-takes and offcuts, with no plot, no logic and no reason to
exist apart from Peter Sellers's ridiculous French accent. Kew On A Plate was a
lot like that.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Shields Gazette

                             March 16, 2015 Monday

Victim's terror after suspected arson attack on South Shields home

BYLINE: Lisa Nightingale

LENGTH: 267  words


A RESIDENT has spoke of his shock at finding his home filled with smoke after a
suspected arson attack on a nearby property.

The man, who asked not to be named, says he woke in the early hours by the sound
of fire engines.

When he went down the stairs of his own property in Calver Court, in Harton
Moor, South Shields, he discovered the room covered in smoke.

Outside, firefighters had already started to tackle a blaze which had broken out
in a nearby property, at about 3.45am on Saturday.

Northumbria Police said that a 21-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of
arson and is now on bail.

The resident said: "I could see the flashing lights through the window and when
I came down stairs, there was smoke everywhere, it was up to my waist. I had to
open the back door, you just couldn't breathe.

"When I looked out the fire brigade had the hoses out and were putting a fire
out in the property next to mine."

It is thought a woman lives at the property, but was not at home at the time of
the blaze, which police believe was started maliciously.

Police are now appealing for anyone with information to come forward.

A police spokesman said: "At 3:46am on Saturday we received a report of a house
on fire in Calver Court, South Shields.

"The fire brigade extinguished the fire and no-one was injured.

"Early inquiries suggest the fire may have been started maliciously and police
are appealing for anyone who was in the area at the time, and who saw anything
or anyone suspicious, to contact them on 101 ext 69191.

Callers are asked to quote reference number 239 14/03/15

Twitter: @shieldsgazlisa

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPGZ


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 16, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kosher shop open after terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 38 words


Paris The Hyper Cacher kosher food store, where four hostages were killed by an
Islamist gunman has reopened. Amedy Coulibaly also killed a policewoman on
January 9. New staff have been appointed as those who were there are in shock.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ARMED THUGS GET 25 YEARS IN JAIL AFTER BRUTAL RAIDS ON RICH CHINESE;
Vicious gang stole £250k in terror attacks

BYLINE: NEIL DOCKING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 772 words


TWO members of an armed gang who raided the homes of wealthy members of
Liverpool's Chinese community were locked up for 25 years.

Jack Hunter and Jamie Ellis were part of a "highly organised" group armed with
machetes, knives, meat cleavers and an axe who terrorised families.

Liverpool Crown Court heard the team stole around £250,000 of jewellery,
watches, electrical goods, cash and cars from terrified people, including a
heavily pregnant woman, children and the elderly, between November 2013 and
March 2014.

David Potter, prosecuting, said: "They burgled with ruthless efficiency and a
high level of violence. They were determined to steal property by threatening
the occupiers with a variety of fearsome weapons."

Ellis, 24, and another man called Daniel Challinor, 21, also targeted
cash-in-transit vans.

Getaway driver Ellis was involved in a raid at the Showcase cinema in Croxteth
and at the McDonalds restaurant at Edge Lane Retail Park, when a security guard
had his arm slashed with a machete by a masked man, leaving a 10cm wound.

Challinor took part in a robbery at a Nationwide bank in Old Swan, when £19,000
was taken from a security guard, who was clubbed over the back of his head.

The gang's mobile phones revealed they carried out reconnaissance missions and
were present in the vicinity when crimes took place.

Thousands of pounds worth of jewellery was stolen and Hunter, 20, took
photographs of the haul and of himself posing with machetes.

In some of the burglaries, including a trip to million-pound properties in
Worcestershire, expensive cars were stolen, which were used in robberies.

Join the conversation on our Facebook page face com/poolecho Mr Potter said the
gang spent their ill-gotten gains on parties and nights out and going to
concerts.

In one incident at a house in Allerton on February 7, 2014, a man and his
heavily pregnant wife were with their toddler daughter and her grandparents when
two balaclava-clad men threatened them with knives and a meat cleaver.

The group made off with money, jewellery and Rolex watches.

One violent burglary was carried out at a home in Gardenia Grove, Aigburth, on
February 12.

www.book.

During the raid, five or six masked men burst into a kitchen holding weapons
including a sword, axe, screwdriver and a knife.

theliver Death and kidnap threats were made, along with one man threatening to
chop off a woman's arm, before the gang stole her Nissan Qashqai.

The court also heard about an incident in Fairway in Huyton on February 13, when
a masked man broke into a home and demanded the keys to an Audi.

He then swung a small axe at a woman who was carrying a baby.

The axe narrowly missed her child and struck a door frame.

Hunter, 20, originally from Huyton but of no fixed address, admitted conspiracy
to commit burglary.

He was found guilty of conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary after a trial.
Hunter had 19 previous convictions for 42 offences, including two assaults in
2008.

David Watson, defending Hunter, said he was only 19 at the time of the offences
and had a twoyear-old child. He accepted he caused "a high level of
psychological trauma" to his victims, but said he did not inflict serious
physical harm.

Ellis, 24, of Jeffereys Crescent, Huyton, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to rob
and handling stolen goods.

He was in breach of a 20-month suspended sentence imposed in 2013 for producing
cannabis.

Lianne Birkett, defending, said her client was only a driver for the gang.

She said he was not involved in the violence and apologised to his victims.

Judge Clement Goldstone, QC, said the gang used a variety of "lethal weapons".

He said Hunter showed no regard for his victims and sentenced him to 16 years in
a young offenders institution.

The judge said: "Your only concern was to line your pockets in search of a
lifestyle which otherwise you would not have been able to afford."

Judge Goldstone jailed Ellis for nine years, including 15 months of his
suspended sentence. He said: "You said in your letter that you did not regard
yourself as a career criminal. Well for a parttimer you have made a pretty
indelible mark on your life and on the lives of your victims, who were utterly
terrorised."

Challinor, 21, of Croxdale Road, Yewtree, admitted conspiracy to commit
aggravated burglary and burglary, robbery and handling stolen goods.

Challinor's grandma, Marlene Currie, 67, of Huntsman Wood, West Derby, admitted
possessing criminal property, after the court heard she laundered cash at a Gala
Bingo through gaming machines.

They will be sentenced on March 26, while another member of the gang, Craig
Lister, 34, of no fixed abode, will be sentenced in May.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Memo to WPCs: When terrorists attack, hit 'em with your handbag

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 655 words


Fair Cop

**

Kew On A Plate

**

DOWNING STREET, 1975: a young Met officer was about to take her first turn
standing guard outside the famous black door of No10. She was the first
policewoman ever detailed to protect the Prime Minister.

As she reported for her shift, the copper on doorstep duty looked her up and
down. 'Hope you don't mind me asking,' he said with interest, 'but where do you
keep your gun?' WPC Mary Routledge didn't have a gun. All she had been issued
with to safeguard the Premier was a black leather shoulder bag. If a terrorist
showed up, her job was to handbag him.

That's a great story. Trouble was, Fair Cop: A Century Of British Policewomen
(BBC4) didn't know what to do with it, nor with any of the fantastic material
that went to waste in this 90-minute dose of history through a Leftie lens.

Like too many Beeb documentaries, it was tangled up in its right-on agenda,
obsessed with proving how the sisterhood was eternally oppressed by male
chauvinists.

What producer and director Martina Hall failed to grasp was that in the police,
PC does not stand for Politically Correct. That goes for both sexes: the women
in blue are rarely strident feminists.

If the film-maker doesn't understand the subject, viewers won't learn anything.
Current and former policewomen were queuing up to recount their memories, but
they didn't want to be treated as victims of all-male conspiracies - they wanted
to celebrate what they had achieved.

Of course, the force in the Z Cars and Sweeney era was sexist. That's just how
it was, and any woman with an ambition to be a copper got on with the job. She
certainly didn't burn her bra in Trafalgar Square. Some interviewees had enjoyed
the banter. One gleefully revealed her nickname in the station had been Norma
... short for Norma's T*ts.

Another happily recalled how she once got stuck climbing over a fence in her
regulation tight skirt - and her male colleague was laughing so hard he couldn't
help her down.

What the Beeb should do is round up these women in a pub, provide unlimited free
drinks, and record the conversations. Then we'd hear some tales. Few of the
anecdotes would beat former Met Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dicks's story of
a training exercise where Princess Diana turned up.

The young bobbies were learning how to deal with the aftermath of a motorbike
crash, and an instructor was writhing in the road, covered in fake blood and
screaming.

Di leaned over to Cressida and whispered: 'Oh, men, they do make a fuss, don't
they?' Kew On A Plate (BBC2) didn't have much idea what to do with itself
either. This four-part series promised to be an all-the-year-round guide to
growing veg in the Royal Botanic Gardens, but it couldn't decide whether to
concentrate on gardening, history or cookery.

It tried to do all three and failed at everything. The lessons on how to build a
bamboo wigwam for your crop of peas, and how to spot potato blight before it
rotted your King Edwards, were too short to be useful.

The detours into the past were so brief as to be nonsensical. Presenter Kate
Humble took a ride on the footplate of a steam engine, which was something to do
with watercress.

And chef Raymond Blanc showed us what to do with our produce when we'd grown it
- though there wasn't time for a main course, so Raymond just demonstrated his
recipe for rhubarb and custard.

He also had a go at singing the theme song from Roobarb And Custard, a favourite
cartoon from his childhood. 'Deedle-eeduermm, deedle-ee-duermm,' he hummed.
'Zumzing like zat airneeway, I yave neffer bin a grairt zinger.' Those without
subtitles might wish to know Raymond was saying, 'Something like that anyway. I
have never been a great singer.'

Perhaps you remember those dreadful Pink Panther rip-off sequels, cobbled
together from out-takes and offcuts, with no plot, no logic and no reason to
exist apart from Peter Sellers's ridiculous French accent. Kew On A Plate was a
lot like that.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Twenty-two dead, two terrorist killed, 50 injured in Tunisia's terror attack

LENGTH: 47 words


Tunisian TV at 1542 gmt on 18 March carried an "Urgent" screen caption which
read:

"Health source: The initial recent toll of the terrorist operation is 22 people
dead, two terrorists killed, and about 50 people injured."

Source: National Tunisian TV, Tunis, in Arabic 1542 gmt 18 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Egypt's Sisi expresses condolence to Tunisian leader over "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 18 March: President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi on Wednesday [18 March] called
President of Tunisia Beji Caid Essebsi, presidential spokesman Ala Yusuf said.

During the telephone call, Al-Sisi slammed the terrorist attack that targeted
the National Bardo Museum in Tunisia earlier in the day.

Al-Sisi expressed deep condolences to Essebsi and the Tunisian people as well,
Yusuf added.

The spokesman noted that the president assured the Tunisian leader of Egypt's
support for his country in fight against terrorism and extremism.

Essebsi, for his part, expressed thanks to Sisi for warm feelings and the
supportive stance of Egypt.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1722gmt 18 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Morocco condemns "despicable terrorist attack" against Tunisian museum

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 18 March: The Kingdom of Morocco vehemently condemned the despicable
terrorist attack that targeted on Wednesday [18 March] the Bardo Museum in
Tunis, and resulted in the death and injury of foreign tourists and Tunisian
citizens.

"Following the cowardly terrorist attack, which hit on Wednesday, March 18,
2015, the Bardo Museum in the Tunisian capital, killed and wounded several
foreign tourists and Tunisian citizens, the Kingdom of Morocco vehemently
condemns this despicable terrorist attack, which targeted innocents, extends its
sincere condolences to the victims' families and wishes prompt recovery to the
wounded," said a statement by the Foreign Affairs Ministry.

"The Kingdom of Morocco denounces, in the strongest terms, this appalling
terrorist act which seeks to undermine Tunisia's democratic model and its
economy by targeting the tourism sector, reiterating anew its solidarity and
full support for the sister Tunisian republic in its efforts to preserve
security and stability, and eradicate extremism and terrorism which are foreign
to the Tunisian culture and society which believes in the values of moderation,
peace and tolerance," said the statement.

The Kingdom of Morocco, which has always rejected all forms of terrorism and
violence, regardless of their motives and reasons, calls again for multiplying
regional and international efforts to counter this plague which threatens
world's peace and security, it concluded.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1900 gmt 18 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Libyan GNC condemns "terrorist attack" in Tunisian capital

LENGTH: 130 words


Text of report by Libyan news agency WAL (also known as LANA)

Tripoli, 18 March: The chairmanship of the General National Congress [GNC] has
condemned the terrorist attack against the Tunisian capital which targeted the
Bardo Museum and which led to the death and injury of several people.

In a statement it issued this Wednesday evening [18 March], the congress
chairmanship offered the condolences to sisterly Tunisia - president, government
and people - and stressed that its fight was one [with Tunisia] against the
forces of evil and terrorism.

The GNC chairmanship expressed their standing beside the brotherly Tunisian
people against anyone who tried to destabilise their security and stability.

Source: WAL (also known as LANA) news agency, Tripoli, in Arabic 1844 gmt 18 Mar
15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Moroccan king offers condolences to Tunisian president over terror attack

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 18 March: HM King Mohammed VI has sent a message of condolences to
Tunisian President Beji Caid Essebsi on Wednesday [18 March], after gunmen
attacked a tourist bus outside a museum in the Tunisian capital killing 22.

In this message, the sovereign said that "it was with deep sorrow and grief that
he learned the sad news of the heinous terrorist attack against the Bardo Museum
in Tunis".

Firmly condemning this "cowardly criminal aggression, which targeted the
security and stability of your brotherly country, but also this cultural
hallmark, symbol of centuries-old Tunisian civilizational and human heritage,
visited by many foreign tourists around the world", HM the king expressed to the
Tunisian president the sheer solidarity of the kingdom with the Tunisian people,
its continued support to face all forms of terrorism, rejected by Islam which
advocates justice, brotherhood, tolerance and coexistence.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 2034 gmt 18 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      March 18, 2015 Wednesday 1:06 PM GMT

Eight reported dead in terror attack at Tunisian museum - live updates;
Tunisian foreign ministry confirms seven foreigners and one Tunisian have been
killed in an attack at the Bardo museum, adjacent to the parliament building in
Tunis

BYLINE: Haroon Siddique

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 115 words


block-time published-time 1.06pm GMT

The Tunisian interior ministry says seven foreigners and one Tunisian have been
shot dead in an attack at the Bardo museum in Tunis.

A spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui, told Shems FM radio station that two "terrorists"
were surrounded at the museum, famous for its collection of of Roman mosaics.

He was unable to confirm reports that tourists visiting the museum had been
taken hostage or that the gunmen were dressed in military uniforms.

The museum is adjacent to the national parliament building which was evacuated
after the shooting.

Tunisia has struggled with violence by Islamic extremists in recent years,
including some linked to the Islamic State group.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     March 18, 2015 Wednesday 10:58 PM GMT

Tunisia museum shooting: Country in shock as Tunis attack leaves more than 20
people dead;
There has been shock that terrorists were able to launch such an attack at the
heart of the capital

BYLINE: Roisin O'Connor

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 418 words


Tunisia's prime minister has said that a total of 22 people have died in the
attack against the Bardo museum in Tunis on 18 March, including 17 tourists, two
Tunisians and two gunmen.

Prime minister Habib Essid said that five of the victims were Japanese, four
Italian, two Colombian, two Spanish, one Australian, one Polish, one French
national and one whose nationality has not yet been verified.

Essid said 44 people were also wounded, among them: 13 Italians, seven French,
four Japanese, two South Africans, one Polish, one Russian and six Tunisians.

Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos confirmed on Twitter that two Colombian
citizens were among the victims of the attack.

Lamentamos muerte de 2 colombianos en Túnez y ofrecemos condolencias a su
familia. @CancilleriaCol esta trabajando en su repatriación.- Juan Manuel Santos
(@JuanManSantos) March 18, 2015

There has been shock that terrorists were able to launch such an attack at the
heart of the capital.

In pictures: Bardo Museum shooting

The assault is the worst involving foreigners in Tunisia since the al-Qaida
suicide bombing on a synagogue in 2002, which killed 21 people on the island of
Djerba.

Read more: Foreign Office urges British travellers to avoid Bardo MuseumEU
foreign policy chief blames Isis for Bardo Museum attack

Newly elected president Beji Caid Essebsi said in an evening address to the
nation: "I want the people of Tunisia to understand firstly and lastly that we
are in a war with terror, and these savage minority groups will not frighten us.

"The fight against them will continue until they are exterminated."

David Cameron said he is "appalled" by the terror attack and pledged Britain's
full support, while the Foreign Office said it was "urgently" looking into the
attack amid reports Britons may be among the dead.

Cameron said on Twitter: "Appalled by sickening terrorist attack in Tunis - my
thoughts are with those affected. UK stands ready to support Tunisia."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest says the US is prepared to offer assistance
to Tunisian authorities in their investigation of the attack against the Bardo
museum and "will continue to stand with our Tunisian partners against terrorist
violence".

"We extend our deepest sympathies to the victims of today's heinous violence in
Tunisia and condemn in the strongest terms this terrorist attack, which took the
lives of innocent Tunisians as well as visiting tourists," Earnest said.

Additional reporting by AP, PA, Reuters

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 18, 2015 Wednesday 9:34 PM GMT

'They opened up on anything that moved': Tunisian guide describe terrifying
moment 'Islamists' gunned down Westerners as they got off coaches in museum
terror attack that left 22 dead

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON, FLORA DRURY, JOHN HALL and KATE PICKLES FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2300 words



     ·    At least 17 foreigners have been killed in a terror attack in Tunisia
     ·    Twenty-two people were killed in the attack: 17 tourists, the two
          gunmen, a museum security officer, a cleaner, and a police officer
     ·    Two gunmen opened fire in the capital's Bardo Museum about midday
     ·    The pair 'hunted down' tourists indiscriminately in the shocking
          attack
     ·    Another 30 people were held hostage before police raided the building
     ·    Both attackers and a policeman were killed in the ensuing shootout
     ·    The dead included nationals from Italy, Poland, Germany and Spain
     ·    Tunisian PM Habib Essid has warned attackers may have had accomplices


A Tunisian tourist guide has told how he 'stared death in the face' as
terrorists opened fire on his clients in an attack which left 22 dead, including
17 foreigners.

Local guide Walid was inside the Bardo National Museum museum when the gunmen
shot 17 tourists dead as they exited cruise ship buses parked outside.

The gunmen then entered the museum and took 30 more tourists hostage before
police swarmed the building and killed the terrorists in a shoot-out which also
claimed an officer's life.

'They opened up on anything that moved,' Walid told the MailOnline.

'The choice was to run away, or face certain death or injury. I helped my
clients find shelter as best I could.'

Walid, who does not want to be identified by his surname for fear of reprisals,
knew where all the emergency exits were the in the museum complex, which is next
door to the Tunisian parliament, directing many to safety.

Twenty-two people were killed in the attack: 17 tourists, the two gunmen, a
museum security officer, a cleaner, and a police officer.

Prime Minister Habib Essid said, the dead included five Japanese, four Italians,
two Colombians and one each from Australia, France, Poland and Spain, Essid said
on national television.

The attack was the first on a tourist site in Tunisia since democracy was
introduced to the country following the Arab Spring of 2011.

Another eyewitness, identified only as Nabila, said 'the police tried to push
everybody away', as snipers too up positions on roofs. She said she saw one man
being arrested 'and he looked to be about 25'.

Scroll down for video

Tonight, thousands of people have gathered in the Capital in a show of
solidarity against today's atrocity as world leaders united in their
condemnation.

David Cameron said he was 'appalled' by the incident and pledged Britain's full
support, while the Foreign Office said it is 'urgently' looking into the attack
amid reports Britons may be among the dead.

Mr Cameron said on Twitter: 'Appalled by sickening terrorist attack in Tunis -
my thoughts are with those affected. UK stands ready to support Tunisia.'

Speaking from the Louvre, French president Francois Hollande said he had called
Tunisia's president to offer support and solidarity.

'Each time a terrorist crime is committed, we are all concerned,' he said.

While U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Washington 'condemns in the
strongest possible terms today's deadly terrorist attack' and praised Tunisia's
'rapid response' to resolve the hostage situation and restore calm.

Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid earlier warned there may be others, acting
as accomplices to the gunmen, who remain at large.

Mr Essid said: 'The terrorist fired randomly as they got off the buses. As they
fled, they were hunted and chased down.

'There is a possibility, but it is not certain, that [the two gunmen] could have
been helped. We are currently conducting extensive search operations to identify
the two or three terrorists who possibly participated in the operation.'

It is believed several hundred managed to flee the museum, while another 20 - 30
were taken captive before anti-terrorist security forces raided the building.

It is unclear who the attackers were, but a video posted online in December
attributed to Islamic State warned the jihadis would target the country.

Twitter accounts associated with the extremist Islamic State group based in
Syria and Iraq were described as overjoyed at the attack, urging Tunisians to
'follow their brothers,' according to Rita Katz of SITE, a U.S.-based
organization that monitors militant groups.

PRO-ISIS TWITTER ACCOUNT ACCURATELY PREDICTS TUNISIA ATTACK HOURS IN ADVANCE

A tweet sent from pro-ISIS Twitter accounts accurately predicted the Tunisia
terror attack, raising the possibility the terror group were behind the
atrocity.

Sent just hours before the gunmen opened fire on the popular museum tone tweet
read: 'Coming good news to Tunisia's Muslims, and a shock to the disbelievers
and the hypocrites, especially those who claim to be cultured.'

The tweet was sent from the account @riif0BA9, which regularly posts pro-ISIS
messages, with particularly reference to militants originally from Tunisia.

When news of the attack spread online, the tweet was re-posted by numerous other
ISIS sympathisers, many of whom also lavished praised on the gunmen's choice of
target.

'The selected location has great impact upon the tyrants & crusaders, parliament
& museum; heart of sovereignty and tourism,' an ISIS support called
@Ajnad30_moslim wrote.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said 'terrorist
organisations' were behind the attack.

She added: 'The EU is determined to mobilise all the tools it has to fully
support Tunisia in the fight against terrorism.'

Prime Minister Essid declared, in what is thought to be reference to the
country's tourism industry: 'All Tunisians should be united after this attack
which was aimed at destroying the Tunisian economy.'

This was backed by Karim Ben Sa'a, a manager in the tourism industry, who
declared: 'This is a black day for Tunisia.'

'We are very sad for these tourists. They visit our country and it is so, so,
sad to see them die. Our hearts are black.'

Mohamed Ali Aroui, an Interior Ministry spokesman, described the two attackers
as 'Islamists' in local broadcasts, CNN  reported.

In the immediate aftermath of the attack, national guardsmen and anti-terrorist
police quickly surrounded the hugely popular tourist site, which is visited by
thousands of foreigners every year, including many Britons.

Fleets of ambulances could also be seen driving in and out of the museum
grounds, as helicopters flew overhead.

The two heavily armed terrorists were holed-up inside with Kalashnikovs.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui said on Radio Mosaique that one of
the dead was a Tunisian.

Farouk Afi, a blogger in Tunisia, was about to meet his friend in the museum
when he heard the shots go off, according to the BBC.

He said: 'I was near, next door in the café, and I was going to meet with my
friends. I heard it and I didn't know at that moment what it was, but the police
told me go far from this place.

The Foreign Office said it was still working to establish if any British
nationals were involved and updated its travel advice for Tunisia.

A spokesman said: We are urgently looking into the serious events in Tunisia and
are working with the Tunisian authorities as well as with contacts in the
tourist industry to establish if any British nationals have been affected.

'Through our travel advice, we are urging people to exercise caution and follow
the instructions of the local authorities.'

British tour operators confirmed that thousands of customers are believed to be
in the country, but 'very few' are in the capital where the attack was carried
out.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) said: 'We are
currently liaising with our members and the Foreign Office to assess the impact
and understand if any British nationals have been caught up in the attack on the
Bardo Museum in Tunis.

'Tunisia attracts over 400,000 UK visitors each year, with the vast majority
travelling to resorts on the coast.

'Abta members have reported that they have currently approximately 6,500
customers in Tunisia, though very few of these are staying in Tunis. As a
precaution many Abta tour operators have cancelled local excursions to Tunis due
to depart over the next few days.'

Poland's prime minister has now revealed that some of the Polish victims of the
attack were on a tour bus in front of the building when the gunmen opened fire.

Ewa Kopacz refused to give the precise number of Polish victims, saying figures
were still being confirmed. Earlier today, the Foreign Ministry said that three
Poles were injured, while Polish diplomats in Tunis were working to confirm
unofficial reports that four Poles had been killed.

Kopacz did say 20 Polish tourists are safe and sound.

And Piotr Henicz, deputy head of Polish tour company Itaka, said 36 tourists on
a package holiday to Tunisia were visiting the museum when they came under
attack.

HOW TUNISIA BECAME A BREEDING GROUND FOR ISIS MILITANTS

Tunisia has long been a hot-bed of would be jihadist sympathetic to the ISIS
cause, with an estimated 3,000 people fighting in Syria - the highest number of
any country.

The north African country has always been a breeding ground for terrorists, with
extremists taking advantage of bored and jobless young men looking for an escape
route.

But the recent surge in numbers seems to be down to the hard-line groups which
have taken advantage of the relaxing laws following the Jasmine Revolution in
2011 - including Islamist militant group Ansar al Sharia, which the United
States brands as a terrorist organisation and blames for a 2012 attack on the
U.S. embassy in Tunis.

The government also released a number of fundamentalists from prison - allowing
them to mix freely with the population once more.

These groups have taken advantage of the declining economy, capitalising on the
disappointment felt by those who expected a change after the Arab Spring,
according to Imen Triki, a lawyer who represents returning jihadists.

'The Arab revolutions raised an expectation that wasn't met - people thought
their lives would improve, but instead they got worse,' Mr Triki told The
Telegraph.

'In Syria, they are told they'll get houses, they'll get wives. These people are
so alienated from our society that some choose this option in a heartbeat.'

Social media is also blamed, with pictures of ISIS fighters getting thousands of
likes and recruiters using Facebook to find any potential fighters, much like is
seen in the UK.

But with the rise of ISIS in Libya, to the east, and al-Qaeda affiliated groups
in Algeria, to the west, it is now easy to join a 'jihad', and get arms into
Tunisia itself.

'Tunisia is surrounded by jihadist groups in the mountains who coordinate with
the terrorists in Libya... Libya is the main source of arms for jihadists in
Tunisia,' said Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa.

But despite this, Tunisia is seen as the success story of the Arab Spring, and
tourist numbers have been on the increase once more as people begin to feel the
area is safe once more.

In 2013, 6.27million people visited Tunisia. Of those, almost 330,000 were
British, while 985,000 were French

The museum chronicles Tunisia's history and includes one of the world's largest
collections of Roman mosaics.

Tunisia recently completed a rocky road to democracy after overthrowing its
authoritarian president in 2011.

It has been more stable than other countries in the region, but it has struggled
with violence by Islamic extremists in recent years, including some linked to
ISIS. It also has extremists linked to al-Qaeda's North Africa arm who
occasionally target Tunisian security forces.

A disproportionately large number of Tunisia recruits have joined ISIS in Syria
and Iraq.

The museum, built within a 15th-century palace, is the largest museum in Tunisia
with collections covering two floors.

The museum is near the North African country's parliament, some four kilometres
(two-and-a-half miles) from the city centre. A new wing with contemporary
architecture was built as part of a 2009 renovation, doubling the surface area.
Some 8,000 works are displayed in the museum, according to the website.

The attack comes the day after Tunisian security officials confirmed the death
in neighbouring Libya of a leading suspect in Tunisian terror attacks and the
killings of two opposition figures in Tunisia.

Ahmed Rouissi gained the nickname of the 'black box of terrorism'. The
information on his death was made public by security officials giving evidence
in parliament and cited by the official TAP news agency

Some of the Italians at the museum were believed to have been passengers aboard
the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise liner making a seven-day trip of the western
Mediterranean that had docked in Tunis.

Ship owner Costa Crociere confirmed that some of its 3,161 passengers were
visiting the capital and that a Bardo tour was on the itinerary, but said it
could not confirm how many, if any, passengers were in the museum at the time.

The cruise ship recalled all the passengers to the ship and was in touch with
local authorities and the Italian foreign ministry.

Libya, which has devolved into chaos, is a source of major concern for Tunisia.

Also a major worry is the Mount Chaambi area on the border with Algeria where al
Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb has reportedly been helping a Tunisian group which
has killed numerous soldiers.

Speaking at the Louvre museum to call for international efforts to preserve the
heritage of Iraq and Syria against extremist destruction, French president
Francois Hollande said he had called the Tunisian president to offer support and
solidarity.

'Each time a terrorist crime is committed, we are all concerned,' said Mr
Hollande.

French prime minister Manuel Valls said today: 'We are condemning this terrorist
attack in the strongest terms. We are standing by the Tunisian government.'

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 18, 2015 Wednesday 7:56 PM GMT

'This is a black day for Tunisia': Nation mourns after 22 die in museum terror
attack which saw Westerners hunted on cruise ship buses and slaughtered by
'Islamist' gunmen

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON, FLORA DRURY, JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE and KATE PICKLES
FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1996 words



     ·    At least 17 foreigners have been killed in a terror attack in Tunisia
     ·    Twenty-two people were killed in the attack: 17 tourists, the two
          gunmen, a museum security officer, a cleaner, and a police officer
     ·    Two gunmen opened fire in the capital's Bardo Museum about midday
     ·    The pair 'hunted down' tourists indiscriminately in the shocking
          attack
     ·    Another 30 people were held hostage before police raided the building
     ·    Both attackers and a policeman were killed in the ensuing shootout
     ·    The dead included nationals from Italy, Poland, Germany and Spain
     ·    Tunisian PM Habib Essid has warned attackers may have had accomplices


A terrorist attack which left seventeen tourists dead when two gunmen 'hunted
down' foreigners, has been hailed as 'a black day for Tunisia'.

All 17 innocent victims were foreigners who were deliberately targeted as they
exited cruise ship buses by the museum in Tunis.

Two gunmen then entered the museum and took 30 more tourists hostage before
police swarmed the building and killed the terrorists in a shoot-out which also
claimed an officer's life.

Twenty-two people were killed: 17 tourists, the two gunmen, a museum security
officer, a cleaner, and a police officer. The dead tourists came from Italy,
Poland, Germany and Spain.

Tonight, thousands of people have gathered in the Capital in a show of
solidarity against today's atrocity as world leaders united in their
condemnation.

Speaking from the Louvre, French president Francois Hollande said he had called
Tunisia's president to offer support and solidarity.

Scroll down for video

'Each time a terrorist crime is committed, we are all concerned,' he said.

UK foreign secretary Philip Hammond tweeted to say Britain stands alongside
Tunisia against terrorism.

'I condemn today's dreadful terrorist attack in Tunis. My thoughts are with
those affected. UK stands with #Tunisia in fighting terrorism,' he wrote.

While U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Washington 'condemns in the
strongest possible terms today's deadly terrorist attack' and praised Tunisia's
'rapid response' to resolve the hostage situation and restore calm.

Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid earlier warned there may be others, acting
as accomplices to the gunmen, who remain at large.

Mr Essid said: 'The terrorist fired randomly as they got off the buses. As they
fled, they were hunted and chased down.

'There is a possibility, but it is not certain, that [the two gunmen] could have
been helped. We are currently conducting extensive search operations to identify
the two or three terrorists who possibly participated in the operation.'

It is believed several hundred managed to flee the museum, while another 20 - 30
were taken captive before anti-terrorist security forces raided the building.

It is unclear who the attackers were, but a video posted online in December
attributed to Islamic State warned the jihadis would target the country.

Twitter accounts associated with the extremist Islamic State group based in
Syria and Iraq were described as overjoyed at the attack, urging Tunisians to
'follow their brothers,' according to Rita Katz of SITE, a U.S.-based
organization that monitors militant groups.

PRO-ISIS TWITTER ACCOUNT ACCURATELY PREDICTS TUNISIA ATTACK HOURS IN ADVANCE

A tweet sent from pro-ISIS Twitter accounts accurately predicted the Tunisia
terror attack, raising the possibility the terror group were behind the
atrocity.

Sent just hours before the gunmen opened fire on the popular museum tone tweet
read: 'Coming good news to Tunisia's Muslims, and a shock to the disbelievers
and the hypocrites, especially those who claim to be cultured.'

The tweet was sent from the account @riif0BA9, which regularly posts pro-ISIS
messages, with particularly reference to militants originally from Tunisia.

When news of the attack spread online, the tweet was re-posted by numerous other
ISIS sympathisers, many of whom also lavished praised on the gunmen's choice of
target.

'The selected location has great impact upon the tyrants & crusaders, parliament
& museum; heart of sovereignty and tourism,' an ISIS support called
@Ajnad30_moslim wrote.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said 'terrorist
organisations' were behind the attack.

She added: 'The EU is determined to mobilise all the tools it has to fully
support Tunisia in the fight against terrorism.'

Prime Minister Essid declared, in what is thought to be reference to the
country's tourism industry: 'All Tunisians should be united after this attack
which was aimed at destroying the Tunisian economy.'

This was backed by Karim Ben Sa'a, a manager in the tourism industry, who
declared: 'This is a black day for Tunisia.'

'We are very sad for these tourists. They visit our country and it is so, so,
sad to see them die. Our hearts are black.'

Mohamed Ali Aroui, an Interior Ministry spokesman, described the two attackers
as 'Islamists' in local broadcasts, CNN  reported.

In the immediate aftermath of the attack, national guardsmen and anti-terrorist
police quickly surrounded the hugely popular tourist site, which is visited by
thousands of foreigners every year, including many Britons.

Fleets of ambulances could also be seen driving in and out of the museum
grounds, as helicopters flew overhead.

The two heavily armed terrorists were holed-up inside with Kalashnikovs.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui said on Radio Mosaique that one of
the dead was a Tunisian.

Farouk Afi, a blogger in Tunisia, was about to meet his friend in the museum
when he heard the shots go off, according to the BBC.

He said: 'I was near, next door in the café, and I was going to meet with my
friends. I heard it and I didn't know at that moment what it was, but the police
told me go far from this place.

The Foreign Office said it was still working to establish if any British
nationals were involved and updated its travel advice for Tunisia.

A spokesman said: We are urgently looking into the serious events in Tunisia and
are working with the Tunisian authorities as well as with contacts in the
tourist industry to establish if any British nationals have been affected.

'Through our travel advice, we are urging people to exercise caution and follow
the instructions of the local authorities.

 Poland's prime minister has now revealed that some of the Polish victims of the
attack were on a tour bus in front of the building when the gunmen opened fire.

Ewa Kopacz refused to give the precise number of Polish victims, saying figures
were still being confirmed. Earlier today, the Foreign Ministry said that three
Poles were injured, while Polish diplomats in Tunis were working to confirm
unofficial reports that four Poles had been killed.

Kopacz did say 20 Polish tourists are safe and sound.

And Piotr Henicz, deputy head of Polish tour company Itaka, said 36 tourists on
a package holiday to Tunisia were visiting the museum when they came under
attack.

HOW TUNISIA BECAME A BREEDING GROUND FOR ISIS MILITANTS

Tunisia has long been a hot-bed of would be jihadist sympathetic to the ISIS
cause, with an estimated 3,000 people fighting in Syria - the highest number of
any country.

The north African country has always been a breeding ground for terrorists, with
extremists taking advantage of bored and jobless young men looking for an escape
route.

But the recent surge in numbers seems to be down to the hard-line groups which
have taken advantage of the relaxing laws following the Jasmine Revolution in
2011 - including Islamist militant group Ansar al Sharia, which the United
States brands as a terrorist organisation and blames for a 2012 attack on the
U.S. embassy in Tunis.

The government also released a number of fundamentalists from prison - allowing
them to mix freely with the population once more.

These groups have taken advantage of the declining economy, capitalising on the
disappointment felt by those who expected a change after the Arab Spring,
according to Imen Triki, a lawyer who represents returning jihadists.

'The Arab revolutions raised an expectation that wasn't met - people thought
their lives would improve, but instead they got worse,' Mr Triki told The
Telegraph.

'In Syria, they are told they'll get houses, they'll get wives. These people are
so alienated from our society that some choose this option in a heartbeat.'

Social media is also blamed, with pictures of ISIS fighters getting thousands of
likes and recruiters using Facebook to find any potential fighters, much like is
seen in the UK.

But with the rise of ISIS in Libya, to the east, and al-Qaeda affiliated groups
in Algeria, to the west, it is now easy to join a 'jihad', and get arms into
Tunisia itself.

'Tunisia is surrounded by jihadist groups in the mountains who coordinate with
the terrorists in Libya... Libya is the main source of arms for jihadists in
Tunisia,' said Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa.

But despite this, Tunisia is seen as the success story of the Arab Spring, and
tourist numbers have been on the increase once more as people begin to feel the
area is safe once more.

In 2013, 6.27million people visited Tunisia. Of those, almost 330,000 were
British, while 985,000 were French

The museum chronicles Tunisia's history and includes one of the world's largest
collections of Roman mosaics.

Tunisia recently completed a rocky road to democracy after overthrowing its
authoritarian president in 2011.

It has been more stable than other countries in the region, but it has struggled
with violence by Islamic extremists in recent years, including some linked to
ISIS. It also has extremists linked to al-Qaeda's North Africa arm who
occasionally target Tunisian security forces.

A disproportionately large number of Tunisia recruits have joined ISIS in Syria
and Iraq.

The museum, built within a 15th-century palace, is the largest museum in Tunisia
with collections covering two floors.

The museum is near the North African country's parliament, some four kilometres
(two-and-a-half miles) from the city centre. A new wing with contemporary
architecture was built as part of a 2009 renovation, doubling the surface area.
Some 8,000 works are displayed in the museum, according to the website.

The attack comes the day after Tunisian security officials confirmed the death
in neighbouring Libya of a leading suspect in Tunisian terror attacks and the
killings of two opposition figures in Tunisia.

Ahmed Rouissi gained the nickname of the 'black box of terrorism'. The
information on his death was made public by security officials giving evidence
in parliament and cited by the official TAP news agency

Some of the Italians at the museum were believed to have been passengers aboard
the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise liner making a seven-day trip of the western
Mediterranean that had docked in Tunis.

Ship owner Costa Crociere confirmed that some of its 3,161 passengers were
visiting the capital and that a Bardo tour was on the itinerary, but said it
could not confirm how many, if any, passengers were in the museum at the time.

The cruise ship recalled all the passengers to the ship and was in touch with
local authorities and the Italian foreign ministry.

Libya, which has devolved into chaos, is a source of major concern for Tunisia.

Also a major worry is the Mount Chaambi area on the border with Algeria where al
Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb has reportedly been helping a Tunisian group which
has killed numerous soldiers.

Speaking at the Louvre museum to call for international efforts to preserve the
heritage of Iraq and Syria against extremist destruction, French president
Francois Hollande said he had called the Tunisian president to offer support and
solidarity.

'Each time a terrorist crime is committed, we are all concerned,' said Mr
Hollande.

French prime minister Manuel Valls said today: 'We are condemning this terrorist
attack in the strongest terms. We are standing by the Tunisian government.'

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     March 18, 2015 Wednesday 12:36 PM GMT

Three people shot in Copenhagen shopping centre weeks after terror attack in the
city left two people dead

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words



     ·    One person was shot in the arm and another in the back during the
          attack
     ·    Police say two people have been arrested in connection with the
          shooting
     ·    Witnesses suggested attack was gang related and involved eight people
     ·    Copenhagen is on high alert following terror attacks on the city last
          month


Three people have been injured after shots were fired in the underground car
park of Denmark's largest shopping centre, police have said.

The attack took place earlier this morning at Fields - a busy shopping precinct
on the outskirts of the Danish capital Copenhagen.

Local media reported that two people had been arrested by police though it was
not immediately clear whether those responsible for the shots are being held.

'We have a massive presence [there]. It happened in the parking basement. One
person is hit in the arm, the other is possibly hit in the back,' the police
chief, Michael Andersen said.

Officials at Copenhagen police reached by telephone said they could not confirm
any details. There was no official word on any motive, although witnesses
claimed the shooting was gang related.

Speaking to local news agency Rittzau, Andersen said the shooting was a result
of 'two groups who clashed', adding that approximately eight people had been
involved in the incident.

'It seem two groups got in a quarrel and it culminated in the parking basement
in Field's where a still unknown number of shots were fired,' Police
Communications Officer Sebastian Richelsen added.

Located in the Amager district, Fields is the biggest shopping centre in
Denmark.

Copenhagen police have been on guard since local former convict Omar El-Hussein
attacked a free speech event and a synagogue, killing two people and injuring
five police officers last month.

The first shooting took place at a public event called 'Art, Blasphemy and
Freedom of Expression' at the, where El-Hussein killed film director Finn
Noergaard, 55, and wounded three police officers.

Swedish artist Lars Vilks, who garnered fame and notoriety for his drawings of
the Prophet Muhammed, was among the speakers and is thought to have been the
main target of the attacks.

Hours later, security employee Dan Uzan, 37, was shot in the head as he stood
outside a building belonging to the city's Great Synagogue. El-Hussein's bloody
rampage was brought to an end shortly after when he was shot dead by police
officers after a dramatic stand-off.

Following the attack Denmark's government pledged 970 million kroner (£95
million) to strengthen anti-terrorism measures, including boosting foreign and
domestic intelligence gathering.

The government started drafting the plans in January after lawmakers demanded a
review of anti-terror measures following the terror attacks by Islamic
extremists in Paris.

Social Democratic Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt says the plan includes
415 million kroner (£40 million) to boost efforts to monitor Danes joining
Islamic militant groups abroad.

A further 200 million kroner (£20 million) went to the domestic intelligence
agency, and 150 million kroner (£15 million) to more IT and analysis capacity.

The government also stated that it wants more SWAT team members and bodyguards
in the city.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      March 18, 2015 Wednesday 2:46 PM GMT

Tunisia Parliament attack: Watch as 'hostages' are rushed from the scene of '
terror attack';
The people, apparently tourists, were covered by assault rifle-wielding police
and soldiers.

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 204 words


Footage of what appears to be terrified hostages being ushered out of the
Tunisian museum attacked by gunmen has emerged.

The people, apparently tourists, were covered by assault rifle-wielding police
and soldiers, who were aiming above their heads.

Tunisia Parliament attack: Live updates

Children and elderly are among the bewildered and frightened people who just
hours before were enjoying the sights of the the Bardo museum, a world-renowned
venue in central Tunis on the parliament grounds.

Tunisian security forces have now freed all the hostages held at a Tunis museum
after a militant attack in which at least 11 people were killed, and the rescue
operation has ended, a spokesman for the interior ministry said.

Tunisia Museum hostage crisis

Two militants and one policemen were killed in clashes after gunmen assaulted
the museum. At least seven foreign tourists and a Tunisian, believed to be a
police officer, were also killed in the initial attack.

Several tourists remained holed up inside the museum before security forces
surrounded and then stormed the building.

It was the worst attack on a tourist site in Tunisia in years and comes as the
country is trying to establish democracy and keep Islamic extremists at bay.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

UPDATE: Tourists among the 20 dead in Tunis terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 961 words


Gunmen opened fire at a major museum in Tunisia's capital, killing at least 20
people, mostly foreigners, in one of the North African country's worst terrorist
attacks.

Men with assault rifles fired at tourists climbing from buses in front of the
National Bardo Museum in central Tunis near the country's parliament, sending
dozens sprinting for safety.

Two gunmen were killed but prime minister Habib Essid said a manhunt was on for
two or three others.

The identity of the attackers was not clear. Local radio has reported that
Britons were among the tourists in the museum.

Security forces immediately flooded the area and Tunisia's parliament building,
where deputies were debating the new anti-terrorism law, was evacuated.

Dozens of tourists scrambled from the museum holding hands or linking arms as
security forces pointed their guns towards an adjacent building. Many elderly
people, apparently tourists, ran in panic to safety, including at least one
couple carrying two children.

Tunisia has been struggling to keep extremist violence at bay since the
overthrow of its dictator in 2011, and the attack was the worst on a tourist
site since an al Qaida car bomb killed 21 people - mostly Germans - in 2002.

"Our nation is in danger," Mr Essid warned in an address on national television
after the siege ended.

"We will be merciless in the defence of our country," he added, describing the
attack as an unprecedented assault onTunisia's economy. He promised increased
security in tourist zones and asked residents to be extra alert.

According to Mr Essid, the dead include two gunmen, a Tunisian security officer
and aTunisian cleaning woman, while the rest were tourists from Italy, Poland,
Germany and Spain. The Spanish foreign ministry has confirmed one dead.

Several other people were reported wounded in the attack, including three Poles
and at least two Italians. The Italian foreign ministry said 100 other Italians
had been taken to a secure location.

Some of the Italians at the museum were believed to have been passengers aboard
the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise liner that had docked in Tunis while on a
seven-day tour of the western Mediterranean. Ship owner Costa Crociere confirmed
that some of its 3,161 passengers were visiting the capital and that a Bardo
tour was on the itinerary, but said it could not confirm how many passengers
were in the museum at the time.

The attack was a strong blow to Tunisia's efforts to revive its crucial tourism
industry.

The Bardo, built in a 15th century palace, is the largest museum in Tunisia and
houses one of the world's largest collections of Roman mosaics among its 8,000
works. The museum, four kilometres (two-and-a-half miles) from the city centre,
has a new wing with contemporary architecture that was built as part of a 2009
renovation.

During the Roman Empire, Tunisia was called the province of Africa and was home
to several large cities which are now popular ruins, including the great
amphitheatre of El Djem, the ruins of Sbeitla and in the north, Dougga, known by
Unesco as the "best preserved small town in North Africa".

"It is not by chance that today's terrorism affects a country that represents
hope for the Arab world. The hope for peace, the hope for stability, the hope
for democracy. This hope must live," French foreign minister Laurent Fabius said
in a statement minutes after the crisis ended.

Speaking at the Louvre museum to call for international efforts to preserve the
heritage of Iraq and Syria against extremist destruction, French president
Francois Hollande said he had called Tunisia's president to offer support and
solidarity.

"Each time a terrorist crime is committed, we are all concerned," Mr Hollande
said.

Tunisia recently completed a rocky road to democracy after overthrowing its
authoritarian president in 2011, seen by many as the start of the so-called Arab
Spring. The country has been more stable than others in the region but has
struggled with violence by Islamic extremists that have sworn allegiance to both
al Qaida and Islamic State.

A disproportionately large number of Tunisian recruits - some 3,000, according
to government estimates - have joined IS fighters in Syria and Iraq.

The US embassy in Tunis was attacked in September 2012, seriously damaging the
embassy grounds and an adjoining American school. Four of the assailants were
killed.

Overall, though, violence in Tunisia in recent years has been largely focused on
security forces, not foreigners or tourist sites.

In October 2013, a young man blew himself up on a beach in the coastal town of
Sousse after being chased from a hotel, causing many to expect a new wave of
attacks on tourism. None materialised until now.

North Africa analyst Geoff Porter said an attack on a tourism site has long been
expected as the militants come under pressure from increasingly effective
Tunisian security forces.

"Today's attack did not come out of nowhere. In fact, it comes amid ongoing
counterterrorism efforts elsewhere in the country," he said about the attack.
"Increasing pressure on terrorist activities ... may have squeezed the balloon,
with terrorists seeking softer targets with more symbolic impact in the
capital."

The attack came the day after Tunisian security officials confirmed the death in
neighbouring Libya of Ahmed Rouissi, leading suspect in Tunisian terror attacks
and in the killings of two opposition figures in Tunisia.

Rouissi had become a field commander for IS in Libya and died fighting near the
town of Sirte, highlighting how Libya has increasingly become a sanctuary for
Tunisian radicals.

Tunisia has repeatedly expressed concern over the security threat from Libya,
where central government has broken down since the 2011 ouster of Muammar
Gaddafi and is now run by competing militias.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      March 18, 2015 Wednesday 9:44 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: David Cameron pledges British support after 'sickening'
attack

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 409 words


David Cameron has taken to Twitter to condemn the "sickening" terrorist attack
that killed 22 people in Tunisia today.

The Prime Minister said he was "appalled" by the attack and pledged British
support to the North African country.

Gunmen in military uniform stormed the Bardo Museum today in the capital Tunis,
picking off tourists who were visiting its world-renowned collection of Roman
mosaics.

Mr Cameron wrote: "Appalled by sickening terrorist attack in Tunis - my thoughts
are with those affected. UK stands ready to support Tunisia."

The Foreign Office said it was "urgently" looking into the attack amid reports
Britons may be among the dead.

However, the Tunisian prime minister said the victims are Polish, Spanish,
German, Italian and Tunisian, according to the BBC. Twenty of the 22 dead were
foreign tourists.

Eyewitnesses told how the killers picked off visitors one by one, while others
hid behind pillars or fled in terror to escape.

Security forces reportedly shot dead two gunmen and were searching for
accomplices.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are urgently looking into the serious
events in Tunisia and are working with the Tunisian authorities as well as with
contacts in the tourist industry to establish if any British nationals have been
affected.

Related stories

"Our travel advice is that we are urging people to exercise caution and follow
the instructions of the local authorities."

British tour operators confirmed that thousands of customers are believed to be
in the country, but "very few" are in the capital where the attack was carried
out.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) said: "We are
currently liaising with our members and the Foreign Office to assess the impact
and understand if any British nationals have been caught up in the attack on the
Bardo Museum in Tunis.

"Tunisia attracts over 400,000 UK visitors each year, with the vast majority
travelling to resorts on the coast.

"Abta members have reported that they have currently approximately 6,500
customers in Tunisia, though very few of these are staying in Tunis. As a
precaution many Abta tour operators have cancelled local excursions to Tunis due
to depart over the next few days."

The National Bardo Museum is near the national parliament building, which was
evacuated after the shooting.

The museum is a leading tourist attraction that chronicles Tunisia's history and
houses one of the world's largest collections of Roman mosaics.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      March 18, 2015 Wednesday 3:32 PM GMT

Britons feared dead in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Catherine Philp and Jenny Booth

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 747 words


Two Britons are reported to have died along with 15 other foreign tourists when
gunmen attacked a world-famous museum in Tunis this afternoon.

Witnesses said that two men dressed in military uniforms and armed with machine
guns stormed the National Bardo Museum, which is close to the parliament
building in the Tunisian capital.

The attackers took a number of hostages in the assault, which began around
midday.

Several people were seen fleeing from the museum after apparently managing to
evade capture. Tunisian security forces laid down covering fire, then mounted a
counter-assault.

A Tunisian woman who worked as a cleaner in the museum was killed in the initial
assault by the gunmen. A member of the security services were also said to have
died in the retaking of the museum.

After three hours the Tunisian interior ministry said that the two gunmen had
been killed and the operation was over.

Estimates suggested that the death toll was 19, with up to 39 injured. Habib
Essid, the Tunisian prime minister, confirmed Polish, Italian, German, Spanish
tourists were among the dead.

Unconfirmed reports said that two Britons were also killed. The Foreign Office
said it was "urgently looking into the serious situation in Tunisia".

During the crisis a French tourist called Geraldine spoke to French television
station iTELE. Clearly distressed, she described how she was hiding in a room on
the third floor with about 40 people having heard a lot of gunfire.

As she spoke, further loud gunfire was audible within the museum.

A picture tweeted out on an Isis Twitter accounts appeared to show tourists
huddled around the walls of the museum during the siege with priceless artefacts
on the walls damaged by gunfire.

The faces of the hostages had apparently been scribbled out in the photo.

Ten injured were being treated in hospital this afternoon, Tunisian officials
said. Poland's foreign ministry said that three of its nationals had been
wounded and an official at the Italian foreign ministry in Rome said two
Italians were among the injured.

The Italian official said 100 more of the country's nationals were escorted to
safety. Some are believed to be passengers aboard the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise
liner that had docked at Tunis during a seven day Mediterranean cruise.

Costa Crociere, the owners of the ship, confirmed that some of the 3,161
passengers on board had been scheduled to visit the Bardo today but could not
say how many were inside the museum at the time. All passengers had been
recalled to the ship, the company added.

Tunisia attracts over 400,000 UK visitors each year. About 6,500 Britons are
believed to be in the country at the moment, although very few are staying in
Tunis, according to the Association of British Travel Agents.

"As a precaution many Abta tour operators have cancelled local excursions to
Tunis due to depart over the next few days," said an Abta spokesman.

The National Bardo Museum has one of the world's largest collections of Roman
mosaics, making it a must-see attraction for foreign visitors.

The building, an old mansion, is situated next to the country's parliament,
where lawmakers were debating new counter-terrorism laws being introduced in
response to the rising threat of Islamist extremism, including the rapid rise of
the Islamic State in neighbouring Libya.

Officials said they were investigating whether the parliament itself was the
intended target of the gunmen, whose identity and motivations remain unclear.

It was the first terrorist attack against foreign tourists in Tunisia in more
than a decade. Tourism is a crucial source of revenue for the impoverished North
African nation.

Tunisia, the birthplace of the so-called Arab Spring, has struggled with
violence by Islamic extremists in recent years, including some linked to Isis
affiliates in the region.

Several thousand Tunisians have left the country to fight in Syria, Iraq and
Libya, and the government is worried about returning jihadis carrying out
attacks at home.

Most attacks to date, however, have taken place in remote areas of the country,
away from the capital,Tunis, and other tourist sites.

Tunisia's transition toward democracy, however, has been the most successful of
the Arab Spring countries since it overthrew its authoritarian leader in 2001.

It recently completed presidential and parliamentary elections and oversaw a
peaceful rotation of political power, making it a relative beacon of stability
in a turmoil-wracked region.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Saudi Arabia condemns terrorist attack in Tunisian museum

LENGTH: 182 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Official source of Foreign Ministry: Kingdom condemns
armed terrorist attack on Bardo Museum in Tunisia"]

Riyadh, 19 March 2015 - An official source of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
has stated that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemns strongly the armed
terrorist attack targeted Bardo Museum in Tunisia and claimed a number of lives
of innocent victims of Tunisians and foreign tourists.

The source added that this terrorist act reaffirms that this dangerous scourge
requires close international cooperation to fight it and ridding the
international community of its evils, that terrorism has no religion, and that
the principles of the tolerant Islamic religion prohibit treachery and killing
of innocent and safe persons unjustly.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia stresses its stand by Tunisian government and
people, expressing its condolences to the families of the victims and wishing
the injured persons a speedy recovery.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 0000 gmt 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Lebanon's Hezbollah denounces Tunisia terrorist attack

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 19 March

Hezbollah denounced as heinous crime the terrorist attack on Tunis Museum which
killed several innocent victims.

In a statement released by the party's Media Relations, Hezbollah offered
condolences to the Tunisian government and people.

"This crime is a link in the chain of terrorism which has been targeting the
human, sacred sites and heritage of this nation," the statement said, noting
that the terrorism hits security and stability of the region as it defames Islam
and threatens the unity of the nation.

"The terrorism does not distinguish between a country and another, a sect and
another. It rather spreads out its hatred to serve the Zionist enemy and their
backers of foreign powers and intelligence agencies."

Hezbollah called on the Muslim and Arab nation with all its states, parties,
scholars and people to stand against terrorism with all means.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 0935 gmt 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

China condemns terrorist attack in Tunisia

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 19 March: China has added its voice to international condemnation of
Wednesday's [18 March] deadly attack on the National Bardo Museum in Tunis,
capital of Tunisia.

"China always opposes terrorism of any form and we condemn this terrorist attack
on civilians," Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei said at a daily news briefing
on Thursday.

He expressed condolences to the families of the victims and those injured as
well as the government of Tunisia.

Hong also urged the international community to jointly address the challenge of
terrorism.

At least 22 people, including 20 foreign tourists, were killed when gunmen
attacked the museum, Tunisia's interior ministry said on Wednesday.

According to Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid, five terrorists carried out
the attack, which also left 22 people injured. Two of the gunmen were shot dead
by Tunisian security forces.

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1017 gmt 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

UN Security Council condemns terrorist attack in Tunisia

LENGTH: 128 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

(Petra News Agency) - New York, 19 March (Petra)--The United Nations Security
Council has condemned the Bardo museum attack in Tunisia which killed at least
20 people.

The council's members underlined in a statement the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice.

They also stressed that no terrorist action can reverse the path of Tunisia
toward democracy and development.

The UN secretary-general has condemned previously in a separate statement, the
Tunisia attack and extended his condolences to the families of the victims and
the Tunisian government and people.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Turkey "harshly" condemns terrorist attack on Tunisian museum 18 March

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia) website

[Unattributed report: "Turkey slams Tunisia museum attack - 21 people, including
17 foreign tourists, slain in attack on a museum in Tunis."]

ANKARA (AA) -Turkey has harshly condemned a deadly attack at a museum in
Tunisia, which killed 21 people, including 17 foreign tourists.

Turkey's Foreign Ministry offered its condolences to the victims' families and
wished a full recovery to the injured.

"Turkey will continue to support brotherly Tunisian people against every kind of
attack that targets Tunisia's stability and peace," the ministry said in a
statement.

On Wednesday, gunmen targeted the Bardo Museum in central Tunis, killing 19
people, including 17 foreign tourists, officials confirmed.

A Tunisian civilian and a member of the security forces also lost their lives in
the attack.

The security forces killed two of the attackers, Tunisian Prime Minister Habib
Essid said.

The slain foreign tourists included Italian, French, Polish, Colombian, Spanish,
Japanese, Australian and German nationals, according to the Tunisian
authorities.

No one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English
0000 gmt 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Libya's rival authority pledges "war on terror" after IS attack in Sirte

LENGTH: 384 words


The Ministry of Defence in Libya's [rival] National Salvation Government vowed
to wage an unrelenting "war against terrorism" following a deadly attack by
Islamic State (IS) militants on its forces in the coastal city of Sirte,
Al-Jazeera reported on 18 March.

"We announce to the world that our war against terrorism is a national fight
that we wage for the good of the nation and for justice and democracy", ministry
spokesman Muhammad Abd-al-Kafi told a news conference. "We will not relent in
waging it and will strike with an iron fist all those who take the risk of
harming the Libyan people and national capabilities", he said.

Islamic State militants attacked a checkpoint of the Libya Dawn forces that back
the Salvation Government in Nufaliyah, east of Sirte, killing and wounding
dozens of them.

Residents of Sirte continued to flee the city as fighting raged, especially at
its southern entrance, between Libyan Dawn's Usud al-Wadi battalion and Islamic
State militants.

Residents say fuel is running short and many shops closed with violence likely
to escalate.

Speaking from the city of Misratah [the stronghold of Libya Dawn], Al-Jazeera
correspondent Mahmud Abd-al-Wahid reported that a mass funeral was held in the
city for 10 Libya Dawn fighters who were killed by IS militants.

He pointed out that 16 bodies of IS militants, including a Tunisian national,
who were killed in fighting in Sirte on Monday, were now in Misratah awaiting
identification.

The slain Tunisian IS fighter Ahmed Rouissi could be among the bodies of the
dead fighters, he quoted unconfirmed reports as saying.

He said he was told by officials in the city reinforcements were now deployed on
the outskirt of Sirte: the 166 infantry brigade east of Sirte and in Al-Dhihir
to the west as well as forces massing in Al-Qardabiyah airbase south of the
city.

Reinforcements from the southern city of Sabha, namely the 6th infantry brigade,
joined Libya Dawn forces on the outskirt of Sirte, he said.

He stressed that the Libya Dawn forces are very careful about making a push on
Sirte "out of concern for human lives" and concern about possible damage to
residential areas.

The correspondent also reported that Misratah enforced a curfew in an effort to
prevent car bombings.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2015 gmt 18 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Syrian army repels attacks by various terrorist groups

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

(SANA) - Hama, SANA - Units of the army and armed forces repelled an attack
which terrorists from various groups, including Jabhat al-Nusra [Al-Nusrah
Front], launched against Al-Kaffat village in Salamiyah area, east of the
central Hama province.

According to a military source, terrorists from Jabhat al-Nusra and the
so-called "Ahrar al-Sham" and "Suqur al-Sham" groups tried to infiltrate the
village using two car bombs.

The army units, however, destroyed the cars, which were packed with large
amounts of explosives, after monitoring them near a military post at the
village's entrance.

The soldiers also clashed with the infiltrating terrorists, leaving scores of
them dead and others wounded.

The terrorists, according to the sources, came from the direction of
Al-Mubarakat village, north of Al-Kaffat, where members of the above mentioned
terrorist groups are highly active.

Not only in Al-Mubarakat, but also in the entire Al-Salamiyah countryside and
beyond towards the southern countryside of Idlib province, terrorists have been
attacking locals and perpetrating the ugliest forms of atrocities.

Later, Governor of Hama Ghassan Khalaf visited the village and hailed the
bravery of the Syrian army members in repelling the attack and defending the
residents.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Ukrainian security aide says rebels plotting terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 19 March

Terrorists are plotting acts of sabotage in Luhansk and Donetsk.

Markiyan Lubkivskyy, an adviser to the head of the Security Service of Ukraine
[SBU], has posted on Facebook that the militants are plotting an operation
called Anthill. There are plans to stage terrorist attacks targeting civilians
in the large cities on the occupied territories.

According to the data which the security service has obtained from its informers
among the terrorists, all these will be covered by the separatist television
channels and Russian media.

The mercenaries want to blame these crimes on the Ukrainian authorities and in
this way try to torpedo the peace process.

The next step should be the destabilization of several big Ukrainian cities in
the east.

The SBU said that they were looking into these plans thoroughly.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1300 gmt 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

One killed in "terrorist" attack on civilian trucks in Algeria

LENGTH: 73 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Echourouk El Youmi website
on 18 March

Echourouk's correspondent said on Wednesday [18 March] that terrorists attacked
two civilian trucks that were providing a military barracks with food supplies
in Tizi Ouzou.

The attack killed one person and injured three others. The identities of the
victims have not been revealed yet.

Source: Echourouk El Youmi website, Algiers, in Arabic 18 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 2:49 PM GMT

Tunisia museum terror attack: First picture of British woman Sally Adey, killed
by suspected Islamists

BYLINE: By Paul Gallagher

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 788 words


Sally Adey, 57, a solicitor from Caynton, Shropshire, was among 23 people now
thought to have been killed during the assault on the Bardo Museum in the
capital, Tunis. Her husband Robert, 52, is thought to be unharmed.

The couple had arrived on the MSC Splendida cruise ship, which arrived at La
Goulette, Tunis, on Wednesday morning before passengers visited the museum,
where 18 tourists were shot dead. Around 90 Britons were on board the ship,
which began its seven-night trip from Genoa, Italy, last Saturday.

Mrs Adey, who has two children, described herself as a University of Hull
educated "mum with kids at uni" and a specialist in company and commercial law
although not currently working, in an online profile. Among her "loves" were
family, cooking, flowers, history and watching sport with her husband -
especially golf, rugby, cricket and motor racing.

She completed her self-description in the profile by saying she was "trying to
get a bit fitter before it's too late".

She added: "People say I'm sensible and well organised - that all sounds very
boring - sorry - in my fitness work I like boxing though - perhaps a bit more
interesting?"

The couple's children Molly, 18, and Harry, 23, were being comforted by friends
and family as they began to pay tribute. Neighbour Annette Crawshaw, 73, who
lives three doors down from the solicitor, expressed her "horror" at Mrs Adey's
death.

She said: "It is so tragic. Sally was on a cruise with her husband Rob when all
this happened. I can't imagine the pain he and his family are going through.

"They are a lovely family. I last spoke to Sally at Christmas time. She seemed
delighted to be spending time with her family. I've lived pretty much next door
to her and her family for ten years. There are only a few houses here so we all
look out for one another.

"I was absolutely shocked when I heard the news of her death. You never imagine
someone you live near would ever be mixed up in such horror."

Two Tunisians and tourists from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Australia, France,
Poland and Spain were also among those killed in the worst civilian attack in
Tunisia since the Arab Spring of 2009. Security forces killed two gunmen but are
still searching for accomplices.

Prime Minister David Cameron condemned the "appalling and brutal" attacks and
said the government was doing all it could to help Mrs Adey's family.

He said: "This is the latest example of extremist terror and we have to fight it
with everything we have: whether that is taking the poison out of young minds
here in Britain, whether it is working with intelligence, policing and security
services in other countries around the world, dealing decisively in the areas of
the world from which these problems come.

"Of course the extremists, the terrorists hate democracy. They hate the idea
that people should be able to choose their own government, but we mustn't let
democracy, freedom, the rule of law - things we hold dear, the people of Tunisia
hold dear - we must not let them be defeated or undermined by extremists and
terrorists."

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, who is in Nairobi, said British consular staff
were helping Mrs Adey's family. "My thoughts are with them at this very
difficult time," he added. "The Tunisian people are rightly proud of their
democratic transition. Cowardly attacks, such as the one we saw yesterday, must
not be allowed to undermine what they have achieved."

Officials in Tunisia say that more than 40 people, including tourists and
Tunisians, were injured.

MSC Cruises said in a statement: "Sally's husband is receiving support from the
MSC Cruises customer care team in Tunis and we will be offering all possible
support to him and his family. At this tragic time, the entire MSC Cruises
family wishes to extend its most sincere and heartfelt condolences to all those
who were affected by this tragic event and are suffering as a result, in
particular to the families and friends of those who lost their lives as well as
the injured ones."

The company said "regular stringent safety procedures" were set in motion when
they received news of the terror attack and that ship management "called for the
immediate cancellation of all on-going shore excursions and recall all buses and
their passengers on the ground back to the ship".

Source: Independent

Read more:

Tunisian terror atrocity kills 19 and threatens to derail country's stability

9 arrested over Tunisia shooting

Tunisia attack family 'devastated'

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghampost.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 3:21 PM GMT

Birmingham solicitor killed in Tunisia terror attack;
Sally Adey, wife of Shakespeares partner Rob, is among 23 now thought to have
been killed at the hands of terrorists in Tunis

BYLINE: By Tamlyn Jones

LENGTH: 308 words


The wife of a partner at Birmingham law firm Shakespeares has been killed in the
terror attack in Tunisia.

Rob Adey's wife Sally had been visiting the Bardo archaelogical museum in the
capital Tunis as part of a seven-day cruise when the terrorists struck.

She is one of 23 people thought to have been killed while Mr Adey, who is based
in the city and specialises in property and development, is unharmed.

The attack, linked to suspected Islamists, took place yesterday morning after
the cruise shop MSC Splendida docked in La Goulette, in Tunis.

The 57-year-old mum of two described herself on website Beemee as a solicitor
who had worked in Birmingham, Telford, Wolverhampton and Bridgnorth in
company/commercial law although she did not work at Shakespeares.

Neighbours of the couple said they had two grown-up children - Molly, who is
understood to be studying at a university in the south of the country, and Harry
who is believed to live in Birmingham.

Julia Holden, a personal injury partner with Shakespeares in Birmingham and a
close friend of the family, said: "Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife
and mother.

"The family are devastated by her loss. They are also saddened for others who
have lost people they love and for those who have been hurt."

Mrs Adey, from Caynton in east Shropshire, was one of nine passengers who had
gone ashore from the Splendida.

Neighbour Terry Holmes said: "It is just a massive shock. Sally mentioned to me
she was going on a cruise with Rob and was really looking forward to it.

"She was a lovely woman, a talented solicitor and devoted to Rob, Harry and
Molly. I dread to think what they are going through at the moment."

MSC Cruises said in a statement: "Sally's husband is receiving support from the
MSC Cruises customer care team in Tunis and we will be offering all possible
support to him and his family."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBP


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 1:15 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Birmingham solicitor Sally Adey among victims;
Sally Adey, from Shropshire with links to Birmingham and Wolverhampton, among 18
killed at Bardo Museum in Tunis

BYLINE: By Mike Lockley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words


A Birmingham solicitor on a dream cruise was among those shot dead in the
Tunisia terror attack.

Sally Adey, 57, was gunned down at the Bardo archaelogical museum in the capital
Tunis, alongside at least 22 others.

The mum was one of 12 passengers from the MSC Cruises vessel Splendida who had
gone ashore and been killed on Wednesday.

Mrs Adey's profile on website Beemee said she was a "mum with kids at uni".

It said she was a solicitor who had worked in "Wolverhampton, Bridgnorth,
Telford and Birmingham in company/commercial law, training, admin and HR".

Her loves are listed as "family, cooking, flowers, history, watching sport with
my husband - golf, rugby, cricket, motor racing and weekends away with friends".

When asked to describe herself she wrote: "That's tough! Short and tubbier than
I'd like to be.

"Trying to get a bit fitter before it's too late.

"People say I'm sensible and well organised - that all sounds very boring -
sorry - in my fitness work I like boxing though - perhaps a bit more
interesting?"

Julia Holden, a partner at Shakespeares Solicitors in Birmingham and a close
friend of the family, issued a statement on their behalf.

She said: "Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife and mother.

"The family are devastated by her loss. They are also saddened for others who
have lost people they love, and for those who have been hurt."

Mrs Adey, from the exclusive hamlet of Caynton, near Beckbury, Shropshire, was
with her businessman husband Robert at the time of the attack. He was believed
to be unharmed.

It was understood mother-of-two Mrs Adey was raised in Lincoln and studied at
the University of Hull.

Her husband was described as a Shakespeares partner on the company's website.

It said: "Rob specialises in residential and commercial property development
matters and has worked on projects ranging from the smallest development site up
to major site acquisitions, assemblies and sales involving the development of
several thousand houses, schools and commercial zones.

"Born and bred in the Midlands, Rob joined Shakespeare Putsman in 1993 having
spent time at Edge and Ellison in Birmingham.

"Numbering national companies amongst his clients, Rob enjoys the challenge the
work brings, and the close involvement with the individuals at his client
companies."

Neighbours of the couple said they had two grown-up chilldren.

Their daughter Molly was understood to be studying at a university in the south
of the country.

Their son Harry was said to live in Birmingham.

Neighbour Terry Holmes said: "It is just a massive shock. Sally mentioned to me
she was going on a cruise with Rob and was really looking forward to it.

"She was a lovely woman, a talented solicitor and devoted to Rob, Harry and
Molly.

"I dread to think what they are going through at the moment."

David Crawshaw, aged 72, added: "They have lived here for the last 12 years and
are just lovely neighbours. We are just devastated."

Islamic State issued a statement claiming responsibility for the deadly attack.

Tunisia's government announced the arrest of nine people.

Authorities said four were connected directly to the attack and five supported
them elsewhere in the country.

In a statement, Prime Minister David Cameron said: "We will do everything we can
to help the family of the British woman murdered in Tunisia," he said.

"We will not let terrorists undermine democracy."

Travel trade association Abta said: "Abta continues to liaise with the Foreign
Office in order to update members and their customers accordingly; their safety
is paramount.

"Abta members are reporting that they have approximately 6,500 holidaymakers in
Tunisia at the moment and that the vast majority of these are staying in
Tunisia's popular coastal resorts away from the capital, Tunis.

"These holidaymakers and people due to travel to Tunisia will find that their
holiday will go ahead as normal, with the exception to these local excursions to
Tunis, which have been cancelled as a precautionary measure."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Museum terror attack kills 21;
TUNISIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 91 words


TUNISIA'S prime minister says 21 people are dead after an attack on a major
museum, including 17 foreign tourists - and that two or three of the attackers
remain at large.

Habib Essid told national television that the foreigners included tourists from
Poland, Italy, Germany and Spain.

He said that two of the attackers were killed in a gunƒght with police, and that
security forces are hunting for two or three others believed to have been
involved.

„e attack at theNational Bardo Museum in Tunis was the worst in years on a
tourist site in Tunisia.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

51% Of Americans Concerned Over Potential Terror Attack

LENGTH: 95  words



HIGHLIGHT: A survey has revealed that 51% of Americans are concerned about a
potential terror attack happening on US soil.


News: A survey has revealed that 51% of Americans are concerned about a
potential terror attack happening on US soil. Results from a Gallup poll carried
out between March 5 and March 8 were released on March 17 2015, showing that the
percentage of Americans worried about a possible terror attack has increased by
12 percentage points since 2014. The increase is attributed to the growing
threat from Islamic State, the Charlie Hebdo shootings in France and racial
tensions over protests in Ferguson, Missouri over the killing of Michael Brown
by a police officer (Xinhua).

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

UN Security Council slams terrorist attack in Tunisia

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 396 words


UNITED NATIONS - The UN Security Council on Wednesday condemned "in the
strongest terms the terrorist attack" at the National Bardo Museum in Tunis,
capital of Tunisia, resulting in the death of at least 20 people.

"The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest condolences to the
families of the victims of this heinous act and to the government of Tunisia and
other relevant governments who have lost their citizens in this attack," said a
statement issued to the press here by the 15-nation UN body.

They "underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and
sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice, and urged all
States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and
relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Tunisian
authorities in this regard," said the statement.

At least 20 people were killed, including 17 tourists, in an armed attack on the
museum on Wednesday, reports said, adding that those killed foreign tourists
were from Italy, Germany, Poland and Spain following the most serious attack in
Tunisia in years.

Five "terrorists" carried out the attack on the Bardo Museum, two of them were
killed by security forces, Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid said at a press
conference.

A Tunisian citizen and a policeman were also killed in the attack, Essid said,
adding that about 100 tourists were inside the museum when it was attacked.

"The members of the Security Council stressed that no terrorist attack can
reverse the path of Tunisia towards democracy and all efforts directed towards
economic recovery and development," said the council statement.

They "reaffirmed the need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter
of the United Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by
terrorist acts, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable,
regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed."

At the same time, the statement reminded States that measures to be taken to
combat terrorism must be ensured to "comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law."

Earlier Wednesday, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned "in the strongest
terms" the attack on the museum and "deplores the loss of life."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

China condemns terrorist attack in Tunisia

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 152 words


BEIJING - China has added its voice to international condemnation of Wednesday's
deadly attack on the National Bardo Museum in Tunis, capital of Tunisia.

"China always opposes terrorism of any form and we condemn this terrorist attack
on civilians," Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei said at a daily news briefing
on Thursday.

He expressed condolences to the families of the victims and those injured as
well as the government of Tunisia.

Hong also urged the international community to jointly address the challenge of
terrorism.

At least 22 people, including 20 foreign tourists, were killed when gunmen
attacked the museum, Tunisia's interior ministry said on Wednesday.

According to Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid, five terrorists carried out
the attack, which also left 22 people injured. Two of the gunmen were shot dead
by Tunisian security forces.

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Japan condemns terrorist attack in Tunisia

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 299 words


TOKYO - The Japanese government condemned strongly on Thursday the terrorist
attack in the Tunisian capital of Tunis which caused the deaths of at least
three Japanese nationals.

Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said in a statement the Japanese
government is "greatly shocked and outraged by the terrorist attack, and "firmly
condemns these despicable acts of terrorism."

Japan will "continue to engage in combating terrorism in cooperation with
Tunisia and the international community," the statement said.

Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid said Wednesday 17 foreign tourists,
including five Japanese, and two Tunisians were killed after gunmen stormed a
museum in Tunis, local reports cited Tunisian state media as reporting, but
Tokyo just confirmed that three Japanese were killed.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said early Thursday that he has so far been
informed that three Japanese were killed and another three injured in the
attack, adding the government will continue to gather information, according to
local report.

"We will never tolerate terrorism and firmly denounce it," Abe told reporters at
his office, adding that his country "will make all-out efforts in the battle
against terrorism in cooperation with the international community."

The deaths of three Japanese had been confirmed and that the report of five
Japanese killed was incorrect, Japan's Kyodo News quoted a government official
as saying.

The government here has set up a taskforce to collect information and confirm
Japanese casualties.

Two Japanese nationals were killed early this year by militants from the Islamic
State due to Japan's planned assistance to the Mideast to fight against
terrorism and the country is mulling to enlarge the role of its Self-Defense
Forces in overseas operations.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  ENP Newswire

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

-Aon-Impact Forecasting's new blast modelling technology provides up-to-date
view on global terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 789 words


Insurers will now have the ability to better understand terrorism risk as part
of Aon's suite of terrorism solutions spanning the broking, consulting and
reinsurance spectrum.

Impact Forecasting, Aon Benfield's catastrophe model development team, is
applying a new blast engineering approach to provide a more realistic
understanding of the potential range of losses from a terrorist attack. Aon
Benfield is the global reinsurance intermediary and capital advisor of Aon plc
(NYSE:AON).



Impact Forecasting's terrorism risk experts utilise Computational Fluid Dynamics
(CFD) software developed over many years in conjunction with the US military and
government to define an explosion and how it moves within a 3D urban
environment. This approach is used by the New York Police Department and federal
security agencies to plan preparedness, resilience and surveillance strategies
with regards to terrorist attacks.

The new approach breaks from traditional blast radius modelling by taking into
account a number of nuances that are absent in current blast analysis that can
have a substantial impact on the losses. For example if a structure deflects the
blast away from an insured building shielding it from damage; if an insured
location is on the 16th floor and damage is only on lower floors; or if the
blast is channelled down a street to hit a target further afield - all of these
factors have a material impact on the damage that can accrue.

Mark Lynch, who leads political risk model development at Impact Forecasting,
commented: 'As insurers look to grow their books of business, this tool will
help them manage risk more strategically providing important insight for
underwriters, reinsurance buyers and exposure managers. Most encouragingly, we
can now apply CFD analysis to any city across the world upon client request,
quantifying the effect of location and blast size uncertainties to highlight the
variation of the possible impacts.'

Our in-house security experts assist insurers in identifying bespoke scenarios
by analysing both the size and location of a potential blast depending on the
security procedures in place coupled with the operational and ideological
changes in global terrorism. Multiple variables are taken into account and
quantified including:

magnitude

epicentre of detonation

chemical composition of explosive material

This allows insurers to achieve an understanding of the uncertainties and
variations in results caused by changes to the location and magnitude of the
device - in addition to obtaining a view on potential worst case scenarios and
variations.

The loss calculation is run in ELEMENTS, Impact Forecasting's transparent and
customisable loss calculation platform, which means insurers can benefit by:

customising the model around its specific portfolio data for more accurate
results;

quantifying losses in 3D to model the effect of building height;

the ability to see 'behind the scenes' of the platform to understand how the
hazard and vulnerability components to improve internal and regulatory reporting


Ed Ryan, a senior managing director with Aon Benfield, added: 'This next step in
the advancement of modeling terrorism events, and the reduction in uncertainty
it provides, reflects Aon Benfield's continuing effort to deliver value to our
clients. The competitive advantage provided with the better understanding of the
peril gives clients an enhanced underwriting tool and allows for more efficient
capital allocation.'

This new approach in blast engineering complements other Aon tools to help
reinsurers and insurers better understand aggregation and model probable maximum
losses from global terrorism. The Aon 2015 Terrorism and Political Violence Map,
due to be launched in May, will also highlight the latest trends in threats.

Read more: http://bit.ly/1MFdWqE

Watch the video: http://bit.ly/1Em012l

Ends

About Impact Forecasting

Impact Forecasting is Aon Benfield's catastrophe model development center of
excellence whose seismologists, meteorologists, engineers, mathematicians,
finance risk management and insurance professionals analyse the financial
implications of natural and man-made catastrophes around the world. Impact
Forecasting's experts develop a suite of probabilistic and scenario models, plus
its transparent and customisable ELEMENTS loss calculation platform. These
empower insurers and reinsurers to understand the impact of global risks ranging
from hurricane, earthquake and flood to tsunami, cloudburst and terrorism. To
find out more about Impact Forecasting LLC, visit www.impactforecasting.com

For further information: Alexandra Lewis alexandra.lewis@aonbenfield.com +44 207
882 0541

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
]

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: ENPN


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British holidaymaker among dead in Tunis museum terror attack

BYLINE: Benedict Moore-Bridger ; Nabila Ramdani

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 477 words


FOREIGN Secretary Philip Hammond today confirmed a British holidaymaker was
among 23 people killed in the Tunisia terror attacks.

Twenty tourists and three Tunisians were killed when gunmen stormed the
country's national museum yesterday in the country's deadliest attack on
civilians in 13 years.

Two Islamist terrorists were today identified as the ringleaders of the attacks.

Mr Hammond said: "Sadly, I can confirm the death of a British woman in
yesterday's terrorist attack in Tunisia. Consular staff are providing assistance
to her family. My thoughts are with them at this very difficult time.

"The Tunisian people are rightly proud of their democratic transition. Cowardly
attacks, such as the one we saw yesterday, must not be allowed to undermine what
they have achieved.

"I spoke to Prime Minister Habib Essid yesterday to offer my condolences to all
those affected by this despicable act and to assure him we stand together
against terrorism."

Other casualties included three Japanese people, one Australian, one Colombian,
one French, one Belgian, and one Polish.

Video shows two gunmen in military uniform wielding assault rifles and storming
the National Bardo Museum in Tunis, killing mainly tourists visiting the
attraction's world-renowned collection of Roman mosaics.

The gunmen, aged in their twenties, were killed in a firefight with security
forces.

The killers were named today by the country's prime minister as Yassine Laabidi
and Hatem Khachnaoui, although police gave their names as Jaber al-Khashnawi and
Yassin al-Ubaidi.

Laabidi, from Ibn Khaldoun, is said to have been known to the country's
intelligence services, while Khachnaoui, from a province called Kasserine, is
believed to have disappeared from Tunisia three months ago and called his
parents from Iraq.

Today Tunisia's newly-elected President Beji Caid Essebsi said they were linked
to the radical Islamist group, Ansar al-Sharia, accused of master-minding a
series of political assassinations in Libya in 2013, as well as attacks on
cultural targets and also the US embassy in Benghazi in 2012.

He told broadcaster France 24 that Tunisia had become home to terrorist "sleeper
cells" that need to be "removed".

"This is an act without precedent in Tunisian history," he said.

"It is a major catastrophe for Tunisia and its people. Many of the victims were
friends of Tunisia who came to this country as tourists." In an address to the
nation he added: "These monstrous minorities do not frighten us. We will resist
them until the deepest end without mercy."

Sources said the men also had links to al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)
and had spent "a great deal of time" in Kasserine, considered a stronghold for
the terrorist group.

A huge manhunt is now under way for up to three other militants who are believed
to have fled, while Tunisians held rallies condemning the killings. @benm_b

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shock: a victim arrives at hospital and, right, Tunisians hold a
candle-lit vigil outside the National Bardo Museum

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

British mother on cruise holiday killed in terror attack at Tunis museum

BYLINE: Benedict Moore-Bridger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 578 words


A 57-YEAR-OLD British mother of two was today revealed to be among the tourists
killed in the Tunisian terrorist attack.

Sally Adey was gunned down along with 17 other tourists and three Tunisians as
she visited the country's national museum yesterday.

Mrs Adey, from Shropshire, believed to be a retired solicitor, was on a cruise
with her husband Robert.

Neighbours today expressed their shock at the "senseless" killings.

One said: "You're not safe anywhere - it's horrific."

Prime Minister David Cameron said he would do "everything we can to help the
family of the British woman murdered in Tunisia", adding: "We will not let
terrorists undermine democracy."

A spokesman for the cruise company confirmed Mrs Adey's death, adding: "Her
husband is receiving support from the MSC Cruises customer care team in Tunis
and we will be offering all possible support to him and his family... At this
tragic time, the entire MSC Cruises family wishes to extend its most sincere and
heartfelt condolences to all those who were affected by this tragic event and
are suffering."

It said nine of the 18 tourists killed yesterday were passengers on the ship,
while 12 others were injured. Also among the dead was Javier Camelo, 28, a
Colombian-Australian national who lived in London for a year in 2013, and his
mother, Miriam Martinez Camelo.

A friend said: "I just think the world is such an unfair place, how it takes
such good people... It's so sad."

When living in London, Mr Camelo worked for American Express in its Victoria
office.

A colleague who worked with him in London said: "He was the nicest guy to have
around, we are really in shock. It is a sad day for all of us who knew him."

Witnesses told how the killers had burst from a vehicle and picked off visitors
at the National Bardo Museum in Tunis one by one with bullets, while others hid
behind pillars or fled in terror.

The gunmen, aged in their twenties, were killed in a firefight with security
forces. The killers were named today by the country's Prime Minister Habib Essid
as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, although police gave their names as
Jaber al-Khashnawi and Yassin al-Ubaidi.

Laabidi, from Ibn Khaldoun, is said to have been known to the country's
intelligence services, while Khachnaoui, from a province called Kasserine, is
believed to have disappeared from Tunisia three months ago and called his
parents from Iraq.

Today Tunisia's newly-elected President Beji Caid Essebsi said they were linked
to the radical Islamist group, Ansar al-Sharia - accused of masterminding a
series of political assassinations in Libya in 2013, as well as attacks on
cultural targets and also the US embassy in Benghazi in 2012.

He told broadcaster France 24 Tunisia had become home to terrorist "sleeper
cells" that need to be "removed".

"This is an act without precedent in Tunisian history," he said.

"It is a major catastrophe for Tunisia and its people. Many of the victims were
friends of Tunisia who came to this country as tourists." In an address to the
nation he added: "These monstrous minorities do not frighten us. We will resist
them until the deepest end without mercy."

Sources said the men also had links to al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)
and had spent "a great deal of time" in Kasserine, considered a stronghold for
the terrorist group.

A huge manhunt is now under way for up to three other militants who are believed
to have fled, while Tunisians have held rallies condemning the killings. @benm_b

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victims: Sally Adey, right, was on a cruise with her husband. Left,
Javier Camelo, 28, who had worked in London for a year. Far right, prayers at a
vigil outside the National Bardo Museum

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 11:51 PM GMT

Troops patrol streets of Tunis in aftermath of terror attacks;
Amid scenes of mourning, young curator at the Bardo museum is praised for hiding
group of tourists in back rooms as shooting began

BYLINE: Chris Stephen in Tunis

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1088 words


Troops have been deployed on the streets of Tunisian cities in the aftermath of
the Bardo museum attack, as a young curator was hailed as a hero on Thursday for
hiding a group of terrified tourists from the terrorist slaughter.

Authorities in the north African country have raised the death toll to 23, 20 of
them tourists, after the attack in which two gunmen stormed the museum - one of
Tunisia's top visitor attractions - on Wednesday.

Armoured cars and roadblocks appeared across the streets of the capital, Tunis,
while security forces announced nine arrests in a sweep of terror suspects. In
an online audio recording praising the pair of gunmen, Islamic State was
reported to have claimed responsibility for the killings.

Related: Five Tunisia terror victims were passengers on Costa cruise ship

Facing the prospect of a collapse in tourism, a pillar of Tunisia's troubled
economy, President Beji Caid Essebsi ordered troops onto the streets for the
first time since the 2011 Arab spring revolution. "The president has decided
large cities will be secured by the army," his office said in a statement.

Shock and sadness spread among survivors, meanwhile, as the full extent of the
slaughter became apparent. British solicitor Sally Jane Adey, 57, from
Shropshire, was named among the dead, who included five Japanese, four Italians,
two Colombians, two Spaniards and citizens from Australia, France and Poland.
Three Tunisians were also killed in the attack and the two gunmen were shot dead
by security forces.

A missing Spanish couple, Carlos Sanchez and four months pregnant Cristina
Rubio, emerged at dawn, having hidden in the museum basement. "We spent all
night there and we thought the terrorists were still outside," Sanchez told
Associated Press.

At the museum, signs of the havoc wreaked by the two terrorists was easy to
find. Outside, pools of blood, congealed in the hot sun, marked the places where
some of the tourists lost their lives.

Inside, the white pillars in the big empty atrium were spattered with blood, and
splintered wood and broken chairs hinted at the violence of the three-hour
battle.

Witnesses said the attack came without warning, as two buses bringing Italian
tourists to the museum stopped by the main entrance. The two gunmen, named by
the authorities as Tunisians Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, had been
waiting in the forecourt near the wrought-iron front gates. They opened fire on
the buses with machine guns, then sprinted for the glass doors of the museum.

While the adjacent military base and national parliament are the most heavily
guarded sites in Tunisia, there was no police presence in the museum itself, and
the gunmen burst into the big entry foyer and began shooting.

Related: Isis claims responsibility for Tunisia murders

Ali Eddine Hamadi, the 22-year-old curator of the Christian relics department,
was coming downstairs to the foyer when he heard shooting. "I was on my way to
go and eat something, I hear firing and a bomb," he said.

He turned and sprinted back up the stairs, the walls echoing to machine-gun fire
and screams of victims below. Cresting the stairs, he was confronted by the
terrified faces of 19 tourists, some French, some Tunisian.

Hamadi made a snap decision to hide the tourists in the warren of rooms housing
priceless antiquities, which he knew by heart. As firing continued below, he
shepherded the visitors, including a pregnant woman, through a wooden door. "I
stay with the group and I close the door, I try to save these people," he said.

Once they were all inside, he closed the door softly, then shushed the tourists
as they clustered by the wall. "I told the people to be quiet, not to say
anything," he said.

Then he crouched by the door, listening to the sounds of fighting from other
parts of the complex. After the firing stopped, Hamadi carefully inched open the
door, whispering for the tourists to stay put. He closed the door and went
downstairs, coming face-to-face with balaclava-clad police.

After tense few moments convincing them he was not a terrorist, he led them
upstairs to the tourists still hiding in the room. "I am not a hero, I am doing
my job," he said. "It was a terrible scene, I am like a zombie in my country, I
didn't sleep last night."

For ordinary Tunisians, the attack is a massive wake-up call, with terrorists
attacking civilians for the first time after months of battles with security
forces. Jihadi forces, many infiltrating the country from neighbouring Libya and
Algeria, have been a persistent threat to security forces for months.

Last October, on the eve of national elections, the army raided a house in the
capital where a terror cell was preparing a bombing campaign, killing six
jihadis - five of them young women who had recently been radicalised. More
militants were killed in anti-terrorist sweeps in the Nebeur region close to the
Algerian border throughout November and December, while jihadi groups killed
five soldiers in an attack on a bus on a remote road.

Related: The Guardian view on the killings in Tunisia: the Arab spring's only
success needs support | Editorial

Wednesday's attack came after the latest announcement by Tunisia of the seizure
of jihadis and weapons, and may mark an escalation in the terrorist campaign in
the country. Despite being hailed as the great success story of the 2011 Arab
spring, with democracy having been established, Tunisia has seen thousands of
home-grown jihadis head to Syria, Iraq and Libya to fight for Isis.

There are fears that the attack will wreck tourism: two Italian cruise companies
have already announced that future visits will be suspended. The tourist
industry employs 400,000 Tunisians and is is an important earner in a troubled
economy.

"The peak tourism season is right around the corner," said Dr Imad el-Anis, a
North Africa expert at Nottingham Trent University. "If tourists are scared away
as a result of the Bardo museum attack, then a lot of people in government and
business look set to lose out."

For a second day, anti-terrorist demonstrations were staged in Tunis. Among
protesters chanting, singing and blowing whistles outside the museum, three
students stood with home-made placards bearing the slogans "Je Suis Tunisien, Je
Suis Charlie" - a reference to the terrorist killings at Charlie Hebdo magazine
in Paris earlier this year.

"We are against the terrorism, we are against Isis: it is a problem shared with
France, shared with all the world," said one of the students, Joseph Missy. "We
want to show what we feel."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 1:34 PM GMT

Tunisia shooting: Four arrested over terror attack that killed 23 and Briton
Sally Adey;
One of two gunmen identified today was known to intelligence services

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 847 words


Four people have been arrested in connection with the suspected terrorist attack
on a museum in Tunisia that killed at least 20 tourists.

The UK Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond named the British victim as Sally Adey,
57, It is understood that she was in the capital of Tunis with her husband
Robert, who was unharmed in the shooting.

The arrests come after a Spanish man and his pregnant wife emerged from the
museum unscathed after hiding for 24 hours.

The death toll from the attack has risen to 23, according to Tunisia's health
minister. At least eighteen of these fatalities were tourists from Italy,
Colombia, Poland, France, Spain, Japan and Australia, who were killed when two
gunmen burst from a vehicle and fired shots at buses arriving at the Bardo
Museum in Tunis.

Two Tunisians were also killed, one of whom was a police officer. More than 40
were wounded in the shooting.

"The Tunisian people are rightly proud of their democratic transition. Cowardly
attacks, such as the one we saw yesterday, must not be allowed to undermine what
they have achieved," Mr Hammond said.

"I spoke to Prime Minister Habib Essid yesterday to offer my condolences to all
those affected by this despicable act and to assure him we stand together
against terrorism."

David Cameron condemned the attack as an "appalling and brutal outrage".

We will do everything we can to help the family of the British woman murdered in
Tunisia. We will not let terrorists undermine democracy. ; David Cameron
(@David_Cameron) March 19, 2015

Earlier, the Foreign Office said two British nationals were "caught up" in the
shooting, as the Tunisian President vowed to fight the "war with terror".

News of a British death came as MSC Cruises said nine people who had been
sailing on its vessel Splendida had been killed in the attack and 12 were
wounded.

It said none of those were Britons, but confirmed that six passengers, including
one Briton, were unaccounted for. The company later confirmed Ms Adey was a
passenger on its cruise.

MSC Cruises can confirm that British passenger Sally Adey was killed in
yesterday's terrorist attacks in Tunis.MSC is supporting her family.; MSC
CRUISES UK (@MSC_Cruises_UK) March 19, 2015

The company said Splendida had arrived at La Goulette on Wednesday morning and
that passengers had visited the Bardo museum.

"During the visit at the museum, some of MSC Cruises' guests were caught in the
middle of a terrorist attack along with guests from another cruise line," it
said in a statement.

"As soon as the company heard of the attack and the fact that some of its guests
were involved this tragedy, regular stringent safety procedures were set in
motion and the ship management called for the immediate cancellation of all
on-going shore excursions and recall all buses and their passengers on the
ground back to the ship. "

Read more: At least 17 killed at Bardo Museum in Tunis

Security officials killed two gunmen to end the standoff and are continuing to
search for their accomplices.

In an interview with RTL radio Thursday, Tunisia's Prime Minister Habib Essi
said the country is working with other countries to learn more about two of the
attackers, identified as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui.In pictures: Bardo
Museum shooting

He said Laabidi was known to intelligence services, but had not been flagged for
"anything special".

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohamed Mr Ali Aroui described the shooting as a
"terrorist attack" carried out by "Islamists", but did not elaborate on whether
they are suspected of having any links with Isis or other militant groups.

Up to 3,000 people have left Tunisia to fight with Isis in Syria and Iraq, with
a few hundred suspected of returning.

Speaking during an interview broadcast on national television, President Beji
Caid Essebsi remained defiant in the face of the attacks.

"These monstrous minorities do not frighten us," he said. "We will resist them
until the deepest end without mercy. Democracy will win and it will survive."

Overnight, the Japanese Government confirmed three Japanese people died in the
attack, correcting an initial statement that said five citizens had been killed.



Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe strongly condemned the attack, warning
"terrorism cannot be tolerated under any circumstances".

US first lady Michelle Obama, on a visit to Tokyo, also paid tribute to the
victims, saying: "I want to express our condolences over the horrific events
yesterday in Tunisia. Our hearts go out to the loved ones of those killed they
are very much in our thoughts and prayers today."

A spokesperson for the UK Foreign Office said: "We can confirm two British
nationals were caught up in the shootings in Tunis on Wednesday and that we are
providing consular assistance.

"We are working with Tunisian authorities as well as with contacts in the
tourist industry to establish if any further British nationals have been
affected. Through our travel advice, we are urging people to exercise caution
and follow the instructions of the local authorities."

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 10:54 AM GMT

Tunisia museum shooting: British woman among victims 'killed in terror attack';

One of two gunmen identified today was known to intelligence services

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 499 words


A British woman was killed in the suspected terrorist attack on a museum in
Tunisa, the Tunisian health minister has reportedly claimed.

The Foreign Office could not confirm the report. Earlier, it said two British
nationals were "caught up" in the shooting, as the country's President vowed to
fight the "war with terror".

Seventeen tourists from Italy, Colombia, Poland, France, Spain, Japan and
Australia were killed when two gunmen burst from a vehicle and fired shots at
buses arriving at the Bardo Museum in the capital of Tunis.

Two Tunisians were also killed, one of whom was a police officer. More than 40
were wounded in the shooting on Wednesday.

The Foreign Office could not go elaborate on the condition of the Britons or how
they were "caught up" in the attack.

Read more: At least 17 killed at Bardo Museum in Tunis

Security officials killed two gunmen to end the standoff and are continuing to
search for their accomplices.

In an interview with RTL radio Thursday, Tunisia's Prime Minister Habib Essi
said the country is working with other countries to learn more about two of the
attackers, identified as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui.

He said Laabidi was known to intelligence services, but had not been flagged for
"anything special".

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohamed Mr Ali Aroui described the shooting as a
"terrorist attack" carried out by "Islamists", but did not elaborate on whether
they are suspected of having any links with Isis or other militant groups.

Up to 3,000 people have left Tunisia to fight with Isis in Syria and Iraq, with
a few hundred suspected of returning.

Speaking during an interview broadcast on national television, President Beji
Caid Essebsi remained defiant in the face of the attacks.

"These monstrous minorities do not frighten us," he said. "We will resist them
until the deepest end without mercy. Democracy will win and it will survive."

Overnight, the Japanese Government confirmed three Japanese people died in the
attack, correcting an initial statement that said five citizens had been killed.



Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe strongly condemned the attack, warning
"terrorism cannot be tolerated under any circumstances".

US first lady Michelle Obama, on a visit to Tokyo, also paid tribute to the
victims, saying: "I want to express our condolences over the horrific events
yesterday in Tunisia. Our hearts go out to the loved ones of those killed they
are very much in our thoughts and prayers today."

A spokesperson for the UK Foreign Office said: "We can confirm two British
nationals were caught up in the shootings in Tunis on Wednesday and that we are
providing consular assistance.

"We are working with Tunisian authorities as well as with contacts in the
tourist industry to establish if any further British nationals have been
affected. Through our travel advice, we are urging people to exercise caution
and follow the instructions of the local authorities."

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 9:30 AM GMT

Gunmen behind museum attack were suspected Al-Qaeda terrorists who had spent 'a
great deal of time' in Tunisian region ruled by jihadists

BYLINE: NABILA RAMDANI IN TUNIS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 644 words



     ·    Suspects named as Yassine Abidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, both in their
          20s
     ·    Pair are both Tunisian nationals with links to Al Qaeda's north
          African cell
     ·    They spent 'a great deal of time' in Tunisian jihadi stronghold
          Kasserine
     ·    Pair were shot dead by police after killing 19 people, and wounding 44
     ·    Attackers 'hunted down' tourists indiscriminately at Bardo Museum


Two suspected Al-Qaeda terrorists were today identified as the ringleaders of
the murderous attack in Tunisia in which British people were caught up.

They were named as Yassine Abidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, both Tunisian in their
20s, who were themselves gunned down by police commandoes after killing 19
people, and wounding 44.

Both had spent 'a great deal of time' in Kasserine, the western province which
is considered a stronghold of a jihadi group linked to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb (AQIM).

Scroll down for video

'The young men had boasted of their links with AQIM,' said a Tunisian Interior
Ministry source. 'One was living permanently in Tunis, while another was still
based in Kasserine.

'AQIM is well established in the region, and anti-terrorist operations are
currently underway there in connection with yesterday's attack'.

It came as the British foreign office confirmed that two Britons were 'caught
up' in the shootings at the Bardo National Museum, next door to the Tunisian
Parliament, in Tunis.

Kalashnikovs and grenades were used by Abidi and Khachnaoui during an onslaught
which lasted four hours. They are thought to have had accomplices, and a
nationwide hunt was today underway to try and find them.

Their victims were mainly tourists from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Spain,
Australia, Poland and France, said Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid.

Many were on a Costa cruise ship, which was moored in the Goulette port in
Tunis. A spokesman for Coast Cruises said: 'The captain says fourteen passangers
are missing. We can't say at this stage if they were among the victims.'

A British Foreign Office spokesman said: 'We can confirm that two British
nationals were caught up in the shootings in Tunis on Wednesday and that we are
providing consular assistance.

'We are working with the Tunisian authorities as well as with contacts in the
tourist industry to establish if any further British nationals have been
affected.

'Through our travel advice, we are urging people to exercise caution and follow
the instructions of the local authorities.' Forty-four people were injured in
the attack, including 13 Italians, seven French, four Japanese, two South
Africans, one Pole, one Russian and six Tunisians.

Prime Minister David Cameron said on Twitter: 'Appalled by sickening terrorist
attack in Tunis - my thoughts are with those affected.

UK stands ready to support Tunisia.' British tour operators confirmed that while
thousands of customers are believed to be in the country, very few were in the
capital where the attack was carried out.

Witnesses have described how the police told them to 'run, run, run' after the
terrorists started firing at them as they got off coaches in the Bardo car park.



'We heard a bang, and then realised it was not firecrackers but terrorists
shooting at everyone,' said one, a French woman who would only give her name as
Marie.

'They then entered the museum and began shooting at everything that moved.

'We were in the top floor of the museum. Initially we thought a statue had
crashed on to the floor. There was a couple with four children.

'We sat on the floor for an hour without moving. We were in the mosaics room.
Then we were told to run, run, run. We went through an exit and were taken to a
military barracks.'

A source from the Parliament building said: 'There was absolute panic when the
shots were heard.'

MP Sayida Ounissi confirmed that the 'Minister of Justice, judges and army
officers' were all taking part in a debate about terrorism at the time.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 6:11 AM GMT

Australian victim of Tunisian terror attack smiles with his proud mum at his
graduation - days before both were gunned down by madmen as they stepped off a
tour bus

BYLINE: EMILY CRANE, MARK DUELL, COREY CHARLTON, FLORA DRURY, JOHN HALL, KATE
PICKLES FOR MAILONLINE and SAM GREENHILL FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1953 words



     ·    Javier Camelo, 28, was killed in terror attack at Bardo Museum in
          Tunisia
     ·    He was travelling with parents after graduating university last week
     ·    His mother Miriam was killed while his father José survived
     ·    Javier was dual Australian-Colombian citizen living in Sydney's
          Waterloo
     ·    Twenty-two were killed in terror attacks including 17 tourists, two
          gunmen, security officer, cleaner, and police officer
     ·    Attackers 'hunted down' tourists indiscriminately in shocking killings
     ·    Another 30 people were held hostage before police raided the building


A Sydney man who only graduated from university last week was shot dead
alongside his mother when they stepped off a tour bus outside a Tunisian museum.

Javier Camelo was on a Mediterranean cruise with his parents - retired Colombian
Army general José Arturo Camelo and Miriam Martinez Camelo - to celebrate his
graduation when he was gunned down on Tuesday, Fairfax Media reports.

The 28-year-old, who lived in Waterloo in Sydney, and his mother were among the
17 tourists killed when terrorists fired at them outside the National Bardo
Museum in Tunis.

Mr Camelo, a dual Australian-Colombian citizen, had just finished studying for
his MBA via correspondence at the IE Business School in Madrid.

He was photographed with his graduation certificate at the Madrid university
last week and his last picture posted to Facebook was of him and his parents in
Italy just days ago.

Mr Camelo started working at Sydney University in 2010 before taking a job as an
analyst at American Express in Sydney.

He moved to the company's UK office for a year before returning to Sydney.

'I can't believe it was just a few short days ago we shared one of the biggest
moments of our lives, and we were talking hopefully about the future. There's
never enough time, but we're honoured to have known you and shared part of our
lives with you. Rest in peace, my friend,' a classmate wrote on Facebook.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott confirmed his death in a joint statement with Foreign
Affairs Minister Julie Bishop.

'Our consular officials have now confirmed that a dual Australian-Colombian
citizen, who was a resident of NSW, was among the deceased,' the statement said.

'Our thoughts and prayers are with the man's family, to whom we will extend all
consular assistance.'

A total of 22 people were killed when gunmen stormed the country's national
museum, including 17 tourists, a security officer, cleaner, police officer and
two gunmen also died.

The tourists came from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Spain, Australia, Poland and
France, Tunisia's Prime Minister Habib Essid said.

Video showed gunmen in military uniform storm the Bardo Museum, killing mainly
foreign tourists who were visiting the attraction's world renowned collection of
Roman mosaics.

A Tunisian tourist guide told how he 'stared death in the face' as terrorists
opened fire on his clients in the attack which saw people shot as they exited
cruise ship buses parked outside the museum.

The gunmen, disguised as soldiers, then entered the museum and took 30 more
tourists hostage before police swarmed the building and killed them in a
shootout which also claimed an officer's life.

Local guide Walid told MailOnline: 'They opened up on anything that moved. The
choice was to run away, or face certain death or injury. I helped my clients
find shelter as best I could.'

Walid - who did not wish to give his surname for fear of reprisals - knew where
all the emergency exits were in the museum, next to the Tunisian parliament, and
directed many people to safety.

Eyewitnesses told how the killers picked off visitors one by one with bullets,
while others hid behind pillars or fled in terror to escape.

Forty-four people were injured in the attack, including 13 Italians, seven
French, four Japanese, two South Africans, one Pole, one Russian and six
Tunisians.

PRO-ISIS TWITTER ACCOUNT ACCURATELY PREDICTS TUNISIA ATTACK HOURS IN ADVANCE

A tweet sent from pro-ISIS Twitter accounts accurately predicted the Tunisia
terror attack, raising the possibility the terror group were behind the
atrocity.

Sent just hours before the gunmen opened fire on the popular museum tone tweet
read: 'Coming good news to Tunisia's Muslims, and a shock to the disbelievers
and the hypocrites, especially those who claim to be cultured.'

The tweet was sent from the account @riif0BA9, which regularly posts pro-ISIS
messages, with particularly reference to militants originally from Tunisia.

When news of the attack spread online, the tweet was re-posted by numerous other
ISIS sympathisers, many of whom also lavished praised on the gunmen's choice of
target.

'The selected location has great impact upon the tyrants & crusaders, parliament
& museum; heart of sovereignty and tourism,' an ISIS support called
@Ajnad30_moslim wrote.

The attack was the first on a tourist site in Tunisia since democracy was
introduced to the country following the Arab Spring of 2011.

Another eyewitness called 'Nabila' said police 'tried to push everybody away',
as snipers took up positions on roofs. She said she saw one man being arrested,
'and he looked to be about 25'.

Last night, thousands of people gathered in the capital of Tunis in a show of
solidarity against the atrocity as world leaders united in their condemnation.

Speaking at the Louvre museum to call for international efforts to preserve the
heritage of Iraq and Syria against extremist destruction, French president
Francois Hollande said he had called the Tunisian president to offer support and
solidarity.

'Each time a terrorist crime is committed, we are all concerned,' stated Mr
Hollande.

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said yesterday: 'We are condemning this
terrorist attack in the strongest terms. We are standing by the Tunisian
government.'

Meanwhile US Secretary of State John Kerry said Washington 'condemns in the
strongest possible terms today's deadly terrorist attack' and praised Tunisia's
'rapid response' to resolve the hostage situation and restore calm.

Mr Essid earlier warned there may be others, acting as accomplices to the
gunmen, who remain at large.

He said: 'The terrorists fired randomly as they got off the buses. As they fled,
they were hunted and chased down. There is a possibility, but it is not certain,
that [the two gunmen] could have been helped.

'We are currently conducting extensive search operations to identify the two or
three terrorists who possibly participated in the operation.'

It is believed several hundred managed to flee the museum, while another 20 to
30 were taken captive before anti-terrorist security forces raided the building.



It is unclear who the attackers were, but a video posted online in December
attributed to Islamic State warned that jihadis would target the country.

Twitter accounts associated with ISIS, based in Syria and Iraq, were described
as overjoyed at the attack, urging Tunisians to 'follow their brothers,'
according to Rita Katz of Site, a US-based organisation that monitors militant
groups.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said 'terrorist
organisations' were behind the attack.

Mr Essid declared, in what is thought to be reference to the country's tourism
industry: 'All Tunisians should be united after this attack which was aimed at
destroying the Tunisian economy.'

This was backed by Karim Ben Sa'a, a manager in the tourism industry, who
declared: 'This is a black day for Tunisia.'

'We are very sad for these tourists. They visit our country and it is so, so,
sad to see them die. Our hearts are black.'

Mohamed Ali Aroui, an Interior Ministry spokesman, described the two attackers
as 'Islamists' in local broadcasts, CNN  reported.

In the immediate aftermath of the attack, national guardsmen and anti-terrorist
police quickly surrounded the hugely popular tourist site, which is visited by
thousands of foreigners every year, including many Britons.

Fleets of ambulances could also be seen driving in and out of the museum
grounds, as helicopters flew overhead.

The two heavily armed terrorists were holed-up inside with Kalashnikovs.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui said on Radio Mosaique that one of
the dead was a Tunisian.

Farouk Afi, a blogger in Tunisia, was about to meet his friend in the museum
when he heard the shots go off, according to the BBC.

He said: 'I was near, next door in the café, and I was going to meet with my
friends. I heard it and I didn't know at that moment what it was, but the police
told me go far from this place.

Poland's prime minister has now revealed that some of the Polish victims of the
attack were on a tour bus in front of the building when the gunmen opened fire.

Ewa Kopacz refused to give the precise number of Polish victims, saying figures
were still being confirmed. Earlier yesterday, the Foreign Ministry said that
three Poles were injured, while Polish diplomats in Tunis were working to
confirm unofficial reports that four Poles had been killed.

Mrs Kopacz did say 20 Polish tourists are safe and sound.

And Piotr Henicz, deputy head of Polish tour company Itaka, said 36 tourists on
a package holiday to Tunisia were visiting the museum when they came under
attack.

The museum chronicles Tunisia's history and includes one of the world's largest
collections of Roman mosaics.

Tunisia recently completed a rocky road to democracy after overthrowing its
authoritarian president in 2011.

It has been more stable than other countries in the region, but it has struggled
with violence by Islamic extremists in recent years, including some linked to
ISIS.

It also has extremists linked to Al Qaeda's North Africa arm who occasionally
target Tunisian security forces.

A disproportionately large number of Tunisia recruits have joined ISIS in Syria
and Iraq.

The museum, built within a 15th-century palace, is the largest museum in
Tunisia, with collections covering two floors.

The museum is near the North African country's parliament, less than three miles
from the city centre.

A new wing with contemporary architecture was built as part of a 2009
renovation, doubling the surface area. Some 8,000 works are displayed in the
museum, according to the website.

The attack comes the day after Tunisian security officials confirmed the death
in neighbouring Libya of a leading suspect in Tunisian terror attacks and the
killings of two opposition figures in Tunisia.

Ahmed Rouissi gained the nickname of the 'black box of terrorism'. The
information on his death was made public by security officials giving evidence
in parliament and cited by the official TAP news agency.

Some of the Italians at the museum were believed to have been passengers aboard
the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise liner making a seven-day trip of the western
Mediterranean that had docked in Tunis.

Ship owner Costa Crociere confirmed that some of its 3,161 passengers were
visiting the capital and that a Bardo tour was on the itinerary, but said it
could not confirm how many, if any, passengers were in the museum at the time.

The cruise ship recalled all the passengers to the ship and was in touch with
local authorities and the Italian foreign ministry.

Libya, which has devolved into chaos, is a source of major concern for Tunisia.

Also a major worry is the Mount Chaambi area on the border with Algeria where Al
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb has reportedly been helping a Tunisian group which
has killed numerous soldiers.

The shootings followed a string of attempted strikes against the authorities
following recent raids on four alleged terror cells that have seen 32 suspects
arrested.

There is also speculation it was revenge for the killing last weekend of Ahmed
al-Rouissi, a Tunisian leader of a Libyan ISIS cell.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

22 die in terrorist attack at museum;
Guide stared death in face as duo 'fired at anything'

BYLINE: RUTH HALKON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1,2,3

LENGTH: 500 words


BRITONS are feared to be among 22 people killed as gunmen hunted down cruise
ship passengers in Tunisia.

Two militants armed with Kalashnikovs opened fire on the tourists as they
climbed off buses at the national museum.

Some of the visitors were able to flee inside the complex but the terrorists
gave chase and claimed more lives.

They took hostages during a two-hour siege before police commandos stormed in
and shot them dead. Islamic State is thought to be behind the attack. Tunisia's
prime minister Continued on Page 2 » » Continued from Page 1 Habib Essid called
the killers 'cowardly and heinous'.

Two British tourists were reported to have been killed in the attack at the
Bardo Museum, next to the parliament building in Tunis. The 22 dead also
included Polish, Spanish, German and Italian visitors, a policeman, a cleaner
and the two gunmen.

A further 22 tourists and two Tunisians were believed to have been injured.

It is thought the militants may have tried to target the parliament - which was
debating anti-terrorism laws - and turned on the museum when they could not gain
entry.

After they chased the cruise ship party into the museum, most of the 200 people
inside the building were able to get out. Footage from the scene showed children
and elderly people fleeing for their lives.

However, about 30 people were trapped as the killers prowled the corridors in
search of victims.

One French visitor spoke to a TV station as she huddled inside the 15th century
building - home to one of the world's largest collections of Roman mosaics.

'We are scared that the gunmen will arrive at any moment and shoot us,' said the
woman, named only as Fabienne. 'I am sitting against the wall with my partner,
another couple and a child.' Tunisian tourist guide Walid described how he
'stared death in the face' as the terrorists opened fire on his clients inside
the building. 'They opened up on anything that moved,' he said.

'The choice was to run away, or face certain death or injury. I helped my
clients find shelter as best I could.' French tourist Geraldine, who was
watching from a nearby balcony, told French TV: 'The shots resound around the
halls because the space is so immense. Oh my God. There has just been another
shot.' Black-clad police snipers perched on the rooftops and bastions of the
ancient Bardo castle as a single muf-fled explosion marked the end of the siege.

Crowds cheered as black armoured vehicles filed out of the museum www.gates.No
group has yet claimed responsibility for the atrocity. But pro-IS Twitter
accounts praised the gunmen and an IS video released in December threatened
Tunisia.

It is thought the attacks may have been revenge for the killing of Ahmed
al-Rouissi - the Tunisian leader of a new IS cell - in Libya over the weekend.

David Cameron said he was appalled by the sickening attack. Tunisia attracts
more than 400,000 British visitors a year.

'The shots resound around the halls because the space is so immense. Oh my God.
There has just been another shot'

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wounded: A victim is wheeled into hospital PICTURE: GETTYEscape:
Tourists are led awayPICTURE: GETTYStretcher: Armed officers wheel a victim away
from the museum. Above, troops stand guard as tourists are brought out PICTURES:
REX/GETTYAnxious wait: Visitors pray the two gunmen will not take their
livesStay back: A masked commando holds up a hand in warning, left. Right, an
officer shields fleeing tourists PICTURE: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BLOODBATH AT MUSEUM;
Brits targeted as 20 tourists ; massacred in Tunisian terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


TERROR gunmen massacred at least 20 foreign tourists in a bloodbath at a top
holiday attraction popular with British visitors in Tunisia yesterday.

Full story: Pages 6-7

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

BLOODBATH AT MUSEUM;
Brits targeted as 17 tourists ; massacred in Tunisian terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


TERROR gunmen massacred at least 17 foreign tourists in a bloodbath at a top
holiday attraction popular with British visitors in Tunisia yesterday.

Full story: Pages 6-7

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Tourists gunned down in Islamist terrorist attack

BYLINE: Keyan Milanian

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 408 words


ISLAMIST militants yesterday gunned down 17 tourists visiting Tunisia's national
museum.

Witnesses said terrorists in military uniforms opened fire on cruise ship
tourist buses outside Bardo museum in the capital, Tunis. Using automatic
weapons, they stormed the building and took a number of hostages.

Two militants were killed and the hostages were freed after security forces
retook the museum.

Seventeen nationals, including those from Italy, Germany, Poland and Spain,
died.

Three Tunisians were also killed, including a museum security officer, a cleaner
and a police officer. Last night, the Foreign Office was "urgently looking into"
unconfirmed reports that two British nationals were among the dead.

A spokesman added: "We are urging people to exercise caution and follow the
instructions of the local authorities." The Association of British Travel Agents
said around 6,500 Britons are currently in the North African country but that
very few were in the capital. It said tour operators have cancelled trips to
Tunis. Prime Minister David Cameron last night said Britain "stood ready to
support Tunisia", tweeting: "Appalled by sickening terrorist attack in Tunis -
my thoughts are with those affected".

EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said: "The EU is determined to
mobilise all the tools it has to fully support Tunisia in the fight against
terrorism."

Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid called for unity and said the attack was
"aimed at destroying the Tunisian economy".

The attack is a blow for the country which relies heavily on European tourism
and has largely avoided militant violence since its 2011 uprising to oust
autocrat Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.

Authorities had not last night identified the gunmen.

Several Islamist groups have emerged since the uprising and about 3,000
Tunisians are thought to be fighting in Iraq and Syria - raising fears they
could return and mount attacks at home.

One pro-IS Twitter account posted: "The selected location has great impact upon
the tyrants & crusaders, parliament & museum; heart of sovereignty and tourism."

Another warned that the attack was the start of a "new phase of terrorism" in
Tunisia.

?EIGHT people were injured last night in a shooting in the Swedish city of
Gothenburg.

Police and ambulance crews were dispatched shortly before 10.30pm. The victims'
condition was last night not known.

The shooting came after reports of three cars being burned in the area earlier
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tunisian TV footage shows people escaping during yesterday's attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 8:03 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Devastated family pay tribute to British victim Sally
Adey

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 325 words


The family of a British tourist killed in the Tunisian terror attack have paid
tribute to "a much loved wife mother and daughter."

Sally Adey, 57, was among at least 23 left dead after the attacks in the capital
Tunis yesterday afternoon.

The mother-of-two, a solicitor from Shropshire, was visiting the renowned Bardo
Museum with her husband Robert when two gunmen began picking off tourists.

Her grieving relatives issued a statement this evening, saying: "Sally Adey was
a much loved wife, mother and daughter. We are devastated by her loss.

"We are also saddened for others who have lost people they love and for those
who have been hurt.

"We would ask the media to respect our privacy at this incredibly difficult
time, and leave us to come to terms with what has happened."

Related stories

A new photo of Mrs Adey, whose husband was believed to be unharmed, was also
released.

The statement came shortly after Islamic State had claimed responsibility for
the atrocity.

The jihadi group called it a "blessed invasion of one of the dens of infidels
and vice in Muslim Tunisia".

According to US-based SITE Intelligence Group, it added: "Wait for the glad
tidings of what will harm you, impure ones, for what you have seen today is the
first drop of the rain."

Tunisia's health minister said 18 foreign tourists were killed during the
attack, including visitors from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Australia, France and
Poland.

Nine people have been arrested in connection with the attack, Tunisian officials
said.

Five of those arrested were directly connected to the operation, while four
others were linked to the attackers and were based outside the capital.

Earlier today, Prime Minister David Cameron said condemned the attack as "an
appalling and brutal outrage".

He added: "In the end our values - freedom of speech, democracy, the rule of law
- they will win through.

"We must show the persistence and consistency to make sure they do, but I'm
confident they will."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 4:22 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Islamic State claim responsibility for Tunis slaughter

BYLINE: Gareth Vipers

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 304 words


The Islamic State (IS) has claimed responsibility for the attacks in Tunisia
that claimed the lives of 23 people.

In a statement released today, IS described the deadly attack as a "blessed
invasion of one of the dens of infidels and vice in Muslim Tunisia."

US-based SITE Intelligence Group also linked IS to the attack.

Today the Foreign Office named a British woman killed in yesterday's attack as
57-year-old Sally Adey.

Mrs Adey was one of eighteen tourists shot dead by gunmen in the country's
capital Tunis. The group were reportedly cruise ship passengers who were gunned
down on a visit to the Bardo Museum.

Three Tunisians and two gunmen died in the siege.

Earlier today Tunisia's newly-elected President Beji Caid Essebsi said the
militants were linked to the radical Islamist group, Ansar al-Sharia - accused
of masterminding a series of political assassinations in Libya in 2013, as well
as attacks on cultural targets and also the US embassy in Benghazi in 2012.

Sources later suggested the men also had links to al Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb (AQIM) and had spent "a great deal of time" in Kasserine, considered a
stronghold for the terrorist group.

Related stories

In a statement today, Foreign Secretary Philp Hammond described the attacks as
"cowardly".

He said: "Sadly, I can confirm the death of a British woman in yesterday's
terrorist attack in Tunisia.

"Consular staff are providing assistance to her family. My thoughts are with
them at this very difficult time. The Tunisian people are rightly proud of their
democratic transition.

"Cowardly attacks, such as the one we saw yesterday, must not be allowed to
undermine what they have achieved.

"I spoke to prime minister Habib Essid yesterday to offer my condolences to all
those affected by this despicable act and to assure him we stand together
against terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 1:22 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: British woman killed in terror shootings named as Sally Adey

BYLINE: Rachel Blundy, Benedict Moore-Bridger, Nabila Ramdani in Tunis

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 778 words


A British woman killed in yesterday's terror shootings in Tunisia has been named
as Sally Adey.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond today confirmed Mrs Adey, 57, a mother-of-two
from Shropshire, was among eighteen tourists shot dead by gunmen in the
country's capital Tunis.

The group were reportedly cruise ship passengers who were gunned down on a visit
to the Bardo Museum.

Mrs Adey, believed to have been a retired solicitor, was with her husband Robert
when the terrorists opened fire, but he was reportedly unharmed.

Neighbours today expressed their shock at the "senseless" killings, while Prime
Minister David Cameron said he would do "everything we can to help the family of
the British woman murdered in Tunisia. We will not let terrorists undermine
democracy."

A neighbour said: "It's just shocking. I knew she was going away on holiday but
you just don't expect this. You're not safe anywhere - it's horrific."

A spokesman for the cruise company confirmed Mrs Adey's death, adding: "Her
husband is receiving support from the MSC Cruises customer care team in Tunis
and we will be offering all possible support to him and his family.

"At this tragic time, the entire MSC Cruises family wishes to extend its most
sincere and heartfelt condolences to all those who were affected by this tragic
event and are suffering as a result, in particular to the families and friends
of those who lost their lives as well as the injured ones."

In a statement today, Mr Hammond described the attacks as "cowardly".

Related stories

He said: "Sadly, I can confirm the death of a British woman in yesterday's
terrorist attack in Tunisia.

"Consular staff are providing assistance to her family. My thoughts are with
them at this very difficult time. The Tunisian people are rightly proud of their
democratic transition.

"Cowardly attacks, such as the one we saw yesterday, must not be allowed to
undermine what they have achieved.

"I spoke to prime minister Habib Essid yesterday to offer my condolences to all
those affected by this despicable act and to assure him we stand together
against terrorism."

Commenting on Mrs Adey's death, Labour leader Ed Miliband said: "My thoughts and
deep condolences are with Sally Adey and all the victims of yesterday's attacks
in Tunisia.

"This attack was a despicable act of terrorism and it reinforces our
determination to stand united against terrorist acts."

The Foreign Office today confirmed it was investigating reports that a second
Briton was "caught up" in the attacks but would not say whether the person had
died.

Along with eighteen tourists, three Tunisians and two gunmen died in the siege -
bringing the total death toll so far to 23. A further 44 people were wounded in
the attacks.

Also among the dead was Javier Camelo, 28, a Colombian-Australian national who
lived in London for a year in 2013, and his mother, Miriam Martinez Camelo.

A friend said: "I just think the world is such an unfair place, how it takes
such good people.

"He was such a well-rounded person, I can't believe it. You read about these
things [terrorist attacks] and then you think 'That's never going to affect me,
it's never going to come close to anyone I know.' It's so sad."

When living in London, Mr Camelo worked for American Express in its Victoria
office.

A colleague who worked with him in London said: "He was was just the nicest guy
to have around we are really in shock. it is a sad day for all of us who knew
him."

Tunisia's Prime Minister Habib Essid today identified two of the gunmen as
Yassine Labidi and Saber Khachnaoui, adding that Labidi was "known to security
services".

Today Tunisia's newly-elected President Beji Caid Essebsi said they were linked
to the radical Islamist group, Ansar al-Sharia - accused of masterminding a
series of political assassinations in Libya in 2013, as well as attacks on
cultural targets and also the US embassy in Benghazi in 2012.

He told broadcaster France 24 Tunisia had become home to terrorist "sleeper
cells" that need to be "removed".

"This is an act without precedent in Tunisian history," he said.

"It is a major catastrophe for Tunisia and its people. Many of the victims were
friends of Tunisia who came to this country as tourists." In an address to the
nation he added: "These monstrous minorities do not frighten us. We will resist
them until the deepest end without mercy."

Sources said the men also had links to al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)
and had spent "a great deal of time" in Kasserine, considered a stronghold for
the terrorist group.

A huge manhunt is now under way for up to three other militants who are believed
to have fled, while Tunisians have held rallies condemning the killings.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 11:27 PM GMT

British victim of Tunisia terror attack was on last-minute cruise with her
husband;
Sally Adey, 57, a solicitor and mother-of-two from Shropshire, was among the
tourists killed in the brutal massacre at the Bardo Museum

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 780 words


A British woman killed in the terror attack in Tunisia was a talented solicitor
and devoted mother-of-two who had booked the dream holiday at the last minute.

Sally Adey, 57, and her husband Robert, 52, were passengers on the MSC Splendida
cruise ship, which arrived in the capital, Tunis, on Wednesday morning.

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant                      (Isil), the jihadi
group that has established a self-styled caliphate in Syria and Iraq, claimed
responsibility for Thursday's attack .

The couple were among scores of tourists who took the opportunity to visit the
Bardo Museum, where they were almost immediately caught up in a brutal massacre
as jihadi gunmen disguised as soldiers burst in and sprayed bullets at Western
holiday makers.

Whilst her husband managed to escape the bloody scene uninjured, Mrs Adey was
among 18 tourists who were fatally shot.

Mr Adey, a partner at a Birmingham law firm, has remained in Tunis, where he is
receiving consular assistance.

The couple, from Shropshire, had only recently booked the seven-night cruise.
They boarded the ship last Saturday in Genoa, Italy, and had been due to return
home this weekend.

Their daughter, Molly, 20, who is at university, and son, Harry, 23, a musician,
as well Mrs Adey's elderly father, who were said to be "devastated" by the news
of her death.

A friend said her father, retired Wing Commander Robert Johnson, 91, was
"shattered into a million pieces" when he was told of his daughter's murder.

David Cameron vowed to support the family on Thursday as he insisted that the
terrorists would not be allowed to "undermine democracy".

Mrs Adey was raised in a farming community near Lincoln and studied at the
University of Hull. She specialised in company and commercial law but is
believed to have recently retired.

She enjoyed sport and had taken up boxing to keep fit. Neighbours described her
as a loving mother and a hard-working solicitor who "never had a bad word to say
about anyone".

She and her husband lived in a large detached house in a remote hamlet near
Shifnal.

In an online profile, Mrs Adey described her interests as "Family, cooking,
flowers, history, watching sport with my husband - golf, rugby, cricket, motor
racing. Weekends away with friends".

Asked to describe herself, she wrote: "That's tough! Short and tubbier than I'd
like to be. Trying to get a bit fitter before it's too late.

"People say I'm sensible and well organised - that all sounds very boring -
sorry - in my fitness work I like boxing though - perhaps a bit more
interesting?"

Julia Holden, a family friend who works for Shakespeares Solicitors, where Mr
Adey is a partner, issued a statement on behalf of the family.

It said: "Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife and mother. The family are
devastated by her loss. They are also saddened for others who have lost people
they love, and for those who have been hurt."

Neighbour Terry Holmes, 66, a retired computer security worker, said the cruise
was not the first the couple had taken but said they had been particularly
excited about the holiday.

"Sally was really looking forward to having a break with Rob," he said.

Another neighbour, Annette Crawshaw, 73, extended her condolences to Mr Adey.

"I can't imagine the pain he and his family are going through," she said.

"They are a lovely family. I last spoke to Sally at Christmas time. She seemed
delighted to be spending time with her family.

"She was a solicitor in Birmingham and was very often out early and back late
but whenever I saw her she was friendly and pleasant."

Mrs Adey was also a director of the family's farming company in the village of
the Scothern, five miles north of Lincoln, where she grew up.

Her father, Mr Adey and his second wife Joan, 83, who are keen choristers, still
live in the village, as does her brother, Michael, 64.

John Fotheringham, vice chairman of Scothern Parish Council, said he was
incredibly saddened to hear news of her death.

"The family has been in the village for a long time and are well known and well
respected," he said. "They are a very supportive of the church and it will come
as a shock.

"I think every parent fears a call that says their child has died. It is every
parent's worst nightmare. The thoughts of many, many people will be with them."

Mrs Adey was among at least 23 people killed during the assault by two gunmen at
the Bardo Museum.

British holiday companies Thomson and First Choice have cancelled excursions to
Tunis "for the coming days".

The companies said its holidaymakers were in beach resorts rather than Tunis,
with the cancellations being made "as a precaution".

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 6:29 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Pregnant Spanish woman hid in museum overnight;
Spanish couple hid inside the Bardo museum to avoid terrorist attack

BYLINE: By James Badcock Madrid

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 299 words


The father of a pregnant woman who spent nearly 24 hours shut inside a tiny room
with her husband during a terrorist attack on the Bardo museum in Tunis spoke on
Thursday of the couple's ordeal.

"They shut themselves inside a cleaners' room for almost 24 hours, hearing Arab
voices and not knowing whether they were terrorists or the police, until a
policeman opened the door and they came out," David Rubio said. According to
Rubio, that was at about 10.30am local time.

The couple did not even dare to use a mobile phone to communicate with the
outside world.

When Cristina Rubio and Juan Carlos Sánchez did not return to their cruise ship,
the MSC Splendida, in time for the scheduled departure on Wednesday evening, the
Spanish Embassy in Tunis launched a search for the couple. But there was no sign
of them in the city's hotels or hospitals. In the end, a spokesperson for MSC
said a company employee went to the museum and found the couple shortly after
they had left their hideout.

The hostage's father said that Cristina had phoned him minutes after being
found, saying with a trembling voice that she and her husband "had really had a
terrible time; they thought they were going to die".

Cristina, who is four months pregnant, was taken to a hospital in Tunis for a
check-up after the ordeal. The couple had been enjoying a honeymoon cruise after
getting married on 8 March.

The two confirmed Spanish victims of the museum massacre are Antoni Cirera
Pérez, 75, and Dolors Sánchez Rami, 73, a retired couple from Barcelona who had
travelled to Tunis on board the Splendida to mark their golden wedding
anniversary.

"It was the first time they had been anywhere to celebrate their anniversary,"
said Foreign Minister José Manuel García-Margallo. "The trip was a present from
their family."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 4:12 PM GMT

Cruise ships avoid Tunis after British passenger killed in museum attack;
Cruise ships have taken Tunis off their itineraries after a British passenger
was one of at least 20 foreign tourists killed in a terror attack in Tunisia's
national museum

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 700 words


Two cruise ships - the MSC Splendida and the Costa Fascinosa - were in port
outside Tunis on Wednesday when Sally Adey, a 57-year-old Briton travelling with
an MSC excursion to the Bardo Museum, was killed. She was accompanied on the
cruise by her husband.

The attack by two gunmen on the museum - which houses one of the best
collections of Roman mosaics in the world - sent tourists, including children,
running for their lives.

MSC said that 12 passengers lost their lives (two Colombians, three French,
three Japanese, two Spanish, one British and one Belgian). Thirteen were injured
- two seriously - while a Spanish couple, Cristina Rubio Benlloch and Juan
Carlos Sanchez Oltra, were found safe and sound after a night hiding at the
museum.

Ms Rubio, who is pregnant, was immediately taken into hospital for observation.
Both her and the child are reported to be well.

Costa reported that three of its passengers were killed, eight were injured and
two remain unaccounted for. A spokesman confirmed that all upcoming calls in
Tunis by the cruise ships Costa Fortuna, Costa Favolosa and Costa neoRiviera
will now be substituted with alternatives.

MSC said it is no longer sailing to Tunis and that the Splendida will instead be
calling at Valletta, in Malta. MSC Fantasia was due to travel there this summer,
but will instead dock in Palma, Majorca; while MSC Preziosa will head to
Cagliari in Sardinia, instead of Tunis, on its summer schedule.

Neal Baldwin, a spokesman for MSC, said that as soon as news of the attack
broke, the ship's management called for the immediate cancellation of all
ongoing shore excursions and recalled buses and passengers.

Guests were given access to telephones and internet points on board in order to
contact loved ones.

Telegraph Travel's cruise expert Jane Archer said that the absence of the ships,
which would have visited Tunis several times a week this summer, will be keenly
felt by the hundreds of local people who make a living from tourism.

"It is easy for the cruise lines to switch to other interesting destinations,"
she said, "and I doubt passengers will miss the Tunis stop particularly, but it
is very sad for the locals because cruise ships only started going back there
relatively recently following the Arab Spring. It will take a long time for the
country to recover from a tragedy like this and convince people it is safe."

A social media campaign in support of Tunisia's tourism industry has gathered
force since the attack, with people all around the world committing to visit the
country this summer in a show of solidarity reminiscent of that which followed
the deaths at the Charlie Hebdo magazine office in Paris.

#jesuisbardo#jesuistunis Thanks all from #Tunisia and WELCOME !
#tunispic.twitter.com/vwt6bbv7Bb

- selfies Tunisie (@Selfies_Tunisie) March 19, 2015

Tourist numbers had been experiencing something of a resurgence in recent years,
the Association of Independent British Tour Operators said that most of its
members do not offer holidays to the country until later in the year.

"Only a few have clients booked to travel in the near future," said Derek Moore,
AITO's chairman. "No clients have yet asked to cancel."

He added: "As with any incident like this, much will depend, in the coming
weeks, whether this turns out to be an isolated incident or the start of a
worrying new area of terrorism."

The latest Foreign Office advice for British travellers warns of a "heightened
security presence in the centre of the city of Tunis. You should be especially
vigilant at this time and follow the advice of Tunisian security authorities and
your tour operator."

Kirker Holidays, a British operator, said that bookings on its tours to the
country were already very low, with no-one booked on its cultural short breaks
in Tunisia until the autumn.

Derek Moore said that the incident emphasises the benefits of travelling with a
tour operator as "they will always evacuate clients if conditions make this
advisable and, should anything untoward occur, will liaise between clients, the
authorities and families back home."

Tunisia attack: live updates

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 12:50 PM GMT

David Cameron condemns Tunisia museum attacks which left one Briton dead;
The Prime Minister condemns the terror attacks in Tunisia, which left one
British woman dead, as an "appalling and brutal outrage"

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and agencies, video source ITN

LENGTH: 210 words


Prime Minister David Cameron has condemned the terror attack at a Tunisian
museum that left 23 people dead.

He also confirmed the death of a British citizen in the attack.

"I can confirm that one of those killed was a British citizen and our heart goes
out to her family. We will do everything we can to help the family at this very
difficult time."

He said the attack was "the latest example of extremist terror".

The Prime Minister said: "We have to fight it with everything we have, whether
that is taking the poison out of young minds here in Britain, whether it's
working with intelligence, policing and security services in other countries
around the world or whether it's dealing decisively with those areas of the
world from which these problems come."

Tourists killed in the attack also included visitors from Japan, Italy,
Colombia, Australia, France and Poland, officials said.

The two gunmen killed at the scene were identified as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem
Khachnaoui.

Laabidi was known to Tunisian intelligence services, the country's prime
minister confirmed.

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack, although Tunisia has faced
extremist violence before and a large number of Tunisians have joined Islamic
State fighters in Syria and Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Gunmen kill at least 20 people in one of Tunisia's worst terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By WMN reporters

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 549  words


Gunmen opened fire at a major museum in Tunisia's capital, killing at least 20
people, mostly foreigners, in one of the North African country's worst terrorist
attacks.

Men with assault rifles fired at tourists climbing from buses in front of the
National Bardo Museum in central Tunis near the country's parliament, sending
dozens sprinting for safety.

Two gunmen were killed but prime minister Habib Essid said a manhunt was on for
two or three others.

The identity of the attackers was not clear.

Security forces immediately flooded the area and Tunisia's parliament building,
where deputies were debating the new anti-terrorism law, was evacuated.

Dozens of tourists scrambled from the museum holding hands or linking arms as
security forces pointed their guns towards an adjacent building. Many elderly
people, apparently tourists, ran in panic to safety, including at least one
couple carrying two children.

Tunisia has been struggling to keep extremist violence at bay since the
overthrow of its dictator in 2011, and the attack was the worst on a tourist
site since an al Qaida car bomb killed 21 people - mostly Germans - in 2002.

"Our nation is in danger," Mr Essid warned in an address on national television
after the siege ended.

"We will be merciless in the defence of our country," he added, describing the
attack as an unprecedented assault on Tunisia's economy. He promised increased
security in tourist zones and asked residents to be extra alert.

According to Mr Essid, the dead include two gunmen, a Tunisian security officer
and a Tunisian cleaning woman, while the rest were tourists from Italy, Poland,
Germany and Spain. The Spanish foreign ministry has confirmed one dead.

Several other people were reported wounded in the attack, including three Poles
and at least two Italians. The Italian foreign ministry said 100 other Italians
had been taken to a secure location.

Some of the Italians at the museum were believed to have been passengers aboard
the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise liner that had docked in Tunis while on a
seven-day tour of the western Mediterranean. Ship owner Costa Crociere confirmed
that some of its 3,161 passengers were visiting the capital and that a Bardo
tour was on the itinerary, but said it could not confirm how many passengers
were in the museum at the time.

The attack was a strong blow to Tunisia's efforts to revive its crucial tourism
industry.

The Bardo, built in a 15th century palace, is the largest museum in Tunisia and
houses one of the world's largest collections of Roman mosaics among its 8,000
works. The museum, four kilometres (two-and-a-half miles) from the city centre,
has a new wing with contemporary architecture that was built as part of a 2009
renovation.

During the Roman Empire, Tunisia was called the province of Africa and was home
to several large cities which are now popular ruins, including the great
amphitheatre of El Djem, the ruins of Sbeitla and in the north, Dougga, known by
Unesco as the "best preserved small town in North Africa".

"It is not by chance that today's terrorism affects a country that represents
hope for the Arab world. The hope for peace, the hope for stability, the hope
for democracy. This hope must live," French foreign minister Laurent Fabius said
in a statement minutes after the crisis ended.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Cyprus condemns "terrorist attack" in Tunis

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

Cyprus Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the terrorist attack on Wednesday
in the National Bardo Museum, in Tunis that caused the death of 20 people.

"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cyprus unequivocally
condemns the heinous terrorist attack carried out yesterday, March 18 2015, in
the National Bardo Museum, in Tunis, in which twenty people were killed and more
than twenty were wounded," an official press release issued here today notes.

"The government and the people of Cyprus express their sincere condolences and
their unwavering support to the families of the victims and to the government
and the people of Tunisia as well as to the people and government of the nations
who are mourning victims from this cowardly attack," the FM notes, concluding
that "the Cypriot Government reiterates its solidarity with the government of
Tunisia and reaffirms its determination to pursue all efforts aiming at
combating terrorism and reinforcing the successful democratic transition
achieved by Tunisia."

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 1702 gmt 19 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Tunisia "terrorist attack" distressing - Iran foreign minister

LENGTH: 172 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran: Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif slammed a recent terrorist
attack in Tunisia's capital as "distressing", contending that such terrorist
acts have nothing to do with Islam and the pure Islamic movements.

In a letter of condolence to his Tunisian counterpart Taieb Baccouche, Zarif
reiterated Iran's emphasis on the need for "collective efforts to root out
terrorism and extremism."

In a Wednesday [18 March] attack by gunmen on Tunisia's Bardo Museum in the
capital, 21 people were killed. Seventeen foreign tourists were among the dead.

On Thursday, the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist group
claimed responsibility for the attack. But Tunisian authorities said the two
slain gunmen had no clear links to extremists.

Police announced the arrest of five people described as directly tied to the two
gunmen who opened fire Wednesday at the museum.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 0755 gmt 20 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Left 'devastated' after terrorist attack in Tunisia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 658 words


THE family of a British woman killed during a terrorist attack in Tunisia have
been left "devastated" by her loss, a close friend said.

Sally Adey, 57, was among at least 23 people killed during the assault by two
gunmen on the Bardo Museum in the capital Tunis. Mrs Adey, a mother and trained
solicitor from Shropshire, was on an excursion to the museum with her husband
Robert at the time of the attack. He is believed to be unharmed.

e couple were on a holiday cruise aboard the MSC Splendida, which docked at the
port in Tunis.

Julia Holden, a partner at Shakespeares Solicitors in Birmingham and a close
friend of the family, issued a statement on the family's behalf.

She said: "Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife and mother. e family are
devastated by her loss.

"ey are also saddened for others who have lost people they love, and for those
who have been hurt."

Mrs Adey's proole on website Beemee states that she was a "mum with kids at uni"
who was no longer working.

She had held jobs in "Wolverhampton, Bridgnorth, Telford and Birmingham in
company/commercial law, training, admin and HR".

Tunisia's health minister said a total of 18 foreign tourists were killed during
the attack, including visitors from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Australia, France
and Poland. Said Aidi told a press conference that ove Tunisians also died,
including the two gunmen, while authorities are searching for other possible
accomplices.

Four people have now reportedly been arrested in connection with the attack.

Moncef Hamdoun, an ocial with the Charles Nicolle hospital where many victims
were taken, said seven of the dead remain unidentioed.

Tunisian authorities identioed the two gunmen as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem
Khachnaoui. Laabidi was known to Tunisian intelligence services, the country's
prime minister conormed.

In an interview with France's RTL radio, Habib Essid explained that Tunisia is
working with other countries to learn more about the attackers.

No-one has claimed responsibility for the attack, although Tunisia has faced
extremist violence before and a large number of Tunisians have joined Islamic
State oghters in Syria and Iraq.

Twitter accounts linked to the jihadi group praised the killings and called for
Muslims to attack www.tourists.UK holiday companies omson and First Choice said
they had cancelled excursions to Tunis "for the coming days".

e companies said its holidaymakers were in beach resorts rather than Tunis, with
the cancellations being made "as a precaution".

Prime Minister David Cameron said: "ese terrorist attacks yesterday in Tunisia
were an appalling and brutal outrage.

"In the end our values - freedom of speech, democracy, the rule of law - they
will win through.

"We must show the persistence and consistency to make sure they do, but I'm
conodent they will."

Meanwhile, it emerged that a Spanish man and his pregnant wife who were feared
dead had been found "safe and well" after hiding in the museum for almost 24
hours.

ey were named by Spanish media as Cristina Rubio and Juan Carlos Sanchez, from
Valencia on Spain's eastern coast.

Mrs Rubio is understood to be four months pregnant and was tak-tak en in an
ambulance to hospital for a check-up. ey had been reported missing by MSC
Cruises yesterday when they failed to return to its vessel Splendida after the
attack. MSC conormed that the Adeys had been among 79 UK passengers - as well as
10 from the Republic of Ireland - aboard the Splendida.

e company, which has suspended stops in Tunis for its vessels, said Mr Adey was
receiving support from the MSC Cruises customer care team in Tunis.

It added: "We will be extending all possible support to him and his family. At
this tragic time, the entire MSC Cruises family wishes to extend its most
sincere and heartfelt condolences to all those who were a$ected by this tragic
event and are su$ering as a result, in particular to the families and friends of
those who lost their lives as well as the injured ones."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Armed ¦ police guard the entrance of the National Bardo Museum. Below,
Tunisians holding candles pray at the entrance gate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2015 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Victim of the Tunisia terror attack was on a last-minute cruise with her husband

BYLINE: Victoria Ward

SECTION: BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 198 words


A BRITISH woman killed in the terror attack in Tunisia was a talented solicitor
and devoted mother-of-two who had booked the holiday at the last minute.

Sally Adey, 57, and her husband Robert, 52, were passengers on the MSC Splendida
cruise ship, which arrived in the capital, Tunis, on Wednesday morning.

The couple were among scores of tourists who took the opportunity to visit the
Bardo Museum, where they were almost immediately caught up in a brutal massacre
as jihadi gunmen disguised as soldiers burst in and sprayed bullets at Western
holidaymakers.

Whilst her husband managed to escape the bloody scene uninjured, Mrs Adey was
among 18 tourists who were fatally shot.

Mr Adey, a partner at a Birmingham law firm, has remained in Tunis, where he is
receiving consular assistance.

The couple, who live near Shifnal, Shropshire, had only recently booked the
sevennight cruise. They boarded the ship last Saturday in Genoa, Italy, and had
been due to return home this weekend.

Their daughter, Molly, 20, who is at university, and son, Harry, 23, a musician,
as well Mrs Adey's elderly father, were said to be "devastated" by the news of
her death.

Reports: Page 16

Editorial Comment: Page 23

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sally Adey: British victim of the terror attack in Tunisia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

British victim of Tunisia terror attack was on last-minute cruise with husband

BYLINE: Victoria Ward

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 134 words


A BRITISH woman killed in the terrorist attack in Tunisia was a solicitor and
devoted mother-of-two who had booked the dream holiday at the last minute.

Sally Adey, 57, and her husband Robert, 52, were passengers on the MSC Splendida
cruise ship, which arrived in the capital, Tunis, on Wednesday morning.

They were among scores of tourists visiting the Bardo Museum when jihadiist
gunmen disguised as soldiers burst in and sprayed bullets at Western holiday
makers.

Whilst her husband managed to escape uninjured, Mrs Adey was among 18 tourists
who were fatally shot.

The couple, who live near Shifnal, Shropshire, had only recently booked the
sevennight cruise. They boarded the ship last Saturday in Genoa, Italy, and had
been due to return home this weekend.

Reports: Page 16

Editorial Comment: Page 23

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sally Adey: British victim of the terror attack in Tunisia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       March 20, 2015 Friday 8:24 AM GMT

Cruise lines 'stop calling at Tunis' after British passenger killed in terrorist
attack

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 727 words


MORE than 50 cruise operators have cancelled port calls in Tunisia after several
passengers were caught up in the terrorist attack in which a British woman was
killed.

MSC Cruises

MSC Cruises Splendida will remain in Tunisia overnight

Thomson and First Choice are among the operators to scrap scheduled stops at the
country's ports, which are popular with British holidaymakers.

P&O, Celebrity and Princess Cruises all said they would monitor the situation
and Holland America Line said it was considering cancelling all Tunis port
calls.

The news comes amid reports that the two gunmen involved in Wednesday's terror
attack were trained in Libya.

Tunisia's secretary of state for security is reported to have said the gunmen
left the country "illegally" in December, crossing the border into neighbouring
Libya for weapons training before returning to Tunisia.

Norwegian Cruise Line stopped calling at Tunisia last year after Israeli
passengers on one of its ships were not allowed to disembark.

MSC Cruises issued a statement to say its ship MSC Splendida will remain in
Tunisia overnight after 12 of their passengers died while they were on a ship's
excursion to the Bardo Museum in Tunis.

Costa Cruises also cancelled future Tunis port calls by their ships Costa
Fortuna, Costa Favolosa and Costa neoRiviera.

Three passengers from its ship Costa Fascinosa were also killed in the museum
attack and two have still not been accounted for.

MSC Splendida was originally scheduled to leave La Goulette, the cruise port in
Tunis, tonight.

The MSC statement said local security authorities had set up "exceptional
security measures in the port and around the ships to ensure the utmost safety
of MSC Cruises' guests and crew members".

It also said: "An MSC Cruises team comprised of representatives from the
company's ownership, its management and dedicated care task force is currently
on its way to Tunisia to provide all possible support to guests onboard and to
work closely with local authorities.

"MSC Cruises remains in close contact with the relevant national and
international authorities, local authorities, the ship captain as well as with
the port agent to constantly monitor the situation as it unfolds."

facebook

Mother-of-two Sally Adey was the British cruise passenger killed in the attack

The mass withdrawal of cruise operators from the North African state is expected
to set back Tunisia's tourism industry, which is better developed than almost
all of its neighbours.

A spokesman for the Cruise Lines International Association - the world's largest
cruise industry organisation - told the Daily Mail: "No CLIA member ships are
scheduled to call at Tunis in the foreseeable future.

"Cruise lines coordinate closely with national and international authorities
when visiting destinations around the globe to help ensure passenger safety."

The British passenger killed in the attack outside the Bardo Museum in Tunis was
mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, who was among at least 23 people killed by two
gunmen yesterday.

Mrs Adey, a solicitor from Shifnal, Shropshire, was visiting the archaeological
museum with her husband Robert, who was believed to be unhurt.

They were on an excursion organised by staff on the 3,714-passenger MSC
Splendida.

The statement continued: "Consequently, all MSC Cruises coaches on tour at the
time of the events were immediately ordered back to the port and all other
excursions and on the ground activities were immediately suspended."

Related articles Tunisia terror: Nine arrested as Islamic State 'claim
responsibility' for museum attack

Prime Minister David Cameron has said the Government would do all it could to
help Mrs Adey's family, adding: "We will not let terrorists undermine
democracy."

A close friend of Sally Adey, Julie Holden, had issued a statement on behalf of
Shakespeares Solicitors in Birmingham, where Robert Adey works.

"Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife and mother. The family are
devastated by her loss.

"They are also saddened for others who have lost people they love, and for those
who have been hurt."

David Crawshaw, the Adeys' neighbour for more than a decade, said of the couple:
"They were both solicitors and they have got a son and daughter - Harry and
Molly - who are in their early 20s.

"They were really the sort of neighbours you want, a fine, hard-working family,
and Sally will be missed by us."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Tributes to victim of terrorism attack

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 245 words


A "MUCH-loved" British woman was killed in a terrorist attack at a museum in
Tunisia which the Islamic State claims it carried out.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, was among at least 23 people killed on Wednesday
during the assault by two gunmen on the Bardo Museum in the capital Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a solicitor from Shropshire, was on an excursion with her husband
Robert at the time of the attack. He is believed to be unhurt. The couple were
on a holiday cruise aboard the MSC Splendida, which docked in Tunis early on
Wednesday.

IS issued a statement claiming responsibility for the killings yesterday.

The jihadi group called the attack a "blessed invasion of one of the dens of
infidels and vice in Muslim Tunisia".

It said the two attackers were only killed when they ran out of bullets and
promised further attacks. A statement issued on behalf of the Adey family by
Julia Holden, a partner at Shakespeares Solicitors in Birmingham where Mr Adey
works, said: "Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife and mother. The family
are devastated by her loss.

"They are also saddened for others who have lost people they love, and for those
who have been hurt."

David Crawshaw, who was the Adeys' neighbour in Shifnal, Shropshire, for more
than a decade, said: "They were both solicitors and they have got a son and
daughter, Harry and Molly, who are in their early 20s. They were really the sort
of neighbours you want, a fine, hard-working family, and Sally will be missed by
us."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Hull uni graduate killed in Tunisia terrorist attack

BYLINE: Kevin Shoesmith; Chief Reporter; k.shoesmith@hulldailymail.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:TRANSPORT/TRAVEL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 353  words


A MOTHER-OF-TWO who graduated from the University of Hull has been named as a
victim of the terrorist attack that left 23 dead in Tunisia.

Sally Adey was killed when gunmen opened fire on tourists arriving at the Tunis'
Bardo Museum, renowned for its collection of Roman mosaics, before chasing them
inside.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirmed yesterday that Mrs Adey was the
British woman murdered in Wednesday's attack, which Islamic State (IS) has
claimed responsibility for.

She is the second person with links to East Yorkshire to be murdered by IS
terrorists.

Holderness-born father-of-two David Haines, 44, was one of two British aid
workers beheaded by the group last year.

Mrs Adey's husband, Robert, survived the Tunis attack and is being given support
by the Foreign Office.

Last night, the couple's neighbours in the small Shropshire village of Shifnal
told the Mail how, like many of the other victims, the pair had been on a cruise
that made a sightseeing stop in the city.

David Crawshaw said: "Everyone is very upset.

"Sally was a lovely person. She was just a normal, happy and helpful person and
neighbour.

"My wife and I knew they were away on holiday. Our other neighbours told us they
were going on a cruise when it happened."

According to her Facebook page, solicitor Mrs Adey was a University of Hull
alumnus and specialised in commercial law.

She was also a director for Barber Farms Ltd in Scothern, a village close to
Lincoln, where she grew up.

According to reports, Mr and Mrs Adey, who have two grown-up children, Harry and
Molly, arrived in Tunis on the Splendida cruise ship on Wednesday.

It called into the port of La Goulette with 3,714 guests and 1,267 crew members
aboard.

Mrs Adey was among ten people from the ship who were killed in the attack.
Twelve were injured.

In a statement, MSC Cruises, which owns the ship, said: "MSC Cruises can confirm
that British passenger Sally Adey was tragically killed in [the] terrorist
atrocity in Tunis.

"Her husband is receiving support from the MSC Cruises customer care team in
Tunis and we will be offering all possible support to him and his family."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: University of Hull graduate Sally Adey was one of 23 people
killed in a terrorist attack at the Bardo Museum in Tunis, Tunisia, on
Wednesday.
'LOVELY PERSON': Sally Adey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 20, 2015 Friday 7:48 AM GMT

Sally Adey: First picture of British woman killed in 'brutal' Tunisia museum
terror attack by suspected Islamists;
Mrs Adey was 'trying to get a bit fitter before it's too late', according to an
online profile

BYLINE: Paul Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 770 words


A British woman who had been on a cruise ship holiday with her husband has been
named among the victims of the Tunisia museum terror attack.

Sally Adey, 57, a solicitor from Caynton, Shropshire, was among 23 people now
thought to have been killed during the assault on the Bardo Museum in the
capital, Tunis. Her husband Robert, 52, is thought to be unharmed.

The couple had arrived on the MSC Splendida cruise ship, which arrived at La
Goulette, Tunis, on Wednesday morning before passengers visited the museum,
where 18 tourists were shot dead. Around 90 Britons were on board the ship,
which began its seven-night trip from Genoa, Italy, last Saturday.

Mrs Adey, who has two children, described herself as a University of Hull
educated "mum with kids at uni" and a specialist in company and commercial law
although not currently working, in an online profile. Among her "loves" were
family, cooking, flowers, history and watching sport with her husband -
especially golf, rugby, cricket and motor racing.

She completed her self-description in the profile by saying she was "trying to
get a bit fitter before it's too late".

In pictures: Bardo Museum shooting

She added: "People say I'm sensible and well organised - that all sounds very
boring - sorry - in my fitness work I like boxing though - perhaps a bit more
interesting?"

The couple's children Molly, 18, and Harry, 23, were being comforted by friends
and family as they began to pay tribute. Neighbour Annette Crawshaw, 73, who
lives three doors down from the solicitor, expressed her "horror" at Mrs Adey's
death.

She said: "It is so tragic. Sally was on a cruise with her husband Rob when all
this happened. I can't imagine the pain he and his family are going through.

"They are a lovely family. I last spoke to Sally at Christmas time. She seemed
delighted to be spending time with her family. I've lived pretty much next door
to her and her family for ten years. There are only a few houses here so we all
look out for one another.

"I was absolutely shocked when I heard the news of her death. You never imagine
someone you live near would ever be mixed up in such horror."

Two Tunisians and tourists from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Australia, France,
Poland and Spain were also among those killed in the worst civilian attack in
Tunisia since the Arab Spring of 2009. Security forces killed two gunmen but are
still searching for accomplices.

Prime Minister David Cameron condemned the "appalling and brutal" attacks and
said the government was doing all it could to help Mrs Adey's family.

He said: "This is the latest example of extremist terror and we have to fight it
with everything we have: whether that is taking the poison out of young minds
here in Britain, whether it is working with intelligence, policing and security
services in other countries around the world, dealing decisively in the areas of
the world from which these problems come.

"Of course the extremists, the terrorists hate democracy. They hate the idea
that people should be able to choose their own government, but we mustn't let
democracy, freedom, the rule of law - things we hold dear, the people of Tunisia
hold dear - we must not let them be defeated or undermined by extremists and
terrorists."

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, who is in Nairobi, said British consular staff
were helping Mrs Adey's family. "My thoughts are with them at this very
difficult time," he added. "The Tunisian people are rightly proud of their
democratic transition. Cowardly attacks, such as the one we saw yesterday, must
not be allowed to undermine what they have achieved."

Officials in Tunisia say that more than 40 people, including tourists and
Tunisians, were injured.

MSC Cruises said in a statement: "Sally's husband is receiving support from the
MSC Cruises customer care team in Tunis and we will be offering all possible
support to him and his family. At this tragic time, the entire MSC Cruises
family wishes to extend its most sincere and heartfelt condolences to all those
who were affected by this tragic event and are suffering as a result, in
particular to the families and friends of those who lost their lives as well as
the injured ones."

The company said "regular stringent safety procedures" were set in motion when
they received news of the terror attack and that ship management "called for the
immediate cancellation of all on-going shore excursions and recall all buses and
their passengers on the ground back to the ship".

Read more: Country in shock after Tunis attackBritish woman among victims
'killed in terror attack'Foreign Office urges British travellers to avoid Bardo
Museum

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       March 20, 2015 Friday 12:12 PM GMT

Matthew David Yarnell: Remains of 9/11 victim identified 14 years after he died
in terror attack;
Matthew David Yarnell was one of 2,753 people believed to have been after two
hijacked passenger jets were flown into the Twin Towers

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 160 words


The remains of a victim of the 9/11 terror attacks on New York have finally been
identified 14 years after he died in the atrocity.

Matthew David Yarnell was one of 2,753 people believed to have been killed after
two hijacked passenger jets were flown into the Twin Towers on September 11th
2001.

The 26-year-old, from the neighboring state of New Jersey has finally been
identified.

The unseen 9/11

The remains of only 60% of those who died in the attack are thought to have been
found so far.

Mr Yarnell was identified through the use of new DNA tests on human remains
recovered from the ruins of the World Trade Center.

His identification brings the total number identified to 1,640, the Telegraph
reports.

There has been no identification of more than 1,000 missing people.

Tests are ongoing on the remains that have been found, with recent scientific
breakthroughs making this more effective.

The atrocity shocked the world, and led to the War on Terror.

9/11 Museum

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       March 20, 2015 Friday 12:49 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Government admits security failures at museum

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 340 words


The Tunisian government today admitted that massive security failures
contributed to the Bardo museum terrorist attack which left 23 dead including a
British tourist.

As the victim toll increased overnight, Prime Minister Habib Essid said: "There
were failures in the entire security system, at every stage, that's to say in
the protection of parliament and the museum, and the protection of tourists."

Shropshire solicitor Sally Jane Adey, 57, was among those gunned down by Islamic
State-linked terrorists in Tunis on Wednesday, along with five Japanese, four
Italians, two Colombians, two Spaniards and citizens from Australia, France and
Poland.

Three Tunisians were also killed. The two gunmen were shot dead by security
forces.

Following an emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers, Mr Essid said there
were "gaps and flaws".

"How could two men armed with Kalashnikovs get into the Tunisian Louvre without
hindrance?" he asked.

The terrorists attacked the Bardo because security at the Parliament next door
was so strong.

Mr Essid continued: "Why was the National Assembly secure, while the museum did
not even have a metal detector at the entrance?"

Yassine Abidi, one of the terrorists, was meant to be under surveillance, while
Mr Essid also pinpointed a lack of co-ordination between security agencies.

Facing the prospect of a collapse in tourism, President Beji Caid Essebsi has
ordered troops onto the streets for the first time since the 2011 Arab Spring
revolution.

Related stories

"The president has decided large cities will be secured by the army," his office
said in a statement.

Witnesses said the attack came without warning, as two buses bringing Italian
tourists to the museum stopped near  the main entrance.

The two gunmen, named by the authorities as Tunisians Abidi and Hatem
Khachnaoui, had been waiting in the forecourt. They opened fire on the buses,
then sprinted for the glass doors of the museum.

Ali Eddine Hamadi, the 22-year-old curator of the Christian relics department,
told how he hid tourists from the killers.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

Brit killed in Tunisia IS terror attack

BYLINE: By Press Association Reporters

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 464  words


A "much-loved" British woman was killed during a terrorist attack at an
archaeological museum in Tunisia which has been claimed by Islamic State.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, was among at least 23 people killed yesterday
during the assault by two gunmen on the Bardo Museum in the capital Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a solicitor from Shropshire, was on an excursion with her husband
Robert at the time of the attack. He is believed to be unharmed.

The couple were on a holiday cruise aboard the MSC Splendida, which docked at
the port in Tunis early on Wednesday.

Islamic State issued a statement claiming responsibility for the killings
yesterday.

The jihadi group called the attack a "blessed invasion of one of the dens of
infidels and vice in Muslim Tunisia".

It claimed that the two attackers were not killed until they ran out of bullets
and promised further attacks.

According to US-based SITE Intelligence Group, it said: "Wait for the glad
tidings of what will harm you, impure ones, for what you have seen today is the
first drop of the rain."

Julia Holden, a close friend of the Adey family and partner at Shakespeares
Solicitors in Birmingham where Mr Adey works, issued a statement on their
behalf.

She said: "Sally Adey was a much-loved daughter, wife and mother. The family are
devastated by her loss. They are also saddened for others who have lost people
they love, and for those who have been hurt."

David Crawshaw, who was the Adeys' neighbour in Shifnal, Shropshire, for more
than a decade, said of the couple: "They were both solicitors and they have got
a son and daughter - Harry and Molly - who are in their early 20s. They were
really the sort of neighbours you want, a fine, hard-working family, and Sally
will be missed by us."

Tunisia's health minister said 18 foreign tourists were killed during the
attack, including visitors from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Australia, France and
Poland.

Said Aidi told a press conference that five Tunisians also died, including the
two gunmen.

Nine people have been arrested in connection with the attack, Tunisian officials
said. Five of those arrested were directly connected to the operation, while
four others were linked to the attackers and were based outside the capital.

Moncef Hamdoun, an official with the Charles Nicolle hospital where many victims
were taken, said seven of the dead remain unidentified.

Tunisian authorities identified the two gunmen as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem
Khachnaoui.

Laabidi was known to Tunisian intelligence services, the country's prime
minister Habib Essid confirmed. UK holiday companies Thomson and First Choice
said they had cancelled excursions to Tunis "for the coming days". The companies
said its holidaymakers were in beach resorts rather than Tunis, with the
cancellations being made "as a precaution".

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

Iran offers medical aid to victims of Yemen terror attacks - official

LENGTH: 123 words


Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Arab and African Affairs Hoseyn
Amir-Abdollahian has expressed Iran's readiness for providing medical aid to the
people injured in the twin terror attacks in the Yemeni capital city of Sanaa,
official news agency IRNA reported on 20 March.

According to the report, Abdollahian condemned the terror attacks in two mosques
of Sanaa and said that Iran was ready to send a specialized medical team
comprising doctors and surgeons to Sanaa for providing treatment to the terror
victims.

Iranian team would visit Sanaa for providing medical treatment to the injured
only after Yemeni authorities give permission for it, Abdollahian added.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 2312gmt 20 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

Egypt condemns Yemen "terror" attacks

LENGTH: 111 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 20 March: Egypt has condemned the terror attacks that targeted two
mosques in the Yemeni capital Sanaa on Friday [20 March], leaving hundreds of
people dead and injured.

Foreign Ministry Spokesman Badr Abd-al-Ati offered the condolences of Egypt's
government and people to the victims' families, wishing the injured speedy
recovery.

The spokesman reiterated Egypt's stance towards terrorism that targets civilians
everywhere.

He called for unifying the regional and international efforts to combat
terrorism, underlining Egypt's support for the Yemenis.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 2041gmt 20 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

Egypt's mufti condemns "vile terror" attacks in Yemen

LENGTH: 101 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 20 March: Egypt's Mufti Shawqi Allam condemned terror attacks that
targeted two mosques in the Yemeni capital Sanaa on Friday [20 March].

In a statement, the mufti described the attacks as a "vile terror act" that
gives no consideration to the sanctity of houses of God.

Allam warned that such acts are aimed at inciting sectarian disputes amongst
citizens of the same homeland.

He repeated calls on the Yemeni people to watch out sectarian and sedition
tempters who seek to divide Yemen.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 2108gmt 21 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      March 21, 2015 Saturday 4:06 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack strikes at the heart of quiet Shropshire village;
The murder of Birmingham solicitor Sally Adey by Islamic State killers in Tunis
shocked Britain. Her home village of Caynton was shaken by the tragedy.

BYLINE: By Mike Lockley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 988 words


Behind the buttermilk wash cottage, a flag of St George - the 10ft pole planted
by patriotic neighbours - flutters defiantly.

This is England, sticky with jam and fortified by the rousing strains of
Jerusalem.

This is England, where skylarks hovering above teased and furrowed fields, not
stereos, provide the soundtrack.

This is a secret slice of Shropshire, a land so green and pleasant that P.G.
Wodehouse, creator of quintessential bumbling toff Bertie Wooster, briefly
called it home. This is a yesteryear England so seductive that rock stars and
football idols have hidden under its rural robe.

Duran Duran's Andy Taylor, sickened by showbusiness, retreated to this hidden,
cornfield cordened corner of the countryside. David and Victoria Beckham
reportedly viewed The Big House, but found the postcode too remote after Real
Madrid.

This is Caynton, a hamlet studded by mansions and chocolate box cottages where
the owl-eye warnings of Rural Watch posters decorate verges and walls.

And for the good folk of Caynton things may never be the same.

Four days ago they were plunged into the media spotlight.

Four days ago they lost one of their own. Unthinkably, to terrorism.

The press corps may have gone, but the shockwaves still shudder through this
idyllic, silent community.

The long glasses of Pimm's are laced with paranoia.

Victims do not come more innocent than retired solicitor Sally Adey, one of 21
people to be slaughtered by Islamic State assassins who targeted Tunisia's
National Bardo Museum.

The 57-year-old mother of two and husband Robert had arrived in Tunis as part of
a cruise holiday on the very morning of the barbaric attack. The dream break was
a spur-of-the-moment indulgence, say neighbours, booked only 10 days before.

The couple, who have two grown-up children, Molly and Harry, were among 12
passengers who went ashore after the MSC Splendida docked at La Goulette Port in
Tunis.

Despair left Caynton with the camera crews' metallic luggage, the excited press
posse camped on scrubland which fringes a neighbouring field.

Despair has been replaced by anger at the action of the jihadists, by "How dare
they?"

David Crawshaw, hosing down the family car, muttered: "Brain-dead scumbags".

The Adeys had been his neighbours for 12 years: a devoted couple who kept the
country scene at arm's length, preferring Birmingham where Sally worked for
Shakespeares solicitors.

Robert, aged 52, was a partner with the same company. He is currently receiving
support in Tunis from the customer care team at MSC Cruises, which ran the
Splendida tour.

"I didn't see a lot of them," shrugged Mr Crawshaw. "They were a nice, loving
family.

"The children had grown up here. They were never any bother or hassle. When the
had a 21st birthday party for the lad, she knocked on the door and said there
might be a bit of noise.

"We didn't dine or socialise with them, but they were helpful neighbours. We
kept an eye out for each other."

He paused before adding: "Who would've thought this could happen in a
three-house hamlet?"

Villagers are courteous, but weary of the press intrusion, with Mr Crawshaw
pointing out: "They were here until nine o'clock last night."

But when I arrived - the sun emerging bright-eyed from the hangover of Friday's
eclipse - one journalist from a national newspaper remained at the scene. "I'll
be sent here twice a day," he apologised, after again knocking the door.

Caynton's country innocence can be measured by its response to the media scrum.
To a man and woman, they believed hunt saboteurs had sparked the press frenzy.

"I thought it was about the hunt," said Barbara Powell, churchwarden at St
Andrew's in the neighbouring parish of Ryton. "I said 'I'm not going until you
tell me what you are doing'."

They did.

"We will be saying prayers," pledged Mrs Powell, "at least three times a week.
We are all deeply shocked.

"It's hard to grasp. It has become a dangerous world."

Bernard Barnett, a man who acted as advisor for 1970s TV show The Golden Shot
and even built the crossbows used, emerged from his luxurious home and said: "I
thought the TV people were down here because of the fox hunting. We've had it
before.

"I feel for the kids'," he sighed.

The news is too grim to be diagnosed as gossip in local pub, the Dartmouth Arms.

It has been carried on whispers from the bar to the lounge, from the lounge to
the tables outside.

"A case of the wrong place, wrong time," said Mine Hoat Nick Lyons. "Would you
go to Sharm El Sheikh? I wouldn't. You can never be sure."

The weak wind spread the news across the fields that run like stitches between
the neighbouring parishes of Beckbury, Burnhill Green and Ryton. It reached
solicitor Terry Lipscombe while on a country walk - and he felt its chill more
than most.

Sally was his assistant for 15 years, first at Telford's Manby Steward, then at
Shakespeares.

The 69-year-old, preparing to take a condolence card to the empty cottage when
we met, said: "She was a super girl. She had a superb sense of humour and was
great fun - and she was an extremely good solicitor.

"This is ghastly, almost beyond reality. One cannot imagine what Robert is going
through. They were extremely close."

On her internet profile, Sally described herself as: "Short and tubbier than I'd
like to be."

She listed her loves as: "Family, cooking, flowers, history, watching sport with
my husband - golf, rugby, cricket, motor racing - and weekends away with
friends".

Those humorous soundbites have not been lost on Caynton's residents.

They are the words of contented Middle England motherhood: a breed not meant to
die from barbaric terrorists' bullets.

Sally has, and her death has forever changed the mindset of locals. Her death
has moved David Cameron, too.

He has vowed: "We will do everything we can to help the family. We will not let
terrorists undermine democracy."

"That's where we are today," said one resident. "No-one is safe, nowhere is
safe. Nowhere is free of it."

Not even Caynton.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cruise lines abandon Tunis in wake of terror attack;
Travelnews

BYLINE: Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 344 words


Cruise ships have taken Tunis off their itineraries after a British passenger
was one of at least 20 foreign tourists killed in a terror attack in Tunisia's
national museum.

Two cruise ships, the MSC Splendida and the Costa Fascinosa, were in port close
to Tunis on Wednesday when Sally Adey, 57, from Shropshire, was killed.

She was on an MSC excursion to the Bardo Museum, which houses one of the world's
best collections of Roman mosaics, when it was attacked by two gunmen.

Twelve MSC passengers and five Costa passengers are believed to have been
killed.

A Costa spokesman said alternatives to Tunis would be found for Costa Fortuna,
Costa Favolosa and Costa neoRiviera.

MSC said it is no longer sailing to Tunis and the Splendida will instead be
calling in at Valletta, in Malta. MSC Fantasia was due to travel there in
summer, but will instead overnight in Palma, Majorca, while MSC Preziosa will
head to Cagliari, Sardinia, in place of Tunis.

Neal Baldwin, a spokesman for MSC, said the ship's management cancelled shore
excursions, and recalled buses and passengers as soon as news of the attack
broke.

Telegraph Travel's cruise expert Jane Archer said the ships would have visited
Tunis several times a week this summer and their loss will be felt by hundreds
of local people who make a living from tourism.

"It is easy for the cruise lines to switch to other interesting destinations,"
she said, "and I doubt passengers will miss the Tunis stop particularly. It will
take a long time for the country to convince people it is safe."

Tourism in Tunisia has enjoyed a resurgence in recent years, but the Association
of Independent British Tour Operators (AITO) said that only a few people had
booked to travel in the near future. None, however, had asked to cancel.

"Much will depend on whether it turns out to be an isolated event or a worrying
new area of terrorism," said Derek Moore, AITO chairman.

Kirker Holidays said that bookings on its tours to the country were already low,
with no one booked on its cultural short breaks in Tunisia until autumn.

Natalie Paris

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Targeted: the Bardo MuseumThe Reindeer King's Cup Championships is
being held in Inari, Finland, next weekend. The climax of the competition is the
Championship Race on Sunday, a thrilling 2,000m event with reindeer pulling
drivers on skis around a snow-covered track. Reindeer need to be at their peak
physical fitness to reach the top speeds of 50mph.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 March 21, 2015
                                 First Edition

Crowds rally after terror attack;
TUNISIA

BYLINE: Yasmine Ryan in tunis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 141 words


Tunisians rallied together yesterday to celebrate the nation's Independence Day
- the 59th since its separation from France - with thousands gathering on the
main Avenue Habib Bourguiba in the heart of the capital after an Islamist
massacre threatened to throw the fledgling democracy into dissaray.

The show of unity came as more details emerged about the two men who killed 20
foreign tourists at Tunisia's Bardo Museum. Yassine Laabidi and Hatem
Khachnaoui, who were both killed in the attack, travelled to Libya in December
for weapons training, authorities said. Laabidi was from the working-class Tunis
suburb of Ibn Khaldun, and Khachnaoui from the western town of Sbeitla.

The EU pledged to step up help for Tunisia yesterday. "Events in the southern
Mediterranean are dangerous for Europe," the European Council President, Donald
Tusk, said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 21, 2015 Saturday 10:48 PM GMT

Police target six key IRA suspects;
Detectives say "comfort letters" handed to terrorists behind some of Britain's
worst attacks will not protect them from prosecution as they launch a major new
investigation

BYLINE: Tim Ross, Nicola Harley and Robert Mendick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1085 words


Six IRA terror suspects thought to be behind some of the worst atrocities
committed on mainland Britain are facing major new police investigations, the
Telegraph can disclose.

The alleged terrorists had all been told that they would not face arrest because
they had received so-called "comfort letters" under a controversial peace deal
drawn up by Tony Blair.

The existence of the letters only emerged last year following the collapse of
the trial of John Downey, who was charged with murdering four soldiers in the
Hyde Park bombing. But a leaked police document, obtained by the Telegraph,
shows that detectives now believe these "comfort letters" do not protect
suspects from prosecution.

The document discloses that police in Northern Ireland have identified six
individuals suspected of carrying out terrorist attacks, which are believed to
have taken place both in The Province and in England.

The police document does not give details of the six cases.

But it raises the possibility that high profile criminal trials over some of the
bloodiest and most notorious attacks in the history of the Troubles could
follow.


     ·    IRA comfort letters likely to contain more errors
     ·    Tony Blair: 'On The Run' letters to IRA members vital for Northern
          Ireland peace
     ·    Tony Blair and the IRA comfort letters - the issues


It is understood that "comfort letters" were given to suspects in the Harrods
car bomb in 1983, which killed six and injured 90, and the Remembrance Day
bombing in Enniskillen in 1987.

Other atrocities under investigation could include the Regent's Park bombing, in
which seven military bandsmen were killed, on the same day as the Hyde Park
bombing in 1982, and the 1984 Brighton bomb, which targeted the Grand Hotel
where Margaret Thatcher's Cabinet members were staying, killing five people and
injuring 34.

The dramatic development comes on the eve of a major new report following a
year-long parliamentary inquiry into the "comfort letters" scheme.

Fifteen years ago, Mr Blair reached a secretive deal with Gerry Adams, the Sinn
Fein leader, under which 200 fugitives were sent letters from the British
government giving them assurances that they would not face arrest if they
returned to the UK.

The former Labour prime minister has insisted that the scheme was fundamental to
the success of the Northern Ireland peace process, which he said would have
collapsed without it. The report from MPs on the Northern Ireland affairs select
committee is expected to contain strong criticisms of how Mr Blair's government
handled IRA fugitives.

A source close to the inquiry said the "comfort letters" scheme was "chaotic"
and "reckless to the point of unlawful".

The inquiry was launched after the collapse of the criminal case against Mr
Downey, who was accused of the Hyde Park bombing.

He denied killing four soldiers in the 1982 bombing and his trial collapsed last
year after he produced a letter from the Northern Ireland Office telling him he
was not wanted. The judge threw out the prosecution, ruling that it was an abuse
of process for Mr Downey to have been lured back to the UK by the government's
letter before being charged.

Since the collapse of the Downey trial, it has been widely believed that
fugitives who had been sent "comfort letters" as part of the Northern Ireland
peace process could never be prosecuted.

However, the leaked police document shows that detectives now believe this is
not the case.

On Friday, the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) wrote to MPs on the
Northern Ireland affairs select committee, to disclose details of the major new
phase in its inquiries into the "on the run" (OTR) cases.

In the letter, seen by the Telegraph, Will Kerr, the Assistant Chief Constable,
announced that PSNI now believed there to be no barrier to prosecuting OTR
suspects who had been sent "comfort letters" - because Coalition Government
ministers have recently said the letters had no legal force.

"Whilst prosecutorial challenges may still lie ahead, the obstacles to
investigating, arresting and charging suspects appear to have been removed," Mr
Kerr said.


     ·    Victims kept in dark over IRA comfort letters - report
     ·    IRA comfort letters could fuel more killings, warns father of terror
          victim


The PSNI will "prioritise" re-examining the cases of 36 OTRs whose status was
changed from "wanted" to "not wanted" during the scheme run by Mr Blair's
government under which Mr Downey was mistakenly given a letter of assurance.

It is not clear whether any of these 36 individuals were wrongly told they were
not wanted, but police want to review the cases thoroughly to establish the
truth.

However, far more concerning will be the disclosure that officers have found
"six additional individuals whose circumstances have been identified as similar
to the Downey case".

A source close to the inquiry said that these individuals were clearly wanted in
connection with IRA attacks in England and Northern Ireland and would form the
basis for potential criminal inquiries.

For the past 12 months, MPs on the Northern Ireland affairs select committee
have been investigating the OTR scheme. In a report to be published on Tuesday,
the committee is expected to raise questions over whether the policy of sending
"comfort letters" to IRA suspects during Mr Blair's final months in office was
lawful. The government accelerated its work to process the OTR cases after he
assured Mr Adams that he wanted to resolve the cases before he left Number 10.

Mr Blair has insisted that only those individuals who were genuinely not wanted
by police, and were therefore not going to face trial, were supposed to have
received OTRs. However, the select committee report is also expected to
criticise the way OTRs were processed at a faster pace during Mr Blair's final
months. On Dec 28, 2006, in a confidential letter, Mr Blair told Mr Adams that
the government was working on putting in place mechanisms to resolve outstanding
OTR cases, including "expediting the existing administrative procedures".

In February 2007, the PSNI began "Operation Rapid", the code name for a review
of wanted suspects. Mr Downey received his "comfort letter" in July 2007, less
than a month after Mr Blair handed over his leadership to Gordon Brown.

In a statement, the PSNI said it could not give further details of the six new
cases. Mr Kerr said: "The review of these cases is an ongoing process. This does
involve active criminal investigations and it would therefore be inappropriate
to comment further at this stage."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 22, 2015 Sunday

US evacuates staff from Yemen following Sanaa terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 335 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 22 March

(Al-Manar TV) -Local Editor

The United States said it had evacuated all its staff from Yemen, whose resigned
president has appealed for "urgent intervention" by the UN Security Council.

"Due to the deteriorating security situation in Yemen, the US government has
temporarily relocated its remaining personnel out of Yemen," State Department
spokesman Jeff Rathke said in a statement.

The evacuation comes after several suicide bombings claimed by the so-called
'Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant' (ISIL) takfiri group killed 142
worshippers in Sanaa on Friday.

The UN Security Council is to hold an emergency meeting Sunday following appeal
by incumbent President Abed Rabbu Mansour Hadi.

In his letter to the Council, Hadi denounced "the criminal acts," saying they
"not only threaten peace in Yemen but the regional and international peace and
security."

"I urge for your urgent intervention in all available means to stop this
aggression that is aimed at undermining the legitimate authority, the
fragmentation of Yemen and its peace and stability," Hadi wrote.

Yemen has been torn by unrest since ex-President Ali Abdullah Saleh stepped down
in early 2012 after a year-long popular uprising against him, with powerful
armed groups sidelining the government since.

Washington late Friday pulled out troops from the Al-Anad airbase in southern
Yemen amid fighting involving Al-Qa'idah militants nearby which left at least 29
dead.

Ansarullah group, also dubbed as Huthis, has liberated the capital Sanaa from
Al-Qa'ida operatives last September, and worked to restore security and
stability in the attack-hit areas.

The powerful group issued the Constitutional Declaration, in a bid to avoid the
power vacuum in the country following the resignation of Hadi and his prime
minister.

The Huthis vowed to take further "revolutionary steps" following Friday's
blasts.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1610 gmt 22 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 22, 2015 Sunday 11:35 AM GMT

Footage of Tunisia terror attack shows gunmen bumping into visitor at entrance -
before letting him go;
Recording shows attackers point their guns at the young man, then allow him to
walk off

BYLINE: Tom Brooks-Pollock

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 782 words


Footage of the Tunisian terrorist attack that killed 20 foreign tourists at a
museum shows a visitor came face-to-face with the gunmen - before being allowed
to walk off.

The Tunisian Government released the recording of two gunmen as they carried out
the attack on the Bardo museum, in the capital Tunis, on Wednesday.

The young man, wearing a backpack, is seen walking down stairs at the entrance,
before encountering the attackers. The gunmen - at least one of whom was wearing
an explosive suicide belts - point their guns at him before allowing him to walk
away and then walking up the stairs.

Tunisian authorities released the footage on Saturday after announcing the
arrest of more than 20 suspects as part of a crackdown on militants following
the attack, in which the two gunmen died.

Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi said in a live TV interview that a third
attacker is still on the run.

Mr Caid Essebsi said the attack involved "three aggressors" and the third man
escaped. He was speaking live with French network iTele from inside the museum,
its elaborate tilework visible behind him.

Post by Ministère de l'Intérieur - Tunisie.

The two attackers who died, named as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, were
killed in a gunfight with security forces inside the building.

Hundreds of people gathered for a mass in the cathedral in Tunis on Saturday,
lighting candles to remember the victims, who also included three Tunisians, in
a ceremony attended by government ministers.

Outside, there was a heavy police presence along the central Habib Bourguiba
boulevard. But Tunis was calm, with a music festival going ahead in the city
centre.

Wednesday's assault, the deadliest involving foreigners in Tunisia since a 2002
suicide bombing on the island of Djerba, came at a fragile moment for a country
just emerging to full democracy after a popular uprising four years ago.

The government said the two gunmen had trained in jihadi camps in Libya before
the attack at the Bardo museum inside the heavily secured Tunisian parliament
compound. Japanese, French, Polish, Italian and Colombian visitors - as well as
one Briton, Sally Adey, 57 -  were among the victims.

Authorities have arrested more than 20 suspected militants, including 10
believed to be directly involved in the Bardo attack, Interior Ministry
spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui said.

READ MORE: Tunis museum attackers wore belts packed with explosivesTunisia
shooting: Nine arrested over terror attack that killed 21 - and Briton Sally
Adey

"There is a large-scale campaign against the extremists," he said. The ministry
released a photograph of another suspect and asked Tunisians to help with
information.

The government plans to deploy the army to major cities to improve security
following the shootings.

Islamic State militants have claimed responsibility for the attack, but social
media accounts tied to an al Qaeda-affiliated group in Tunisia have also
published purported details of the operation.

Whoever was responsible, the Bardo attack illustrates how Islamist militants are
turning their attention to North Africa. A particular focus is neighbouring
Libya, where two rival governments are battling for control, allowing Islamic
State to gain a foothold.

The United States is increasingly worried about the growing presence of Islamic
State militants in Libya.

In an interview with Paris Match magazine, Tunisian President Beji Caid Essebsi
said there were as many as 10,000 young Tunisian jihadists in all.

"Among the often desperate young unemployed, the call to jihadism has worked,"
he said.

"Four thousand Tunisians have joined jihad, in Syria, Libya and elsewhere, and
some 500 have already come back here, where they pose a threat. That is not to
mention the five or six thousand others we have succeeded in preventing from
leaving."

U.S. officials said that because of its strategic position, Libya has become a
springboard for would-be fighters from across North Africa wanting to link up
with Islamic State.

The militant group controls large swathes of Iraq and Syria, and claimed
responsibility for suicide bombings at two mosques that killed at least 137
people in the capital of Yemen on Friday.

Four years after a popular revolt toppled autocrat Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali,
Tunisia has completed its transition to democracy with free elections, a new
constitution and compromise politics between secular and Islamist parties.

But the attack threatens to hit the economy of a country that is heavily reliant
on drawing foreign visitors to its beach resorts and desert treks. Authorities
have tightened security at hotels and tourist spots.

Additional reporting by Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 22, 2015 Sunday

TERROR ATTACK HUSBAND SET TO COME HOME

LENGTH: 106 words


THE husband of the British victim of the Tunisian terrorist attack was last
night preparing to return to England with her body.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, was among 21 shot dead in the Bardo Museum in
Tunis when two Islamic State-trained gunmen opened fire.

The solicitor s 52-year-old husband, Robert Adey, has been receiving support
from the British Consulate before he returns to their home near Wolverhampton.

Yesterday more arrests were made in the wake of the attack.More than 20
suspected radicals have now been taken into custody. The two gunmen, Tunisians
Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, were trained in neighbouring Libya.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       March 22, 2015 Sunday 11:36 PM GMT

Six IRA terror suspects with ''comfort letters'' which they believed protected
them from arrest investigated;
The alleged terrorists all carried out attacks on mainland Britain

BYLINE: By David Collins

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 741 words


Six IRA terror suspects who thought they were safe under a controversial
agreement with Tony Blair are now being investigated by counter-terror police,
it has emerged.

The alleged terrorists, who all carried out attacks on mainland Britain, were
told that they would not face arrest because they had received so-called
"comfort letters".

Tony Blair negotiated a deal with Sinn Fein in which on-the-run terror suspects
not wanted by police received "comfort letters".

Their existence only emerged last year following the collapse of the trial of
John Downey, who was charged with murdering four soldiers in the Hyde Park
bombing.

The case against Mr Downey was thrown out after he produced a letter from the
Government telling him he was no longer wanted and was free to travel to the UK.

In the fall-out from the trail's collapse, Government ministers launched an
inquiry into the letters - and insisted they were not "get out of jail free
cards" for terrorists.

Following the Government's intervention detectives now believe these "comfort
letters" do not protect suspects from prosecution, it was reported.

The Police Service of Northern Ireland wrote to MPs on the Northern Ireland
affairs select committee last week, revealing the major new phase in its
inquiries into the "on the run" cases.

In the letter, Will Kerr, the Assistant Chief Constable, said the PSNI did not
believe there was any barrier to prosecuting suspects who had been sent "comfort
letters".

Coalition Government ministers have recently said the letters had no legal
force.

Mr Kerr said: "Whilst prosecutorial challenges may still lie ahead, the
obstacles to investigating, arresting and charging suspects appear to have been
removed."

The PSNI will "prioritise" re-examining the cases of 36 "on the runs" whose
status was changed from wanted to not wanted during the scheme run by Mr Blair's
government.

It is understood that "comfort letters" were given to suspects in the Harrods
car bomb in 1983, which killed six and injured 90, and the Remembrance Day
bombing in Enniskillen in 1987.

Other atrocities under investigation could include the Regent's Park bombing, in
which seven military bandsmen were killed, on the same day as the Hyde Park
bombing in 1982, and the 1984 Brighton bomb, which targeted the Grand Hotel
where Margaret Thatcher's Cabinet members were staying, killing five people and
injuring 34.

It comes as MPs prepare to publish a year-long inquiry into the "comfort
letters" scheme.

As part of the peace deal bringing an end to the conflict in Northern Ireland,
IRA terrorists serving prison terms were let out of prison early.

But this left the problem of fugitive terror suspects who had never faced trial.

In a controversial agreement reached between Mr Blair and Sinn Fein, police
checks would be carried out and those who were no longer wanted would be sent a
letter informing them of that fact.

Mr Blair has insisted the scheme was not secret, even though leading Northern
Ireland politicians, including Lord Trimble, First Minister of Northern Ireland
from 1998 to 2002, and senior police chiefs in the province were unaware of it.

For the past 12 months, MPs on the Northern Ireland affairs select committee
have been investigating the scheme.

In a report to be published on Tuesday, the committee is expected to raise
questions over whether the policy of sending "comfort letters" to IRA suspects
during Mr Blair's final months in office was lawful.

Mr Blair has insisted the Northern Ireland peace process would have collapsed
without the controversial scheme giving immunity from prosecution to republican
terror suspects - the so-called "on the runs".

The scheme, set up by the Labour government in 1999, assured more than 200
paramilitary fighters that they were no longer being hunted by the police.

Some 95 recipients of the so-called "comfort letters" were linked to almost 300
murders.

Under hostile questioning from the Commons Northern Ireland affairs committee,
Mr Blair refused to apologise for setting up a process which victims said
effectively handed the recipients 'get out of jail free' cards.

He told MPs: "If I had been saying we are not dealing with this in any way at
all... I think it is likely that the peace process would have collapsed.

"I wanted to put the death, destruction, terrorism and misery to an end. I
couldn't bring back those people who had died during the Troubles but I was
trying to make sure there would not be further victims."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       March 22, 2015 Sunday 9:53 AM GMT

Tunisia Bardo museum attack: CCTV shows moment tourist bumps into gunmen - and
is allowed to walk free;
Footage shows lucky man's brief encounter moments before 25 are slaughtered in
terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Chris Hewett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 227 words


Chilling CCTV footage shows the moment an unassuming tourist bumps into two
armed terrorists moments before they unleash a murderous rampage at a museum in
Tunisia.

The footage emerged as the country's president Beji Caid Essebsi announced that
a third gunman was on the run in a live television interview on Sunday morning.

The video of the man's brush with death was released by the country's interior
ministry after the gunmen slaughtered 25 people at the Bardo museum in the
capital Tunis on Wednesday.

In the clip, the pair initially point their guns at the startled passer-by,
before letting him go and continuing on their journey to carry out the atrocity.

In the video, the two men, carrying assault rifles and bags, are seen walking
calmly through the museum before the attack.

They went on to unleash a hail of bullets in the siege before being shot dead in
a gun battle with security services.

Twenty foreigners were among those killed, including British, Japanese, French,
Italian and Colombian tourists.

British woman Sally Adey, 57, was gunned down in front of her husband Robert as
the couple visited the museum on a last minute cruise holiday.

Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the attack and the men are said to
have been trained in Libya, in an area controlled by the extremist organisation.

Authorities have so far made more than 20 arrests.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Scottish Mail on Sunday

                                 March 22, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror attack husband set to come home

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 106 words


THE husband of the British victim of the Tunisian terrorist attack was last
night preparing to return to England with her body.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, was among 21 shot dead in the Bardo Museum in
Tunis when two Islamic State-trained gunmen opened fire.

The solicitor's 52-year-old husband, Robert Adey, has been receiving support
from the British Consulate before he returns to their home near Wolverhampton.

Yesterday more arrests were made in the wake of the attack. More than 20
suspected radicals have now been taken into custody. The two gunmen, Tunisians
Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, were trained in neighbouring Libya.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLSscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       March 22, 2015 Sunday 02:58 AM GMT

Tunis Museum Terror Attack: CCTV Of Gunmen

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 311 words



HIGHLIGHT: Footage showing a militant attack carried out by two gunmen on a
museum in Tunisia has been released by the country's interior ministry.


  It shows the armed men walking through the Bardo national museum in the
capital Tunis before they opened fire on tourists.

The government also released two still images of the men, named as Tunisians
Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui.

It is claimed they had trained in camps in Libya, and the Tunisian government
say they have arrested more than 20 suspected militants following the attack.

Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid said Laabidi had been flagged to
intelligence services, although not for "anything special".

Tunisian President Beji Caid Essebsi admitted "failures" helped facilitate the
deadly attack.

"There were failures" which meant that "the police and intelligence were not
systematic enough to ensure the safety of the museum", he told the Paris Match
magazine.

A senior Tunisian politician said the guards supposed to be protecting the
museum and the nearby parliament were having coffee at the time of the assault.

"I found out there were only four policemen on security duty around the
parliament (compound), two of whom were at the cafe. The third was having a
snack and the fourth hadn't turned up," deputy speaker Abdelfattah Mourou said.

Islamic State later released an online audio recording in which it claimed
responsibility for the shooting last Wednesday.

Witnesses said the gunmen opened fire on tourists arriving at the museum before
chasing them inside.

The two attackers were among the 23 people left dead, which included tourists
from Japan, Italy, Colombia, Australia, France and Poland.

A "much-loved" British mother-of-two was also among the victims.

Newly retired Sally Adey, 57, was on holiday with her husband Robert, who was
unharmed in the attack.

The Adeys, both solicitors from Shropshire, had been on the cruise ship MSC
Splendida, which docked at the port in Tunis early on Wednesday.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 22, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US backs out of Yemen;
Special forces quit base as terrorist attacks highlight latest civil war to grip
the Middle East

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 439 words


AMERICA WITHDREW its remaining 100 special forces troops from Yemen yesterday,
in a sign of the rapid unravelling of a country that on Friday was hit by one of
its worst terrorist attacks.

The US soldiers left their base near Al-Houta, after al-Qaeda seized the city.

The commandos, including Green Berets and Navy Seals, had been training Yemeni
military forces in counterterrorism operations, but the Americans have not been
involved in direct ground combat manoeuvres against militants.

Sources told NBC News that the US Special Operations Forces were based in remote
areas of Yemen and considered relatively secure from enemy threats. But one
source said that with this week's deadly surge in sectarian violence, evacuating
American commandos made sense.

"The threat is too high," the source said. "Why take the risk?"

Washington closed its embassy on February 11, followed a day later by Britain
and France. The state department said the decision had been made because of "the
uncertain security situation in Sana'a."

Yemen has been hurtling towards civil war since last year, when the Houthis, who
belong to a sect derived from Shia Islam, advanced from their northern
heartland, taking over the capital Sana'a and nine of the country's 21 provinces
over the past six months, and raising fears of a civil war. Friday's triple bomb
blasts, which killed 150 and injured 351, were claimed by a splinter group of
fighters from Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil), marking a worrying
escalation in the conflict between the Shia Houthis and the Sunni forces of Isil
and al-Qaeda.

Yesterday, the country's embattled president, Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi, who fled
Sana'a last month, pledged to take on the Houthis and remove Iranian influence
in the country. He accused the Houthis of importing Tehran's ideology.

He also addressed the leader of the rebels, Abdel-Malik al-Houthi, telling him
to stop trying to trick the Yemeni people.

In a letter to relations of the victims of the mosque bombings, Mr Hadi
condemned the attacks as "terrorist, criminal and cowardly". "Such heinous
attacks could only be done by the enemies of life," who want to drag Yemen into
"chaos, violence and internal fighting," he said.

"Shia extremism, represented by the armed Houthi militia, and Sunni extremism,
represented by al-Qaeda, are two sides of the same coin, who do not wish good
and stability for Yemen and its people." Last week, it was announced by the
Houthi-run news agency that Iran had signed a deal to supply Yemen with crude
oil for a year and to build a new power plant.

Saudi Arabia, Iran's archrival in the Gulf, is a strong backer of Mr Hadi.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Locals and members of the Houthi militia examine the scene of one of
Friday's suicide bomb attacks on Shia mosques in Sana'a. Above, a boy wounded in
the blasts recovers in hospital, and the aftermath inside one of the
mosquesYAHYA ARHAB/EPA; MOHAMED AL-SAYAGHI; XINHUA/LANDOV/BARCROFT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2015 Monday

Some 22 civilians killed in terrorist attacks in Syria's Daraa, Idlib

LENGTH: 314 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

The terrorist groups Jabhat al-Nusrah [Al-Nusrah Front] and Al-Muthana Movement
on Sunday [22 March] shelled the city of Bosra al-Cham in Daraa province,
claiming the lives of 15 civilians and damaging vital facilities and
infrastructure in the city.

Local sources told SANA's correspondent that locals and defence groups repelled
several attacks from north, south, and west of the city, killing and injuring
many terrorists. Terrorists' pages on social networking sites acknowledged the
death of terrorists Yahya Muhammad al-Sabbagh, Anas Ibrahaim Sa'd-al-Din,
Muhanna al-Sidi, Ali Ghazi al-Jabbawi, and Muhammad Ahmad al-Radi in these
clashes.

The sources said that terrorists targeted Bosra citadel with a number of
makeshift explosive shells, and that terrorists were attempting to cut off the
supply route that more than 25,000 locals depend on to procure their needs via
the town of Barad, and that the terrorists also targeted communciaitons centres
in an attempt to isolate the town.

Jabhat al-Nusra and other Al-Qa'idah-affiliated terrorist groups are besieging
the western part of the city and some of its northern part, and they fire
explosive shells on residential areas repeatedly.

In Idleb city, 7 civilians were killed in terrorist rocket and mortar attacks
which targeted residential areas.

A source at the Idleb Police Command said that the shells targeted the areas of
Al-Sheikh Talat, Al-Thalatheen Street, and the Teachers' Housings, claiming 7
lives, injuring 20, and causing material damage to public and private
properties.

Director of Idleb Health Department Obaidah Qati'a said that the national polio
vaccination campaign for children under five has been postponed in Idleb city
until March 26 due to the terrorist attack.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1945 gmt 22 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2015 Monday

Italy steps up security measures in wake of Tunis terror attack

LENGTH: 601 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 20 March

[Unattributed report: "From the Expo to the Jubilee, the Measures Deployed To
Defend Tourists"]

Rome - A photo of Francesco Caldara [one of the Italian victims of the Tunis
attack] drawn through with a red cross. "We have crushed the Italian Crusader":
The meaning of this post is not being underestimated, because it refers directly
to Italy, one way or another.

The alert throughout the country remains very high. And just yesterday the
Viminale [Interior Ministry] issued a nationwide memorandum to all the forces of
law and order for watchfulness to be raised further, following the events in
Tunis. In Rome, Milan, and in cities of art historical importance. In two weeks
time -but, in view of the situation, the decision could be brought forward - 500
soldiers (now in training) will be stationed in the capital. They are to be used
together with the forces of law and order in monitoring the more than 400
targets on the list of sensitive targets. Including museums, monuments, and
archeological complexes. For that matter, in Tunisia tourism was targeted, and
the possibility of the same thing happening over here is not being ruled out.
All the more so given that, in the coming months, two events - Expo 2015 in
Milan, and the extraordinary Jubilee in Rome, preceded in a month's time by the
display of the Holy Shroud in Turin - will attract millions of people.

That is why a remodulation of the use of law-enforcement personnel is currently
also being looked into. In Milan, for example, many officers will be sent for
the Expo, combined with other police districts, because temporary transfer
requests are apparently not sufficient. They will be used both for surveillance
at stations and airports, and to maintain a security presence at the Fair.

A large number of police officers belonging to the Flying Squad will leave Rome,
on the occasion of the event announced for May 1 against the inauguration of the
Expo - with the participation of many left-wing protest groups from all over
Europe. At the end of October, with the end of the event in Milan, it is thought
that the same operation will be mounted for the Jubilee, that begins on December
8.

At present, these manoeuvres are only paper manoeuvres, and are subjected to
changes. They are in addition to investigations begun by several public
prosecutors' offices, including the Rome office, into suspected members of
jihadist cells in Italy, and their links with Italian "combatants" (around 60,
according to the chief of police, Alessandro Pansa, out of 3,000 Europeans, some
of whom have already returned home from Syria), or with the 400 lone wolves who,
according to investigators, represent a danger for contacts from here with the
world of Islamic extremism.

The situation is complex, delicate, and continually evolving. Despite the lack
of concrete threats on Italian soil, as Interior Minister Angelino Alfano
himself has stressed several times, what continues to happen outside Italy's
borders, but a few hundred kilometres away from it - with deaths and injuries
among our fellow nationals in terrorist attacks, and the endless influx of
arrivals of refugees on the coast - represents a constant source of concern. As
well as the fact that, for the last couple of months, with the escalation of the
Libyan crisis, the threats and slogans of ISIL and affiliated groups have been
more and more frequent. Against Rome, and against the "Italy of the Crusades."

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 20 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 23, 2015 Monday 4:36 PM GMT

Radical Islamist group al-Muhajiroun linked to half of British terror attacks in
past 20 years;
Al-Muhajiroun has been linked to around half of terror attacks planned or
carried out at home and abroad

BYLINE: Loulla-Mae Eleftheriou-Smith

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 421 words


The 7/7 attacks, the murder of fusilier Lee Rigby, the plot to blow up planes
with liquid bombs and the plot to blow up the Ministry of Sound nightclub are
among the 23 planned terrorist attacks that have been linked to one single
radical group operating in the UK  over the past two decades: al Muhajiroun.

According to a new book by terrorism expert Raffaello Pantucci, al Muhajiroun, a
banned network in the UK, has been linked to a number of plots and attacks
carried out both in Britain and abroad since 2000.

The book, entitled We love death as you love life - which Pantucci said is a
"catchphrase" used by many of the attackers in their propaganda - claims that 23
out of 51 of these terror plots either carried out or foiled by police in the UK
and abroad have been linked to al-Muhajiroun.

Terror plots foiled by British security since 7/7 attack

One of the first incidences detailed is that of Mohammed Bilal, considered to be
Britain's first suicide bomber, who blew himself up in Kashmir on Christmas Day
in 2000, killing nine people, and who al-Muhajiroun's founder Omar Bakri
Muhammad said had been one of his students.

Pantucci, the director of international security studies at the Royal United
Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies (RUSI), then details the
links that other major plots have had to the group.

In the foiled plot to attack the Ministry of Sound nightclub and the Bluewater
shopping centre in 2004, the four who were jailed had been al-Muhajiroun
members.

In the 7/7 London bombings, which killed 52 people, two of the terrorists
responsible had met Omar Khyam, a supporter of al-Muhijaroun, and both of Lee
Rigby's killers had attended events held by the group.

Read more: Al Muhajiroun's return presents test for terror lawsRadical preacher
Anjem Choudary held over terrorist groupWoolwich: Suspect was known to banned
Islamist group and MI5

Founded in 1983 by Islamist Omar Bakri Muhammad, al-Muhajiroun became notorious
for campaigning for the implementation of sharia in Britain and for calling the
9/11 hijackers the "Magnificent 19". Its co-founder, the radical activist Anjem
Choudary, was found to have led a network of groups that had become the "single
biggest gateway to terrorism in recent British history" in 2013.

The group itself was banned in the UK in 2010 but has carried on under a number
of guises in order to avoid prosecution. The Henry Jackson Society think tank
claimed two years ago that one in five Islam-linked terrorists in the UK had
links to the group.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 23, 2015 Monday 3:12 PM GMT

British Islamic State fighter 'calls for Muslims to kill Theresa May';
Messages on an account with the name Abu Abdullah Britani also call for other
politicians to be targeted in Lee Rigby-style terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Agency

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


A British Islamic State fighter has called on Muslims in the UK to "hunt down"
and "kill" Theresa May in a Lee Rigby-style terrorist attack.

The militant, who is thought to have fled to Syria while on bail, said the Home
Secretary must be run over, tied to the back of a car and dragged through the
streets of London.

The chilling threats have been posted on Twitter by Abu Abdullah Britani -
believed to be Abu Rahin Aziz, a former credit control operator from Luton.

The 32-year-old, who has links to hate preacher Anjem Choudary, had been handed
a 36-week jail sentence for stabbing a football fan in London.

Messages on the Britani account also call for other politicians to be targeted,
adding that they will be easy to find because they will be out campaigning for
the General Election.

Britani has even posted some of the newly-leaked names and address of American
soldiers.

The tweets follow Mrs May's plea for law-abiding Britons to expose extremists in
their communities.

Britani's previous Twitter account was suspended by the social media website but
he has returned with a new feed in recent weeks.

#TheresaMay the lap dog of #DavidCameron is an enemy to Islam & Muslims, I urge
any Muslim in #UK to track her down & kill her

- Abu Abdullah Britani (@dugmatime) March 23, 2015

Britani wrote: "Those who say it's hard strike in the west, may Allah grant you
strength and thabaat.

"There are many ways you can partake in this jihad.

"When planning use your initiative, be creative, bomb, car to run a police,
soldier, MP etc over, hammer, knife, punch, spit whatever you can.

"Main thing don't say you can't unless you tried... Make effort, be sincere and
leave results in hands of Allah.

"Instead of going to your local Tesco or BnQ where cameras are go to a local
cash n carry where everything is available."

#TheresaMay responsible for many Muslims behind bars, we should track this cow &
tie to back of car & dragged through London

- Abu Abdullah Britani (@dugmatime) March 23, 2015

The account has also called on Muslims in the UK and elsewhere in Europe to
"erupt like a volcano".

It added: "If your country don't allow you to leave land of kufr to perform
jihad or to live under the £khilafah then start jihad in the land of kufr".

The messages come around a week after similar threats to blow up Big Ben and the
Eiffel Tower.

Other tweets on the timeline include a picture appearing to show Aziz wearing
combat fatigues and with bullets around his neck.

He is holding a sign with the "#Don'tVote", while the caption alongside the
photograph read: "A message to the #Muslims of #UK".

Aziz was once a member of the Muslim Against Crusaders group, who burnt a large
poppy on Armistice Day in 2010 .

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       March 24, 2015 Tuesday 9:36 AM GMT

Terror attack museum delays opening

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 133 words


The Tunisian museum targeted in a terrorist attack is postponing its reopening
for logistical and security reasons, its curator has said.

The National Bardo Museum in Tunis was scheduled to reopen today for the first
time since gunmen opened fire on tourists on March 18. The attack killed 21
people, and two gunmen were killed by police.

Curator Moncef Ben Moussa told Radio Shems that the museum is delaying the
reopening, and it will probably reopen on Sunday instead. He did not elaborate
on what prompted the last-minute change, only citing logistics and security.

Authorities have arrested several people over the attack, the worst in Tunisia
in 13 years, and are still hunting for the suspected mastermind.

Officials have said none of the museum's major archaeological treasures suffered
damage.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

We have made plans for terrorist attacks, say official s

BYLINE: Ben Rumsby

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 302 words


Rugby World Cup organisers are planning security measures to deal with the
threat of a terrorist attack on the tournament, Debbie Jevans has disclosed.

The chief executive of England Rugby 2015 confirmed that she and police were
working together to try to prevent Britain's biggest sporting event since London
2012 falling victim to the kind of massacres witnessed in France and Tunisia
since the turn of the year. Gunmen went on the rampage in both countries in the
name of Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (Isil), with the attacks in Paris in
January prompting the threat against police in the UK to be raised to the
highest level of "severe".

Jevans, who helped to ensure the Olympics and Paralympics passed without
incident, told The Daily Telegraph: "We have very, very good advice and we're
constantly receiving that advice and having discussions as to the form any
threat would take.

"We've seen recently a lot of attacks where individuals have gone in: Charlie
Hebdo, and what happened in Tunisia recently. We are across it and aware of the
current situation."

She added: "It is something that we take very seriously and we have processes
and procedures and the intelligence in place to ensure that we deliver and safe
and secure event."

Jevans confirmed that England Rugby 2015's joined-up approach to World Cup
security would involve each of the 13 venues employing the same staff used
during their other events. She also admitted that G4S would also play a part
during the six-week tournament.

G4S was criticised for failing to provide enough staff for checkpoints and to
conduct bag searches during the London 2012 Games, resulting in the Army being
deployed.

Jevans said: "G4S will be involved in our tournament, absolutely they will be,
as they are at Wimbledon and at many other events throughout the world."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

TAXI MAN BEATEN BY GANG OF 6;
Victim reveals attack ordeal terror

BYLINE: ADELINA CAMPOS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 299 words


A TAXI driver has spoken of his terror after being attacked by six male
passengers.

John Constant, from Tower, Blarney, Co Cork, was assaulted when he asked the men
to get out of his car after one of them was sick on the back seat.

One of the thugs punched the 57-year-old in the face, leaving him
black-and-blue, with his right eye swollen shut.

The incident took place at around 3.45am in Cork City on Sunday.

John, who is still shaken by the ordeal yesterday, recalled: "I picked up five
men in Grand Parade and a few hundred yards down they asked me to pick up
another lad, telling me to head to the Highlands, in Glounthaune.

"I didn't have any indication I would get any trouble from them.

"When we got to the entrance of the estate four of them got off. The other two
were headed further up the hill and I had no problem with that. But when I
opened the door to let the four out I saw one of the two lads at the back was
asleep.

"I said, 'Come on, you have to wake up'.

I had a torch with me. I checked the seat and saw he had been sick on the seat.

"So I said, 'Lads, I'm not taking you any further, you have to get out now'."

John told the men they'd have to clean up and pay or he'd call the guards.

He added: "They started to crowd around me, then the guy who got sick took me by
surprise, he just hit me and I started to bleed.

"I reached for the phone and said I'd call the guards, but one of the guys
knocked it out of my hand."

John managed to retrieve his mobile and flee before alerting gardai.

He then drove to Mercy University Hospital for treatment.

Yesterday he thanked Red FM presenter Neil Prendeville for asking security firms
to help by donating a security camera.

news@irishmirror.ie

The guy took me by surprise. He hit me and I started bleeding JOHN CONSTANT on
his attack ordeal at work

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: battered & bruised Taxi driver John Constant was badly beaten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tunisia delays reopening of terror-attack museum;
world in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 65 words


OFFICIALS today postponed the reopening of Tunis's Bardo National Museum, where
Islamist gunmen last week shot dead 23 people.

Curator Moncef Ben Moussa said the Bardo could reopen on Sunday, citing
"logistical and security reasons" for the delay. Among the 19 tourists killed in
last Wednesday's Islamic State-linked attack was British solicitor Sally Adey,
57, who was on a cruise holiday.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim: solicitor Sally Adey was among the 19 tourists killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 24, 2015 Tuesday 7:23 PM GMT

Video shows terrified tourists in Tunis terror attack;
Video footage emerges showing tourists fleeing terrorists at the Bardo Museum in
Tunis, as plans to reopen the museum are cancelled at the last minute

BYLINE: By Nick Squires Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Dramatic video footage has emerged of terrified tourists caught up in the attack
on the Bardo Museum in Tunis in which 21 people were shot dead by two
terrorists.

The footage emerged as the national museum was forced to delay at the last
minute its planned reopening on Tuesday, with Tunisian officials citing security
issues.

The video begins with a Tunisian guide explaining to a group of tourists, in
Italian, some of the features of the stucco ceiling of the museum, which is
renowned for its collection of Roman mosaics.

Suddenly, a gunshot is heard and the tourists turn round, looking surprised.
"Did someone shoot?" one person is heard to say in Italian.

There are then several more deafening shots in rapid succession, which send the
tourists fleeing for their lives.

They rush down a stairway, with Tunisian guides ushering them along.

Gunshots continue to reverberate around the cavernous interior of the museum,
one of the most popular tourist attractions in Tunis.

"Go, go," an Italian woman says, while a man can be heard exclaiming "Oh Dio (Oh
God)".

"We don't know anything," an Italian man tells another group of tourists who are
encountered on a staircase.

The tourists are led to safety by guides down what appears to be a back
staircase. Nobody is hurt in the footage.

Guides repeatedly tell them to be silent so as not to give away their hiding
place.

The footage was taken by two Italian cruise ship tourists, Marcello and Maria
Rita Salvatori, and obtained by La Repubblica, an Italian daily.

They were travelling on the Costa Fascinosa, a cruise ship which had docked in
Tunis earlier that day for a short visit.

The Bardo Museum had been expected to re-open on Tuesday after last week's
attack, which killed 20 tourists and a Tunisian police officer, but the plan was
cancelled at the last minute.

"The interior ministry says that for security reasons we cannot receive a large
number of visitors," Hanene Srarfi, the museum's head of communications, told
AFP.

"We have no date" for the reopening to the public, he added.

A handful of tourists arrived at the Bardo unaware that the reopening had been
cancelled.

A culture ministry statement said there had been "logistical" problems in
preparing the museum for the anticipated arrival of "thousands of people".

Officials have admitted there were grave security failures on the day of the
attack, with guards who were supposed to be on duty instead wandering off to
drink coffee.

The assault was the first to be claimed in Tunisia by Islamic State of Iraq and
the Levant (Isil), the extremist group that has seized large parts of Syria and
Iraq and is establishing a presence in neighbouring Libya.

President Beji Caid Essebsi has said a third suspect in the shooting is being
hunted .

The two gunmen shot dead at the scene were revealed to have received training at
militant camps in Libya .

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

Lebanese army arrests two "terrorists" suspected of attacking its troops

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 25 March

The Lebanese Army Command-Guidance Directorate issued the following communique:

"The Intelligence Directorate arrested on Tuesday [24 March] morning the two
terrorists Omar Mikati  - known as "Abi Horira" -  and Bilal Mikati -  Known as
"Abou Omar Al-Loubnani" and "Abou Omar Al-Tarabulsi" - who belong to a terrorist
organization, took part in the attacks against the army and carried out
terrorism operations over the Lebanese territories. Moreover, one of them was
suspected of slaughtering one of the kidnapped servicemen.

Investigations opened with them under the control of concerned judiciary
authorities."

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 0735 gmt 25 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

Iran arrests perpetrators of 2007-2014 terrorist attacks in southeast province

LENGTH: 305 words


The governor-general of Iran's southeastern Sistan-Baluchestan Province, Ali
Owsat-Hashemi, has said that "all perpetrators of terrorist attacks carried out
from 1386 to 1393 [2007- 2014] have been arrested," Fars has reported on 25
March.

According to Fars, Owsat-Hashemi made the remark in a comment on the Iranian
security forces' recent operations that led to the discovery of the body of the
kidnapped border guard, Jamshid Dana'ifar.

Owsat-Hashemi who was talking to reporters on the sidelines of a memorial
ceremony in Tehran said: "We were able to discover and identify the body of
martyr Dana'ifar, after we had succeeded to deal a severe blow to the villains
in Esfahd [February 2015], and we were able to identify all perpetrators of
terrorist attacks that took place [in the province] from 86 to 93."

The official added that Dana'ifar's killers "were among those who had been
arrested" and they later "confessed" that they had murdered Dana'ifar.

"In their confessions, they revealed the location where the martyr [Dana'ifar]
had been buried in [the neighbouring] Pakistan, and after the body of the martyr
was transferred by our forces [to Iran]... some members of Dana'ifar's family,
namely his wife and sister, identified his body," Owsat-Hashemi was quoted as
saying.

The governor-general of Sistan-Baluchestan also confirmed that all arrestees
were members of one "terrorist group, Jaishul Sheytan".

Dana'ifar and four other border guards were kidnapped in Iran-Pakistan border
area by the Sunni militant group known as Jaishuladl in February 2014. The group
later claimed that they had killed Dana'ifar. The other four guards were
released in April 2014.

Iranian officials describe Jaishulad as "Jaishulsheytan" which means "the army
of evil".

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0744 gmt 25 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     March 25, 2015 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT

The terror attack in Copenhagen;
With heightened fears about security for Jewish communities across Europe, we
asked readers to share their views on emigrating to Israel

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1827 words


The terror attack in Copenhagen last weekend just like the shootings in Paris at
the beginning of the year targeted Jewish communities as well as freedom of
speech. Following both attacks, Israel's Prime Minister, Binyamin Netanyahu
called for European Jews to emigrate en masse to Israel, though both Jewish and
political leaders in Europe have widely rejected his position. Denmark's chief
rabbi, Jair Melchior, said on Sunday: "Terror is not a reason to move to Israel.
People from Denmark move to Israel because they love Israel, because of Zionism
but not because of terrorism."

It's clear from the latest figures from the Community Security Trust (CST) a UK
Jewish security charity which runs an incident hotline, that antisemitic
incidents in the UK have soared in the last year. We've been asking Jewish
people living in the UK and Europe to share their views on emigrating to Israel
and also about the importance of maintaining a Jewish diaspora.

My Zionism is not a reaction to antisemitism; it is not a Zionism born out of
fear of the foreign Other

Ben from London concurs with Denmark's chief rabbi about emigrating for the
right reasons. "My Zionism is not a reaction to antisemitism; it is not a
Zionism born out of fear of the foreign Other. It appalls me to see Binyamin
Netanyahu manipulate tragedies such as the recent attacks in Paris in order to
argue that the only home for Jews is in Israel, for what is Israel if it does
not heed the prophetic call dating back millennia to be a light among the
nations? I value the symbiosis between Diaspora Jewry and the Jewish community
resident in Israel. While I have made the personal decision that only in Israel
can I lead the sort of holistically Jewish life that I desire, the diverse and
culturally rich experiences of the Jewish Diaspora ought not to be negated, for
Diaspora communities continue to engage with local needs and connect Jews to
their history and national and religious identity."

Kerry from North London also believes it's important to maintain a Jewish
diaspora: "I do intend to stay in the UK and believe I should. Diaspora Judaism
is a fundamental part of Jewish culture and identity: our most important
religious text after the Torah was written in Babylon (Iraq), and our most
important Torah commentator, Rashi, lived in Troyes (France). I also believe
multicultural society is good for the Europe, and to be honest I'm not happy
with any movement in which the end result is eliminating European Jewish
communities, no matter who is calling for it."

All of my friends from Synagogue who are my age - 20 to 30 have moved to Israel

Simon from London agrees that there should be diaspora communities but he feels
that "Antisemitism is also a powerful tool in peoples' minds for not returning
back to the UK if they have already moved (and it's not working out) as there is
a powerful narrative in Israeli and US media that Europe is unsafe." Simon is
moving to Canada for other reasons. He says he still feels very secure in the
UK, however he adds, "I feel I am in the minority. All of my friends from
synagogue (it's a liberal one) who are my age 20 to 30 have moved to Israel.
Only one has subsequently returned.

Michael recently moved to Israel from Hendon. Like Simon he believes that the UK
is a relatively safe place for Jewish people to live, but he wanted his family
to experience being part of the majority, not the minority as is the case in the
UK.

"If I may illustrate how it feels to be a minority where you must fight to keep
your identity from being swollen up by the majority: my son is now studying in
an Israeli school and his Arabic teacher happens to be a Christian Israeli Arab.
On Christmas day she had to take the day off work and celebrate her holiday
quietly at home. No tinsel in the shops and no Christmas songs on the radio,
just a normal working day for the nation. That teacher's Christmas experience is
the Jewish experience in Britain, our holidays are not British holidays and our
culture is somewhat alien to the norm."

The desire to move to Israel is cultural, religious and pragmatic. Put simply,
it's the Jewish home

Emanuel has also made the move. Like Michael he feels that the benefits of
living in Israel far outweigh the security issues there. "Leave politics out of
it - I'm willing to share the land with the Palestinians if there's a lasting
peace agreement in place - the desire to move to Israel is cultural, religious
and pragmatic. Put simply, it's the Jewish home. Only in Israel does the fate of
the Jews not lie in the hands of a host nation... It might seem trite, but
Israel is the only state in which Jews have not been discriminated against."

Though the UK was a good place to live Emanuel never felt completely safe there.
"I'm grateful, very grateful to Britain. I was educated and protected there and
deeply appreciate the opportunities afforded to Jews there. Compared to many
other countries, it's very good to the Jews. But I never felt completely at home
there, and it's not easy being a guest in another country. Antisemitism goes
through waves, but it never goes away completely. Yes, terrorism strikes Israel
more regularly and my chances of being near a suicide bomber or an IED are
higher here, but I prefer to take my chances and live a richer life in Israel
rather than cowering and feeling an outsider in Britain."

According to CST the surge in antisemitism last year was fuelled by reactions to
the conflict in Gaza in July and August that claimed the lives of 2,131
Palestinians and 71 Israelis, according to the UN. Shoshana orginally from the
US and now living in Manchester feels that the events in Israel and Palestine
last summer have made her feel more insecure in the UK. "There is more visible
antisemitism here than I ever experienced in the USA. My perception of it is
that most is perpetrated by juveniles seeking easy targets or are politically
motivated by people who somehow think that British Jews have personal control
over the Israeli Army."

England feels much safer than France but, even so, a similar strike in the UK
seems to be a matter of when, not if

David from London echoes Shoshana's experience. He says there's "a feeling of
alienation arising as a result of this country's response to the Gaza war in
2014. Whatever my private views on that issue, I felt that I was looked at
differently because of my faith. It was "soft" othering that made me feel that
my freedom of conscience in this country is still after so many years
contingent. The second is the incidents in Paris of a few weeks ago and in
Europe more generally over the last few years. England feels much safer than
France but, even so, a similar strike in the UK seems to be a matter of 'when,
not if'. So the combination of alienation from my peers and fear for my safety
has raised serious questions about making the UK my permanent home."

The increase in antisemitism has changed Jon's perspective too. He says he has
been critical of Israel in the past and has never considered moving there, but
now his opinion has shifted. "I do not wish to go, I have no concrete plans to
go. However going has become an imaginable possibility whereas for me before it
was unimaginable. I am 50 and grew up at a time when antisemitism was simply a
minor irritant. Baroness Warsi said a few years ago that Islamophobia had become
acceptable in polite society. I agree with her and condemn this prejudice. I
think the same is now true of antisemitism. My generation grew up in liberal
times. We are now having to learn for the first time the psychological defence
mechanisms that came as part of being Jewish in the Britain of the 1930s."

There is no denying that I do feel less secure as a Jew now, but I do not feel
that emigration is the answer

Living in Israel is not for everyone. Shelley did emigrate but has since
returned, though she too now feels that the UK is not as safe as it once was. "I
had a trial emigration to Israel and after three years I returned to London. I
am thoroughly British and disliked almost everything about life in Israel. When
I left the UK I was inspired by fulfilling my Zionist identity, but after three
years I was thoroughly disillusioned. Not only do I prefer the general way of
life in London, but I also vastly prefer Jewish communal life in London and even
the way we celebrate Jewish holy days. There is no denying that I do feel less
secure as a Jew now, but I do not feel that emigration is the answer. The
solution is clamping down on antisemitism."

Eugene agrees. He was born in Moscow, when it was still part of the Soviet Union
and he says he endured plenty of antisemitism in those days which led to his
family and many other Jews leaving when they had the opportunity. He grew up in
New York and in 2010 moved to London to study and now lives and works in the UK.
Though Eugene doesn't feel under threat, he says: "During my postgraduate time
at the LSE, there was a vocal minority of students who espoused virulently
anti-Israel views during certain political gatherings. Unfortunately, that
spilled over and transformed into a nasty form of antisemitism. There is a
conflation of the two especially considering many people equate Jews with Israel
automatically. This isn't right and is just bigotry and racism like anything
else."

We should stay in the countries we live in and fight for tolerance, equality and
respect

Eugene believes that Jewish people "should stay in the countries we live in and
fight for tolerance, equality and respect, not run away to Israel where I would
feel less secure as a Jew not more. The antisemitism we see in Western Europe
today is nothing like what it was in the Soviet Union where it was
institutionalised in politics, business and culture. We had no choice for
economic and social reasons to leave. This time, it is very different and is
just antisemitism rearing its head again as always. We must fight it where we
live."

Though emigrating to Israel is clearly a cultural and religious choice for many,
for others like Malevich from Glasgow, antisemitism and the political climate in
Europe are now factors, "economic discontent spilling over into euroscepticism,
isolationism and increased popularity of 'radical' parties right factions in
Northern Ireland, Scotland and the Conservative party, as well as, general
increase in popularity of far right and extreme left in Europe, both of which
are host to racial politics."

Emigrating to Israel: 'Antisemitism goes through waves, but it never goes away
completely' With heightened fears about security for Jewish communities across
Europe, we asked readers to share their views on emigrating to Israel  false
theguardian.com true
http://static.guim.co.uk/sys-images/Guardian/Pix/pictures/2015/2/20/142445801844
9/0e6d2c96-c671-4a59-ae88-39fa4e934001-140x84.jpeg 1854 false 455474320 false
54e494ece4b001b9905ff6ad false Caroline Bannock and Guardian readers 2243921 UK
false 2015-02-23T08:52:27Z

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            March 26, 2015 Thursday

US Embassy Warns Of Terrorist Attacks On Westerners

LENGTH: 79  words



HIGHLIGHT: The US embassy in Uganda stated that it has 'received information of
possible threats' at certain locations in the capital city Kampala, which is
frequently visited by Westerners, reports the BBC.


News: The US embassy in Uganda stated that it has 'received information of
possible threats' at certain locations in the capital city Kampala, which is
frequently visited by Westerners, reports the BBC. The embassy stated that an
attack 'may take place soon', adding that some planned events at Kampala hotels
had been cancelled. A double suicide bombing at Kampala's club and restaurant
district in 2010 killed 76 people while they were watching the football World
Cup final.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 26, 2015 Thursday

US issues terror attack warning in Uganda

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 231 words


KAMPALA -- The US has issued an emergency terror attack warning to its nationals
in Uganda asking them to exercise caution.

The US embassy in a statement posted on its website on Wednesday said it has
received information of possible terrorist threats to locations where
Westerners, including US citizens, congregate in Kampala, and that an attack may
take place soon.

"Out of an abundance of caution, the US Mission has cancelled some non-essential
events scheduled at local hotels in the coming days. US citizens staying or
visiting hotels should expect increased security sweeps and delays when entering
or exiting hotel areas," the statement said.

"The US Embassy takes this opportunity to remind all US citizens to review your
personal security plans; remain aware of your surroundings, including local
events; and take appropriate steps to enhance your personal security such as
varying your daily routines and avoiding crowded locations," the statement
added.

Somali militant group Al-Shabaab has issued several warnings to Uganda that they
will attack if the country does not withdraw its peacekeeping troops from the
war torn Somalia.

Uganda was hit by the Al-Shabaab militants in July 2010 when suicide bombers
killed over 80 people in a twin bomb blast in the capital Kampala.

The perpetrators who among others include foreign nationals are currently facing
trial in Kampala.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 9:56 PM GMT

Massive New York gas explosion and building collapse injures 30 in Big Apple's
East Village;
THE explosion was so loud, one witness likened the blast to the 9/11 terror
attacks in New York 14 years ago.

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 264 words


More than 30 people were left injured after a "massive gas explosion" ripped
through a New York apartment block causing it to partially collapse.

Firefighters and paramedics rushed to the scene shortly before 3.30pm in
Manhattan's trendy East Village amid reports more than a dozen people were
trapped.

Specialists teams join emergency crews including rescue dogs.

Thick grey smoke billowed in to the air covering much of the Big Apple's famous
city skyline as firefighters struggled to contain the flames.

As many as 30 people were reported to be injured.

New York Angela Thomas, 39, told the Mirror how she narrowly avoided injury as
she walked near the building minutes before the explosion.

She said: "It was horrendous.

"It sounded like a bomb went off.

"The screams from those trapped we got all here.

"There were shards of glass and debris flying everywhere."

Tosha Ryan, added: "Just heard an explosion and my entire building shook!!"

An FDNY spokesman said the 911 call was for a partial building collapse.

"We're closing," said a woman who answered the phone at Station Restaurant
across the street.

"We can't stay open.

"The street is burning," said a woman who answered the phone at Station
Restaurant across the street.

Many speculated it was a possible gas leak similar to the one which left eight
people dead in March last year.

The blast was so severe it left once witness, Mitch Abreu, 23, likening it to
the 9/11 terror attacks.

"It looked like the towers all over again - people covered in dust and covering
their mouths," he said.

Try our quick news quiz:

Quick Quiz: News 26/03/2015

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 1:14 PM GMT

Why is the crux of the Incedal case a secret? You're not allowed to know;
The public have not been told who or what was behind the prosecution of Erol
Incedal, who has been cleared of plotting a terror attack

BYLINE: Ian Cobain

SECTION: LAW

LENGTH: 1131 words


Erol Incedal twice stood trial on terrorism charges. Last year he was convicted
of possessing a bomb-making manual, but the jury failed to reach a verdict on
the more serious charge of plotting a terrorist attack. After a four-week
retrial, he was acquitted of that charge on Thursday.

Related: Student cleared of London terror charge after partially secret trial

On each occasion, the evidence was carefully presented in one of three sessions.
Parts of the case were in open court, with the press and the public free to come
and go; other parts were held behind locked doors, before a jury whose members
were warned that they could go to jail if they ever divulged what they had
heard; and parts were held in intermediate sessions, in the presence of the jury
and a small group of journalists who are prohibited - at least for the time
being - from reporting what they learned.

As a consequence, members of the public have no idea what lay at the heart of
the prosecution of Incedal; nor the evidence that resulted in the jury clearing
him of plotting terrorist attacks.

The media is not allowed to explain why a man who was found guilty of possessing
a bomb-making manual was not convicted of preparing acts of terrorism. Incedal
claimed to have a "reasonable excuse" for carrying the document around with him.
What was that excuse? By law, and on pain of prosecution, that small group of
journalists who know the answer cannot disclose it.

Nor, currently, can the public be told why all these matters are being concealed
from them, or by whom.

While the jury heard all the evidence, the crux of the case of R v Erol Incedal
remains an official secret as far as the wider public is concerned.

These unprecedented arrangements were imposed on the trial judge, Sir Andrew
Nicol, by the court of appeal. Nicol had originally acceded to a demand from the
prosecution that the entire trial be heard in secret, and that Incedal, and the
man arrested with him, Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, be identified only as AB and
CD.

The Crown Prosecution Service had maintained there was a serious possibility
that the prosecution could not go ahead unless these measures were in place. The
reasons for that claim cannot currently be reported. However, the appeal court's
judgment, a public document, noted that national security was "the raison
d'etre" of MI5 and MI6, and that "from time to time, tensions between the open
justice principle and national security will be inevitable".

So unusual was the proposed departure from the common law principle of open
justice that it was denounced by MPs and civil rights group Liberty as dangerous
and draconian; lawyers representing a dozen media organisations, led by the
Guardian, mounted a challenge.

This led to the court of appeal ruling in June last year that that while "the
core of the case must be in camera", a number of journalists selected by the
media organisations behind that challenge should be "invited to attend the bulk
of the trial".

After hearing further submissions from crown prosecutors, thre defence and
lawyers representing the media, Nicol will now review the secret evidence and
decide what may be made public.

Throughout each of those intermediate sessions, the small number of journalists
allowed into court nine at the Old Bailey were expected to surrender their
mobile phones, which were locked in soundproof boxes. At the end of each
session, the journalists were obliged to hand their notebooks to a police
officer, to be locked in a safe at the back of the court.

Police officers watched closely to ensure the journalists did not attempt to
remove any notes from the court. There was a comic moment when a detective
accused the man from the  Express of surreptitiously making a second set of
notes and attempting to smuggle them out. The journalist dutifully handed over
the crossword he had been completing during lulls in the proceedings.

After the jury retired to consider its verdict, the journalists were told they
would not be permitted to remove their notebooks from court unless certain words
were "completely excised" from their pages. The identity of the people
responsible for making this demand cannot currently be reported. After Incedal's
acquittal, the police officers in court told the reporters that they may never
see their notebooks again.

Whenever the court went into a fully secret session, one of the police officers
would lock the doors from the inside. Nicol told the jury that the evidence
heard during these sessions would never be made public.

Although the journalists were not threatened with imprisonment, the implication
was clear: if they breached the reporting restrictions, they would be held to be
in contempt of court, and could face prosecution.

Many of the journalists found the process objectionable. Sean O'Neill, crime
editor of the Times, described it as "a deeply unhealthy process", adding: "In
my view there was very little in those sessions that should have been kept
secret but an awful lot that should have been exposed and scrutinised."

The restrictions did not end at the exit from court nine. The reporters were
warned that if they wished to take legal advice about the case, and the secret
evidence that they had heard, they could do so only in "a confidential meeting".

This was defined in a court order handed down by Nicol as "a meeting that takes
place in a room in which the door is closed and it is clear that no one can
overhear from outside the room what is being said during the meeting". The order
further stipulated that "mobile phones must be switched off and any telephone
landlines must not be connected [ie the line open] to any internal or external
other telephone. No part of the meeting can be recorded and no notes made."

A proposal that the order should also decree that the door to the meeting room
should be locked, and that there should be no CCTV in the vicinity, was dropped.

If Nicol does lift the reporting restrictions on significant parts of the secret
evidence, parliament and the public will be able to judge for themselves whether
the open justice principle was torn up in the case of R v Erol Incedal to
protect national security.

It may be that there will then be questions for Theresa May, the home secretary,
and William Hague, the former foreign secretary, each of whom signed ministerial
certificates supporting the application for all-embracing secrecy.

There may also be questions asked of the crown prosecutors who had insisted on
the need for complete secrecy, and of those instructing them, on whose behalf
this demand was made.

As a consequence of the reporting restrictions, and the way in which the
evidence was carefully divided between the three parts of the trial, the
identity of those instructing the prosecution is also currently hidden from
view.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 7:09 PM GMT

Isis: Two National Guardsmen arrested for allegedly plotting terrorist attack on
US military post;
Man was arrested in Chicago while attempting to fly to Egypt

BYLINE: Payton Guion

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 142 words


Two National Guardsmen was arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly supporting
Isis and allegedly plotting a terrorist attack on a military post in Illinois,
according to the US Justice Department.

Hasan Edmonds, a 22-year-old member of the Army National Guard, was arrested at
Chicago Midway International Airport on his way to Cairo, the Justice Department
said in a statement.

The FBI also arrested Mr Edmonds' cousin, Jonas Edmonds, who is a 29-year-old
member of the Illinois Army National Guard, at his Illinois home.

Both men are US citizens, the department said.

The FBI became aware of Hasan Edmonds in late 2014 as he hatched a plan to join
ISIS overseas while Jonas Edmonds would launch an attack inside the US,
according to the Justice Department.

The two men are set to appear in court on Thursday. Check back for more
information on this story.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 2:51 PM GMT

British law student cleared of plotting 'Mumbai-style' terror attack and
targeting Tony and Cherie Blair after secret trial

BYLINE: LUCY CROSSLEY and DUNCAN GARDHAM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2665 words



     ·    Erol Incedal, 27, from London, cleared of preparing act of terrorism
     ·    Found with the Blairs' address in car when he was stopped for speeding
     ·    Trial was held partly in secret 'in the interests of national
          security'
     ·    Incedal will be sentenced for possessing bomb-making manual next week


A law student was today cleared of targeting Tony and Cherie Blair and plotting
to carry out a 'Mumbai-style' attack, following the UK's first secret terror
case.

Erol Incedal, 27, sobbed as he was found not guilty of plotting with a terrorist
in Syria to either attack individuals or carry out a massacre using a
Kalashnikov following a retrial at the Old Bailey.

Last year, he was convicted of possessing a bomb-making manual on a memory card
at the time he was arrested in October 2013.

He will be sentenced on this charge next Wednesday alongside his friend Mounir
Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, also 27, and from London, who admitted having an identical
document.

It had been alleged that Incedal had drawn up plans to target former Prime
Minisiter Mr Blair's mansion in Buckinghamshire, and had discussed attempts to
get hold of Kalashnikov assault rifles to use in a mass attack similar to the
2008 atrocity in India.

The Old Bailey had been told that officers had found a piece of paper with the
Blairs' address on it after Incedal was stopped for speeding at 60mph in a 40mph
zone near London's Tower Bridge on 30 September 2013.

A tracking device was placed in his Mercedes E Class, and two weeks later he and
Rarmoul-Bouhadjar were arrested by armed police on the street in Whitechapel,
east London.

However, Incedal claimed he had only been planning an armed robbery.

Jurors in his first trial at the Old Bailey last November convicted him of
collecting information likely to be useful to a terrorist but failed to reach a
verdict on the charge of preparing an act of terrorism.

The second trial, which like the first was also held mostly in secret, ended
with the jury clearing him of that charge after 27 hours and five minutes of
deliberation.

Incedal burst into tears and mouthed 'thank you' to jurors through the
glass-enclosed dock of the Old Bailey's Court Nine as he was acquitted of
preparing an act of terrorism.

The controversial decision to hold most of the case behind closed doors is
likely to come under the spotlight since the jury decided that the sum total of
evidence they had heard did not prove the case against Incedal beyond reasonable
doubt.

The Crown had tried to hold the entire trial in secret in the interests of
national security. But following a legal challenge by the media at the High
Court, the case was divided into three parts - public, private with 10
accredited journalists present but banned from reporting, and completely secret.

In the first trial last year, the 'Part 3' top secret part of the trial amounted
to 40 hours of the three-and-a-half week hearing compared with eight hours in
'part 2' with journalists present and 12 hours in public. The retrial followed a
similar pattern.

During the secret parts of the trial, some witnesses were allowed to give
evidence anonymously from behind screens although the reason for that was not
made clear.

Newspapers are expected to apply to Mr Justice Nicol to lift reporting
restrictions on the 'Part 2' evidence following today's verdict.

Incedal was born in Turkey in 1988 and was brought to the UK by his mother when
he was a year old.

Both his father, a member of the Turkish communist party, and his sister, a
member of the Kurdish militant group PKK, died in fighting when he was young.

Incedal, who was excluded from school several times because of his behaviour,
was convicted of attempted theft at the age of 12.

He told the Old Bailey he became interested in his religion after 9/11.

'The first few years at secondary school I was quite disruptive and very
naughty, got excluded many times,' he had said.

'Then I started to look more at religion. It was a gradual process. I never
actually used to believe in God but because I was from Turkey and most people
there are Muslim I looked into it.

'At the time 9/11 happened in year nine, I thought I'm a Muslim, what's it
about? So I started talking to friends.'

He started attending a mosque during Ramadan at the age of 14 and joined the
Tableeghi Jamaat Islamic movement, travelling with them to Greece, New York and
Bangladesh.

Incedal married his wife Kadeejah Baluch at the age of 17 but he admitted having
a series of affairs, including with the wife of his brother-in-law.

The father-of-two's only income was a student loan while he studied law and
accountancy at South Bank University, the court was told.

Incedal claimed he came up with his armed robbery plans in 2011 and wrote them
down on a piece of paper containing study notes on law.

He said he planned to propose the scheme to three sons of Abu Hamza - Hamza,
Sufyan and Yaasir - but never actually showed them his plans.

After Incedal was stopped on 30 September, 2013 he gave a false name and was
charged with driving without a licence or insurance, failing to provide his name
and address and exceeding the speed limit.

The search of his Mercedes uncovered a white Versace glasses case containing a
piece of paper with the address of a property owned by Tony and Cherie Blair.

During his trial Incedal claimed that the address was in the public domain as it
was the venue for the wedding of Tony Blair's son.

The next day the bug in his car recorded him telling his wife: 'I hate white
people so much'.

She replied: 'I need to go to Asda and buy some nappies.'

Incedal continued: 'These pigs I just feel like running them over.'

He is later heard adding softly: 'We might have to destroy everything and do
something else, plan B.'

On another occasion Incedal was recorded saying: 'They made a big mistake there,
there's very important stuff in the car. If they found that I'd be effed.'

He also sang 'we're gonna slit their throats!' during a song praising fighters
and made shooting noises while pointing his mobile phone at people.

And during an argument when his wife threatened to leave him because he had been
speaking to another woman, he replied: 'No problem, I'm gonna leave very soon.
I'm not going to come back this time.'

He was later recorded discussing obtaining a gun with Rarmoul-Bouhadjar using
the code word 'sausages' for guns, the court was told.

Mr Incedal told Rarmoul-Bouhadjar: 'Update me at every stage and just say yeah,
the sausage is nice erm, there's enough sauce in it.''

SECRET JUSTICE: WHY WAS EROL INCEDAL'S TRIAL HELD IN PRIVATE?

The Crown Prosecution Service had wanted to hold the trial of Erol Incedal in
secret, arguing that the interests of national security outweighed the
principles of open justice.

The public were forbidden from knowing the identities of the accused, referred
to only as AB for Incedal, and CB for his co-defendant, Mounir
Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, while magistrates had also barred the particulars of the
charges from being published.

The prosecution said that Incedal had one or more terror plot conspirators
abroad but it only emerged in the retrial that he had been encouraged by a
terrorist called Ahmed whom he met in Syria.

High Court Judge Mr Justice Nicol had ordered that the 'entirety of the criminal
trial of the defendants should be in private, with the public and media
excluded, and the publication of reports of the trial be prohibited.'

And that the 'names and identities of the defendants should be withheld from the
public and publication of their names or identities in connection with the
proceedings be prohibited.'

The order was the result of a request from the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS)
for the trial to be held 'in private in its entirety' and that the defendants
should be anonymous.

They supported their calls with certificates signed by Theresa May, the Home
Secretary, and William Hague, then the Foreign Secretary - presumably on behalf
of MI5 and MI6.

Mari Reid, the Unit Head of the Counter Terrorism team at the CPS had told the
trial judge that should the 'factors of concern to the secretaries of state' be
ventilated in a public trial, there was a 'serious possibility" that the trial
may not be able to go ahead.

The defence did not object to the secrecy but the major news organisations took
the case to the Court of Appeal. The decision was overturned so that the
defendants could be named and the three part solution introduced - open,
part-closed and closed.

Nevertheless, the judges said that the 'core' of the case should remain behind
closed doors.

The newspapers' challenge resulted in Incedal and his co-defendant, Mounir
Rarmoul-Bouhadjar being named and paved the way for the highly unusual
arrangement of the case being heard in three tiers - public, private with
accredited journalists present but banned from reporting, and completely in
secret.

In the first trial, the lion's share - some 40 hours - was heard in what was
known as 'part three' secret - with just the defendant, lawyers and the jury
present.

Around 12 hours was heard in public and eight hours in 'part two' session with
ten accredited journalists present, but they remain barred from publishing their
reports of these proceedings.

In the retrial, even less time was spent in open court but more in the partially
secret 'part two' than before.

Three, 6ft tall, safes were moved into the court to store sensitive documents
and journalists had to hand in their handwritten notes at the end of each closed
session for them to be locked away. Mobile phones had to be switched off and
placed in soundproof boxes.

'This case is exceptional,' Lord Justice Gross, a former terrorism trial judge
wrote. "We are persuaded on the evidence before us that there is a significant
risk - at the very least, a serious possibility - that the administration of
justice would be frustrated were the trial to be conducted in open court.

'For good reason on the material we have seen, the crown might be deterred from
continuing with the prosecution. The relevant test is thus satisfied. Indeed, we
go further: on all the material, the case for the core of the trial to be heard
in camera is compelling and we accede to it.'

The judgment, issued last September, said: 'National security is itself a
national interest of the first importance and the raison d'etre of the security
and intelligence agencies... For the agencies to operate effectively, at least
much of their work is secret and must remain so as a matter of necessity.'

They said tensions between the principle of open justice and the needs of
national security were 'inevitable' but they went on: 'We express grave concern
as to the cumulative effects of holding a criminal trial in camera and
anonymising the defendants. We find it difficult to conceive of a situation
where both departures from open justice will be justified.'

Regardless of how the case was reported in public, jurors were told to treat all
of the evidence with equal weight - including the witnesses who had given
evidence anonymously behind screens in the secret parts of the trial.

But they were told that they must never talk about what they had seen and heard
in court with their loved ones, and warned they could face jail if they
discussed the case outside the jury room.

Making his closing speech, Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting, told the jury they
had to put the measures taken to the back of their minds when reaching a
verdict.

'This is an exceptional case and you know why. The procedure adopted to try this
case has also been exceptional,' he said.

'However exceptional that procedure, the defendant has been present throughout.
Whatever the restrictions on who can be present throughout various stages, the
sound principle of trial by jury applies, what I have earlier described as the
beating heart of the criminal justice system.'

'In every case it is vital to consider all the evidence, vital in this case
because of the three categories we have had. The same rules apply to all three,
the only difference is what part of the public has been able to be present.
Don't promote one above the other,' Mr Whittam said.

He told the jury that they needed 'cool logic and sound common sense' to analyse
the evidence and seek verdicts on the 'evidence as you see it, nothing more, and
nothing less.'

Despite there being two trials, only a fraction of evidence was heard in public
so there remain unanswered questions, gaps and loose ends in the case.

Who was the key witness at the Old Bailey who was deemed so secret that they had
to give evidence anonymously behind screens - even in secret session?

And if the trial had to be held behind closed doors in the interests of national
security, could this witness be to do with the secretive intelligence services?

The conclusion of the trial will reignite the debate on how much of the evidence
should have been in secret and whether the parts heard with journalists present
should now be released.

Newspapers are expected to apply to the trial judge, Mr Justice Nicol, to lift
reporting restrictions on 'part two' evidence following the verdict. If the
request is denied, they may appeal to the High Court.

The decision was then made to arrest Incedal and he was stopped by armed
officers who fired bullets into his car tyres in Mansell Street, Whitechapel, on
13 October, 2013.

Officers later discovered the bomb making document in files named Goodstuff.doc
and CB.pdf on a secure digital card hidden on the inside of Incedal's iPhone
case.

It also contained a password-encrypted file named
'smokingwatermelongrapeandmint' which could not be cracked but had a similar
digital 'fingerprint' as the bomb-making files.

The phone was used to visit websites about 'Jihadology' and the Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and the Free Syrian Army.

At his home in Southwark detectives found notes titled 'Plan A' on top of a
wardrobe. It listed items such as 'assess security', 'three to four workers',
'two tennis racquets' and 'one month's surveillance'.

Skype chats found on the hard drive of his laptop contained coded messages
referring to 'k 1122aa shhh' and 'mo88m 55bayy style' - believed to refer to a
Mumbai-style using Kalashnikov assault rifles.

Police also recovered his Turkish resident's permit and a photograph of a
synagogue, taken in August 2013.

Opening the case for the prosecution Richard Whittam QC said Incedal may not
have settled on a target but added: 'He was actively engaged with another or
others who were abroad.

'Such engagement was for an act or acts of terrorism either against a limited
number of individuals, an individual of significance or a more wide-ranging and
indiscriminate attack, for example the one in Mumbai in 2008 when young men
armed with a number of weapons including automatic rifles such as Kalashnikovs,
killed 164 people and wounded over 300 more.'

Referring to the piece of paper containing the address of Tony and Cherie Blair,
Mr Whittam said: 'You may think that given where it was found that address was
significant as at least a potential target.'

The bomb making document was found on a secure digital card hidden on the inside
of Incedal's iPhone case, the court heard.

Incedal told jurors that he believed resistance to foreign intervention in Iraq
and Afghanistan was justified and supported rebel fighters in Syria.

He said he thought terrorism in the UK was 'illegal, immoral and contrary to
Islam' and was counter-productive as Muslims might be harmed as a result.

Incedal, who lived with his wife in Unity Court, Southwark, but also stayed at
another address in Bayswater, was cleared of engaging in conduct in preparation
of acts of terrorism.

At the first trial he was convicted of possessing documents likely to be useful
to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism, relating to the
bomb-making document.

Rarmoul-Bouhadjar admitted possession of documents or records likely to be
useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism on or before 13
October last year.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 9:09 PM GMT

New York building collapses injuring 30 after 'massive gas explosion';
The blast was so severe it left once witness likening it to the 9/11 terror
attacks

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 359 words


More than 30 people were left injured after a "massive gas explosion" ripped
through a New York apartment block causing it to partially collapse.

Firefighters and paramedics rushed to the scene shortly before 3.30pm in
Manhattan's trendy East Village amid reports more than a dozen people were
trapped.

Specialists teams join emergency crews including rescue dogs.

Thick grey smoke billowed in to the air covering much of the Big Apple's famous
city skyline as firefighters struggled to contain the flames.

As many as 30 people were reported to be injured.

Building collapses, engulfed in flames in New York's East Village

New York Angela Thomas, 39, told the Mirror how she narrowly avoided injury as
she walked near the building minutes before the explosion.

She said: "It was horrendous.

"It sounded like a bomb went off.

"The screams from those trapped we got all here.

"There were shards of glass and debris flying everywhere."

Tosha Ryan, added: "Just heard an explosion and my entire building shook!!"

An FDNY spokesman said the 911 call was for a partial building collapse.

"We're closing," said a woman who answered the phone at Station Restaurant
across the street.

"We can't stay open.

"The street is burning," said a woman who answered the phone at Station
Restaurant across the street.

Many speculated it was a possible gas leak similar to the one which left eight
people dead in March last year.

The blast was so severe it left once witness, Mitch Abreu, 23, likening it to
the 9/11 terror attacks.

"It looked like the towers all over again - people covered in dust and covering
their mouths," he said.

Authorities said at least 12 people were injured - three critically - after the
five-story building collapsed and surrounding apartments caught fire.

All of the casualties were civilians.

Fears more were trapped inside led to a dramatic search of the rubble but Mayor
Bill de Blasio said no one had been reported missing.

Workers from gas and electrical utility Con Edison had been working on meters
inside the building but there were no reports of a gas leak before the incident,
he added.

As a precaution the gas supply in the area was turned off after 5pm.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 7:00 PM GMT

Tunisia arrests 23 over museum attack;
Interior minister says terrorist cell seized over killing of 20 foreign tourists
and policeman at Bardo Museum

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


Tunisia on Thursday said it had arrested a 23-strong "terror cell" that was
behind last week's jihadist attack on the Bardo Museum, which killed 20 foreign
tourists and a policeman.

All those arrested were Tunisian, the interior minister, Najem Gharsalli, said,
while another Tunisian, two Moroccans and an Algerian were still on the run.

The authorities have previously named the Tunisian as Maher Ben Mouldi Kaidi,
the "third attacker", who is said to have provided the operation with its
weapons.

Mr Gharsalli said the operation was planned by an Algerian jihadist named
Lokmane Abou Sakhr, and organised through the cell and its Tunisian leader,
Mohammed Emine Guebli, who was among those arrested.

Significantly, he said that that group was linked to Al-Qaeda - rather than
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, the now rival jihadist organisation which
earlier claimed responsibility.

This local sub-group of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) is accused of
carrying out a number of attacks around the border with Algeria, where AQIM
originated.

Whether the minister's statement means that splinter groups from AQIM, which was
heavily weakened by its defeat by French forces in Mali, are now declaring
loyalty to Isil, is not yet clear.

Eight tourists were killed as they were walking from a bus parked in front of
the museum to the entrance, while 12 more were killed in the museum itself.

The museum is due to reopen to school parties Friday, and the general public on
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 5:10 PM GMT

Erol Incedal cleared of terror attack plot but row erupts over secret courts;
Student acquitted of plotting to target former Prime Minister Tony Blair or
Mumbai-style rampaging gun attack on streets of London after Old Bailey trial

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 908 words


A row over secret courts erupted last night after a British law student was
cleared of plotting the first Isil-inspired terror attack on UK soil, but the
public cannot be told why.

Erol Incedal, 27, was found not guilty of planning to target former Prime
Minister Tony Blair or to carry out a Mumbai-style rampaging gun attack on the
streets of London.

He was cleared in an "extraordinary" trial at the Old Bailey where, for the
first time, the majority of the evidence was heard behind closed doors.

Incedal burst into tears and mouthed 'thank you' to jurors he was acquitted of
preparing an act of terrorism.

But the case goes to the heart of issues of national security but has been
shrouded in official, court-ordered secrecy, damaging the centuries-old
tradition of open justice.

While all the evidence was put before a jury, more than 80 per cent was heard
either in total secrecy, away from the Press and public, or in front of ten
accredited journalists who are barred from reporting what they heard.

Less than a fifth of the case was heard in open court.

The allegations surrounding Mr Blair or a Mumbai-style attack were only minor
elements of the true case against Incedal but the public may never be told the
whole story.

The stringent Court of Appeal order means journalists have effectively been
forced to write misleading reports of a serious terrorist trial.

It also means details of Incedal's defence, which convinced a jury he was
innocent, cannot even be reported.

And what little can be reported was only possible after a successful legal
challenge by media groups, including the Telegraph, at the Court of Appeal.

The Crown Prosecution Service, supported by ministerial requests from the Home
Secretary and the Foreign Secretary, had originally persuaded the trial judge,
Mr Justice Nicol to have the entire case heard in total secret on grounds of
national security.

The Crown had warned that there would be pressure for the trial not to go ahead
if it was heard in public.

The draconian measures were partly relaxed following the challenge at the Court
of Appeal.

Media groups will now launch a fresh legal challenge to have orders surrounding
the restricted evidence lifted.

Lord Macdonald QC, a former Director of Public Prosecutions, said: "It would be
disastrous if we moved into a world where courts were more routinely going into
closed session.

"Public confidence in the criminal justice system requires transparency and
openness."

Incedal had faced a retrial after a jury in the original trial last year failed
to reach a verdict on the main charge. However that jury did convict him of
possessing a bomb making document.

When Incedal was arrested he was accused of plotting the first Syria-related
terror attacks in the UK.

During the Old Bailey trial, the prosecution claimed he had been researching
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) and communicating with someone over
skype abroad to try and get hold of a Kalashnikov.

He also had bomb-making plans headed "good stuff" and a list of instructions on
how to prepare for a terrorist attack that included dressing up in fake
uniforms, it was alleged.

Incedal told the court that he had a "good excuse" for having the bomb making
document but the reasons were then heard in a closed session meaning the public
cannot be told what it was.

Incedal was stopped driving a Black Mercedes E class saloon for a traffic
offence on September 30, 2013, and a listening device planted in the car.

A search of the vehicle uncovered a number of "significant items" including a
white Versace glasses case with a piece of paper, which had an address for a
property owned by Tony and Cherie Blair.

Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting, had told the Old Bailey that that had "some
significance".

The court later heard that Incedal had said he got the address of the BBC
website from a report about the venue for the wedding of the son of Mr and Mrs
Blair.

But, again, his reasons for having the address at all were given in a closed
session.

The court was told that Incedal had allegedly planned to carry out a
Mumbai-style rampaging gun attack.

He posed under the name Fatima Hamoodi on Skype to communicate with an
individual abroad who called himself Zaynab Alawi and who had registered under
the email "Darren Smartarse".

In a conversation at the beginning of September 2013, the two men discussed
"straps" which is a slang term for a firearm, talking in code by leaving gaps in
the words and interspersing numbers.

"These straps are not the little ones, they are like the ones we have here - y
knw k 1122aa shhh etc," read one message, referring to a Kalashnikov assault
rifle.

The message went on: "If they are able to get this type and it works may want
you to do mo88m 55bayy style," referring to a Mumbai-style assault, in which
armed terrorists ran amok through Mumbai, India attacking hotels, the train
station and a Jewish centre in November 2008, killing 164 people.

However, Incedal's explanation for having those conversations were heard in
closed session, away from the public.

Incedal was found not guilty of preparing acts of terrorism between February 1
2012 and his arrest on October 13, 2013.

Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, 27, from South London, who was driving the Mercedes
when it was stopped, has already pleaded guilty to the same charge of possessing
the same "bomb making" document.

The pair will be sentenced for possessing the bomb making document on April 1.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 26, 2015 Thursday 10:59 AM GMT

Erol Incedal cleared of terror attack plot after secret trial;
Isil-inspired jihadist acquitted of plotting to target former Prime Minister
Tony Blair or Mumbai-style rampaging gun attack on streets of London after Old
Bailey trial

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 858 words


A British law student has been cleared of plotting an Isil-inspired terror
attack on UK soil, but secrecy surrounding the trial means the public cannot be
told why.

Erol Incedal, 27, was found not guilty of planning to target former Prime
Minister Tony Blair or to carry out a Mumbai-style rampaging gun attack on the
streets of London.

He was cleared in an "extraordinary" trial at the Old Bailey where, for the
first time, the majority of the evidence was heard behind closed doors.

Incedal had faced a retrial after a jury in the original trial last year failed
to reach a verdict on the main charge. However that jury did convict him of
possessing a bomb making document.

But the public can still not be told the full story of Incedal, reigniting
concerns that the secret trial is damaging the centuries-old tradition of open
justice.

Across both trials, the entire case was heard in front of a jury and the
defendant, but key parts were either heard completely in private or in front of
a small group of accredited journalists who are currently banned by a court
order from revealing the details.

The move followed a successful application by the Crown Prosecution Service
supported by ministerial requests from the Home Secretary and the Foreign
Secretary to have the case heard entirely in private on grounds of national
security.

The Crown had warned that there would be pressure for the trial not to go ahead
if it was heard in public.

The draconian measures were only partly relaxed following a challenge by media
groups, including the Telegraph, at the Court of Appeal.

But large swathes of crucial evidence are still being kept secret, which means
the public cannot be told the reasons why the jury acquitted Incedal.

Across the two trials, more than half of the evidence was heard entirely in
private away from the Press and public. More than a quarter again was heard in
front of accredited journalists who are currently barred from reporting what
they heard. Just 17 per cent of the evidence was heard in public.

Prosecutors and the Government are now under pressure to have the court orders
restricting reporting lifted or risk speculation that there is something to
hide.

When Incedal was arrested he was accused of plotting the first Syria-related
terror attacks in the UK.

During the Old Bailey trial, the prosecution claimed Incedal had been
researching Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) and communicating with
someone over skype abroad to try and get hold of a Kalashnikov.

He also had bomb-making plans headed "good stuff" and a list of instructions on
how to prepare for a terrorist attack that included dressing up in fake
uniforms, it was alleged.

Incedal told the court that he had a "good excuse" for having the bomb making
document but the reasons were then heard in a closed session meaning the public
cannot be told what it was.

Incedal was stopped driving a Black Mercedes E class saloon for a traffic
offence on September 30, 2013, and a listening device planted in the car.

A search of the vehicle uncovered a number of "significant items" including a
white Versace glasses case with a piece of paper, which had an address for a
property owned by Tony and Cherie Blair.

Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting, had told the Old Bailey that that had "some
significance".

The court later heard that Incedal had said he got the address of the BBC
website from a report about the venue for the wedding of the son of Mr and Mrs
Blair.

But, again, his reasons for having the address at all were given in a closed
session.

The court was told that Incedal had allegedly planned to carry out a
Mumbai-style rampaging gun attack.

He posed under the name Fatima Hamoodi on Skype to communicate with an
individual abroad who called himself Zaynab Alawi and who had registered under
the email "Darren Smartarse".

In a conversation at the beginning of September 2013, the two men discussed
"straps" which is a slang term for a firearm, talking in code by leaving gaps in
the words and interspersing numbers.

"These straps are not the little ones, they are like the ones we have here - y
knw k 1122aa shhh etc," read one message, referring to a Kalashnikov assault
rifle.

The message went on: "If they are able to get this type and it works may want
you to do mo88m 55bayy style," referring to a Mumbai-style assault, in which
armed terrorists ran amok through Mumbai, India attacking hotels, the train
station and a Jewish centre in November 2008, killing 164 people.

However, Incedal's explanation for having those conversations were heard in
closed session, away from the public.

The judge, Mr Justice Nicol, also later revealed in open court that Incedal
explained away some of the documents found and bugged conversations by claiming
he was actually thinking about launching an armed robbery and buying heroin.

Incedal was found not guilty of preparing acts of terrorism between February 1
2012 and his arrest on October 13, 2013.

Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, 26, from South London, who was driving the Mercedes
when it was stopped, has already pleaded guilty to the same charge of possessing
the same "bomb making" document.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 27, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tunisia arrests terror cell in museum attack

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 210 words


TUNISIA yesterday said it had arrested a 23-strong "terror cell" that was behind
last week's jihadist attack on the Bardo Museum, which killed 20 foreign
tourists and a policeman.

All those arrested were Tunisian, said Najem Gharsalli, the interior minister,
while another Tunisian, two Moroccans and an Algerian were still on the run.

The authorities have previously named the Tunisian on the run as Maher Ben
Mouldi Kaidi, the "third attacker", said to have provided the weapons.

Mr Gharsalli said the operation was planned by an Algerian jihadist named
Lokmane Abou Sakhr, and organised through the cell and its Tunisian leader,
Mohammed Emine Guebli, who was among those arrested.

He said the group was linked to al-Qaeda, rather than Isil, which had earlier
claimed responsibility.

This local sub-group of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) is accused of
carrying out a number of attacks around the border with Algeria.

Whether the minister's statement means that splinter groups from AQIM, which was
heavily weakened by its defeat by French forces in Mali, are now declaring
loyalty to Isil, is not yet clear.

Eight tourists were killed as they were walking from a bus parked in front of
the museum to the entrance, while 12 more were killed in the building.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             March 27, 2015 Friday

Hearing for student convicted of possessing bomb manual but cleared of terror
attack

SECTION: NEWS; Highlight; Top Stories

LENGTH: 148 words


Erol Incedal, 27 of London, in hearing after being cleared yesterday of planning
a terrorist attack following a retrial which centered on the address of a
property belonging to Tony and Cherie Blair being found during a search of his
car. He will be sentenced on Wednesday after a trial last year held in partial
secrecy with a press ban and exclusion of the public in certain parts found him
guilty, along with co-defendant Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, of being in possession of
documents or records containing information of the kind likely to be used by a
person committing or preparing an act of terrorism Feb 2012 and Oct 2013. A
challenge from the Guardian newspaper last year was partly successful in
allowing the naming of the defendants and parts of the trial. Today's hearing
will clarify what can be reported at the sentencing. T2013 7502

Event Start Date: 2015-03-27

Event End Date: 2015-03-27

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 27, 2015 Friday 9:29 PM GMT

Chicago cousins who planned terror attack on U.S. 'wanted to kill 150 serviceman
with AK-47s after one snuck onto a base in other's uniform'

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON FOR DAILYMAIL.COM and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 720 words



     ·    Hasan Edmonds was arrested at Chicago Midway Airport on Wednesday
     ·    He was trying to board a plane for the first leg of his journey to
          Egypt
     ·    Told an undercover FBI agent on Facebook he'd bring 'flames of war' to
          the U.S. if he couldn't get to Syria
     ·    His cousin Jonas was arrested at home in Aurora, Illinois, the same
          day
     ·    The plan was for him to stage an attack on the base where Hasan
          trained
     ·    Pair allegedly drove to the target to discuss their plans on Tuesday
     ·    Both appeared in a Chicago court for the first time on Thursday


An Illinois Army National Guard soldier vowed to bring 'the flames of war' to
America if he was unable to join ISIS in Syria, while his cousin bragged about
gunning down 150 people at a military base disguised in his uniform, federal
prosecutors said Thursday.

Hasan R. Edmonds, the 22-year-old guardsman, was arrested Wednesday evening at
Chicago Midway International Airport trying to board a plane on the first leg of
a journey to Egypt.

Jonas M. Edmonds, 29, was detained a few hours later his home in Aurora, the
U.S. attorney's office in Chicago said.

A federal complaint says the plan was for Jonas to carry out an attack at
military installation in Illinois after Hasan left for the Middle East.

The pair allegedly visited the base on Tuesday with an undercover FBI agent they
met on Facebook to discus their plans. They believed he was an accomplice.

Scroll down for video

According to federal documents, Hasan described the rooms inside and talked
about which ones should be hit.

They are suspected of plotting an armed attack against a U.S. military facility
in northern Illinois where Hasan had trained. The complaint did not name the
facility.

A spokesman for the Illinois National Guard, Lt. Col. Brad Leighton, said Hasan
was member of Golf Company 634th Brigade Support Battalion, based in Joliet.

In Facebook messages to an undercover FBI agent in January, Hasan said that if
he was unable to make it to the Middle East, he would help bring 'the flames of
war to the heart' of America and 'cause as much damage and mayhem as possible,'
the complaint says.

In other social media messages, Hasan said his knowledge of the U.S. military
and American psychology would prove helpful in terrorizing Americans,
prosecutors contend.

'If we can break their spirits, we will win,' he said, according to the
complaint.

He allegedly spoke admiringly of the terrorist attack in Paris on the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo.

'Honestly, we would love to do something like the brother in Paris did,' he
allegedly wrote.

Both men face a count of conspiring to provide material support to a foreign
terrorist organization, the Islamic State. The conspiracy includes their alleged
terrorist plots in the U.S. A conviction carries a maximum 15-year prison
sentence.

They made initial appearances in a courtroom in Chicago later Thursday. Jonas
kept swiveling in his chair, stroking his beard and, at one point, yawned
loudly. Hasan sat still.

Hasan's sister, Manchinique Bates, told the Chicago Sun-Times, 'They aren't
terrorists.... Just because they choose to worship as Muslims does not make them
terrorists.'

Jonas allegedly communicated to an undercover agent that it may be difficult for
him to get travel documents. This may have been because he has a previous
conviction for conspiracy to commit armed robbery in Georgia.

Therefore, he said he would stage attacks in the U.S. using AK-47s to kill up to
150 people, prosecutors allege.

If he couldn't secure guns, he said he would use anything he could get his hands
on, the complaint says.

'I can unleash a lion,' he says. 'What I would need... honestly nothing. I am
prepared to go even if it's with a rock.'

Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner said Thursday he was briefed about the investigation
Wednesday. He provided no further details.

Hasan wasn't on active duty, so any criminal allegation will be addressed by
civilian federal authorities, said Leighton, the Illinois National Guard
spokesman.

Leighton said Hasan Edmonds reported to the Joliet base one weekend a month and
that he did two weeks of active duty training - typically in the summer. Hasan
Edmonds enlisted in 2011, but had never deployed.

He worked as a supply specialist that was part of a logistics unit providing
supplies and other services to the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team, Leighton
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 28, 2015 Saturday

Tanzania on frequent terror attack threats - police

LENGTH: 405 words


Excerpt from report by Emmanuel Onyango entitled "Tanzania under constant
terrorist threat" published by Tanzanian newspaper The Guardian website on 28
March

Tanzania has been on frequent terror-attack threats from Al-Shabab, the
affiliated Islamic State for Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group and Al-Qa'idah,
threatening both the public lives and the country's security organs.

The spokesperson for Tanzania Police Force, Senior Superintendent of Police
(SSP) Advera Bulimba told The Guardian that the country security organs are
positioned to foil any such attacks.

She said the country is often under terror threats and that the police are
always alert to counter any such threats from terrorists.

Police revelations comes following the recent ISIS call to the emir of Al-Shabab
in Somalia, Abu Ubaidah, to organize terrorist attacks in Tanzania, Kenya and
Ethiopia for their efforts on counter-terrorism in the region and the world at
large. [Passage omitted]

Ms Bulimba said with the recent terror attack in Tanga Region, the police force
has put in place the strategic communication links that would not be exposed to
the public as it would jeopardize counter-terrorism efforts.

"We cannot expose our security organs communication strategies links because it
would give advantage to terrorists to either escape or change their terrorist
strategies," she said.

She said Tanzanians need to ensure that they report to relevant authorities any
suspicious move by unknown people saying their good cooperation has helped to
foil and apprehend a number of terror suspects.

Approached for comment, the spokesperson for Tanzania People's Defence Forces
(TPDF) Maj Joseph Masanja, said the military was only directly concerned if the
terrorist claims has been thoroughly investigated by the police. Maj Masanja
said the military obligation comes only if requested to intervene in any
terrorist operations.

On Thursday, the minister of home affairs, Mathias Chikawe was quoted by the
local media as saying the country security organs has been positioned to ensure
that peace and stability is not disturbed.

Three months ago, Tanzania experienced terrorist attacks at Mikocheni Falls,
Amboni Village in Tanga Region where a military officer was killed, while five
others including two soldiers and three police officers were seriously injured
in shoot-outs with armed unknown armed group.

Source: The Guardian website, Dar es Salaam, in English 28 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      March 28, 2015 Saturday 7:49 PM GMT

Terrorists launch two deadly attacks on voters and kill six people in Nigeria;
Extremist group Boko Haram opened fire on their victims as they walked to vote
in the presidential elections

BYLINE: By Steve White

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 183 words


Terrorists launched two deadly attacks on voters in northeast Nigeria on
Saturday, killing six people.

In both attacks gunmen opened fire on voters as they trekked to their polling
stations, killing three in each.

A car bomb also exploded at a polling station in Nigeria as people gathered to
vote in the presidential election.

Video: Who are Nigeria's Boko Haram Islamists?

Bomb squad officers detonated two other cars filled with improvised explosive
devises at the scene at a primary school.

There was no claim of responsibility and no injuries.

The explosions occurred far from north-eastern Nigeria, the centre of Boko
Haram's Islamic uprising.

Nearly 60 million voters are registered for the first election in Nigeria's
history where an opposition candidate has a realistic chance of defeating a
sitting president.

President Goodluck Jonathan and former military dictator Muhammadu Buhari are
front-runners among 14 candidates seeking to govern Africa's most populated
nation.

Dozens have been killed in pre-election violence.

Some 1,000 people were killed in rioting after Buhari lost to Jonathan in 2011.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2015 Sunday

UN envoy condemns terrorist attack in Somali hotel

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report in English by Somali news website Mareeg on 28 March

The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia (SRSG),
Nicholas Kay, condemned in the strongest terms yesterday's terrorist attack on a
hotel in Mogadishu city that resulted in the death of many civilians, including
the Federal Government's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Office
in Geneva, H.E. Ambassador Yusuf Bari-Bari.

"I condemn yesterday's terrorist attack in Mogadishu in the strongest terms and
am appalled by the complete disregard for the lives of innocent civilians shown
by the attackers. I was saddened to learn that Somalia's Permanent
Representative to the UN Office in Geneva, H.E. Ambassador Yusuf Bari-Bari was
one of the victims who succumbed to his injuries last night. He will be
remembered for his strong personal commitment to protecting and promoting human
rights for all."

"At this difficult time, I would like to offer my sincere condolences to the
Federal Government, the family and friends of all those who died or were
injured."

Source: Mareeg website in English 28 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2015 Sunday

Amisom condemns terror attack in Somali capital

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report by Somali news website Raxanreeb on 29 March

The Special Representative of the Chairperson of the African Union Commission
(SRCC) for Somalia, Ambassador Maman S. Sidikou condemns in the strongest terms
possible yesterday's terrorist attack on a popular Mogadishu hotel.

The terrorists first detonated a Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device
(VBIED) at the main gate of the hotel before fighting their way into the hotel.

The terrorists are said to have then

stormed into the first, second and third floors of the hotel where rooms are
located and held several people hostage.

Somalia government forces and those from

AMISOM responded immediately and tried to rescue the hostages in an operation
that went on throughout the night.

Unfortunately the terrorists killed some residents at the hotel including

Somalia's Federal Government's Permanent

Representative to the United Nations Office in Geneva, H.E. Yusuf Bari-Bari.

"I am saddened by the senseless killing of

innocent people at the Maka Al Mukarama hotel by the terrorists. I wish to send
our heartfelt condolences to the family members and friends of the victims of
this heinous attack, and to the government for the death of ambassador Bari-Bari
who served his country with zeal and dedication.

Our message to the perpetrators of this inhuman act is, that their action will
not

dampen our spirit for the common good of

Somalia, but will further strengthen us to work even harder to defeat the enemy
of peace and development, with the aim of rebuilding a stronger and stable
Somalia," Ambassador Sidikou said.

Source: Raxanreeb website in English 29 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                dailypost.co.uk

                       March 29, 2015 Sunday 8:52 PM GMT

North Wales Police officers warned not to wear uniform to travel to work;
The North Wales Police Federation has warned staff about the danger from
terrorism following the attacks in France

BYLINE: By northwales

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 332 words


Police officers and staff have been warned not to wear even part of their
uniform to travel to work, amid fears that they may be targeted by terrorists.

The stark warning comes in the wake of the shooting of police officers in Paris
during and after the attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

An editorial in the current edition of Your Voice, the North Wales Police
Federation newsletter, states that the force's security review group has met
numerous times over in recent months to consider the threats to members.

The article says: "Our response must always have regard for our core role in
North Wales - ensuring the public have a police service they can trust and turn
to in times of need.

"Equally though, it needs to ensure that we do all we practically can to ensure
the safety of staff."

Simon Newport, chairman of the North Wales Police Federation, said the advice
was precautionary.

He said: "It's part of national guidance being given. Obviously, you don't
expect a terrorist attack here but it could happen.

"When you're in uniform, you can present a target. ISIS have put out a video
saying police officers are a fair target. It's about being aware of the dangers.

"As police officers, we face a double jeopardy because, if we see a crime taking
place off-duty, we're supposed to intervene, but then we identify ourselves."

Officers in North Wales have also been advised to be more vigilant in and around
force buildings, where people should be challenged to produce their ID, and to
wear and carry their protection equipment.

The editorial asks officers to consider how identifiable they are when
travelling to and from work.

"Uniformed staff are advised to not travel on public transport in 'part blues'
and those of you who park up and walk to your station should also consider this
aspect," says the article.

The force is also carrying out a security review of all its buildings.

While urging all employees to be vigilant, the editorial says officers should
"be alert, not alarmed".

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDPNM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       March 29, 2015 Sunday 4:16 PM GMT

Gibraltar put on high alert amid fears of 'Woolwich-style' terror attack

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 405 words


GIBRALTAR has been put on high alert amid fears of a "Woolwich-style" terror
attack, it was revealed today.

GETTY

Police have been told to be on their guard for a Woolwich-style terror attack in
GibraltarPolice and soldiers on The Rock have been warned they could be targets
of a terror plot designed to strike at the heart of British interests
abroad.Officers have been told to patrol while armed and in pairs as well as not
to wear uniforms when travelling to and from work.Security sources on the tiny
British colony, which is a popular destination with holidaymakers, said the
presence of armed police on its streets would be unprecedented.Fears of a
Woolwich-style attack on a British soldier serving on Gibraltar have heightened
since the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris and the murders of tourists across the
Mediterranean in Tunisia.Fusilier Lee Rigby was brutally murdered in May 2013
when Muslim converts Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale ran him down with
their car and attempted to behead him in the street near his barracks in
Woolwich, southeast London.A source told the Daily Star on Sunday: "The first
noticeable presence of armed police in public places one came immediately after
the attacks in Paris."They said security was increased substantially at key
Ministry Of Defence locations in Gibraltar and at one of the entry points.

GETTY

Sources on The Rock said tensions have heightened following the Paris terror
attacks Gibraltar increased its alert status to 'Substantial' following the
French murders and heavily armed police with dogs are now patrolling the streets
of the colony.Armed police have been deployed to guard soldiers on sentry duty
at the official residence of the governor of Gibraltar, and patrols have stepped
up across The Rock.Police sources said officers living in Spain have been warned
they could be at greater risk from attack and instructions have been issued to
stop travelling to and from work in uniform.Instead, officers have been told
they must change into uniform at the police station. A police source said that
officers are aware they could be the targets of a terror attack."We are
prepared, Gibraltar is not an easy target," the source said.Last night a
spokesman for the Foreign Office said: "The Governor is responsible for the
defence and internal security of Gibraltar, working closely with the Chief
Minister, Commissioner of Police, and Commander British Forces Gibraltar."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 29, 2015 Sunday 9:28 PM GMT

Tunis museum shooting: Khaled Chaieb, leading suspect in attack, killed in anti-
terror operation, says PM;
Twenty-one people, mainly foreigners, and two gunmen were killed in the
attack,with another woman dying of her injuries over the weekend

BYLINE: Tarek Amara

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 364 words


One of the main suspects in the Tunis museum attack that left 22 dead has been
killed in anti-terrorist operations, Tunisia's Prime Minister said today, as
tens of thousands of people marched through the capital to denounce extremist
violence.

Khaled Chaieb, also known as Abou Sakhr Lokman, was one of nine terror suspects
killed overnight in an operation near the Algerian border, state news agency TAP
cited Prime Minister Habib Essid as saying. Chaieb is believed a prominent
Algerian militant in al-Qaeda's North African arm, and suspected of leading or
helping lead the 18 March attack on the National Bardo Museum.

Twenty-one people, mainly foreigners, and two gunmen were killed in the attack.
A French woman, named only as Madame Dupeu, became the 22nd victim of the attack
after she died of her injuries over the weekend.

The French President François Hollande, the Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
and several foreign ministers from other countries joined an anti-terrorism
ceremony in Tunis after the march. A red-and-white sea of Tunisian flags filled
a major boulevard in the capital where thousands had come to rally under the
slogan "Le Monde est Bardo" (The World is Bardo).

In pictures: Bardo Museum shooting

"We have shown we are a democratic people, Tunisians are moderate, and there is
no room for terrorists here," said one of the demonstrators, Kamel Saad. "Today
everyone is with us."

Thousands of police and soldiers had been positioned around the capital since
early morning.

READ MORE: Video: Terrified tourists flee as gunmen attackFather of Bardo Museum
gunman speaksAttackers wore belts packed with explosives

One of the most secular countries in the Arab world, Tunisia has mostly avoided
violence in the four years since the toppling of autocrat Zine El-Abidine Ben
Ali. But authorities are struggling with scattered extremist violence linked to
various radical Islamic groups, largely linked to neighboring countries Algeria
or Libya.

An Interior Ministry spokesman Ali Aroui said yesterday that nine suspected
"terrorists" were killed when security forces clashed with the suspects in the
southwest region of Sidi Aich, near the Algerian border. AP; Reuters

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 29, 2015 Sunday 1:41 PM GMT

Gunman from museum terror attack who was one of the Tunisia's 'most dangerous
terrorists' is killed in armed raid

BYLINE: CLAIRE CARTER FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 537 words



     ·    Gunmen killed 21 people in attack on National Bardo Museum in Tunisia
     ·    Two were killed by police and third is now believed to have been
          killed
     ·    Abou Sakhr Lokman is one of nine people killed in overnight armed raid


     ·    He is believed to have been involved in museum terror attack that saw
          foreign tourists killed and was one of Tunisia's 'most dangerous
          terrorists'


A gunman who is suspected of being involved in the terror attack on foreign
tourists at a Tunisian museum is believed to have been killed in an armed raid.

Prime Minister Habib Essid has told state news agency TAP that Khaled Chaieb,
also known as Abou Sakhr Lokman, was killed overnight in an operation in the
Gafsa region near the Algerian border.

Chaieb is believed to be a prominent militant in al-Qaida's North African arm
and is described as one of Tunisia's 'most dangerous terrorists.'

He was one of nine armed militants killed in an operation on Saturday evening.

Chaieb is suspected of leading or helping lead the March 18 attack on the
National Bardo Museum which saw 21 people, mostly foreign tourists gunned down.
Police killed two of the gunmen who are said to be Tunisians in their 20s, who
had trained in Libya.

Security officials have claimed the militants were members of the Okba Ibn Nafaa
Brigade, a jihadist group.

Authorities have arrested several people in connection with the attack - dubbed
the worst in Tunisia in 13 years.

CCTV footage of the shooting shows the gunmen roaming free around the museum.
The lack of security at the country's largest museum has since been called into
question.

The news comes as tens of thousands of Tunisians marched through the capital
Tunis in a solidarity protest today.

French President Francois Hollande confirmed yesterday that Huguette Dupeu had
died from her injuries following the attack. Mr Hollande and Italian Prime
Minister Matteo Renzi and several foreign ministers and officials from other
countries are joining an anti-terrorism ceremony in Tunis after the march.

The Tunisian government called on all major political parties to join the march
from the seat of government at Bab Es-Saadoun to the museum.

The international visitors are showing solidarity with Tunisia, whose fragile
new democracy was deeply shaken by the museum attack, for which ISIS claimed
responsibility.

Fighters from Tunisia make up a disproportionately high number of foreign
recruits to ISIS in Syria, with as many as 10,000 having signed up.

ISIS issued a statement and audio on jihadi websites applauding the dead gunmen
as 'knights' for their 'blessed invasion of one of the dens of infidels and vice
in Muslim Tunisia'.

Tunisian protesters took to the streets across the region following the attack.

Authorities are struggling with scattered extremist violence linked to various
radical Islamic groups, largely linked to neighboring countries Algeria or
Libya.

Interior Ministry spokesman Ali Aroui said Sunday that nine suspected
"terrorists" were killed when security forces clashed with the suspects in the
southwest region of Sidi Aich, near the Algerian border. He said several
extremists were wounded in another clash in the northwest region of Kef, as part
of security operations around the country ahead of the march.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 29, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HOW LLOYD'S JOINED THE WAR ON GLOBAL TERROR;
Expertise won from IRA attacks in the Nineties is helping address threats from
Isil and others, writes Marion Dakers

BYLINE: Marion Dakers

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1228 words


By five o'clock the Lloyd's of London market is winding down for the day, as
grey-suited insurers drift out of their huddles of desks in the cavernous
underwriting floor known simply as the Room.

The Lutine bell, once rung when ships went down in the 19th century, stands
quietly over the middle of the room that insures the world against everything
from hurricanes to footballing injuries, ready to announce major disasters.

There's a late rush at the terrorism box of Hiscox, home to about a dozen
professionals who will cover any global danger that most people prefer not to
think about.

First in the queue is a fuel depot in the Caribbean, brought to the desk by one
of the hundreds of brokers who must walk around the room, folder tucked under
his arm, to find cover for a client. It's a renewal for a customer on a
relatively sleepy island, and the underwriter is happy to sign off a hefty
no-claims discount within minutes. Under "category of peril", the broker has
ticked the most basic box; the fuel depot is not worried about political
violence, or a catch-all section that includes coups d'état and riots.

They're not all this easy. Other brokers, while unfailingly polite, can haggle
over the height of the security fence, the distance from a US embassy, how
sturdy the government of a neighbouring country looks right now.

Reaching an exact price is as much about gut feeling and relationships with
brokers as it is about spreadsheets of risks, one of the team says.

If the fuel depot, a central European nuclear fuel site and a Turkish museum
ever come under attack, this will prove an expensive afternoon for Hiscox. Along
with its junior partners, it is now responsible for getting on for several
million pounds worth of potential damage.

Separate insurance for terrorism has become increasingly important since
September 11, 2001, when $40bn of estimated losses crippled both businesses and
insurers. In the United States, more than 60pc of companies now buy terrorism
cover, rising to three quarters in New York, according to figures from Marsh.

Lloyd's of London and its participants have been at the forefront of this
growing global business. "While a lot of [the insurance provided] is for outside
the UK, it's a growth product for the Lloyd's market," said Inga Beale, the
chief executive of Lloyd's. "We've just opened in Dubai and some of the lines
are going to be focused on political risks."

London's expertise has arisen from bitter experience. The 1990s bombing campaign
by the IRA caused terrible damage to British towns and cities, including almost
$1bn of losses when a truck bomb exploded near the Nat West Tower, just around
the corner from Lloyd's in the City of London.

Several insurers stopped offering property cover altogether. The Government
stepped in to develop Pool Re, a backstop that would carry some of the risks on
behalf of insurers, using a product known as reinsurance.

"The Government needed to do something or it would have been a major problem:
banks would have stopped lending, construction firms would have stopped
building," said Julian Enoizi, the chief executive of Pool Re. The system has
worked well enough that after 9/11, the US and numerous other countries adopted
it.

Meanwhile, participants in the Lloyd's market have been attempting to keep up
with the changing threats to their customers. "Ukraine is a classic example,"
said James de la Billiere, the head of war, terrorism and political violence at
Hiscox. "There was a perfectly benign operating environment that in six months
completely changed. Under those circumstances, things can change very, very
quickly and that's where Lloyd's comes into its own. Its ability through its
syndication process to deal with those risks."

He also cites the attack on the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi, Kenya,
which has prompted retailers to rethink safety procedures, and how they would
cope in a similar tragedy.

"We see the emergence of a jihadi-based threat that is playing out with Isil at
the moment," he said. "In those particular circumstances, the response is led by
the government, the police agencies. Our side is that if they suffer losses,
they're going to be able to keep trading afterwards."

Mr de la Billiere has seen both sides of this race to get in front of threats,
having joined from an Army career that saw him fight Afghan insurgents in Nahr-e
Saraj, one of the most violent corners of Helmand.

The Lloyd's market employs a considerable number of former military personnel,
including at least one bomb disposal expert. Their expertise is combined with
local reports on potential dangers from consultancies such as Control Risks.

But in a sign of the unpredictability of such attacks, the most expensive loss
of recent times in Europe was the work of Basque separatists. The Madrid airport
bombing of 2006 killed two people and caused $70m of property damage, Catlin
estimates.

For British businesses, insuring against such horrific human and financial
losses is made more straightforward by the safety net of Pool Re, which has paid
out £660m since its inception. The Government stands ready to honour all claims
if the Pool runs out of money after a terrorist attack.

Lloyd's insurers will cover British sites against terrorism losses, but the
products tend to be tailored to the financial protection of Pool Re, rather than
to the customer. A tourist attraction in central London may cost the same to
insure as a suburban park, as prices are based on geography.

"We see the Government backstops as a very important mechanism," said Mr de la
Billiere, who also sits on Pool Re's advisory panel. "It makes it very
straightforward for our property underwriters to get the right cover, but one
must recognise that the taxpayer is on the hook for some of this exposure. It's
our duty to get to a situation where the market is able to absorb that and take
the risk itself ... Pool Re's ultimate responsibility is to work itself out of a
job."

Pool Re is taking steps to encourage the commercial reinsurance world "to dip
its toe back in the water", as Mr Enoizi puts it. The pool bought £1.8bn of
reinsurance last year from firms including Munich Re, which was among those to
leave the market in the 1990s.

It has also struck a deal with the Treasury to hand 50pc of its reinsurance
premiums to the taxpayer, up from 10pc.

The success of Pool Re has been watched closely as insurers weigh up the next
potential vulnerability: cyber terrorism. Marsh recently published a report with
the Cabinet Office that showed despite a wave of increasingly costly breaches of
companies' online security, just 2pc have insurance against cyber attacks.

Some firms believe the market has the capacity to develop products commercially,
others think they can only properly understand the gravity of online risks with
the help of bodies such as GCHQ.

"A traditional terrorist event is often about political, religious and
ideological reasons and often in short order the party who is responsible will
capitalise on it. What's more challenging is how do you determine what the
nature of the cyber attack is?" said Mr de la Billiere. "Governments are very
cautious about declaring that they've had a terrorist attack on their mainland.
With cyber, I've yet to hear anyone say that [cyber event] was absolutely a
terrorist attack."

"We see the emergence of a jihadi based threat playing out

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MARCO SECCHI; ALAMY; REUTERS; STEPHEN LOCKLloyd's observes the
two-minute silence on Armistice Day. While Parliament is an obvious target, the
Bishopsgate bombing in 1993 and the Nairobi Westgate attack of 2013 show
terrorists can strike anywhere

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       March 29, 2015 Sunday 9:26 AM GMT

Terror attacks rock Nigerian elections

BYLINE: James Cowling

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 753 words


At least two people have been killed in suspected Boko Haram attacks aimed at
polling stations in Nigeria's knife-edge presidential election, officials have
said.

The terror group is thought to have been behind two attacks by gunmen in the
villages in the northeastern Gombe state, which has been repeatedly targeted by
the Islamists.

An election official said: "We could hear the gunmen shouting, 'Didn't we warn
you about staying away from (the) election?' "

Witnesses said that insurgents driving five pickup vehicles had warned
passers-by to leave or be killed, forcing election workers to abandon three
polling stations.

Police said that a car bomb had gone off close to a primary school in the
south-central Enugu state, but the explosion did not hurt people gathering to
vote.

A spokesman said that two other cars packed with explosives had been found near
by. They were dismantled by anti-bomb squads.

The attacks have added to security fears as some 68.8 million people turn out to
cast their ballots in closely-watched vote widely seen as too close to call.

Voting has been extended until Sunday in an election said to be the most closely
fought since independence.

Abubakar Shekau, leader of Boko Haram, said in a video message last month that
the militants would disrupt the democratic vote, which they see as "un-Islamic".

"This election will not be held even if we are dead," he said. "Even if we are
not alive, Allah will not allow you to do it."

Elsewhere in the country, a group calling itself the Nigerian Cyber Army hacked
into and shut down the electoral commission's website on Saturday, warning
officials not to rig the presidential election as voting accreditation was under
way.

"Strucked by Nigerian Cyber Army," read the banner at the top of the page, and
underneath: "security is just an illusion".

Nigeria's government had pushed back the vote date by six weeks, saying that it
needed more time to fight Boko Haram and increase stability.

Opposition critics have suggested thjat those concerns were used a pretext for
delaying tactics likely to benefit the incumbent President Goodluck Jonathan's
ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP).

He faces a stiff challenge from the former military dictator Muhammadu Buhari,
72. He led a junta in the 1980s and describes himself as a "converted democrat"
after uniting the country's two leading opposition parties under the All
Progressives Congress.

The day before the elections, Nigeria's military said its forces had retaken the
northeastern town of Gwoza, which Boko Haram militants last year declared the
headquarters of their "caliphate".

Many dismissed the news as electioneering, however, and an attempt by President
Jonathan to cement votes in the polls.

On Saturday Mr Buhari was the first voter to have his fingerprints registered at
a polling station that opened a half hour late in Daura, his home town in
northern Katsina state.

He was followed an hour later by Mr Jonathan, in the southern oil-rich state of
Bayelsa, though the president's registration was delayed after at least three
newly imported card readers failed to recognise his fingerprints, or those of
his wife.

Biometric cards and readers are being used for the first time to discourage the
kind of fraud that has marred previous votes.

Mr Jonathan returned two hours later and was accredited without the machine.

He later urged people to be patient, just as he had been, telling Channels TV:
"I appeal to all Nigerians to be patient no matter the pains it takes as long as
if, as a nation, we can conduct free and fair elections that the whole world
will accept."

One trader, Angela Okele, expressed concern however after her accreditation in
Port Harcourt, Nigeria's southern oil capital. "The process is too slow," she
said. "If it continues like this many people will not be able to cast their
votes today."

About 68.8 million people out of a total population of 173 million are
registered to vote, with Mr Jonathan drawing most of his support from Christians
in the south. Mr Buhari is expected to fare better in the largely Muslim north.

Boko Haram has been stepping up attacks in the run-up to the election even as
they government makes steady gains against the terror group in attacks supported
by troops and equipment from neighbouring Chad and Niger.

IHS Jane's Terrorism and Insurgency Centre said there were 28 Boko Haram attacks
in the three weeks after the election delay was announced, compared with 18 in
the three weeks beforehand - a 56 per cent increase.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             March 30, 2015 Monday

Museum attack suspect killed in anti-terrorist operation

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 225 words


TUNISIA: A leading suspect in the deadly museum attack on foreign tourists in
Tunisia has been killed in anti-terrorist operations, the prime minister says.

Prime Minister Habib Essid said Khaled Chaieb, also known as Abou Sakhr Lokman,
was killed overnight in an operation in the Gafsa region near the Algerian
border.

Chaieb is believed a prominent militant in al Qaida's North African arm, and
suspected of leading or helping lead the March 18 attack on the National Bardo
Museum.

Twenty-two people, mainly foreigners, and two gunmen were killed in the attack.

Meanwhile, tens of thousands of Tunisians have marched through the capital Tunis
to denounce extremist violence.

French president Francois Hollande, Italian prime minister Matteo Renzi and
several foreign ministers and legislators from other countries are joining an
anti-terrorism ceremony in Tunis after the march.

The Tunisian government called on all major political parties to join the march
from the seat of government at Bab Es-Saadoun to the museum.

The international visitors are showing solidarity with Tunisia, whose fragile
new democracy was deeply shaken by the museum attack, for which Islamic State
claimed responsibility.

Tunisian protesters unleashed revolts across the region known as the Arab
Spring, and Tunisia is the only country to have built a democratic system as a
result.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       March 30, 2015 Monday 11:05 PM GMT

Navy SEAL shot 27 times by al-Qaeda terrorists in gun and grenade attack - and
survived;
Retired senior chief Mike Day took gunshots in virtually every body part except
his head in the close-range shootout

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


Navy SEAL Mike Day's miracle story as he survived multiple gunshots as Al Qaeda
sprayed him with bullets

Retired US Navy SEAL Mike Day has already proved he is a man of steel.

During his final mission in Iraq in 2007, he somehow survived being shot 27
times by al-Qaeda terrorists at close range.

Mike took 11 bullets in his armour and a further 16 in body parts including his
legs, arms, abdomen, buttocks and even his scrotum.

He was also knocked out and hit by shrapnel from a grenade.

Not only did he survive, he managed to shoot dead all four al-Qaeda militants in
the battle and walked away from the scene unaided after he regained
consciousness.

But despite all this, Mike wants to prove himself once more and is now training
to complete an Ironman triathlon to raise money to help wounded servicemen and
women.

Speaking of his incredible survival, Mike said his first thoughts were for his
wife and daughters back home.

He told CBN News: "Upon entering that doorway, they all just opened up on me. "

"It felt like someone was beating me up with sledge hammers.

"After I figured out I was getting shot, I said 'god, get me home to my girls'.
That was my first prayer to God, real prayer. And He answered it.

"People who hear my story, they can't believe it. I was there and I can't
believe it."

Decorated veteran Mike, who served as a SEAL for more than 20 years, now wants
to make the most of his incredible survival.

"My life's mission now not about me," he wrote.

"Rather, it is to care for and lead my wounded brothers and sisters. My fellow
warriors deserve the best available treatment for their injuries."

He is taking part in the Ironman event in Florida next month, visit his
fundraising page here.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2015 Monday 7:40 PM GMT

Turkey tightens Syria border in terror concern;
Turkey partially closes two remaining border crossings with Syria, exacerbating
refugee crisis amid fears of terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


Turkey                      has partially closed its two remaining border
crossings with Syria, exacerbating a serious refugee crisis amid fears of a
terrorist attack.

The Bab al-Hawa and Bab al-Salameh border gates were initially closed on March
9, after clashes in northern Syria. While aid trucks have since been allowed to
cross the border into Syria individuals have not been able to travel in either
direction.

Speaking on condition of anonymity, an intelligence official told the New York
Times that the decision to close the crossing was based on "solid intelligence
about a large-scale terrorist attack".

The decision is a policy reversal for a country that has been praised for its
open-door stance towards refugees. Turkey hosts more than two million Syrian
refugees - more than any other country in the world.

Eleven other Turkish crossing points have shut over the past four years, as
Syria's intractable civil war has intensified.

Before the partial closures, a border official estimated that up to 1,500 people
travelled from Syria by way of the Bab al-Salameh crossing each day. A slightly
lower number passed through Bab al-Hawa.

"On the one side the Assad regime is shelling the people and on the other side
Turkey has closed its doors," Mustafa al-Najar, manager of the Syrian side of
Bab al-Salameh told the Wall Street Journal . "So where are the people supposed
to go?"

The move to strangle migration flows in and out of Syria underscores the depth
of the challenge facing Turkey as it wrestles with the dual challenges of a
humanitarian crisis on its border, and the rising threat posed by Islamic
extremists inspired by the fight in Syria and Iraq.

On Monday, Bashar al-Assad, Syria's president, accused Turkey of letting
would-be jihadists cross the border on "a daily basis".

Five Dutch citizens were reportedly detained by Turkish security forces on
Sunday, suspected of trying to cross into Syria illegally.

Turkey's porous 560-mile border with Syria remains a key entry point for foreign
fighters flocking to join the Islamic State's self-declared caliphate.

It is also the site of a flourishing black market that pours money into the
coffers of rebel groups of varying ideological stripes.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2015 Monday 12:05 PM GMT

How Lloyd's joined the war on global terror;
Expertise won from IRA attacks in the Nineties is helping address threats from
Islamic States and others

BYLINE: By Marion Dakers Financial services editor

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 1222 words


By five o'clock the Lloyd's of London market is winding down for the day, as
grey-suited insurers drift out of their huddles of desks in the cavernous
underwriting floor known simply as the Room.

The Lutine bell, once rung when ships went down in the 19th century, stands
quietly over the middle of the room that insures the world against everything
from hurricanes to footballing injuries, ready to announce major disasters.

There's a late rush at the terrorism box of Hiscox, home to about a dozen
professionals who will cover any global danger that most people prefer not to
think about.

First in the queue is a fuel depot in the Caribbean, brought to the desk by one
of the hundreds of brokers who must walk around the room, folder tucked under
his arm, to find cover for a client. It's a renewal for a customer on a
relatively sleepy island, and the underwriter is happy to sign off a hefty
no-claims discount within minutes. Under "category of peril", the broker has
ticked the most basic box; the fuel depot is not worried about political
violence, or a catch-all section that includes coups d'état and riots.

They're not all this easy. Other brokers, while unfailingly polite, can haggle
over the height of the security fence, the distance from a US embassy, how
sturdy the government of a neighbouring country looks right now. Reaching an
exact price is as much about gut feeling and relationships with brokers as it is
about spreadsheets of risks, one of the team says.

If the fuel depot, a central European nuclear fuel site and a Turkish museum
ever come under attack, this will prove an expensive afternoon for Hiscox. Along
with its junior partners, it is now responsible for getting on for several
million pounds worth of potential damage.

Separate insurance for terrorism has become increasingly important since
September 11, 2001, when $40bn of estimated losses crippled both businesses and
insurers. In the United States, more than 60pc of companies now buy terrorism
cover, rising to three quarters in New York, according to figures from Marsh.

Lloyd's of London and its participants have been at the forefront of this
growing global business. "While a lot of [the insurance provided] is for outside
the UK, it's a growth product for the Lloyd's market," said Inga Beale, the
chief executive of Lloyd's. "We've just opened in Dubai and some of the lines
are going to be focused on political risks."

London's expertise has arisen from bitter experience. The 1990s bombing campaign
by the IRA caused terrible damage to British towns and cities, including almost
$1bn of losses when a truck bomb exploded near the Nat West Tower, just around
the corner from Lloyd's in the City of London.

Several insurers stopped offering property cover altogether. The Government
stepped in to develop Pool Re, a backstop that would carry some of the risks on
behalf of insurers, using a product known as reinsurance.

"The Government needed to do something or it would have been a major problem:
banks would have stopped lending, construction firms would have stopped
building," said Julian Enoizi, the chief executive of Pool Re. The system has
worked well enough that after 9/11, the US and numerous other countries adopted
it.

Meanwhile, participants in the Lloyd's market have been attempting to keep up
with the changing threats to their customers. "Ukraine is a classic example,"
said James de Labillière, the head of war, terrorism and political violence at
Hiscox. "There was a perfectly benign operating environment that in six months
completely changed. Under those circumstances, things can change very, very
quickly and that's where Lloyd's comes into its own. Its ability through its
syndication process to deal with those risks."

He also cites the attack on the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi, Kenya,
which has prompted retailers to rethink safety procedures, and how they would
cope in a similar tragedy.

"We see the emergence of a jihadi-based threat that is playing out with Isil at
the moment," he said. "In those particular circumstances, the response is led by
the government, the police agencies. Our side is that if they suffer losses,
they're going to be able to keep trading afterwards."

Mr de Labillière has seen both sides of this race to get in front of threats,
having joined from an Army career that saw him fight Afghan insurgents in Nahr-e
Saraj, one of the most violent corners of Helmand.

The Lloyd's market employs a considerable number of former military personnel,
including at least one bomb disposal expert. Their expertise is combined with
local reports on potential dangers from consultancies such as Control Risks.

But in a sign of the unpredictability of such attacks, the most expensive loss
of recent times in Europe was the work of Basque separatists. The Madrid airport
bombing of 2006 killed two people and caused $70m of property damage, Catlin
estimates.

For British businesses, insuring against such horrific human and financial
losses is made more straightforward by the safety net of Pool Re, which has paid
out £660m since its inception. The Government stands ready to honour all claims
if the Pool runs out of money after a terrorist attack.

Lloyd's insurers will cover British sites against terrorism losses, but the
products tend to be tailored to the financial protection of Pool Re, rather than
to the customer. A tourist attraction in central London may cost the same to
insure as a suburban park, as prices are based on geography.

"We see the Government backstops as a very important mechanism," said Mr de
Labillière, who also sits on Pool Re's advisory panel. "It makes it very
straightforward for our property underwriters to get the right cover, but one
must recognise that the taxpayer is on the hook for some of this exposure. It's
our duty to get to a situation where the market is able to absorb that and take
the risk itself ... Pool Re's ultimate responsibility is to work itself out of a
job."

Pool Re is taking steps to encourage the commercial reinsurance world "to dip
its toe back in the water", as Mr Enoizi puts it. The pool bought £1.8bn of
reinsurance last year from firms including Munich Re, which was among those to
leave the market in the 1990s.

It has also struck a deal with the Treasury to hand 50pc of its reinsurance
premiums to the taxpayer, up from 10pc.

The success of Pool Re has been watched closely as insurers weigh up the next
potential vulnerability: cyber terrorism. Marsh recently published a report with
the Cabinet Office that showed despite a wave of increasingly costly breaches of
companies' online security, just 2pc have insurance against cyber attacks.

Some firms believe the market has the capacity to develop products commercially,
others think they can only properly understand the gravity of online risks with
the help of bodies such as GCHQ.

"A traditional terrorist event is often about political, religious and
ideological reasons and often in short order the party who is responsible will
capitalise on it. What's more challenging is how do you determine what the
nature of the cyber attack is?" said Mr de la Billiere. "Governments are very
cautious about declaring that they've had a terrorist attack on their mainland.
With cyber, I've yet to hear anyone say that [cyber event] was absolutely a
terrorist attack."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2015 Monday 10:28 AM GMT

Turkey closes two border crossings with Syria amid fears of 'terrorist attack';

The Oncupinar and Cilvegozu border gates in Hatay Province were initially closed
on March 9

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


Turkey                      has partially closed its two remaining border
crossings with Syria amid fears of a possible terrorist attack.

The Oncupinar and Cilvegozu border gates in Hatay Province were initially closed
on March 9, after clashes in northern Syria. While aid trucks have since been
allowed to cross the border, individuals have not.

An anonymous intelligence official told the New York Times that the decision to
close the crossings was based on "solid intelligence about a large-scale
terrorist attack".

The decision is a policy reversal for a country that has been praised for its
open-door stance towards refugees. The country hosts over 2 million Syrian
refugees - more than any other country in the world.

Eleven other Turkish crossing points have shut over the past four years, as
Syria's intractable civil war has intensified. Before the partial closures, a
border official estimated that up to 1,500 people travelled from Syria by way of
the Bab al-Salameh crossing each day.

A slightly lower number passed through Bab al-Hawa.

"On the one side the Assad regime is shelling the people and on the other side
Turkey has closed its doors," Mustafa al-Najar, manager of the Syrian side of
Bab al-Salameh told the Wall Street Journal. "So where are the people supposed
to go?"

The move to strangle migration flows in and out of Syria underscores the depth
of the challenge facing Turkey as it wrestles with the dual challenges of a
humanitarian crisis on its border, and the rising threat posed by Islamic
extremists inspired by the fight in Syria and Iraq .

Five Dutch citizens were reportedly detained by Turkish security forces on
Sunday, suspected of trying to cross into Syria illegally.

Turkey's porous 560-mile border with Syria remains a key entry point for foreign
fighters flocking to join the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 's
self-declared caliphate.

It is also the site of a flourishing black market that pours money into the
coffers of rebel groups of varying ideological stripes.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       March 30, 2015 Monday 2:45 PM GMT

Police officers warned not to wear uniforms to get to work in case they are
targeted by terrorists;
A Welsh police federation has warned staff about the danger from terrorism
following the attacks in France

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


Police officers and staff in a Welsh police force have been warned not to wear
their uniform to travel to work in case they are targeted by terrorists.

The warning comes in the wake of the shooting of police officers in Paris during
and after the attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

An editorial in the current edition of Your Voice, the North Wales Police
Federation newsletter, states that the force's security review group has met
numerous times over in recent months to consider the threats to members.

The article says: "Our response must always have regard for our core role in
North Wales - ensuring the public have a police service they can trust and turn
to in times of need.

"Equally though, it needs to ensure that we do all we practically can to ensure
the safety of staff."

The world pays tribute to victims of Charlie Hebdo shootings:

Charlie Hebdo shootings: Moving pictures as France and the world pays tribute

Simon Newport, chairman of the North Wales Police Federation, said the advice
was precautionary.

He said: "It's part of national guidance being given. Obviously, you don't
expect a terrorist attack here but it could happen.

"When you're in uniform, you can present a target. ISIS have put out a video
saying police officers are a fair target. It's about being aware of the dangers.

"As police officers, we face a double jeopardy because, if we see a crime taking
place off-duty, we're supposed to intervene, but then we identify ourselves."

Officers in North Wales have also been advised to be more vigilant in and around
force buildings, where people should be challenged to produce their ID, and to
wear and carry their protection equipment.

The editorial asks officers to consider how identifiable they are when
travelling to and from work.

"Uniformed staff are advised to not travel on public transport in 'part blues'
and those of you who park up and walk to your station should also consider this
aspect," says the article.

The force is also carrying out a security review of all its buildings.

While urging all employees to be vigilant, the editorial says officers should
"be alert, not alarmed".

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             March 30, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack as voting goes on;
WORLD BULLETINS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 83 words


SUSPECTED Boko Haram extremists have attacked polling stations and destroyed
election material in two north-eastern towns as Nigerians continue to vote.

Fleeing residents said scores of the extremists are advancing on Nigeria's
north-eastern city of Bauchi, with soldiers exchanging heavy gunfire with them.

Fighter jets flew above the city and police spokesman Haruna Muhammad said
security forces had stopped a convoy of 10 vehicles of "unidentified gunmen" at
Dindima village, six miles from Bauchi.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2015 Tuesday

African summit condemns terror attacks in Egypt, recognizes Al-Sisi

LENGTH: 273 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Addis Ababa, 31 March: Wrapping up work here Tuesday [31 March], the 18th COMESA
summit congratulated President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi for winning the
presidential election in Egypt.

The summit praised the presidential polls, which were conducted with
professionalism through the High Election Commission.

It also lauded the peaceful power sharing in Egypt, pointing to the smooth
transfer of power from former president Adli Mansur to Al-Sisi.

In its communique, the COMESA summit also condemned terrorist operations in a
number of African states, including Egypt.

It condemned in the strongest terms the recent beheading of Egyptians in Libya
at the hands of Da'ish [Arabic acronym of the so-called Islamic State
(IS/ISIS/ISIL)].

The COMESA condoles with the Egyptian government and people, it said in the
communique.

The Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) said it is looking
forward to holding a three-way conference with the East African Community (EAC)
and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in Sharm al-Shaykh next
June.

[At 1716 gmt, MENA reported that Prime Minister Ibrahim Mahlab, who led Egypt's
delegation to the meeting, met with transport minister of the Democratic
Republic of Congo to look into setting up joint projects. At 1629 gmt, MENA said
that Mahlab met with Burundi's vice president to discuss cooperation in power
and construction. At 1551 gmt, MENA said that Mahlab also met Madgascar's
president, whom he invited to attend the inauguration ceremony of the New Suez
Canal.]

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1610gmt 31 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      March 31, 2015 Tuesday 12:29 PM GMT

Former Birmingham solicitor died from gunshot wounds in Tunisia terrorist
attack, inquest hears;
Sally Adey, who lived in a Shropshire village, was killed by Islamic State
gunmen at museum

BYLINE: By Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 268 words


A former Birmingham solicitor killed in a terror attack in Tunisia died of
gunshot wounds to her abdomen and pelvis, a coroner has heard.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, of Caynton, near Shifnal, Shropshire, died in the
shooting at the Bardo National Museum in Tunis on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
is a partner at Birmingham law firm Shakespeares.

Shropshire coroner John Ellery was told at the opening of an inquest into her
death, it was Mrs Adey's husband who identified her body at the Charles Nicolle
Hospital in Tunis, the day after the attack.

Coroner's officer Julie Hartridge said retired Mrs Adey and her husband had
"disembarked from the MSC Splendida in Tunis on March 18" before going to the
museum.

"It is reported the museum came under fire from gunmen and she received fatal
gunshot wounds," she added.

Ms Hartridge said a post-mortem examination carried out in the UK by a Home
Office pathologist on March 25 had established provisional cause of death as
"consistent with gunshot wounds to the abdomen and pelvis".

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, including 17 cruise ship
tourists, with Mrs Adey among them.

Two gunmen who carried out the atrocity were subsequently killed in a firefight
with security forces.

The Islamic State group based in Iraq and Syria later claimed responsibility for
the attack.

On Sunday, the Tunisian government said another leading suspect implicated in
the terror assault had been killed near the Algerian border.

Mr Ellery, opening proceedings at Shrewsbury's Shirehall, adjourned the hearing
until July 2.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Fleetwood Weekly News

                             March 31, 2015 Tuesday

Attack terror of TV star hotelier

LENGTH: 524  words


A hotelier who achieved TV fame on Channel 4's Four in a Bed' show says she now
lives in fear following a campaign of abuse.

Jennifer McGirr says she has had her window smashed and received intimidating
phone calls since she featured on the popular programme.

The 61-year-old said the window of her Tower View Hotel, on Bethesda Road, was
shattered after a man threw a brick at it in a "premeditated" attack before
being subjected to the "frightening" calls.

And police are now probing fears the offences are a response to her appearance
on the hit TV show.

Ms McGirr, who has had the hotel for two-and-a-half years, told The Gazette:
"It's come totally out of the blue.

"It's been very frightening really. Where does all this hatred come from?"

CCTV footage shows a man walk up to the hotel with a brick in his hand before
waiting to check the coast is clear.

He sets the brick down and sits on a nearby wall for around three minutes,
letting a car go past while he has a cigarette, before he picks it up again and
hurls it at the hotel.

PC Phil McVicar, of Blackpool Police, said it was not yet clear if the incidents
were perpetrated by the same person, but officers are now understood to be
probing claims they are linked to her TV appearance.

He said: "This is a mindless act of damage carried out under the cover of
darkness.

"She believes she has been targeted because of the Four in a Bed' programme.

"We are investigating".

He added they were now looking into possible motives for the offence on the back
of that report.

"He has gone with the intention of breaking the window. (The victim) was very
concerned about the phone calls she received.

"We are reassuring her."

Since featuring in five episodes of the Channel 4 show between March 16 and 20,
where B&B owners visit each other's properties and pass judgement, Ms McGirr
says the abuse left her living in fear.

During one of the episodes aired she responded to criticism of her hotel from a
couple who said there were cheap budget hotels in Blackpool by saying: "You try
staying in them - they are grim."

On Friday, March 20 - the day the last episode aired - she discovered the dining
room window had been smashed.

Ms McGirr received an abusive phone call later that day, while police were at
the hotel investigating the damage.

She said she also answered the phone in the middle of the night and could hear
only the sound of someone breathing.

Ms McGirr  added: "When I got this first phone call he just came out with this
tirade of nastiness about the hotel.

"He said it was a disgusting, horrible hotel and he wouldn't stay there if I
paid him.

"I don't know this guy - it's not anyone who has stayed here. I passed the phone
to one of the policemen and when he said hello the man hung up."

Ms McGirr  described watching back the CCTV footage of the brick attack, saying:
"There was pure intent. He meant to do it.

"He just hung around waiting until he was sure the coast was clear."

The man is described as between 5ft 8in and 6ft tall, of heavy build and with
dark short hair. He wore a hooded jacket.  Inquiries are ongoing and no arrests
have been made.   Call police on 101 with any information.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WFWN


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             March 31, 2015 Tuesday

Inquest opens into death of British woman killed in Tunisia terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Courts - Civil; Courts

LENGTH: 72 words


Inquest opens into the death of solicitor and mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, of
Caynstall, nr Shifnal, Shropshire, who died in the attack on the National Bardo
Museum in Tunis, Tunisia on 18 Mar. Over 20 died when gunmen opened fire on
tourists, 17 of them, incl Mrs Adey, from a cruise ship, at the museum. The
Islamic State group (IS, formerly known as ISIS) claimed responsibility

Event Start Date: 2015-03-31

Event End Date: 2015-03-31

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 31, 2015 Tuesday 11:46 AM GMT

British mother-of-two killed in Tunisian museum terror attack died of gunshot
wounds to her stomach and pelvis, coroner hears

BYLINE: CLAIRE CARTER FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 571 words



     ·    Sally Adey was on a cruise with her husband and visited Bardo museum
     ·    Mother-of-two was one of 21 victims shot by gunmen prowling the site
     ·    Inquest heard the retired solicitor died of stomach and pelvis wounds
     ·    Tunisian forces claim they have killed three perpetrators of terror
          attack


A retired British solicitor who was killed in a terror attack on a museum in
Tunisia died from wounds to her stomach and pelvis, an inquest heard.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, of Caynstall, near Shifnal, Shropshire, is one of more
than 20 people who died after gunmen attacked tourists at the Bardo National
Museum in Tunis.

The terror attack was the worst of its kind in Tunisia for 13 years.

Mrs Adey had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert,
who survived the attack and had to identify his wife's body.

Gunmen started shooting people after they were able to sneak into the museum on
March 18, killing more than 20 people - including 17 tourists who had been on
the cruise.

Two gunmen who carried out the atrocity were subsequently killed in a firefight
with security forces.

On Sunday the Tunisian government confirmed that terror chief Khaled Chaieb,
also known as Abou Sakhr Lokman, was killed overnight in an operation in the
Gafsa region near the Algerian border.

He was one of the country's most dangerous terrorists and is believed to have
been involved in the museum shooting.

Coroner's officer Julie Hartridge, of Shrewsbury Coroners' Court, said retired
solicitor Mrs Adey and her husband had left the luxury cruise ship MSC Splendour
earlier that day before going into the museum on an excursion.

She said a postmortem carried out on May 25 had established provisional cause of
death as 'consistent with gunshot wounds to the abdomen and pelvis'.

Scroll down for video

Mr and Mrs Adey married in 1984 and have two children, Molly, 20, and Harry, 23.
Mrs Adey is believed to have retired to have helped her children study for their
A Levels and is thought to have recently returned to work full time.

After the attack ISIS based in Iraq and Syria claimed responsibility.

Tunisian fighters make up a disproportionately high number of foreign recruits
to ISIS in Syria, with as many as 10,000 having signed up.

CCTV footage of the shooting shows the gunmen roaming free around the museum
carrying assault rifles and bags. At one point, they encounter another man with
a backpack walking down a flight of stairs.

They briefly acknowledge each other and let the unidentified man walk free
before unleashing the deadly attack in the country's largest museum.

The video also shows stills of the dead gunmen - named as Yassine Laabidi and
Hatem Khachnaou - who were killed in a firefight with security forces, including
a picture indicating at least one was wearing an explosive belt.

Images released after the shooting show glass perforated with bullet holes and
grenades discarded on the floor.

The lack of security at the country's largest museum has since been called into
question and the brutality has led to large scale solidarity protests in Tunis,
both at the weekend and in the immediate aftermath of the attack.

Several people were arrested by Tunisian security forces after the attacks.

The government now plans to deploy the army to major cities to bolster security
following the shootings

On Saturday French President Francois Hollande confirmed Huguette Dupeu had died
from her injuries following the attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

British victim of Tunisia terror attack died of gunshot injuries

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 151 words


A BRITISH tourist killed in a terrorist attack in Tunisia died of gunshot wounds
to her abdomen and pelvis, a coroner has heard.

Mother-of-two Sally Adey, 57, of Shifnal, Shropshire, died in the shooting at
the Bardo National Museum in Tunis on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

At the opening of her inquest, senior coroner for Shropshire John Ellery was
told it was Mrs Adey's husband who identified her body at a hospital in Tunis,
the day after the attack, in which 17 cruise holiday-makers died.

Coroner's officer  Julie Hartridge said a post-mortem examination in the UK by a
Home Office pathologist on March 25 had established provisional cause of death
as "consistent with gunshot wounds to the abdomen and pelvis".

The Islamic State terror group claimed responsibility for the attack.

Mr Ellery adjourned the hearing until July 2.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      April 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:48 PM GMT

Erol Incedal: British student jailed after police caught him with bomb-making
manual on memory card;
The 27-year-old was cleared of plotting a 'Mumbai-style' terror attack last week
but has now been sentenced for possessing the deadly instructions

BYLINE: By Emily Pennink

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 306 words


A British law student has been jailed after being caught by police with a bomb
making manual on a memory card.

Erol Incedal, 27, has been locked up for three-and-a-half years after being
found with instructions to make devices which could have caused 'death, injury
and destruction'.

Incedal was in a Mercedes on Tower Bridge when he was stopped by police in
October 2013 and was found to have the documents on a memory card.

He was later found to have travelled to the Turkish-Syrian border and mixed with
Jihadists.

The student, from London, was sentenced after being cleared of plotting a
'Mumbai-style' terror attack using a Kalashnikov at the Old Bailey last week .

His friend Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, also 27 and from London, admitted having an
identical document.

Incedal, who has been in custody since he was stopped by police and admitted the
offence, was jailed for 42 months at the Old Bailey while Rarmoul-Bouhadjar was
jailed for three years by judge Mr Justice Nicol.

The judge said: "The potential for such bombs to cause death, injury and
destruction is obvious.

"The fear, panic and terror which explosions also bring are often a deliberate
part of the terrorist's ambition."

Mr Justice Nicol told the pair that even though they were not terrorists,
Parliament had made possessing such documents an offence because of the danger
of them being in circulation.

The case became a legal first after an attempt by the Crown to hold the entire
trial in secret was scuppered by a media challenge at the High Court.

While a small section of the trial was held in public, the lion's share of the
evidence, including most of Incedal's defence, was completely in secret.

Defending, Joel Bennathan QC said his client had asked Rarmoul-Bouhadjar to get
him a copy of the document he had seen on a laptop at the house on the
Turkey-Syria border.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Thanet Extra

                                 April 1, 2015

Disabled father's terror as vandals attack home

LENGTH: 305  words


by James Rose

jrose@thekmgroup.co.uk

@km_jamesrose

A disabled man is too scared to leave his bedroom after two acts of vandalism
carried out on his family home.

Stephen Reeve, 37, of Broadley Avenue, Birchington, is wheelchair-bound after an
above the knee amputation in July and his family believe his recovery is being
hindered because he is living in fear.

The most recent attack reportedly occurred between 12.35am and 12.54am on March
6. His wife and carer Vanessa, 41, is appealing for help to stop any further
attacks to the property, after someone threw three rocks at a downstairs window,
shattering the glass, and their car windscreen was also smashed.

Mrs Reeve said: "Luckily the car alarm went off and I believe this stopped any
further attacks to the property.

"My husband is severely disabled and his health is rapidly deteriorating.

"His recuperation has been hindered by the fear he now lives in and we all
struggle to sleep at night."

The mother-of-three said the first attack happened in August last year when all
four of their motability car tyres were pierced.

She added: "We are unable to move as our home has been adapted for my husband's
needs.

Vulnerable

"It beggars belief that anyone can be cruel enough to repeatedly target a family
like ours who are extremely vulnerable and unable to fight back. These people
are the lowest of the low.

"The whole situation is destroying my family and I want the perpetrators to be
found and pay for what they have done."

A police spokesman said: "Police are investigating criminal damage to a house in
Broadley Avenue, Birchington.

"We are aware that these residents have concerns about the incident and the
local community safety unit and PCSO are working on the case and liaising with
the local housing officer."

n Witnesses are asked to contact 101 quoting reference ZY/006603/15

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 2, 2015 Thursday

Three policemen killed in "terrorist attack" in southwestern Iran - Press TV

LENGTH: 39 words


At 1002 gmt on 2 April, Iran's English-language Press TV channel ran the
following "breaking news" caption: "Three policemen killed in terrorist attack
in Iran's Khuzestan Province".

Source: Press TV, Tehran, in English 1002 gmt 2 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 2, 2015 Thursday

Romanian president condoles with Turkish counterpart over terrorist attack

LENGTH: 322 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Turkish President Erdogan: Democracy a complex system
that cannot allow terrorism"]

Bucharest, April 1 /Agerpres/ -President Klaus Iohannis expressed his
condolences to his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan following the
Tuesday's [31 March] terrorist attack in Istanbul; Erdogan, who shortened his
official visit to Bucharest, said democracy excludes terrorism.

'I am expressing my own and all our condolences for yesterday's unfortunate
event. I can assure you of our full solidarity. Terrorism is a terrible,
expanding scourge against which our nations must collaborate,' Iohannis said
after his meeting with Erdogan at the Cotroceni Palace.

The Turkish president related that a prosecutor was taken hostage and cowardly
killed in Istanbul; he called the victim a hero.

'Terrorism (...) is a worldwide matter, and we have to carry on our fight
worldwide. (...) The action was perpetrated against our party, against
democracy. Democracy is a complex system that cannot allow terrorism. We who
believe in democracy must fight against terrorism, and in my capacity of
President of Turkey, I will continue this fight till the end. (...) The fight
must continue in a firm manner, and our party will take steps as regards the
event,' declared Erdogan.

He underlined that such events generate worries, and they should be known to be
prevented. He announced a high-level meeting upon his return to Turkey, as his
country wanted to carry out this process.

Erdogan voiced his hope of being able to visit the prosecutor's family to
express his condolences.

The Presidential Administration announced the early ending of Erdogan's official
visit to Bucharest; the Turkish President cancelled his attendance at the
official dinner offered by President Iohannis on Wednesday evening.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1128 gmt 1 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 2, 2015 Thursday 8:36 PM GMT

Kenya university terror attack: Evil mastermind behind the massacre revealed;
Former school headmaster Mohamed Kuno - dubbed "the long-armed man" has been
unveiled as the mastermind behind the massacre

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 725 words


The evil mastermind who orchestrated the storming of a university in Kenya has
been named as former school headmaster Mohamed Kuno - dubbed "the long-armed
man".

The heavily armed Al Shabaab gang lined the undergraduates up and asked them:
"Are you Christian or Muslim?"

Muslims were immediately freed and Christians were executed - either shot or
their heads were cut off.

And police fear the death toll will rise once they could get full access to the
campus.

More than 500 students remain unaccounted for.

The face of Kuno also known as Dulyadin Gamadhere has been put on a "most
wanted" poster.

Kenyan authorities have offered a massive reward - 20 million Kenyan shillings
(£150,000) - for the arrest of Kuno.

Garissa University College attack

Kuno was Headmaster at a strict Madrassa in Garissa before he quit in 2007.

Recently he has been involved in running al-Shabab's murderous activities in
Kenya.

He goes by the nickname "Dulyadin", which in Somali means the long-armed man.

He has three wives - two of which are from the Garissa area.

It's believed some of the students are still being held hostage in a dormitory
building which slept 360 young women and men.

Kenya's interior minister Joseph Nkaissery confirmed that 70 people had been
killed and 79 people were wounded.

Four suspected attackers died in a "fierce shoot-out" at Garissa University
College - 200 miles from the capital Nairobi.

Another was arrested and being questioned by Police.

Terrified undergraduates who managed to flee described the scene.

Winnie Njeri said: "We saw beheaded bodies when we escaped.

"It is very bad, they have killed many people."

Omar Ibrahim said he had seen several bodies which had been badly disfigured by
the attackers.

"We saw many, many bodies, some did not have heads. I don't know why someone
would do such a thing."

Augustine Alanga, 21, described how gunshots rang out outside their dormitory
before dawn.

He said most people were still fast asleep and he he saw "at least five heavily
armed, masked gunmen."

He said: "I am just now recovering from the pain as I injured myself while
trying to escape. I was running barefoot."

He was one of scores of students who managed to escape through razor sharp
barbed-wire fencing.

Grace Kai, a student at the Garissa Teachers Training College near the
university, said there had

been warnings that an attack in the town could be imminent.

She said: "Some strangers had been spotted in Garissa town and were suspected to
be terrorists

"Then on Monday our college principal told us that strangers had been spotted in
our college.

"On Tuesday we were released to go home, and our college closed, but the campus
remained in session, and now they have been attacked."

Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab, al-Shabab's military operations spokesman, called an
international news agency and said: "We sorted people out and released the
Muslims.

"There are many dead bodies of Christians inside the building.

"We are also holding many Christians alive.

"Fighting still goes on inside the college."

At the time the attack started - at 5.30am local time - morning prayers were
under way at the university mosque, where students were not attacked.

Some of the more serious wounded were flown to Nairobi, the capital.

At least 14 dead in al Shabaab attack on Kenya college campus

Kenyan blogger Robert Alai Onyango said: "We don't know how many there were, but
there are probably more than 10.

"We believe the attackers were wearing something close to military fatigues."

Onyango said the attackers appeared to be shooting indiscriminately and
"basically from all angles."

The US Embassy in Kenya tweeted: "We are saddened & angered by today's terrorist
attack @ #Garissa Univ. Our deepest condolences 2 family/friends of victims."

Al-Shabab has long had close links to al-Qaeda and a record of raids on Kenyan
soil in retaliation for Nairobi sending troops to fight it in its home state of
Somalia.

Al-Shabab, which seeks to impose its own harsh version of sharia law, has
separated Muslims from Christians in some of its previous raids in Kenya,
notably late last year in attacks on a bus and at a quarry.

Having killed more than 200 people in the east African country over the past two
years, al-Shabaab has also brought the country's tourism industry to its knees.

Al-Shabaab was responsible for a deadly attack in 2013 on the Westgate shopping
mall in Nairobi.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 2, 2015 Thursday 5:04 PM GMT

Kenya university terror attack: Students 'beheaded' as al-Shabab gang storms
campus and kills at least 15;
The five man gang freed Muslims and killed Christians during the horrific attack

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 372 words


Garissa University College attack

Terrorists have beheaded some students in the horrific Kenya university attack,
it has been reported.

At least 15 people have been killed as the gang from al-Shabab stormed the
campus in Garissa.

Locals are now claiming that some students had their heads cut off in the
shocking raid.

Police have yet to confirm these reports but confirm the death toll could rise
"substantially".

Gunmen are still holed up in one of the dormitories.

Eye-witnesses said the armed men entered the campus in the town of Garissa and
started firing indiscriminately.

Kenyan army troops have surrounded the university and are exchanging gunfire
with the terrorists.

Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab, al Shabaab's military operations spokesman, said: "We
sorted people out and released the Muslims.

"There are many dead bodies of Christians inside the building.

"We are also holding many Christians alive. Fighting still goes on inside the
college."

Kenya tweet

At least 14 dead in al Shabaab attack on Kenya college campus

Augustine Alanga, a 21-year-old student who survived the attack described how
gunshots rang out outside their dormitory before dawn when most people were
still fast asleep.

He said he saw at least five heavily armed, masked gunmen.

"I am just now recovering from the pain as I injured myself while trying to
escape. I was running barefoot," said Mr Alanga, who was one of scores of
students who managed to escape through barbed-wire fencing.

At the time the attack started - at 5.30am local time - morning prayers were
under way at the university mosque, where students were not attacked.

A mortuary attendant in the town of Garissa says at least 15 people have been
killed and at some 60 were injured.

Some of the more serious wounded were being flown to Nairobi, the capital,
authorities said.

The National Disaster Operations Centre said on Twitter that three of four dorms
have been evacuated, with the gunmen cornered in one dorm.

Terrified students streamed out of buildings, some young men shirtless, as
arriving police officers hunkered down, taking cover.

The gunmen had opened fire at guards, triggering a "fierce shootout" with police
guarding student dorms, Kenya's National Police Service said in a written
statement.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 2, 2015 Thursday 1:40 PM GMT

Kenya university terror attack: live updates;
Terrorists have killed at least 15 people in a "fierce shoot-out" at a
university in Kenya

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 17 words


Garissa University College attack

Live updates: Islamist terrorists gun down students at Kenyan universit

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      April 2, 2015 Thursday 12:01 PM GMT

Kenya university terror attack: At least 15 dead and hundreds unaccounted for as
gunmen 'start beheading hostages';
The five man gang - from the militant terrorist group al-Shabab - freed Muslims
and killed Christians during the horrific attack

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 374 words


Garissa University College attack

Terrorists have killed at least 15 people in a "fierce shoot-out" at a
university in Kenya - and there are reports the gunmen are beheading hostages.

The heavily-armed five man gang - from the militant terrorist group al-Shabab -
freed Muslims and killed Christians during the horrific attack.

They are now holding "several" students hostages. Unconfirmed reports have
emerged that the terrorists are cutting the heads off their hostages.

Eye-witnesses said the armed men entered the campus in the town of Garissa and
started firing indiscriminately.

Kenyan army troops have surrounded the university and are exchanging gunfire
with the terrorists.

Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab, al Shabaab's military operations spokesman, said: "We
sorted people out and released the Muslims.

"There are many dead bodies of Christians inside the building.

"We are also holding many Christians alive. Fighting still goes on inside the
college."

Kenya tweet

At least 14 dead in al Shabaab attack on Kenya college campus

Augustine Alanga, a 21-year-old student who survived the attack described how
gunshots rang out outside their dormitory before dawn when most people were
still fast asleep.

He said he saw at least five heavily armed, masked gunmen.

"I am just now recovering from the pain as I injured myself while trying to
escape. I was running barefoot," said Mr Alanga, who was one of scores of
students who managed to escape through barbed-wire fencing.

At the time the attack started - at 5.30am local time - morning prayers were
under way at the university mosque, where students were not attacked.

A mortuary attendant in the town of Garissa says at least 15 people have been
killed and at some 60 were injured.

Some of the more serious wounded were being flown to Nairobi, the capital,
authorities said.

The National Disaster Operations Centre said on Twitter that three of four dorms
have been evacuated, with the gunmen cornered in one dorm.

Terrified students streamed out of buildings, some young men shirtless, as
arriving police officers hunkered down, taking cover.

The gunmen had opened fire at guards, triggering a "fierce shootout" with police
guarding student dorms, Kenya's National Police Service said in a written
statement.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 2, 2015 Thursday 7:48 PM GMT

Christians beheaded in Kenya university terror attack

BYLINE: Jenny Booth

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 1098 words


Heavily-armed militants from the al-Shabaab terror group have shot or beheaded
dozens of university students, most of them Christians, after storming a campus
in eastern Kenya at dawn today.

Joseph Ole Nkaissery, Kenya's interior minister, said that one of the worst
atrocities ever on Kenyan soil was "90 per cent" over, as the confrontation
between the gunmen and Kenyan security services reached a climax this evening.

The death toll remains unclear. Earlier, 70 people were confirmed dead, but some
Kenyan officials have put the number as high as 147, with more than 200 students
missing or being held hostage in a dormitory.

More than 12 hours after the siege began troops with tanks mounted a final
assault that Mr Nkaissery said had killed four gunmen who had earlier gone door
to door at student dormitories, singling out Christians and letting Muslims go.

"The terrorists, 90 percent of the threat has been eliminated... we have been
able to confirm that four terrorists have been killed," said Mr Nkaissery.

Troops were scouring the campus as the total number of gunmen was not known, but
the main operation was over, he said. "We are mopping up the area, and will
update with the number of casualties,"

A spokesman for the terror group crowed at the "surprising" number of dead
waiting to be found.

Survivors told of the brutality of the attack. Collins Wetangula, the vice
chairman of the student union, said he was preparing to take a shower when he
heard gunshots from a neighbouring building 150 metres away, and locked himself
and three roommates in their room.

"All I could hear were footsteps and gunshots. Nobody was screaming because they
thought this would lead the gunmen to know where they are," said Mr Wetangula.

"They were shouting loudly that they are al-Shabaab and that we should all be
afraid."

When the gunmen arrived at his dormitory block he could hear them opening doors
and asking the people hidden inside whether they were Muslims or Christians.

"If you were a Christian you were shot on the spot," he said. "With each blast
of the gun I thought I was going to die."

Before the gunmen got to his door, he heard the shooting escalate into a
firefight. "The next thing, we saw people in military uniform through the window
at the back of our rooms who identified themselves as the Kenyan military," Mr
Wetangula said.

The soldiers took him and 20 others to safety, dodging bullets from al-Shabaab
snipers on the roof, he said. "We started running and bullets were whizzing past
our heads and the soldiers told us to dive."

Winnie Njeri, another student rescued by the army, told News24 Kenya that the
attackers appeared to be beheading some of their captives.

"We saw beheaded bodies when we escaped. It is very bad, they have killed many
people," said an emotional Miss Njeri.

"Most of the people still inside there are girls," said Michael Bwana, a
20-year-old student who also managed to escape. He added that survivors had been
trying to call their trapped friends but that their phones appeared to have been
switched off.

The attack began during morning prayers at Garissa University College, a former
teacher training facility situated 90 miles from the Somali border.

Joseph Boinnet, Kenya's inspector general of police, who was jointly in charge
of the operation, said that the gunmen forced their way in at 5.30am by throwing
grenades at the main gate and shooting the guards.

The incursion sent terrified students streaming out of the campus, some young
men shirtless, as armed police surrounded the perimeter and prepared to open
fire.

Augustine Alanga, a 21-year-old student, said he saw at least five heavily
armed, masked gunmen. "I am just now recovering from the pain as I injured
myself while trying to escape. I was running barefoot," said Mr Alanga, one of
scores of students who escaped through barbed wire fencing.

Milka Ndung'u described running across a field as gunshots went off "like
fireworks" around them.

"Police engaged the gunmen in a fierce shootout, however the attackers retreated
and gained entry into one of the hostels," said Mr Boinnet.

Kenya Defence Force troops were "engaged in an elaborate process of flushing out
the gunmen from the hostels".

Uhuru Kenyatta, the Kenyan president, blamed a shortage of security personnel,
in a televised address from State House in Nairobi. He ordered 10,000 would-be
police officers whose recruitment had been halted by the Kenyan courts to report
for basic training.

Mr Nkaissery offered a bounty of 20 million Kenyan shillings (£146,000) for the
capture of al-Shabaab commander Mohammed Kuno, also known as Dulyaden or
Gamadhere, who is suspected of masterminding the attack.

The interior ministry reported that one suspected gunmen had been arrested while
trying to leave during the afternoon. Sporadic gunfire continued to ring out
from the roof of one dormitory until this evening's assault by troops.

Responsibility for the attack was claimed by al-Shabaab, which boasted of
targeting Christians. Abdiasis Abu Musab, the terror group's military operations
spokesman, told Reuters: "We sorted people out and released the Muslims."

Ali Mohamud Rage, another al-Shabaab spokesman, also alleged that 15 Muslim
students had been released and Christians were held, a tactic that the militant
group has used in the past.

"We've killed so many people, you'll be shocked when you go inside," he told the
BBC.

Most of the injured were being treated at the Garissa general hospital, but the
Kenyan Red Cross said that a medevac plane had taken off for Nairobi with five
critically injured people on board.

A dusk till dawn curfew was imposed on the town and on the nearby counties of
Wajir, Tana River and Mandera.

Al-Shabaab vowed vengeance on Kenya for sending troops to Somalia alongside
African Union peacekeepers in 2011. Its fighters carried out the devastating
four day siege of the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in 2013, in which at
least 67 people died - many, again, separated into Muslims and Christians by the
attackers. Today's deaths appear to have exceeded even that dreadful toll.

In November extremists held up a bus near Mandera, on the Somali border, and
forced the 28 passengers who were unable to quote from the Koran to lie on the
ground, then shot them.

The unrest has crippled Kenya's once lucrative tourist industry, and prompted a
chill in relations between Britain and Kenya as the Foreign Office warned
Britons not to travel to coastal areas targeted by the terrorists. Yesterday Mr
Kenyatta insisted that Kenya "is safe as any country in the world".

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      April 2, 2015 Thursday 11:49 AM  EST

MINISTER FOR AFRICA DUDDRIDGE CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN KENYA

LENGTH: 128 words


LONDON, April 2 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Minister for Africa James Duddridge condemns terrorist attack in Kenya and
pledges continued UK support in the fight against Al Shabaab.

Mr. Duddridge said:

I strongly condemn the attack that took place this morning in Garissa, Kenya. I
offer my condolences to the families and loved ones of those who died.

There can be no place for such senseless acts of violence in our societies. The
UK will continue to stand by and support the Kenyan government in its fight
against terrorism, and in its efforts to bring to justice those responsible for
this barbaric act." For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Chinese envoy strongly condemns terror attack on Kenyan university

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Nairobi, 3 April: Chinese Ambassador to Kenya Liu Xianfa has condemned
Thursday's [2 April] terrorist attack on Garissa University College in northern
Kenya, which has claimed 147 lives.

"China strongly condemns and resolutely opposes terrorism in all forms," Liu
said.

He added that the Chinese government is "deeply shocked and saddened by the
terrorist attack at Garissa University College that has caused huge casualties
of innocent civilians."

The ambassador expressed his deep condolences to the victims and sincere
sympathy to their bereaved families and the injured.

He stressed that China will continue to staunchly support the Kenyan government
and people's efforts to fight terrorism and safeguard national stability and
public security.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0528gmt 03 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Morocco "strongly condemns terrorist attacks" on Egyptian troops in Sinai

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 2 April: Morocco strongly condemned, on Thursday [2 April], the terrorist
attacks targeting the Egyptian army in Sinai in which dozen soldiers were
killed.

"The Kingdom of Morocco strongly denounces the series of terrorist attacks that
targeted early on Thursday the Egyptian army near Cheikh Zuwaid in the Egyptian
region of Sinai leaving dozens killed and injured," the Foreign Ministry said in
a statement.

The Kingdom of Morocco offers sincere condolences to the families of the victims
and to the Egyptian government and reiterates "condemnation of these cowardly
acts that aim at undermining the security and the stability of the Arab Republic
of Egypt and to disrupt its comprehensive development process," the same source
added.

Morocco "supports the Egyptian government and people" in countering the
terrorism plague which contradicts human values and the precepts of Islam, the
statement concluded.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 2217 gmt 2 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Egypt's prosecutor opens investigation into Sinai "terror" attacks

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Al-Arish, EGYPT, 2 April: North Sinai public prosecution on Thursday [2 April]
opened an investigation into terror attacks that targeted security checkpoints
in North Sinai earlier in the day.

Prosecution members headed for Al-Arish general hospital to check the corpses of
the killed and interrogate the injured people.

Five members of security forces were killed and several others injured in
clashes that took place in a number of security checkpoints in Al-Arish and
Al-Shaykh Zuwayid.

The clashes also left at least 15 terrorist elements dead and several others
injured.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 2322gmt 02 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Ethiopia condemns terrorist attack on Kenyan college

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by state-owned Ethiopian EBC TV on 3 April

The Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strongly condemned the terrorist
attack at Garissa University [College] in Kenya yesterday and expressed its deep
sorrow over the death and injury of the victims.

The statement said that the Ethiopian people and government were very saddened
by terrorist Al-Shabab attack an Garissa University College in Kenya, which
claimed the lives of 147 students and members of the university and injury of 79
others.

The ministry expressed its heartfelt condolences to the people and government of
Kenya and also to the family members of the victims.

The ministry said that the Ethiopian government reaffirmed its stance that it
will stand alongside the Kenyan government in the fight against terrorism.

Source: Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation TV (formerly ETV), Addis Ababa, in
Amharic 1000 gmt 3 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Kenyan ex-premier condemns terror attack, warns against radicalization

LENGTH: 470 words


Text of press statement by former Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga published
by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 3 April

Here is his full statement on Garissa attacks:

1. Between dawn and dusk yesterday, our country lost 147 souls of young men and
women who were pursuing their education in Garissa. These were students beaming
with hope for themselves and their country, which they certainly hoped to help
change and develop.

2. As a parent, I know what it takes to put a child through school all the way
to university. I know what the parents who lost their children in this tragedy
are going through. Some of those families became paupers in the process of
educating these children.

3. We have to stand in unity with these families. We must keep them and the
injured citizens in our thoughts and in our prayers. My prayers also go to all
students who lost friends, colleagues, brothers or sisters in this bloodbath. I
know the kind of networks students build. The death or injury of one student
touches hundreds of others.

4. I want to believe the government will take care of the medical and all bills
related to this attack. It is the least we can do for the families and to the
young students.

5. I thank the security officers who risked their lives to save others. At the
initial stages of this attack, the officers were certainly outnumbered and out
gunned. But they stood their ground. It made a difference.

6. Words cannot fill the holes in the hearts of millions of Kenyans caught in or
affected by this tragedy but prayers and solidarity is all we can offer now.

7. To the affected families, the good people of Garissa and students fraternity
in Kenya, my words is, in the spirit and hope of Easter, DON'T GIVE UP.

8. The world must stand with Kenya at this tragic moment and beyond. The entire
world must unequivocally reject these brutal acts and help stop them here and
everywhere else.

9. The Garissa attack is a continuation of a very spirited effort by our enemies
to divide us along religious lines. This is one attempt Kenyans must reject in
clear and categorical terms. I repeat that there will be no country left here if
we succumb to efforts by terrorists to pit Muslims against Christians. We must
not fall into that trap.

10. Instead, we must join hands across the divide, and work on stopping the
radicalization of our young people and in eliminating feelings of
marginalization. We should stand together, join hands across the religious and
political divide and help rebuild the shattered Garissa University College as a
message to those who think we are too divided to stand together.

11. May God bless the memory of those we have lost and may God bless their
families and our country.

HON RAILA ODINGA; 3 APRIL 2015

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 3 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

China condemns terrorist attack on Kenyan university

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report published by China news agency Xinhua

Beijing, 3 April: China has condemned Thursday's [2 April] terrorist attack on
Garissa University College in Kenya, which has claimed 147 lives.

"We are against terrorist attacks in any form, and condemn the terrorists in the
strongest terms," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said on Friday.

Gunmen stormed into Garissa University College before dawn Thursday, shooting
students and taking hostages in a terrorist attack that has left 147 people
dead, according to Kenyan officials.

"China extends heartfelt condolences to the victims and expresses deep sympathy
to the wounded and the families of the victims," Hua said.

Stressing that China opposes terrorism in any form, Hua said China will continue
to support Kenya's efforts to counter terrorism and safeguard national and
regional stability.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0928gmt 03 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Kenyan military to airlift students injured in terror attack

LENGTH: 588 words


Text of report by Adow Jubat entitled "Kenya interior cabinet secretary Joseph
Nkaissery says government to provide four helicopters, 10 buses to ferry Garissa
attack victims" published Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 3 April

The government has provided four helicopters to airlift scores of victims who
were critically injured in Thursday's [2 April] terrorist raid at Garissa
University College (GUC [northeastern Kenya]) as the death toll hits 147.

At the same time, 10 National Youth Service buses were deployed to provide
transport for over 300 students camping at the local military camp since
Thursday afternoon after being rescued from the hand of death. Addressing the
students at the Garissa military camp, the interior cabinet secretary Joseph ole
Nkaissery confirmed that 147 students and four terrorists died in the siege and
said the airplanes will transport the injured, including some security officers,
to Nairobi to receive specialised medical care. He said the incident has shocked
the country and the international community and the government is determined to
ensure it will lessen the trauma and burden facing the affected students and
their families.

"As part of the government commitment to condole with the affected families, we
are providing four planes to airlift the injuries and at the same time provide
10 buses from the National Youth Service to transport the students who were
coming out of the area to their respective home counties," he adds.

"The students will be transported in separate buses depending on the route it's
taken to their area. For instance, those coming from western region such as
Kakamega, Busia and Kisumu will go in the same bus so that it will ease their
transportation."

He says that the security officers are mopping up the college to ensure it's
safe for the students to go back and salvage their documents and other property
they may have left behind during the attack. The government has successfully
ended the students' hostage situation. He assures Kenyans that the government
will not be intimidated by the terrorists who resorted to killing innocent
students and that the government is determined to fight back the terrorism the
best way it can. He says he is confident that Kenya's war against its enemies
will be won. Speaking at the same function, Education Cabinet Secretary Prof
Jacob Kaimenyi has announced the indefinite closure of the university.

"Following the heinous terrorist attack on Garissa University College, and
serious consultation I had with the university senate, we have come to the
conclusion that the campus is closed indefinitely," he says. Kaimenyi adds that
all the affected students will be redeployed to Moi University, which is the
mother university so that their learning calendar isn't disrupted by an act of
terrorist. He says that the ministry, in conjunction with ministry of health,
will offer social-psycho trauma healing to the affected students and their
parents. Prof Kaimenyi says that security of all learning institutions in the
country will be beefed up to deter any repeat of what has been witnessed in
Garissa University College where over 147 students were massacred by Somali
based al-Shabab terrorist group.

The college has been sealed off by heavily armed security officers. About 500
people, among them relatives, family members and friends of those killed are
waiting to identify the bodies of the deceased still trapped inside.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 3 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Nigerian president condemns terrorist attack on Kenyan university

LENGTH: 268 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper The Sun website on 3 April

[Report by Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye: "Jonathan mourns massacre at Kenya varsity"]

President Goodluck Jonathan has condemned yesterday's deadly terror attack on
the Garissa University College in Kenya. Al-Shabaab militant group claimed
responsibility for killing over 147 students and injuring hundreds of others.
All four terrorists involved were shot dead, according to the Interior Ministry.

In a statement by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Dr Reuben Abati,
the President, in his condolences to the government and people of Kenya and to
the families of those who died in the terror attack, condemned the deliberate
targeting of innocent persons, schools and other soft targets by insurgents,
describing it as atrocious, despicable and barbaric acts of violence. He said
the attack has no place in any civilized society.

President Jonathan assured his Kenyan counterpart, Uhuru Kenyatta and the
brotherly people of Kenya that Nigeria stands in full solidarity with them as
they come to grips once again with the aftermath of another heinous terror
attack on their country.

Nigeria, Jonathan said, will continue to work with Kenya, other African
countries and the international community to rid the world of all terrorist
groups.

He expressed the belief that the attack on the Kenyan university and other
similar atrocities across the world must strengthen and solidify the resolve of
the global community to take more urgent and coordinated actions to speedily
defeat the agents of terror.

Source: The Sun website, Lagos, in English 3 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              April 3, 2015 Friday

Chinese ambassador condemns terrorist attack on Kenyan university

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 121 words


NAIROBI - Chinese Ambassador to Kenya Liu Xianfa has condemned Thursday's
terrorist attack on Garissa University College in northern Kenya, which has
claimed 147 lives.

"China strongly condemns and resolutely opposes terrorism in all forms," Liu
said.

He added that the Chinese government is "deeply shocked and saddened by the
terrorist attack at Garissa University College that has caused huge casualties
of innocent civilians."

The ambassador expressed his deep condolences to the victims and sincere
sympathy to their bereaved families and the injured.

He stressed that China will continue to staunchly support the Kenyan government
and people's efforts to fight terrorism and safeguard national stability and
public security.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 3, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bounty on the head of teacher accused of masterminding the al-Shabaab terrorist
attack

BYLINE: Aislinn Laing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 281 words


The man alleged to be behind the terrorist attack on Garissa University in Kenya
is a former teacher at an Islamic school who rose to become one of al-Shabaab's
most senior lieutenants.

Dulyadin Gamadhere, pictured, who goes by several other names including Mohammed
Kuno, is said to come from a family of sympathisers of the militant
Somalia-based group.

He is now the subject of a bounty of five million Kenyan shillings (£36,000) for
his suspected masterminding of the attack on the university.

Even before that attack, there was a reward of two million shillings placed on
his head for his alleged involvement in other attacks on Kenyan soil, including
one in November on a bus near the town of Mandera in which 28 non-Muslim
passengers were murdered.

Gamadhere is a Kenyan national from the Ogaden tribe and has three wives, two of
whom are from Garissa and the third of whom is from Ras Kamboni, a town in
Somalia's Juba province near the border with Kenya, which US intelligence
reports say has been used for terrorist training camps and to launch attacks in
the past.

According to a report on Nairobi's Star newspaper website, he worked as a
teacher at a religious school, under the name of Sheikh Mahamad Afte. But he
increasingly took a hard line and later joined al-Shabaab when it was formed in
2006 from the remnants of the defeated Islamic Courts Union movement in Somalia.

Gamadhere is credited with building up an extensive network of al-Shabaab
sympathisers and operatives in his home country, particularly in the Dadaab
refugee camp, a massive settlement that houses people fleeing famine and drought
in Somalia as well as those rounded up in Kenyan security sweeps.

Aislinn Laing

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              April 3, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Up to 160 dead after terror attack on uni

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 121 words


death toll as 70 but conceded it could rise.

One police source put the number of casualties at 147 but another said it was
160.

Al-Shabab, an Islamist terror group based in neighbouring Somalia, claimed
responsibility for the attack.

In September 2013, 67 people were killed during an al-Shabab siege at a shopping
centre in the Kenyan capital Nairobi.

AS many as 160 people were feared dead last night after terrorists attacked a
university in Kenya.

Masked gunmen took dozens of students hostage after storming Garissa University
College yesterday morning.

Last night, security officials said all four attackers had been killed and the
campus had been secured.

Kenyan interior minister Joseph Nkaissery gave the RESPONSE Kenyan soldier

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        April 3, 2015 Friday 9:05 PM GMT

Paris supermarket hostages sue TV channel for revealing hiding place;
Six people caught up in terrorist attack on Hyper Cacher store in January take
legal action against BFMTV for broadcasting fact they were hiding in cold store

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 598 words


A group of terrified shoppers who took refuge in a supermarket cold store during
a terrorist attack in Paris are suing a French television channel for revealing
their hiding place.

The six people, who escaped to safety only after French special forces launched
an assault on the Hyper Cacher store killing gunman Amédy Coulibaly, have
accused BFMTV of putting their lives in danger.

In a live broadcast during the siege, a journalist from the 24-hour news channel
announced that a woman had taken refuge in the refrigerated storeroom.

In fact, there were six people, including a three-year-old child and a
one-month-old baby, hiding in the room.

During the siege Coulibaly, who was heavily armed and who had already gunned
down four people in the store, watched coverage of the raid on different
television channels and had been in contact with BFMTV journalists.

The Paris prosecutor's office has opened a preliminary inquiry into the legal
action. The charge of endangering the lives of others by a "lack of obligatory
care for their security" carries a maximum penalty of a year in prison and a
(EURO)15,000 (£11,000) fine.

The attack on Hyper Cacher was the climax of three days of terrorist attacks in
Paris that started with gunmen Chérif and Saïd Kouachi killing 12 people in an
assault on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.

The following day, their accomplice Coulibaly shot a female police officer
before attacking Hyper Cacher, a kosher supermarket in a south-eastern district
of Paris, 24 hours later.

As Coulibaly stormed the building on 9 January, a group of shoppers helped by a
member of staff fled into the cold store.

During its rolling news programme BFMTV broadcast a report from one of its
journalists, who was among the first on the scene and stated: "There is one
person, a woman, who has hidden since the beginning, since the arrival of this
man, inside the supermarket, who is hiding in a coldroom, who has taken refuge
in the coldroom and is still there, who is supposed to be inside the coldroom,
which is at the back of the building".

Later, it was revealed that seven people were hiding in the basement of the
supermarket.

"Our main worry was that we should not be noticed and we made no noise. If
Coulibaly had discovered our presence, there could have been reprisals," said
one of the hostages in their legal complaint, according to Le Parisien
newspaper.

Hervé Béroud, the editorial director at BFMTV, has admitted that broadcasting
the information was a mistake.

In March, he told a French television programme: "Regarding Hyper Cacher, we
admitted very quickly that the remark made by one of our journalists about the
possible presence of a hostage in the coldroom was inappropriate, that it was an
error. Yes, that's clear."

BFMTV has said, however, that its journalist only made the declaration after
obtaining guarantees from sources that broadcasting the information would not
endanger the hostages' lives.

Patrick Klugman, the lawyer representing the six people involved, told Le
Parisien: "The divulging of the presence of hidden people in the middle of a
hostage situation is a mistake that cannot go unpunished, especially as we knew
very well that the terrorist was watching the television. Information, even if
it is correct, should not endanger lives."

A month after the January attacks, the French audiovisual authority reprimanded
16 media organisations, including BFMTV. It declared that to "broadcast such
information at a time when the terrorists were still a threat risked seriously
endangering the safety of the people held in the place".

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 3, 2015
                                 First Edition

Mastermind who leads terror group's attacks in Kenya;
PROFILE

BYLINE: Sam Masters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 254 words


Mohamed Mohamud, also known as Dulyadin or Gamadhere, is a teacher of terror.

Well-known to Kenyan authorities before yesterday's attack, he is reported to
have been a military commander, based in Mogadishu, and thought to have become
the man charged with leading al-Shabaab's attacks within Kenya. By last month he
was named as being the person who had sent 12 terrorists to plot an attack
against the Kenyan parliament in Nairobi. He is also listed as being subject to
asset freezes in Britain. Shortly before Christmas, Kenyan police circulated
images of two terror suspects with a reward offered to any information leading
to their arrest. One of them was Mohamud.

Gideon Kimilu, deputy director of the Kenya Police Criminal Investigation
Department in Nairobi, said the two are believed to be behind attacks including
the attack on a bus in Mandera on the Somali border when 28 non-Muslims were
executed in November. Ten days later, 36 non-Muslim quarry workers were
executed.

"He commands the militia along the border and is responsible for cross-border
incursions in the country," police said. Mohamud had intensified attacks in
northern Kenya and the coastal region before Christmas. He is reported to have
three wives.

Police said he became a principal at the Madrasa Najah Islamic School in Garissa
between 1997 and 2000, where his "extremist tendencies became more manifest".

He joined al-Shabaab about 15 years ago.

He is believed to have an extensive terror network within Kenya, particularly at
the Dadaab refugee camp.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 4, 2015 Saturday

Egypt condemns "terrorist" attack on Kenyan university

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 4 April: Egypt has strongly condemned the terrorist attack by Al-Shabab
gunmen on Garissa University College campus, which left about 150 students dead
and dozens more injured.

Egypt condoles with families of the dead and wishes those wounded a speedy
recovery, the spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said Saturday [4 April].

He reiterated Cairo's calls for unifying international efforts to fight
terrorism which undermines world stability.

The spokesman said the Egyptian government and people stand by the side of the
Kenyan government and people in the face of terrorism.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0959gmt 04 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 4, 2015 Saturday

Malian government condemns terrorist attack on UN troops in country's north

LENGTH: 287 words


Text of report by Malian state-owned ORTM TV on 2 April

[Communique issued by Malian Government in Bamako on 2 April; read by announcer]

Now we bring to you this communique from the Malian Government.

The Government of Mali hereby informs the national and international opinion
that the positions held by the Malian Armed Forces [Fama] in Boulkissi, at the
border with Burkina-Faso, were attacked by terrorist assailants in the morning
of 1 April 2015. The Fama repelled the attack and seized war materials. We
registered three killed and two arrested among the attackers and no loss in the
ranks of our armed forces.

The Government of the Republic of Mali was dismayed to hear that the joint
Minusma and Barkhane camp located between Monzoka and Zankohera on the road to
Ansogo came under heavy fire on 1 April 2015. In the same area, a child was
killed by the blast of a landmine.

The Government of the Republic of Mali condemns those barbarian, baseless, and
terror attacks against the Minusma and Barkhane forces.

The Government of the Republic of Mali is outraged his upsurge in violence and
the serious degradation of the security situation. The Government of Mali
therefore takes this opportunity to call on the international community and the
international mediation to use every means to bring the armed groups of the
Coordination of Azawad Movements to initial and sign the 1 March 2015 Agreement.

The Government of the Republic of Mali remains convinced that the signing and
implementation of the said agreement remains the best guarantee to isolate those
terrorist and put them out of action in order to relief the daily pain of the
Malian population in the north.

Source: ORTM TV, Bamako, in French 2000 gmt 2 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 4, 2015 Saturday

Kenyan Muslim leaders condemn terror attack on university

LENGTH: 402 words


Text of report by Samuel Musita entitled "Muslim leaders condemn Garissa attack"
published by state-owned Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) website on 4 April

Muslim leaders have condemned the senseless killings of 147 students at the
Garissa University College and called on Muslims not to hide people among them
who want to destroy tarnish Islam by using it in perpetrating heinous crime.

While addressing the press at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre, the
leaders led by foreign affairs secretary, Amina Mohammed asked Kenyans to remain
calmed and not to be cowed by this acts of terror.

SUPKEM [Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims] legal adviser Ibrahim Lithome who read
the statement on behalf of the leaders warned Kenyans against falling prey to
terrorist antics of linking their act to Islam saying that is meant to divide
Kenyans on religious grounds.

It is on this premise that he called on Kenyans to stand together in this trying
moments.

Lithome who sent a message of condolence to families who lost their loved ones
and quick recovery to those injured, disclosed that they are organizing several
initiative to raise funds to cater for funeral and medical bills of victims.

Their sentiments came even as families, relatives and friends continued to
identifying bodies of their loved ones at Chiromo Mortuary. Grief and anguish
characterized the identification exercise.

In Garissa, at least 15 buses belonging to the National Youth Service carrying
students who survived the university terror attack on Thursday left the nearby
military camp

The latest attack by Al-Shabab is among several others that the terrorist group
has meted on Kenyans since 2014.

In December 2014 the gunmen killed 36 quarry workers in Mandera after allegedly
separating Muslims and non-Muslims.

The same year but in November the terrorist killed 28 teachers who were
travelling from Mandera.

Kenyans can also vividly remember the 2013 September terrorism attack where four
gunmen took over the Westgate shopping mall in the Nairobi, killing 67 people

The Kenyan government has named Mohamed Kuno, a high-ranking Al-Shabab official,
as the mastermind of the attack. It placed a bounty of 2m shillings on him.

Mohamed Kuno was headmaster at an Islamic school in Garissa before he quit in
2007. He goes by the nickname Dulyadeyn", which means "long-armed one in Somali.

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 4 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             April 4, 2015 Saturday

24 students in hospital after terrorist attack on Kenyan university

BYLINE: HOU LIQIANG in Nairobi, Kenya

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 421 words


Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, Kenya, has received 24 students wounded
in a terrorist attack Friday afternoon and is still expecting another 10.
Doctors said all the students are in stable condition and two have been
discharged.

Members of the Taiwan based Buddhist Compassion Relief Tzu Chi Foundation
visited the students on Friday and provided the students daily necessities
including bottled water and soapafter consulting the hospital on what the
students needed.

Seventeen of the injured students were kept in a ward in a hospital in Nairobi,
capital of Kenya. In the ward, 10 were boys and seven girls.

Busy doctors and nurses entered and exited the tense ward. One male student
could be seen sitting up and speaking with family while the majority lied
quietly in their beds on (Friday evening?). Two female students could also be
heard groaning in pain.

All of the 24 injured students were brought to the hospital from a university in
Kenya's Northeastern town of Garissa on Thursday evening, which was attacked by
Al-Shabab gunmen early that morning. The attack killed 147 and injured at least
another 79.

"The situation of all the patients here, we can say, is stable," said
Christopher Kibiwott, the doctor in charge of the ward, adding they have done
operations on four students with fractures and two students with serious
conditions have become stable.

He said psychiatrists talked with students after they arrived at the hospital.

The hospital is still expecting 10 more students from Garissa. Kibiwott said the
hospital has enough beds for the students and currently they don't need help
from the outsiders.

A female doctor who didn't disclose her name said two students have already been
discharged.

Family members of all injured the students have arrived at the hospital, but
visitors are forbidden from entering the ward. Guards have locked the gate and
only family members or visitors led by hospital employees are allowed in.

Al-Shabab gunmen, armed with AK 47's, launched an attack on a university in
Garissa early Thursday morning. The men took dozens of hostages in a dormitory.
Kenyan officers managed to end the situation after about 13 hours. Four
terrorists, strapped with explosives, were killed by Kenyan officers.

Al-Shabab spokesman Ali Mohamud Rage said fighters from the Somalia-based
extremist group were responsible. The al-Qaida-linked group has launched a
series of attacks in Kenya, including the one at the Westgate Mall in Nairobi in
2013 which claimed 67 lives.

houliqiang@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       April 4, 2015 Saturday 5:26 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: Al-Shabaab warns cities 'will run red with blood' from more
attacks

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 511 words


KENYA "will run red with blood" according to terror group al-Shabaab which
warned of more attacks like the assault on Garissa University College which will
148 people.

GETTY

Islamist terror group Al-Shabaab has been blamed for many attacks in Kenya

Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta announced three days of mourning following the
sickening attack on innocent Christian students on Thursday.

Meanwhile the dramatic and gruesome stories of survivors have begun to emerge,
after one teenage girl was found today, two days after the attack.

Five people have so far been arrested in connection with the attack, while
president Kenyatta said "security forces are pursuing leads" to detain the
remaining suspects.

Somali-based extremist group Al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the
13-hour assault in the north east of the country, during which the four
attackers also died.

Today the Islamic militants said the attack was for retribution for killings
carried out by Kenyan troops fighting the rebels in Somalia.

The statement, issued on Shabaab-affiliated websites and Twitter accounts, said:
"Kenyan cities will run red with blood.

"This will be a long, gruesome war of which you, the Kenyan public, are its
first casualties.

AP

A woman cries after she viewed the body of a relative killed in Thursday's
attack

"No amount of precaution or safety measures will be able to guarantee your
safety, thwart another attack or prevent another bloodbath."

Kenya's National Disaster Operations Centre said last night 79 students had been
injured in the massacre, which resulted in the highest death toll of any attack
the country has seen by the militant group.

There is a $217,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of Mohamed
Mohamud, also known as Dulyadin Gamadhere, who is believed to have masterminded
the attack.

In an emotional address to the public this afternoon, president Kenyatta said:
"Terrorism is a global threat requiring robust international punishment."

He urged "every Kenyan, every church and every local leader to speak up for our
unity".

He said the attack came at the time of Easter which "demonstrates the power of
evil and violence shall not prevail".

AP

Al-Shabab gunmen rampaged through a university in northeastern Kenya at dawn
Thursday

Al-Shabaab, a Somali militant group linked to al-Qaeda, said it was holding
Christians hostage and freeing Muslims.

Student Rosalid Mugambi recalled the moment she was chased by gunfire as she
fled her dormitory in panic.

She said: "We found that the fire bullets were still following us.

"We saw some blood stains and they were shot."

The British government also pledged to support Kenya after the "senseless" act.

The Foreign Office had already advised against all but essential travel to
certain areas of Kenya, including Garissa County.

Related articles Spread of terror: As UK struggles to contain jihadis, new
militant wave joins IS from Asia British law student jailed over bomb-making
manual Schools fear Easter holiday exodus to Syria as British teenagers bid to
join Islamic State  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 4, 2015 Saturday 1:10 PM GMT

Books about Islam selling out in France after Charlie Hebdo terror attack raised
questions about the religion

BYLINE: JENNIFER NEWTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 500 words



     ·    Sales of Islamic books in France three times higher in first quarter
          of 2015
     ·    Increase coincides with the deadly Paris terror attacks where 17 were
          killed
     ·    Publisher specialising in Islamic books says sales have shot up by 30%
     ·    Company says same thing happened in the wake of the September 11
          attacks


Books about Islam are flying off the shelves and selling out in France after the
deadly Charlie Hebdo terror attacks in Paris raised questions about the
religion.

Sales of books about the religion were three times higher in the first quarter
of 2015 compared to the same time last year, according to the French National
Union of Bookshops.

It comes as a special magazine supplement from Philosphie which focused in the
Koran also saw a spike in sales following the attacks on the French satirical
magazine and a Jewish supermarket, which left 17 dead.

Mansour Mansour, who runs the Al Bouraq publishing house specialising on Islam
and the Middle East, said his sales have shot up by 30 per cent since the
attacks.

He said: 'The same happened after the September 11 attacks in 2001.

'Now the spike is likely to last longer because Islam will continue to pose a
geo-political problem.'

Experts believe people are buying the books and magazines, because they want a
better understanding of the religion some terror groups claim to represent, so
that they can make up their own minds.

Yvon Gilabert, who runs a bookshop in Nantes, western France, explained: 'A very
Catholic lady came to buy a copy of the Koran, because she wanted to understand
for herself whether or not (Islam) is violent religion.'

Meanwhile, Patrice Besnard, a regular at a Paris bookshop specialising in
religions dded: 'I think we have to know how to see past the fundamentalism, in
order to see what religions have to offer.'

But Mr Mansour warned about people diving into reading the Koran 'unaccompanied'
and jumping to conclusions on its highly poetic text.

He also added that his company has withdrawn several books that offered 'too
literal' an interpretation of Islam from his catalogue.

Publishers such as Mr Mansour were already selling more books on Islam even
before the Paris terror attacks since the brutality of ISIS created shock waves
since its emergence in 2013.

According to publisher Hebdo Livres, twice as many books published in France
last year were dedicated to Islam than Christianity.

And at France's largest book fair in March, a big seller for Le Cerf imprint,
which is run by the Catholic Dominican order was 'A Christian Reads The Koran',
a reprint of a book first published in 1984.

At the fair, US publisher Columbia University Press also snapped up the rights
to 'The Silent Koran, the Talking Koran' by Mohammed Ali Amir-Moezzi, as well as
the paperback launch of rapper Abd al Malik's bestseller 'May Allah Bless
France.'

Also featuring highly at the event was Eric Zemmour's book The French Suicide,
which has been accused of Islamophobia as well as 'Plea for Fraternity' by the
Muslim philosopher Abdennour Bidar.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 4, 2015 Saturday 7:55 PM GMT

Police chiefs draft in squadron of high-tech drones to fight terror attacks;
The Metropolitan Police will use drones to provide commanding officers with live
footage in the event of an atrocity

BYLINE: By Matthew Drake

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 392 words


High-tech drones are being used by police to combat the growing threat of a
Mumbai style terror attack.

The Met Police will deploy the unmanned technology in the event of an atrocity
to provide commanding officers with live footage from above the scene.

Aerial video links will feed valuable information to armed response units on the
ground and help identify hostages captured in the attack.

Radio controlled drones can also be used during the fallout from a nuclear of
chemical weapons attack that has become a no-go zone.

But police chiefs believe the most significant use will be in the fight against
the rising risk of extremist ISIS terrorism - where it is hoped they will be
able to save lives.

Gold command officers can use the footage to more effectively make snap life and
death decisions.

Facebook keynote announces FACEBOOK DRONES

The drones were tested in a bid to help crowd control during the recent Carling
Cup Final at Wembley between Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur.

Unique images are transmitted straight back to command centres inside New
Scotland Yard in central London where the flights are being operated from.

They will also be used to help police deal with problems arising from the
growing number of privately owned remote control mini aircraft.

But civil liberties groups have called for tighter regulation amid fears the
skies could become 'littered with flying cameras'.

Several 'rogue' drones have raised serious security issues after they were
spotted hovering above prisons and airports.

The commercially available drones bought by police, which have been modified to
fit specifications to tackle crime by tech experts at Scotland Yard, will
provide video and still pictures of scenes that forensic teams may not be able
to enter for days after the attack.

The machines sparked controversy last year when France coach Didier Deschamps
claimed opposition teams were using them to spy on his players during football
training sessions at the World Cup.

Eight years ago Merseyside Police bought a £13,000 remote-controlled craft.

But in 2011, soon after helping in its one and only arrest, it crashed into the
Mersey.

In 2012 it was reported Kent Police was working on a £3 million project to use
unmanned aircraft to patrol its coastline.

A spokesman for the Met Police refused to confirm the use or purchase of drones.

Are drones a good thing?

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 4, 2015 Saturday 5:12 PM GMT

Garissa University terror attack: Traumatised teenager found hiding in cupboard
two DAYS after Kenya massacre;
Cynthia Charotich told how she drank body lotion whenever she felt hungry to
survive the horrific ordeal that left 148 people dead

BYLINE: By Karen Rockett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Garissa University College campus seige

A traumatised 19-year-old student has been found hiding in a cupboard, two days
after the terror attack on a university campus in Kenya left 148 people dead.

Cynthia Charotich told how she drank body lotion whenever she felt hungry, and
apart from dehydration, was said to be physically unharmed by her ordeal.

Her discovery means Garissa University were able to confirm everyone has now
been accounted for after three more students and a suspect were found alive on
Friday.

Kenya survivor tweet

One witness told reporters she heard one of the gunmen receiving instructions on
his mobile phone and speaking in Swahili, an official language in Kenya -
raising the possibility the attackers were locals and not from Somalia,
al-Shabab's heartland.

She told how she hid under a bed in her dormitory and heard the gunman receive
instructions to shoot the five other women hostages in the bedroom.

Another student Hellen Titus said she survived by fooling the attackers into
thinking she was dead.

After gunmen shot fellow students, she smeared their blood onto her body to make
it seem she'd been shot.

Many of the traumatised survivors were forced to camp out in the open for a
second night on Friday still awaiting transport home.

The story of the latest survivor emerges a day after another woman found hiding
in a wardrobe was too shocked to speak of her ordeal but had managed text her
dad who had been searching the hospitals trying to find her.

Anger is mounting among locals and families of the dead that warnings of an
attack on place of higher education were ignored.

Newspapers in Kenya reported that there was intelligence that an attack was
imminent on a school or university but security was not stepped up accordingly.

Parents of the dead have questioned why there were only two guards on duty at
the time of Thursday's attack despite evidence that an al-Shabab attack was
likely.

The University of Nairobi told its students on March 25 that it had been warned
about a possible attack on a university and asked them to be vigilant.

On Friday al-Shabab put out a statement a promising a "long, gruesome war"
against Kenya.

It said its attacks were in retaliation for acts by Kenya's security forces, who
are participating in the African Union's mission in Somalia against al-Shabab.

Kenyan police have now arrested five suspects in connection with Thursday's
attack.

One is said to be a Tanzanian national with no known links to the university.

All the bodies have been removed from the scene. All were students apart from
three police officers and three soldiers.

A further 104 people were injured after gunman stormed the campus and of those,
19 remained in a critical condition in hospital last night.

Many of the victims were still in bed asleep at the time of the attack on the
campus which is about 90 miles from Kenya's border with Somalia.

A dusk-to-dawn curfew has now been imposed in the area.Muslim community leaders
condemn Kenya massacre

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             April 4, 2015 Saturday

UK not ready for cyber terror attacks - Blunkett

BYLINE: Adrian Pearson Political Editor

LENGTH: 559  words


THE biggest threat to the UK way of life will come from cyber terrorism rather
than traditional attacks on cities and people, the former Home Secretary David
Blunkett has warned.

Utilities, banking and everyday services are at risk from terror groups
determined to target the UK, Mr Blunkett has said as he prepares to step down
from politics.

Speaking to The Yorkshire Post Mr Blunkett, one of the most senior ministers in
the Tony Blair Government, said he wants to continue advising against the
growing threat from cyber terrorism when he steps down as an MP at the General
Election.

Mr Blunkett's comments come as the UK remains under a severe terror threat
warning, one step away from the highest level. Earlier this year the head of MI5
admitted the security services could not hope to stop every attack, with the
so-called lone wolf terrorist difficult if not impossible to predict.

Already several hundred British men and women are thought to have joined IS
fighters in Syria and Iraq, with the Government increasingly concerned about the
potential radicalisation of those who return.

But across the global financial and security community the threat of an online
terror attack continues to trouble emergency planners. In December Allianz, one
of Europe's biggest insurers said it now believed the threat to aviation came as
much from terrorist hackers as from bombers and hijackers.

And MI6 spy chief  Alex Younger said this week he believes the UK is in "a
technology arms race" with "terrorists, malicious actors in cyberspace, and
criminals".

Mr Blunkett, who took over at the Home Office just after the 9/11 attacks on the
World Trade centre, said that while the threat of a bomb attack in the UK
remained high, there was an even greater risk that is yet was addressed.

Asked if he believed the UK was a safer place now than it was in the months
after the New York attacks, Mr Blunkett said: "I think there has been a
transformation in terms of the nature of the threat. The physical threat is much
less.

"Partly because of the awareness, the steps we took to transfer the investment
in the security services from Northern Ireland, which was their centre of
gravity for 20 years, to international terrorism.

"But now the threat is cyber. I strongly believe that the attack from cyber, and
the dislocation that that could cause to all kinds of essential parts of our
well-being, our utilities, our infrastructure, our economy, this is greater than
the physical threat, and we really need to take this more seriously in the
future."

The British Government recently announced it would increase funding to counter
cyber terrorism by £1.1bn, and spy-base GCHQ is seeking to recruit more online
staff, a move Mr Blunkett said he welcomed.

The Sheffield politician was speaking as he looked backed on his 45 years as a
councillor and MP in the city, saying that his time in the Home Office from 2001
to 2004 was a challenging but ultimately rewarding period in his high level
career.

He said: "The most important part of my job has to have been the Home Office. I
was dealing with the aftermath of the World Trade Center attacks, I had only
been Home Secretary for three months and was at the very centre of national
well-being. It was something you would never want to have to do but you would
never duck from doing it if you were in politics."

xref to page 5

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:32:57

