



Download Request: Select Items: 501-748
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:25:35
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 28, 2002, Monday

Health minister puts smallpox jab for all Britons out to tender

BYLINE: Melissa Kite Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 472 words


A contract to provide enough vaccine for the entire population to be immunised
in the event of bio-terrorism has been put out to tender by John Hutton, the
Health Minister.

The move will be seen as a significant change by the Department of Health which
has consistently denied that it is stockpiling for mass vaccination.

Putting the vaccine contract out to tender is a tacit admission that the
Government's earlier decision to award the contract without competition was a
mistake.

The National Audit Office is investigating the decision to award the contract to
PowderJet, which is run by a Labour donor, Paul Drayson.

Health officials said last night that no mass vaccination was planned, but
ministers wanted enough vaccine to immunise every member of the population in
the event of a terrorist attack.

About 200 health care staff will be vaccinated as members of specialist smallpox
teams across Britain. They include the doctors and lab technicians who would be
the first to come into contact with any smallpox victims.

Mr Hutton said: "We are acting strategically to ensure the safety of the UK
population and I hope the public will be reassured about the steps we are taking
and the fact that we have put public safety at the top of our list of
priorities."

Ministers have decided against buying the alternative strain of the vaccine used
in the United States and insist that the Lister strain was the correct vaccine
for Britain.

The other strain, developed by the New York City Board of Health and known to
fight the "battle-strain" smallpox which is the one Iraq is thought to possess,
has been ruled out by the Government's scientific experts.

Advertisements for a firm to provide the vaccine have been placed in the
Official Journal of the European Community (OJEC).

Officials would not reveal how much vaccine stock Britain already had. A
Department of Health spokesman said: "While the initial response to any smallpox
attack would be to vaccinate in a 'ring' around the first cases, the second
tranche of vaccine stocks would bring levels up to the point where everyone in
the country could theoretically be vaccinated.

"There are no plans to mass vaccinate ahead of any possible terrorist attack
using smallpox as a biological weapon. But we want to have the potential to mass
vaccinate in order to counter the possibility of an attack in more than one
place at once."

There has been no smallpox vaccination programme in Britain since the 1970s but
the threat of an attack by Saddam Hussein has prompted a fresh approach.

The issue landed the Government in one of its biggest funding rows when it was
revealed that Mr Drayson gave Pounds 100,000 to Labour, including Pounds 50,000
a few weeks before winning the Pounds 32 million contract to provide the
vaccine.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 July 31, 2002

The wrong vaccine?

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 464 words


THE eradication of smallpox remains one of the greatest of medical triumphs.

When this disease, which had decimated populations for centuries, was finally
wiped out, however, two stockpiles of the virus remained. Although one of these
is believed to have remained secure in the United States, the other disappeared
in the chaos that followed the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Although the
Soviet supplies were ordered to be destroyed, there is no verifiable account of
this having happened. Therefore, if a rogue nation, such as Iraq or a terrorist
group such as Al-Qaida, has acquired the smallpox virus, as Western security
agencies fear, it is likely to have come from Russia.

It would make sense, therefore, for any government wishing to protect its
population from terrorist attack to buy the vaccine that is known to deal with
this strain of the virus. However, whereas the US has done so, purchasing 209
million doses of what is known as the New York vaccine, Britain has opted for
the alternative Lister strain of vaccine. According to Steve Prior, a senior
scientist at a leading American research institute, the Potomac, in doing this,
the British Government has not only made an error, it has acted indefensibly. In
choosing a strain of vaccine that has not been proven to work against endemic
smallpox, Britain is exposing its population to an unnecessary risk, says Dr
Prior. There will not be a second chance to get this right... We will not use
these vaccines until someone is convinced that the threat is real and at that
stage it is too late to say: Do you think we got the right strain?

Whether or not the Potomac Institute is correct in its analysis, there is a
clear need for the Government to provide some kind of public reassurance. This
is made even more necessary by the fact that the deal done with the manufacturer
of the British vaccine, Powderject, has been shrouded in secrecy since it was
first announced. Indeed, because this is a company run by a Labour donor, Paul
Drayson, who gave (GBP)50,000 to the party a few weeks prior to winning the
(GBP)32m contract, and because the contract itself was not put out to tender
before being awarded, the affair is already being investigated by the National
Audit Office.

So long as the Government fails to come clean over the details behind all this,
speculation will inevitably mount. It needs to explain why it chose a different
virus from that favoured by Washington and why it refrained from putting the
contract out to tender. At the time, the Government said that Powderject was the
only company that could provide the necessary vaccine in the required time
frame. If this decision was based on expert advice, as claimed, then that advice
should now be published as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                               3 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 3, 2002

FINANCIAL EXPRESS SHOWDOWN WITH TREASURY AFTER INSURERS TURN BACK ON INDUSTRIES
UNDER THREAT; TOP FIRMS DEMAND TERROR ATTACK COVER

BYLINE: By James Robinson

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 453 words


INSIDE A POWERFUL delegation of business leaders will meet a Treasury minister
on Tuesday to w arn they face ruin because insurance companies are refusing to
provide cover against terrorist attacks.

The businessmen will plead w ith Chancellor Gordon Brown's team to make the
Government act as the insurer of last resort, j ust as John Major's
administration did following the IRA's devastating bombings in the City of
London. They will warn that billions of pounds of investment into Britain is at
risk unless urgent action is taken.

The delegation includes Jeremy Newsum, chief executive of the Duke of
Westminster's property company Grosvenor Estate Holdings. The Duke owns huge
swathes of real estate in London's West End.

Among the companies represented are Lattice, formerly part of British Gas -
which owns the country's gas network - and V inci, the French construction group
involved in the construction of the Channel Tunnel rail link that will run to
London and w hich also owns hundreds of car parks across the UK.

Some of the businesses are now uninsured against terrorist attacks because
insurers are refusing to provide cover against certain types of action,
including attempts to bring business to a halt by sabotaging the water supply,
hijacking computer systems or damaging property.

Selfridges, which has a flagship store on London's Oxford Street, has raised
similar concerns.

The companies want the Government to provide cover against these types of
terrorist acts. But insurers are refusing to provide cover at any price because
they say the risk of such action is far greater following September 11.

The companies will meet Ruth Kelly, Economic Secretary to the Treasury. They
will be accompanied by representatives from the Confederation of British
Industry.

The other industry bodies that will attend are the British Retail Consortium,
whose members include Tesco, Dixons and Boots, the British Property Federation
and the Association of British Insurers.

The Government already acts as an insurer of last resort against terrorist
attacks caused by fire or explosion. It set up an insurance company, Pool Re,
following the IRA bomb attack on the City of London's Baltic Exchange in 1992.

After the attack, insurers refused to provide cover for damage in excess of GBP
100,000 caused by terrorist bombs.

The businesses are demanding Pool Re is expanded to cover other types of
terrorist action but the Treasury is reluctant to do so because it could cost
taxpayers billions of pounds.

Many policies expire at the end of the financial year on March 31.

The ABI asked the Treasury to solve the problem by March 1.

That deadline expired on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 09, 2002, Monday

Queen and Blairs attend service for anniversary

BYLINE: By Auslan Cramb Scottish Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 164 words

TONY BLAIR flew into Britain yesterday after his talks with President George W
Bush in time to attend church with members of the Royal Family on their annual
holiday in Scotland.

The Prime Minister arrived at Aberdeen Airport at around 9am and, after a brief
meeting with the Queen at Balmoral Castle, attended the morning service at
Crathie Kirk, at which prayers were said for the victims of the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Mr Blair was driven to the church with his wife Cherie, before their children
Euan, Nicky and Kathryn, arrived separately in a people carrier. Their son Leo
remained at Balmoral with a nanny.

The Queen, in a bright blue suit and matching hat, and Prince Philip, in
Highland dress, waved to a crowd of around 150 people when they arrived a few
minutes later.

The theme of the 55-minute service was the anniversary of the terrorist attacks.
Security around the small church was tighter than normal for a royal visit.
[PS]News: [ES]

Iraq:

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                               5 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 14, 2002

Two charged over Real IRA bomb attacks;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 197 words


LONDON: Two men were charged last night in connection with suspected Real IRA
bomb attacks in London and Birmingham last year, Scotland Yard said.

Anti-Terrorist Squad officers charged a 33-year-old man with causing three
explosions - one outside the BBC in west London, another in Ealing, west London,
and a third in Birmingham.

He was also charged with possessing an explosive substance at Hilltop Farm, West
Ardsley, West Yorkshire, on or before November 14 last year.

A second man, aged 24, was charged with conspiracy to cause an explosion on or
before November 14 last year.

Both men are in custody and are due to appear at Belmarsh magistrates court in
London today.

They were arrested by police in Northern Ireland last week at the request of the
Anti-Terrorist Squad.

On March 3, 2001 a car exploded outside BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's
Bush, west London, slightly injuring an Underground worker.

Five months later, on August 3, another car blew up in a street in Ealing, west
London, injuring several people.

On November 3 last year there was another car bomb near the Bull Ring in
Birmingham, but it did not detonate properly.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                               6 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 26, 2002, Sunday

ELITE ISRAELI BOMB TEAM ON UK ALERT

BYLINE: Chris Mclaughlin Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words

HIGHLIGHT: IN ACTION: Crack Israeli troops


A CRACK 24-strong Israeli bomb squad has been flown to London amid fears of an
attack by the al-Qaeda terror network during the Queen's Jubilee celebrations.

The team of volunteers are experts at gathering evidence in the immediate
aftermath of an explosion.

With security services on heightened alert during the Jubilee, there are reports
from Europe that dozens of terrorists loyal to Osama bin Laden are trying to
smuggle their way into Britain.

The news of the Israeli team's arrival came after a Palestinian woman and her
13-year-old daughter were killed yesterday while working in a field of crops in
the Gaza Strip.

A female relative was also wounded after Israeli forces opened fire with machine
guns and tank shells.

The Israeli army said it fired and killed two "suspicious figures" who were
within 50 yards of the border fence separating Gaza from Israel.

Meanwhile, it has been claimed that while the Israeli team visiting the UK are
here at the request of the Jewish community in London, they will also be on
stand-by to help British intelligence and emergency services.

-A BRITISH-born aid worker was held by Israeli police after sniffer dogs found
traces of explosives in the boot of her car. Kirsty Wright, a Canadian
Government employee, was stopped and later freed after a routine search at a
Gaza checkpoint. The police investigation into the incident was continuing last
night.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                               7 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

UK HAD NO WARNING OF TERRORIST ATTACK'

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words


FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw last night insisted the Government had no
intelligence warning of a terrorist threat to Mombasa in the run-up to the
attacks on Israeli tourists.

The Government has been under pressure to disclose whether it was aware of any
warnings after it emerged Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of "possible terrorist attacks against Western interests" in the
Kenyan resort.

The Foreign Office has now amended its travel advice on Kenya to warn British
tourists to be aware of "the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa".

Mr Straw, in a letter to shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram, said, "No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa."

Earlier Downing Street confirmed that Britain did routinely share intelligence
with Australia but refused to say whether the information concerning the threat
to Mombasa had been passed on. "Of course we share information about threats
with the Australians," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

He added that the Government would act if it received a warning of a specific
threat.

Following the Bali bomb attacks in October, Mr Straw was forced to order an
inquiry by the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee into the way
the intelligence material was handled.

Al-Qaeda is regarded as the prime suspect for both Thursday's Mombasa attacks
and the Bali bombings.

The amended Foreign Office travel advice on Kenya now reads, "This (the Mombasa)
incident has highlighted the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa and the
capacity of terrorist groups to carry out attacks.

"Following this and other recent developments, including the terrorist bombing
of a nightclub in Bali on October 12, UK nationals world-wide should be aware of
indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets in public places, including tourist
sites."

However, travel advice, available on the Foreign Office's website, www.fco.gov.
uk, appears to have been amended to all countries worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEF-STRICKEN: Miki Adler shows her grief as the bodies of her nephews
Noy and Dvir Anter, 12 and 14, are brought back to Tel Aviv airport

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               8 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

Three on terror charges but Tube plot ruled out

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 402 words

THREE men will appear before magistrates in London this morning charged with
planning a terrorist attack.

The men - all of North African origin - were arrested in north London nine days
ago and found to be in possession of illegal documents, believed to be false
passports and credit cards.

Security sources discounted reports that the MI5 and Scotland Yard operation had
thwarted a cyanide attack on the London Underground.

No cyanide or other noxious substance was recovered nor was any information to
suggest what the target of an attack might have been.

The three, who will appear before Bow Street magistrates, have been charged
under Section 57 of the Terrorism Act 2000 with "possession of articles for the
preparation, instigation and commission of terrorist acts".

They are Rabah Chekat-Bais, 31, Rabah Kadris, mid-30s, and Karim Kadouri, 33.
All are unemployed and gave their addresses as no fixed abode. Three other men
arrested during the operation were released without charge last week.

The arrests come at a time of heightened tension, with Tony Blair and David
Blunkett, the Home Secretary, calling for increased vigilance and reminding the
public of the threat of an attack from al-Qa'eda.

Osama bin Laden named Britain as a target for terrorist attacks in a new
tape-recorded message released last week. Some experts feared the recording
might contain a coded signal to sleeper cells around the world.

But ministers said yesterday that there was no specific terrorist threat to the
Tube or any other target.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, said: "As the Prime Minister reminds
us, we get an awful lot of intelligence which we have to make judgments about.

"In this case, it does not appear there is any evidence whatsoever there was
going to be a gas attack or use of bombs regarding the three people who have
been arrested."

A Home Office spokesman said public safety was the Government's paramount
concern in responding to any terrorist threat: "If the police and the Government
thought it necessary to give a public warning that would be done without
hesitation."

London Underground said it had received no specific intelligence about a threat
to the Tube network.

A spokesman said: "Londoners have had to deal with the threat of terrorism for
over 30 years. We are continually updating our security measures and take advice
from the police."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                               9 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 8, 2002

TERROR WARNING MYSTERY

BYLINE: Matthew George Political Correspondent

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.1

LENGTH: 576 words


A DRAMATIC warning of a possible "dirty bomb" terror attack on Britain was
issued by the Government last night, then withdrawn for fear of causing panic.

Home Secretary David Blunkett revealed that the Government is certain terrorists
will try to strike, and could use poison gas similar to that used in the Moscow
theatre siege, or hijack boats or planes. But within minutes his officials
suppressed the document, which was so sensitive they ordered all copies to be
shredded.

A second version was then released, omitting the details of potential attacks
such as dirty bombs, which have nuclear components and can be hidden inside a
suitcase.

The extraordinary blunder happened as British and US warplanes bombed a site in
Iraq's Southern no-fly zone, injuring four civilians, according to Baghdad
sources. And it overshadowed frantic talks at the United Nations in New York
aimed at agreeing a resolution to force Saddam Hussein to give up his weapons of
mass destruction.

The Home Office document was prepared after Mr Blunkett met Governor Tom Ridge,
the US Head of Homeland Security, who is visiting Britain.

It outlines the current terrorist threat and the measures being taken in
response, and is an update on developments in the past two months.

The first version says Britain remains a target for terrorists and goes into
graphic detail over the kind of methods they may use.

The Western Daily Press has taken the decision not to repeat the detail - but
the document is the starkest warning yet of possible dangers to Britain.

The report concludes the bottom line is that no one can be sure what will happen
and advises everyone to give priority to security, making it a daily part of
their lives.

But after copies of the document were sent to the House of Commons press
gallery, officials appeared to panic.

They asked for all copies to be given back amid an air of mystery so that they
could be shredded, and eventually a sanitised version appeared.

Meanwhile, an Iraqi military spokesman claimed: "American and British warplanes
violated our skies from Kuwait to bomb civil and service installations in the
province of Wassit."

Wassit is 193 miles South of Baghdad.

On Wednesday, US defence officials said allied planes bombed two military sites
in the Southern no-fly zone, the 54th day of attacks this year. The two no-fly
zones were set up to protect Iraqi minorities following the 1991 Gulf War.

Iraq considers the areas a violation of its sovereignty and has vowed to shoot
down allied pilots patrolling them.

Earlier, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw told MPs a joint US-UK resolution - drawn
up after eight weeks of intensive talks - gave Saddam "a final opportunity" to
comply with UN disarmament requirements.

Mr Straw said the resolution gives Saddam the choice "to comply with the UN or
face the serious consequences".

But he said the resolution does not mean military action is imminent, as the
prospect of war will recede if it is adopted by the UN Security Council.

France and Russia have not yet signed up to the new draft.

Prime Minister Tony Blair had a 20-minute phone conversation on the resolution
with Russian President Vladimir Putin yesterday afternoon and hopes to get an
agreement from him today or on Monday.

Chief UN weapons inspector Hans Blix said an advance party from his team could
be in Baghdad within 10 days of the resolution being passed.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              10 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 16, 2002

Insurers 'may pass on cost to Britain'

BYLINE: Victoria Fletcher

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 271 words


THE floods wreaking havoc in Europe could cause insurance premiums in Britain to
spiral, experts warned today.

Many companies that provide cover in Britain, such as CGNU, AXA and Alliance
Cornhill, are based on the Continent.

And it is thought the cost of the cleanup, which already stands at £15 billion,
will be felt by businesses and individuals across the EU.

William Hawkins, an insurance analyst at Fox Pitt Kelton, said even households
in the UK could feel the pinch. "There clearly will be implications for pricing
in the UK market for the losses expected in Central Europe," he said.

"Major catastrophes tend to lead to a rise in cost for reinsurance - the cover
insurance companies themselves take out."

In the last year, home and car insurance premiums have risen by an average of
three to five per cent, according to the AA.

Homeowners had enjoyed almost static premiums in the three years before 2001.

But the fortunes of the insurance industry have changed dramatically.

The 11 September terrorist attacks prompted a surge in claims as well as pushing
up the price of reinsurance.

Just months later, storms hit Germany and France and there was a series of
explosions in factories across Europe. Most recently, severe flooding in the UK
and Europe has caused claims to surge.

The poor performance of the stockmarket has also battered the value of
investments held by insurance companies.

Datamonitor's Richard Donoghue said companies would now use high premiums to
balance their books by 2003.

And Royal Sun Alliance announced last week it was axing 1,200 jobs.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              11 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                  June 9, 2002

TERROR THREAT SPARKS NUCLEAR CLEAN-UP

BYLINE: Tim Webb and Andrew Porter;

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 564 words


The british government is stepping up plans to deal with a growing stockpile of
radioactive waste because of fears it could become a target for terrorist groups
such as Al Qaeda.

Nuclear waste is spread around 33 locations in the country, many of them above
ground, making it vulnerable to attack or theft.

The Department of Trade & Industry is now planning to make Nirex, the body
responsible for overseeing the clean-up and long-term storage of the waste,
independent from the nuclear industry.

Nirex receives most of its funding from nuclear operators BNFL and British
Energy, and the government hopes that making the body independent will foster
greater public trust in the industry.

Ministers privately acknowledge that a seven-year consultation process on how to
go about the £85bn (E131bn) clean-up, which was launched last September -
coincidentally the same month as the terrorist attacks on the United States - is
far too long. They want to move as quickly as the US has on the issue.

Last month, terrorist fears prompted the US Congress to push through a plan to
store tens of thousands of tonnes of nuclear waste in the Yucca Mountain in
Nevada.

Britain's nuclear facilities were last week reported to be on a list of
potential targets, said to be vulnerable to threat of attacks by suicide
bombers, drawn up by the security service MI5.

The UK government also wants to resolve the "legacy issue" of nuclear waste in
an effort to soften up public opinion to accept the need for a new generation of
nuclear power stations.

Britain has more than 10,000 tonnes of dangerous radioactive waste and
operations and decommissioning will add another 500,000 tonnes to that.

One source said: "The aim is to build a situation where the public can trust the
institutional framework. Nirex can be seen to be independent and not in the
pockets of the nuclear industry."

The government will announce plans for Nirex this summer as part of its white
paper of draft legislation on decommissioning Britain's nuclear power stations.
The white paper will map out a £60bn (E92bn) body, the Liabilities Management
Agency (LMA), to take the industry's decommissioning liabilities off its books.

The nuclear industry wants these plans included in the Queen's Speech in
November, with the agency set up as early as next year. The government has been
accused by some of being too slow in addressing the problem of nuclear waste.
Some sources say ministers are too close to the nuclear industry to force it to
face up to finding - and paying for - a long-term solution.

Another source said: "If the industry could get away with leaving nuclear waste
in a plastic bag outside the backdoor, they would. You do not have to be a
mastermind to work out that 33 different sites is not optimal.

"There needs to be far more political will to deal with this. In other words,
what we do with the tins in the long term."

It is understood that Sir Ken Jackson, general secretary of Amicus, formerly the
electricians union the AEEU, who took over as Nirex chairman last December, was
assured that it would be independently-funded when he joined.

Jackson is considered the closest union boss to British prime minister Tony
Blair. This week Jackson will round on the nuclear industry for not doing enough
to speed up the process of dealing with waste in the long term.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              12 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 15, 2002

Virgin flies back to Atlantic business: Sir Richard Branson and BA unite over
fears that aviation could 'fall into the same morass as the railways'

BYLINE: Terry Macalister

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 552 words


Virgin Atlantic is planning to reopen this summer north Atlantic routes to
Chicago and Toronto closed following the September 11 terrorist attacks.

But growing optimism that life is returning to normal in the air was tempered
yesterday by industry fears that future growth will be stifled by a shortage of
UK ground infrastructure.

Virgin chairman Sir Richard Branson said that Britain needed up to three new
runways to avoid aviation "falling into the same morass as the railways".

The entrepreneur, who was an early champion of cheap air travel, said flying
would soon return to its pre-September 11 growth curve of 6% per annum. He
expected to restore all shelved services - another being Athens - before the
year end.

The resurgence in business was underlined by Virgin Holidays seeing record
bookings in January with particularly strong demand for South Africa and the
Caribbean, he said.

"The north Atlantic is still soft but we expect to be back to normal in a matter
of months. Economy class is already nor mal and business class is still down by
up to 10% N We hope that one or two routes such as Chicago and Toronto are back
by the summer," added Sir Richard.

Virgin would consider rehiring some of the 1,500 staff laid off since turbulence
hit the aviation industry but Sir Richard, who founded the company, denied there
had been any overreaction, arguing it had been a "horrible" three months.

In a historic move Sir Richard yesterday joined forces with BA chief executive
Rod Eddington, union leader Bill Morris and others to launch a campaign for more
terminals and runways to be built.

Virgin and BA are bitter rivals who have shared a court room - most notably over
allegations of dirty tricks by BA against Sir Richard - but until now, not a
campaign platform.

While welcoming a government decision to proceed with terminal five at Heathrow
and launching a white paper policy document, industry figures said more needed
to be done.

Mr Eddington explained: "Too many times in the past, governments have dodged
crucial decisions in aviation. Now the government has to make decisions to avoid
creating a capacity crisis in the next few decades."

A Mori poll published by the broadly based Freedom to Fly Coalition indicated
the majority of the British public support the case for more capacity to be made
available at airports.

But environmentalists and anti-noise campaigners reacted angrily to the new
initiative. "The aviation industry is treating the environment in the same way
the tobacco industry treated public health in the 1950s," said Paul de Zylva,
campaigner at Friends of the Earth.

"It refuses to recognise its impacts - let alone the need for curbs on its
expansion. If it gets its way we will see a rash of new airports and a massive
increase in the pollution that is causing climate change. This blatant PR
campaign by some of government's closest friends is a case of a vested interest
masquerading as a moral principle."

Anti-noise group Hacan ClearSkies also expressed concern. "What this new lobby
group fails to address is the effect that an expansion of aviation will have on
the people living under the flight paths to airports, and the damage aviation is
doing to our wider environment," said chairman John Stewart.


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 2002

South Africa terror warning for tourists

BYLINE: Rebecca Allison

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 290 words


Britons travelling to South Africa were warned by the Foreign Office yesterday
there was a risk of being caught up in terrorist attacks.

The Foreign Office declined to say whether the new warning was issued in
response to a specific threat but urged anyone planning to visit South Africa to
be vigilant.

"Our assessment that most visits are trouble-free," the statement said.

"Terrorists may make attacks in South Africa. These may not be against British
nationals although there is a risk being caught in attacks aimed at the general
public.

"We see some risk of attacks on places where westerners tend to gather, such as
hotels, restaurants, coastal resorts and tourist sites."

There were a number of explosions in South Africa in October and November in
Soweto, Cape Town, at a road bridge, and at a police office at Grand Central
airport in Midrand, near Johannesburg.

"South African police are investigating, but it remains unclear who is
responsible for these attacks," the Foreign Office said.

Recent figures show the number of UK tourists visiting South Africa rose by 20%
in the first seven months of 2002, compared with the previous year.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents said he did not expect
holidaymakers would stop going to South Africa.

"We all have to understand that with world terror at a higher level travellers
are going to have to be more vigilant. It doesn't mean that they are at a
particular risk."

He added: "If you look at most people from Britain they have been brought up in
an environment where there has been a risk of terrorism. I don't think people
are saying they are not going to travel somewhere, they are just being sensible
about it."


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 06, 2002, Friday

Poll shows misgivings of British Muslims

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 349 words

ONE in five British Muslims feels little loyalty towards Britain, according to a
poll for The Daily Telegraph.

The YouGov survey also found that a minority of Muslims were not prepared to
condemn the terrorist attacks carried out by Osama bin Laden nor acknowledge
al-Qa'eda as the perpetrators.

Just under half of those surveyed did not accept that the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon were carried out by Muslims.

However, the poll suggests that the majority of British Muslims wish no ill
towards the West and are concerned that the attitudes of some are damaging
Islam's reputation in the eyes of the world. An overwhelming majority said the
atrocities in the United States on September 11 last year were not justified.

On the question of loyalty, while 13 per cent of those questioned said they felt
"not very loyal" towards Britain, and six per cent "not at all loyal", 31 per
cent felt "very loyal" and 44 per cent "fairly loyal".

YouGov found the survey difficult to conduct because some respondents were
uncomfortable with the exercise, while others were deeply suspicious. One reply
stated: "I don't much care for the wording of your survey and believe it to be a
cynical attempt to spread more damaging propaganda about Muslims."

As well as commissioning the poll, however, a team of Telegraph reporters -
including two of Asian origin - carried out an extensive range of interviews in
Muslim areas of Britain.

Tony Blair yesterday issued a message of goodwill to Muslims to mark Islam's
biggest festival of Eid al-Fitr, which ends the holy month of Ramadan. "I am
proud to be the Prime Minister of many cultures and many faiths," he said.

"Festivals like Eid provide us with a good opportunity to acknowledge and
celebrate this diversity."

The Muslim population of Britain, which in 1961 was estimated at 86,000, is
today thought to number about two million. Half originally came from Pakistan,
with the Middle East and North Africa accounting for another quarter. The
largest Muslim communities are in London, the West Midlands and West Yorkshire.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              15 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 3, 2002

Smallpox vaccine for everyone in Britain being stockpiled

BYLINE: Valerie Hannah

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 282 words


THE government is stockpiling enough smallpox vaccine to inoculate the entire UK
population in the event of a germ warfare attack by terrorists, it emerged last
night.

The plan to double the country's present vaccine stock was revealed in new
guidelines on dealing with a smallpox outbreak issued by the department of
health.

However, the government said it would only pursue a strategy of mass inoculation
as a last resort because of the risk of side effects from the vaccine.

The revelation comes five days before Saddam Hussein is due to hand over details
of his alleged weapons of mass destruction to UN inspectors.

Currently, the UK government is thought to have sufficient stocks to vaccinate
30 million people - around half the total population.

Denying he had specific information of a smallpox attack, the prime minister's
official spokesman said the contract to supply extra stocks was being put out to
tender following controversy over the decision to award a previous contract
worth (pounds) 32m to PowderJect, a firm headed by a Labour donor.

"We have enough to vaccinate key workers and we want to be able to enlarge our
stocks further," he said.

"It is obviously important that we have a supply of vaccine as a contingency if
we have to use it. We would not be doing this unless we thought it was part of a
prudent contingency plan."

Earlier, the government announced plans to inoculate 350 key health care workers
and a similar number of military personnel most likely to come into contact with
smallpox.

It also follows moves by the US government to vaccinate 500,000 emergency
workers most likely to be exposed to the smallpox virus.

LOAD-DATE: December 03, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 22, 2002

LIFE THE CAPITAL'S FASHION WEEK WAS A HIT DESPITE THE ABSENCE OF SOME TOP
DESIGNERS, WRITES KAREN KAY; LOW-KEY LOOKS FOR LONDON SHOW

BYLINE: KAREN KAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.  42

LENGTH: 923 words


THE fighting started even before the designs hit the catwalks at London Fashion
Week.

Nicholas Coleridge, Chairman of the event's organisers, the British Fashion
Council, had written a schmaltzy piece in a Sunday magazine promoting the
weeklong round of catwalk shows - as, of course, he would.

This prompted Colin McDowell, one of the industry's eminent critics to write a
reactive piece in another newspaper, which not only discussed the wonderful
aspects of British fashion but pointed out the weak points in the industry. Hey
presto, it was handbags at dawn. In a dramatic showdown of egos, words were not
exchanged between the two all week.

Then it was the turn of Sir Paul Smith - Britain's most successful fashion
designer - to enter the ring. His outspoken views on those designers who turn
their back on Britain to show abroad caused ripples of tension in what was
already going to be a difficult week.

Having lost most of the names who attract international press and buyers to
London (Alexander McQueen, Hussein Chalayan, Philip Treacy and Vivienne Westwood
have all defected to Paris or Milan, while Luella Bartley and Matthew Williamson
showed in New York last week), the mood was one of doom and gloom on Planet
Fashion.

It has been, I confess, a sober week - especially when you look at London's
track record of theatrical, attentionseeking shows. But we all know outlandish
costumes alone don't make a viable business.

So why do we constantly criticise those who show creative but wearable
collections and then feign surprise when an over-hyped new label goes bankrupt
because the buyers won't take risks with its designs?

This week, at last, it's been a joy to see some of our muchmaligned commercial
successes flourish on the catwalk and get the credit they deserve. Ronit Zilkha
opened the event with her most focused collection to date. A parade of exquisite
Edwardianinspired tailored jackets were worn with softly bustled skirts and
layers of fragile lace. It was a collection that owed more than a little to
Gosford Park but would be equally at home on Park Avenue.

Contrary to popular belief, the September 11 terrorist attacks on America didn't
have a negative effect on everyone in the industry. Zilkha's orders doubled last
season when she showed just six days after the atrocity, proving that, if the
goods are right, the orders still come.

Betty Jackson is celebrating 21 years in the industry this year and is enjoying
a huge popularity surge with a young, hip clientele who were just starting
school when she first launched her label.

TELEVISION presenter Lisa Rogers and ex-All Saint Melanie Blatt watched Betty's
signature shearling appeared as mini-capes over embroidered tulle tops and
frayed brocade jackets and coats.

Sir Paul Smith, who has built a global brand (he has 200 stores in Japan alone)
from a UK base, flew the flag for Britain with his union flag evening dress. A
showpiece, but one which made a point amid his range of wearable separates.

Tailoring paved the way for Maria Grachvogel with an elegant range of
understated evening wear that showed a more refined design sensibility than in
previous seasons.

Hardy Amies' ready-to-wear debut was a cautious and muted affair in prim, earthy
tailoring, highneck chiffon blouses and apron shapes in leather or pink tweed.

On the Roland Mouret catwalk, his signature silk, marocain and jersey were mixed
with leather and cashmere. American designer Ben de Lisi returned to his
trademark glamour with an opulent collection of beautifully cut gowns
accessorised with GBP 2.5million worth of diamonds by celebrity jeweller Mouwad.

Hamish Morrow blinded the audience with Day-Glo colours in a collection that
paid tribute to mountaineers. Wadded jackets, fluorescent dresses and neoprene
capes were teamed with Nike socks and climbing ropes.

Jasper Conran "threw his crayons out of the pram" this season, resulting in a
riot of acidic yellows, oranges, violets and turquoises.

Embroidered suede skirts and coats were worn with fox and chinchilla stoles and
cashmere knits that embodied 21st-century relaxed luxury. Who needs Milan, New
York and Paris for covetable classics?

There were also a host of presentations that underlined London's strength as a
launch pad for new talent.

Tata Naka, the twin sisters Tamara and Natasha Surgaladze from Georgia, who
graduated from Central St Martins in 2000, debuted with a mix of their trademark
vintage lace worn with pieces inspired by the folk costumes of their homeland.

Labels such as Jessica Ogden and Russell Sage continue to go from strength to
strength with their luxurious take on wearable craft.

The Preen label, designed by Justin Thornton and Thea Bragazzi continued its
reign of cool, and was one of the hottest tickets of Fashion Week. Butter-soft
suede jerkins, battered leather holster tops and military parachute dresses had
front-row fashionistas reaching for their pens.

i. e. Uniform's futuristic collection of sci-fi tops and fluorescent skirts were
shown against a backdrop of tube lighting. This contrasted with Warren Noronha's
sombre and severe tailoring. Noronha, former design assistant to Antonio
Berardi, is now in his second season.

It is true that these brands will never compete with the Guccis, Armanis, and
Calvin Kleins but then they've never set out to do so.

This is talent with enterprise - talent that pushes fashion forward, just as
Hussein Chalayan, and Alexander McQueen have done.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              17 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 19, 2002

Blitz On Al-Qaeda Plotters

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 563 words


Terrorists linked with al-Qaeda may have been plotting a series of Christmas
chemical attacks across Europe it emerged yesterday after a series of dramatic
arrests.  Armed anti-terrorism detectives detained seven men in separate dawn
swoops in London and Edinburgh - just 48 hours after four arrests in Paris.

Tony Blair later revealed a number of al-Qaeda attacks have been thwarted but
warned "the terrorist threat remains real and serious." The suspects seized in
France have links with one of three men held in Britain last month amid claims
they were plotting a nerve gas attack on the London Underground.

Scotland Yard warned the public earlier this week to be vigilant because of the
threat of terror attacks over Christmas and the New Year.

The Metropolitan police highlighted the risk of bomb outrages by dissident Irish
republican groups as well as attacks by militant Muslims linked with Osama bin
Laden, who masterminded the September 11 atrocities.

And a United Nations report, led by a British expert, yesterday said new foot
soldiers for Islam's holy war are streaming into al-Qaeda training camps
recently reactivated in eastern Afghanistan.

Yesterday South Dorset Labour MP Jim Knight told Mr Blair at Prime Minister's
Questions how Dorset police have warned shoppers to be vigilant about terror
attacks in the run-up for Christmas.

Mr Blair said it was important to be vigilant, and the UK has a lot of
experience of terrorist threats because of the IRA.

But he warned the threat could take many forms and it was important to remember
there was a limit to what the Government can do.

He played down the alleged Tube poison attack plot, saying there was no evidence
of it.

But Mr Blair's spokesman said the arrests underlined how "the threat from
international terrorism is very real." He added: "There may be no specific
threat that we are aware of but there is a general threat here and elsewhere,
and the security services, police and others will continue to do whatever they
can to counter that." All seven men arrested under the Terrorism Act yesterday
morning were of north African origin and in their 30s.

Four were seized in West London and three in the Meadowbank area of Edinburgh.
All were being questioned in Scotland last night. Scottish police led the
operation, although it is unclear whether the suspects were planning an attack
there or elsewhere on the mainland.

They were trying to establish any links with the four people found in a flat in
a Paris suburb allegedly preparing a chemical attack. They were found with two
flasks of chemical materials which could be used to pollute public drinking
water supplies and a nuclear, biological and chemical warfare protection suit,
as well as extremist Islamic literature.

French authorities believe the suspects have been to training camps in
Afghanistan and Chechnya.

They have been linked to Abu Doha, an Algerian based in London who has been
named in a German court as having a connection with al-Qaeda. And French
interior minister Nicolas Sarkozy said they were in contact with Rabah Kadre,
who was arrested in London in November over an alleged chemical attack plot.

Kadre, and two other men, are currently in custody accused of possessing items
connected with the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of
terrorism.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              18 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 18, 2002, Friday

BRITONS WARNED NOT TO VISIT, AS UK EVACUATES ENVOYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 226 words


BRITONS were last night told not to travel to Indonesia, as Prime Minister Tony
Blair warned more terrorist attacks were inevitable.

He told Ministers, "We can't predict when they will strike next, we can't
predict where they will strike next. But we have to be honest about this, that
there will be further attacks."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw urged UK citizens already in the Indonesian
archipelago to leave, an exodus which will also include non-essential diplomatic
staff.

The decision to follow Australia's lead and order the evacuation of British
nationals was taken amid a controversy concerning security warnings which had
been received before the attack.

Shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram tabled a parliamentary question to Mr
Straw, asking him what assessment he had made of the apparent admission by
Australian premier John Howard that his country had been warned that Bali was a
potential terrorist target.

Mr Blair's spokesman insisted last night that, although an American warning had
been received by Britain, "My understanding is that it was very broadbased, non
-specific, about a generic threat.

"I don't think we would be able to say any more anyway," he said.

The Government refused to disclose what information it had received to prompt
yesterday's announcement on the evacuation from Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              19 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 7, 2002, Sunday

GROUNDED BY ID RULES

BYLINE: Mike Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words


HUNDREDS of passengers are being stopped from flying within Britain because of
strict new ID rules.

Three of the UK's low-cost airlines introduced new guidelines last week,
demanding passengers carry photo ID before boarding internal flights.

But many travellers, unaware of the rules, have not been allowed on to flights
because they failed to produce photographs of themselves.

Budget firms easyJet and GO introduced the rules on April 1 as part of a drive
to boost security following the September 11 terrorist attacks. Ryanair follows
a similar policy.

Passengers must now carry passports, Home Office ID cards or European driving
licences before being allowed to board flights.

Civil rights groups and passengers' groups have condemned the new guidelines
which are not enforced by other carriers.

Liberty spokesman Roger Bignham said: "This scheme should not be seen as a
morally acceptable start to tighter controls."

EasyJet spokeswoman Samantha Day said: "We have to be strict on this because
it's an issue of security."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              20 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 20, 2002

Hoon warns of missile terror threat

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 142 words


BRITAIN will come under increasing risk of a terrorist missile attack within the
"next few years", Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon warned today.

A joint Ministry of Defence-Foreign Office paper said there was "serious cause
for concern" rogue states in the Middle East and north Africa were developing
long-range ballistic missiles. Mr Hoon said there was no current "direct
threat", but that could change before too long.

No 10 said the "threat level" was under constant review.

The Commons defence select committee is examining US plans for a defence system
to shoot down ballistic missiles, and the warning was seen by some as an effort
to muster backing for UK involvement in the project.

In an emergency Commons debate today, Tony Blair faced criticism from all sides
over the commitment of 1,700 more troops to Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              21 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 30, 2002, Monday

Plan to enforce city cordons in terror attack

BYLINE: By George Jones

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 363 words

LAWS allowing police to impose "emergency cordons" across cities to stop people
fleeing in panic after a terrorist attack are being considered by ministers.

Armed officers and military units would enforce the quarantining of areas of
London or other cities after a biological or chemical attack.

Specialist teams based at railway stations and main road junctions would prevent
people leaving and spreading infection.

Police can already clear buildings under anti-terrorist laws introduced before
September 11. But they would need extra powers to cordon off large areas for
health reasons if there was a terrorist attack.

A Cabinet Office spokesman confirmed yesterday that ministers were considering
giving the police and Armed Forces the extra powers as part of the Government's
forthcoming Civil Contingencies Bill.

Specially trained armed police and military units would be sent in to enforce
the cordons and control any outbreak of disorder, including looting.

According to the Cabinet Office, changes in the law were needed to cope with the
threat posed by modern terrorists.

There were legal issues around the setting up of health cordons.

"The law may need to be tightened in this area and that is what is being looked
at," a spokesman said.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a 7,000-strong civil contingency reaction
force would have the option of carrying arms.

Drawn from military reserve forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500-strong
forces will be deployed at 14 centres across Britain in the New Year.

Prof Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee that
advises on biological threats, said panic could spread the impact of a chemical
or biological attack.

People would jump into their cars with their families to try to flee the city
and avoid contamination but they would be stopped.

London will stage a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed. The exercise will involve police, other
emergency services and hospitals. It is designed to ensure that new systems put
in place in the wake of September 11 could cope with a real strike.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              22 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 5, 2002

POLICE TO KEEP WATCH ON 'HOLY WAR' FANATIC; TALIBAN RECRUITER FLIES IN FOR UK
MEETING

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 368 words


A FANATIC who recruited Britons to fight for the Taliban is flying here to urge
Muslim militants to continue the "holy war" in the UK.

Hassan Butt is planning to slip into Britain from self-imposed exile in Pakistan
to address a weekend conference in Manchester with other Muslim extremists.

The 22-year-old university dropout sparked outrage in January by calling on
British Muslims recruited to the Taliban to return home and launch terror
attacks in the UK. Butt will share a platform with Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed,
the leader of Al-Muhajiroun - which aims to create a worldwide Islamic state -
and the controversial cleric, Sheikh Abu Hamza, to speak on the struggle facing
British Muslims.

Abdul Ghani, a spokesman for the conference organisers, said the event tomorrow
in the crime-ridden Longsight area of the city was expected to draw hundreds of
local Muslims. "Hassan Butt will address the meeting on the impending war on
Iraq, the war on Islam and the role of the Muslim in relation to jihad in the
UK, " he said.

"I can't say when Hassan will arrive in Britain because of security issues but I
can assure you that he will be at the meeting on Sunday."

The event, arranged by Al-Muhajiroun with the Supporters of Shariah and Butt's
own splinter group, Harkatul Khilafah, has been heavily-publicised in Asian
centres of the north-west and will be closely monitored by police.

A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police said: "We are aware of a meeting
that has been organised by Al-Muhajiroun.

"We wish to reassure local residents that we will not tolerate discrimination or
illegal behaviour and we hope this event will take place peacefully." It is
believed to be the first time that Butt, a former Wolverhampton University law
student, he has set foot in Britain since he made his controversial call in
January.

Butt, whose family are based in Prestwich, Manchester, once claimed to have
recruited 1,000 Britons to fight for the Taliban in Afghanistan, and insisted:
"I will only return when the black Moslem flag is flying over 10 Downing
Street."

Leading British Muslims have dismissed him and the radical London-based
Al-Muhajiroun as a lunatic fringe.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              23 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              June 7, 2002, Friday

JOKE OF EDINBURGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 173 words


PRINCE PHILIP put his foot in it yet again yesterday when he asked four Tamil
high priests: "Are you tigers?"

The Hindu leaders had to give the daft duke a lesson about Sri Lankan militant
group the Tamil Tigers, who are behind several terrorist attacks.

One told him: "No we are priests. We are not associated with violence."

Philip's latest blunder came as he joined the Queen for a visit to the Highgate
Hill Murugan Temple in north London.

It was the first time the monarch has visited a Hindu temple in Britain.

High priests lit candles and blessed their royal visitors in the Sanskrit
language.

Luckily, Philip's daft comment was met with laughter.

Later, one of the priests said: "We weren't offended. He was just joking."

Earlier, the Queen and Duke were decorated with garlands.

Before the colourful visit, the Queen started her day at a bus depot in
Willesden, north London.

She met drivers and thanked them for helping to keep the capital moving during
the weekend Jubilee celebrations.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              24 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 12, 2002

American magazine votes Bath tea shop best in Britain;
 TOURISM BOOST: delighted owner full of praise for his staff

SECTION: 389, Pg.8

LENGTH: 260 words


BATH boasts the top tea shop in the country, according to an American magazine.

British Heritage Magazine has rated Sally Lunn's in North Parade Passage the
best tea shop in the British Isles, much to the delight of owner Julian Abraham.

"We have beaten off competition including York, " he said.

"We are obviously very proud.

"The magazine arrived on my desk on Friday afternoon. I knew we had been
nominated but it's one of those things you don't pay that much attention to.

"We are always trying to make sure we do our best for the customers."

The US magazine gives American visitors to these shores tips on where to visit
during their stay.

It is in the magazine's latest issue that the tea shop, famous for its Sally
Lunn bun, has received the accolade.

And after Bath's tourism market was hit last year by the double whammy of the
foot-and-mouth outbreak and the terrorist attacks in America, the news has come
just in time for the forthcoming tourist season.

"This is just the right time to give everyone that lift as we start this year, "
said Mr Abraham, who has run the business for the past ten years.

"What I think is really nice is for the people who work with us because it shows
what we are trying to achieve.

"It's always nice to receive some recognition for that. Without the staff, we
would not have got there.

"We have got a hardcore of people that have been with us for many years.

"We try and treat our staff with the same respect we treat our customers and I
think it pays dividends."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              25 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 12, 2002

Forewarned is forearmed Intelligence agencies have a duty to tell of risk

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 399 words


IN the post September 11 world perhaps the only certainty is continuing
uncertainty. Citizens are told that the threat from international terrorism, and
al Qaeda in particular, is ever-

present and ever-changing. This is a war that requires new weapons, foremost
among which is the gathering and dispersal of intelligence so that risks can be
acted upon and loss of life averted. For that, taxpayers rely on the security
services to do their job. But in the case of the Bali bombing, according to a
report by MPs published yesterday, that job was not done.

The parliamentary intelligence and security committee severely rebuked MI5 for a
"serious misjudgment" of the terrorist threat to British nationals in the run
-up to the bombing on October 12. More than 190 people, including 26 Britons,
died in the attack on a nightclub packed with western tourists. The committee,
which took evidence from the heads of MI5, MI6, and GCHQ, concluded that there
was no intelligence available to Britain or any of its allies which would have
prevented the attack.

Yet the agencies had begun receiving intelligence in September that terrorists
were planning possible attacks on western interests in Indonesia. Potential
targets were said to include Bali. Despite the warnings, and an abortive attack
on an American diplomatic residence in Jakarta on September 23 - three weeks
before the Bali bombing - MI5 considered there was no need to upgrade its threat
assessment for Indonesia.

As a result, the advice given by the Foreign Office did not accurately reflect
the very real threat to British tourists. In response, Jack Straw, the foreign
secretary, has promised a review of the way travel advice is prepared and
presented. That cannot come too soon. What should be a clear, reliable system of
guidance for travellers is unnecessarily complex. Risk is not identified clearly
enough and precautions that can be taken are not described adequately.

Just as the Foreign Office must become more responsive to the needs of
travellers, so the intelligence agencies must improve the service they provide
to government departments as a whole. There is, of course, a need to filter
information, to separate the credible threat from the hoax. But once a judgment
has been made, the assessment should be passed on. Now, most of all, is not a
time for the intelligence agencies to be coy.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            April 16, 2002, Tuesday

WELCOME FOR US AMBASSADOR;
 POLITICAL FOCUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 135 words


LINKS between Wales and the United States have been further strengthened this
week.

First Minister Rhodri Morgan yesterday welcomed the US Ambassador to Britain,
William Farish, to Cardiff on his first visit to Wales.

The two men met at the National Assembly's government headquarters in Cathays
Park, before Mr Farish visited Cardiff Bay with Culture Minister Jenny
Randerson.

The ambassador was in Cardiff for the spring conference of the British American
Business Council.

During his meeting with the First Minister, Mr Farish visited the cenotaph where
hundreds of people held a three-minute silence last year in memory of the
victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Mr Farish's predecessor Philip Lader was the first foreign dignitary to address
the assembly in July 1999.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEETING OF MINDS US Ambassador William Farish meets Rhodri Morgan in
Alexandra Gardens. PICTURE: Simon Ridgway

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              27 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 27, 2002, Sunday

GURKHA & SBS GUARD ON OUR CRUISE LINERS;
 EXCLUSIVE: TERROR ALERT ON THE HIGH SEAS

BYLINE: Terry O'hanlon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 305 words

HIGHLIGHT: SAFE SAILING: The QE2 is guarded by ex-Special Boat Squadron marines
(inset right) and Gurkhas; TARGET: The holed Limburg oil tanker


BRITAIN'S two biggest cruise companies are using undercover ex-Gurkhas and
Special Boat Squadron veterans to protect their liners against terrorist
attacks.

The former servicemen, who wear crew uniform, are already on board Cunard's
flagship QE2 and P&O's prestigious Oriana, plus dozens of other ships owned by
the lines.

With more than 870,000 UK passengers taking cruises every year, shipping line
chiefs were alarmed when two suicide bombers exploded a small dinghy against the
US warship Cole off Yemen in October 2000, killing 19.

Two weeks ago the French oil tanker Limburg was holed and set ablaze in a
suspected terror attack off the Yemen.

The Government's Cobra security committee, headed by Premier Tony Blair, went
into action to re-think the safety of Britain's ships after the horror of
September 11 last year.

The Passenger Ship Association launched an international operation to tighten
ship-board security. The result is:

-ALL passengers and crew are security vetted.

- PLASTIC photo security cards have to be carried by everyone on board.

- VISITORS are banned from boarding ships without prior approval.

-X-RAY machines, metal detectors and sniffer devices that can detect explosives
are used to vet everyone going aboard - and their baggage.

-STATE-OF-THE-ART radar can pick out a small dinghy 20 miles away.

The Special Boat Squadron, the Royal Marines equivalent of the SAS, showed their
high state of readiness last December when they stormed a cargo ship in the
Channel amid fears that Osama Bin Laden was planning a chemical and biological
attack on Britain.

Cunard and P&O refused to discuss security arrangements. But a P&O insider said:
"The special security people are dressed as crew and are on duty round the
clock."

t.o'hanlon@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              28 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 5, 2002

Blair spells out Britain's world role as a new force for good'

BYLINE: JON SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 328 words



TONY BLAIR was today claiming a pivotal'' role for Britain in world affairs
after the September 11 atrocities.  The United Kingdom may no longer have an
empire, but it can still use its historic links and new strengths to play a
leading role, Mr Blair told the Chamber of Indian Industry at its conference in
Bangalore.

The Prime Minister declared he was proud of the role Britain had played since
September 11, both diplomatically, in building the alliance against
international terrorism, and on the humanitarian front, through the provision of
aid to Afghanistan.  He also praised the role of British forces in operations
against the Taliban regime and al-Qaida networks.

Mr Blair, on the third day of his visit to the region, added: Dealing with
international terrorism abroad is not just right in itself, it is right for our
economy, our jobs, our stability and our security.  Proud nations will always
guard their sovereignty, but the shape of the world today means that
self-interest for a nation and the interests of the broader community are no
longer in conflict.  I believe we have found a major foreign policy role for
Britain.  We do not have an empire, we are not a superpower, but we do have a
role, and in playing it properly we benefit Britain and the wider world.  That
role is to be a pivotal player. It is to use the strengths of our history, our
geography, our language, the unique set of links with the US, Europe and the
Commonwealth, our position within the UN and Nato . . . to be that force for
good in our own nation and the wider world.  It is a role we should embrace with
real confidence, resisting nostalgia, refusing to retreat into isolationism.''

Later in his tour, Mr Blair will have talks with his Indian and Pakistani
counterparts in New Delhi and Islamabad.  He wil seek to exert a calming
influence'' on the tensions between them that have put the region on the brink
of war.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GREETINGS . . . Tony Blair in India, the latest stop on his Asian tour

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              29 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 30, 2002

Britain pays £28m for the 'wrong'smallpox vaccine

BYLINE: Patrick Sawer

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words


BRITAIN'S defence against a smallpox attack by terrorists has been fatally
undermined by the Government's choice of the wrong type of vaccine, new research
claimed today.

The Department of Health rejected the type of vaccine most likely to defeat an
attack, according to a study into the threat from the deadly virus.

Instead ministers chose a vaccine produced by a major Labour donor, PowderJect,
without putting the contract out to tender.

Ministers already face an investigation by the National Audit Office into their
choice of PowderJect and today's claims are bound to prompt calls for an inquiry
by the House of Commons Select Committee on Science.

PowderJect is run by Paul Drayson, who has given £100,000 to Labour, including
£50,000 a few weeks before winning the £28 million contract-for 20 million doses
of the vaccine.

However, the author of the new research has said he can find no reason why the
Government did not choose the same vaccine as the United States.

Steve Prior, a senior scientist at American's leading Potomac Institute, said
the Lister strain of the vaccine ordered from PowderJect has not been proven to
work against endemic smallpox.

Ministers defended their choice of PowderJect saying it was the only company
able to supply the right strain of vaccine in the right time.

But Dr Prior's research showed that the vaccine developed by the New York City
Board of Health vanquished the virus in India, known to be the source of the
"battle-strain" smallpox understood to have been passed to Iraq.

Ominously Dr Prior said the Government would only discover if it had made the
right choice when its virus is tried on the first victim of a bio-terrorist
attack.

He told the Times: "There will not be a second chance to get this right, that is
the problem.

"When you are making decisions of this magnitude, you cannot afford to make the
wrong one and you certainly cannot afford to make it for the wrong reasons I
think it is indefensible."

The US is buying 209 million doses of the New York vaccine from the Cambridge-
based company Acambis for £275 million, enough to increase its supply to cover
every US citizen.

A spokesman for Powder-Ject said: "In terms of the strain chosen, that is
obviously a matter for the Government. There has been a public statement that we
were the only company that could provide the vaccine it wanted in the required
time frame." The new research adds to fears about the choice of vaccine
previously expressed by Ian Gibson, the Labour MP who chairs the Commons Select
Committee on Science.

Dr Gibson said today: "The Government is very keen to use the Lister strain for
whatever reason and I cannot find any real credible reason why they are using
the strain that they are using."

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "Our decision to choose the
Lister strain was taken with expert scientific and medical advice."

However Liam Fox, the Conservative health spokesman, said: "It is disturbing to
think that the Government has got the wrong vaccine which could leave the public
at risk, and even worse that it could have bought the wrong vaccine simply to
send business the way of a Labour donor."


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PAUL DRAYSON: GAVE 50,000 TO LABOUR WEEKS BEFORE RECEIVING VACCINE
ORDER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              30 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 9, 2002

Blair back to take charge (but he'll soon be off again)

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 355 words


TONY BLAIR flew back from Afghanistan yesterday to respond to growing pressure
for action over the Government's deepening problems at home.

His return, amid criticism that the crisis in Britain's public services had been
ignored during his two weeks out of the country, coincided with a Labour Party
broadcast.

In it, the Prime Minister vowed he has not forgotten his election promises over
the health service and public transport.

But the broadcast made only a fleeting reference to problems in the transport
system, before moving on to discuss the Government's commitment to health and
education.

It was filmed before Christmas, prior to Mr Blair disappearing on a holiday to
Egypt which was followed by his diplomatic tour of Bangladesh, India, Pakistan
and Afghanistan.

The Prime Minister has been accused by critics on all sides of the political
divide of shunning domestic problems to seek greater glory abroad as a world
statesman.

The trip to the war zone in Asia was Mr Blair's sixth diplomatic mission since
the terror attacks of September 11. His office insisted yesterday that improving
public services is now top of his agenda.

However, he will not be home for long. It emerged that the Premier's whistlestop
diplomacy will continue with a trip to Africa the precise destination is unknown
followed by a visit to Australia in March for the Commonwealth heads of state
conference in Brisbane.

Tory chairman David Davis said last night: 'The time has come to ask if Tony
Blair is trying to run away from his Government's domestic troubles.

'The more trips he makes abroad the less he keeps his eye on his increasingly
incompetent ministers and the longer the public must wait for their trains and
hospital beds.

'Tony Blair must realise that his first obligation is to the British people.'
Senior Labour backbenchers joined the demands for the Prime Minister to focus
his energies on domestic problems.

Donald Anderson, who chairs the Commons foreign affairs committee, said there
were considerable ' murmurings' at Westminster about the time spent Mr Blair
overseas.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              31 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 July 30, 2002

Britain buys the wrong smallpox vaccine claim;
 SCIENTIST'S FEAR: no defence against 'battle strain' from Iraq

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 527 words


THE Government has bought the wrong vaccine to protect the country from the
threat of a smallpox attack by terrorists, it was claimed today.

A leading American authority on the subject said the Lister vaccine ordered by
the Department of Health had not been proved to work against the so-called
"battle-strain" of virus obtained by Iraq.

Steve Prior, of the Potomac Institute, who has carried out new research on the
smallpox threat, told The Times newspaper that he believed Britain's vaccine
choice was "indefensible".

He said the US government had selected an alternative vaccine developed by the
New York City Board of Health which had proved successful against endemic
smallpox in India from which the "battlestrain" was developed.

"I was very surprised . . . for the Department of Health to suddenly come out
and say 'we know something about the threat that nobody else knows that means we
have to have Lister' was very surprising, " Dr Prior said.

"When you are making decisions of this magnitude, you cannot afford to make the
wrong one and you certainly cannot afford to make it for the wrong reasons . . .
I think it is indefensible."

However the Department of Health, which placed the 28m order for the vaccine,
insisted that it was acting on expert medical and scientific advice.

A spokesman said that it had chosen the same vaccine as other European nations.

"The decision to purchase the Lister vaccine was based on the expert medical and
scientific advice that we and the Ministry of Defence had, " the spokesman said.

"As far as we are concerned it is the best we can get which is why we bought
it."

Meanwhile as speculation that the United States and possibly Britain were
planning an attack on Iraq, Baghdad has challenged Prime Minister Tony Blair to
prove it is developing weapons of mass destruction, reiterating in a statement
its readiness to allow British investigators to search for alleged weapons
sites.

"If Blair wants to prove that his claims are true, then our invitation to
Britain is valid and we challenge him to present any evidence that Iraq is
producing such weapons, " said a statement from the Iraqi Foreign Ministry in
Baghdad which was faxed to The Associated Press.

The spokesman was commenting on Mr Blair's statements in a recent interview with
a British magazine that if the time came for action against Iraq, "people will
have the evidence presented to them" to show that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
"is trying to acquire weapons of mass destruction, in particular a nuclear
capability".

Mr Blair has joined US President George W Bush in demanding that UN weapons
inspectors should be readmitted to Iraq.

For international sanctions to be lifted, the inspectors must certify Iraq has
eliminated its weapons of mass destruction.

Baghdad claims it has rid itself of such weapons and has not let in inspectors
since 1998.

Speculation has been growing that Iraq may become a target of US military action
after Mr Bush called it part of an "axis of evil".

The president then went on to warn Baghdad to let in UN inspectors or face
unspecified consequences.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              32 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 12, 2002, Wednesday

BRIT 9/11;
 TERROR PLAN TO CRASH PLANE INTO BIG BEN

BYLINE: Andy Lines In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 295 words

HIGHLIGHT: PRIME TARGET: The Houses of Parliament


SUICIDE hijackers planned a September 11 attack on Big Ben and the Houses of
Parliament, it was claimed yesterday.

The plot to snatch a plane at Heathrow and crash it into the landmark was
aborted after flights were grounded following the World Trade Center horror.

The deadly scheme was revealed by Rohan Gunaratna, author of Inside al-Qaeda, a
comprehensive study on the terrorist group.

The author, who works at the Centre for Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrews University in Fife, claims that the Big Ben hit would
have gone ahead just after 2pm UK time.

He told CBS news in the US: "This team assembled at the Heathrow airport on 9/11
to conduct an airborne suicide attack on the Houses of Parliament."

The author used testimony from the alleged Big Ben attacker, Afroz Mohammed -
held in India after fleeing Britain with accomplices.

It is claimed he was having flying lessons in Bedford at the time of 9/11.
Further atrocities were planned in Australia and India.

Afroz is said to have admitted to the plan in an Indian security services'
document and police in Bombay said an email sent by Afroz to an address in
Australia mentioned plans to attack Parliament after the hijack of a plane.

But Afroz has since retracted his confession, claiming he was framed.

In December, three Scotland Yard detectives went to Bombay to interview Afroz.

In his book, published this month, Gunaratna, also warns that police and
security agencies are failing to prevent al-Qaeda operating in the UK.

He said: "The most robust terrorist support infrastructure established by any
group in any European country is in Britain.

"British attempts to neutralise al Qaeda and related groups have been gravely
inadequate."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              33 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Airline industry nightmares come true

BYLINE: Andrew Clark Transport correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 439 words


A terrorist missile attack on a commercial aircraft is among airline bosses'
worst nightmares. Industry experts admit that there is little they can do to
protect against the threat.

Yesterday's attack came at a difficult time for airlines, which have struggled
to win back the confidence of passengers since September 11.

The International Air Transport Association this week warned that the world's
airlines were headed for a combined loss of between Dollars 5bn (pounds 3.2bn)
and Dollars 7bn on international routes this year, with Americans in particular
still wary of travelling.

The missile in Kenya was launched from a vehicle more than a mile outside
Mombasa airport - well beyond the outer reaches of any security. At Heathrow
yesterday, BAA insisted it regularly carried out "threat assessments" with the
police on "perimeter and offsite" security.

However, Britain's biggest airport has residential areas near the end of its two
runways and its vulnerability was exposed in 1994, when the IRA fired mortar
bombs onto taxiways from an unmanned device in a nearby hotel car park.

Kieran Daly, the editor of Air Transport Intelligence, said: "In most peoples'
view, this attack is long overdue. It's been the great fear of the industry for
more than 20 years. Once you're outside the hinterland of an airport, the remit
of the aviation authorities doesn't extend far."

Government sources said it was far easier to obtain a missile launcher in
sub-Saharan Africa than in Britain. The Department of Transport's security arm,
Transec, is relying on intelligence to alert the authorities to such weapons
before they are launched.

But aviation experts said the attack is likely to re-open debate about fitting
military-style defences to passenger jets.

The government's small VIP fleet of BAe 146 planes, regularly used by the Queen
and the prime minister, have "defensive aid suites" which can electronically
alter the course of approaching weapons.

Unconfirmed rumours that aircraft from the Israeli airline El Al have similar
devices abound. Anti-missile equipment is extremely expensive, however, and is
likely to be seen as a step too far by the aviation industry.

One Whitehall source said: "If they think it's dangerous enough to need these
things, questions need to be asked about whether they should be flying to these
places in the first place."

But a senior airline source said that the risk of a further missile attack "will
be viewed by most people as fairly remote. Most travellers realise that flying
is fundamentally safe."

Special report at guardian.co.uk/airlines


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2002

BRITAIN ON THE BRINK FEARS GROW THAT AL QAEDA MAY PUT 'DIRTY BOMB' ON FERRY;
GEIGER COUNTERS USED AT PORTS TO STOP NUKE ATTACK

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 527 words


BRITAIN stepped up the offensive against the threat of a "dirty bomb" nuclear
attack yesterday as anti-radiation devices were installed at ferry ports.

High-intensity Geiger counters are in operation around the coast as Prime
Minister Tony Blair put police, military and government institutions on the
highest possible terror alert.

Ports were on the highest state of alert at any time since the end of the Second
World War.

Dirty bomb nuclear strikes - using radioactive material from possibly
contaminated sources - chemical weapons, such as poison gas, and conventional
explosive devices could be used.

Security sources urged Britons to make a "high state of vigilance" a lifelong
habit, but stressed there was no specific intelligence about any imminent
strike.

The dangers will be stressed by a poster campaign urging vigilance against a
cunning and resourceful enemy.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "There is reliable intelligence of
a new threat to ports.

"But it is sensible that ports are reminded, as they are on a frequent basis, to
maintain their security presence to reflect the risk."

When asked what the public should look out for to stay vigilant, cabinet
minister John Reid said: "We would just ask people to stay alert to anything
that appears unusual to them and pass anything they are worried about on to the
police.

"It's important to recognise that we should be under no illusion that we are
embarking on a struggle that is long and wide and deep."

A Home Office spokesman said the Government had installed the radiation
detecting technology in some ports as part of a scheme called Project Cyclamen.
He said: "Essentially, Geiger counters will be set off if someone tries to bring
a dirty bomb into the country.

"We cannot give more details of the devices being used or exactly where they are
located as this might alert people and jeopardise the project."

In one security check at Portsmouth, a former government atomic scientist was
interrogated by police after high levels of radiation were detected from the
coach he was travelling on.

John Jones, 57, who has worked on atomic weapons projects for years, was
innocent and was quickly released without charge.

Military experts warned a second Gulf war could expose Britain to attacks by
terrorists using Iraq's weapons of mass destruction like smallpox virus.

Jane's Terrorism & Security Monitor magazine said Saddam Hussein could unleash
chemical and biological weapons on cities.

Report author Andrew Oppenheimer said: "Saddam might decide that the extreme
step of assisting Islamist terrorists in conducting an attack using weapons of
mass destruction against the US would be his last chance to exact vengeance by
taking a large number of victims with him."

He said Saddam may have warehouses in America containing weapons of mass
destruction which could be released if Iraq was attacked.

Mr Oppenheimer's report cited Saddam's order to fire biological and chemical
weapons against Israel if the Allies marched on Baghdad in the 1991 Gulf War.

Additional reporting by Kirsty Walker and John Ingham

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              35 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 18, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: FANATICS ON LOOSE: 'TERROR PLOT TO BLAST BRITAIN'

BYLINE: Rod Chaytor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 225 words

HIGHLIGHT: ACCUSED: Abedin


TWO Bangladeshi men planned to carry out a terror bombing campaign in Britain, a
court heard yesterday.

Moinul Abedin, 31, and Dr Faisal Mostafa, 37, converted a city-centre house into
an explosives factory, it was claimed.

The pair used materials from High Street shops to make a highly-volatile
substance called HMTD.

And an "idiot's guide" to terrorism was found on a computer, jurors heard.

Their plan was foiled after a raid by police and security services who had been
watching the house in Birmingham for more than a week.

Prosecutor Coleman Treacy QC told the court officers could not say who or what
the men's targets were.

But he added: "There is no doubt it would have been in this country.

"Fortunately, their plans did not come to fruition. The authorities acted
quickly before they could plant a bomb."

Materials found at the unfurnished house, rented under a false name, included
hydrogen peroxide from hair bleach, sodium chlorate and sulphuric acid.

All are ingredients of HMTD. Five detonators were also discovered.

Nearby homes were evacuated while the Army investigated the material.

Abedin, of Birmingham, and Dr Mostafa, a corrosives and chemistry expert from
Stockport, Cheshire, deny conspiracy to cause an explosion and possessing
explosives.

The Birmingham trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              36 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 26, 2002

Tourism boss criticised for 'dismissing US market'

BYLINE: William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264 words


SCOTLAND'S head of tourism was criticised by a government minister yesterday
over claims that he had written off the United States market this year.

Tessa Jowell, culture secretary, attacked the "dismal, pessimistic" decision of
Philip Riddle, chief executive of VisitScotland, to dismiss the American market
as she announced a (pounds) 40m promotional drive to attract visitors back to
Britain in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks and the foot-and
-mouth crisis.

The tourism boss was reported in the media last week as saying that resources
should be targeted at attracting back European visitors this year with a renewed
emphasis on the US next year.

His comments were raised in the Commons yesterday by Tom Clarke, Labour MP for
Coatbridge and Chryston, who asked the minister: "Do you share my concern at the
opinions attributed to Philip Riddle who says this year the American market
should be regarded as a lost cause for Scotland? Will you join me, and the
people of Scotland, in disagreeing profoundly with that view?"

In response, Ms Jowell said: "I would unreservedly oppose the view taken by
VisitScotland. It is a dismal pessimistic view which is simply not borne out by
the evidence of the increasing number of American visitors who want to visit
Europe.

"Very particularly, we want to get them to visit Britain in this jubilee year
and to celebrate the Commonwealth Games."

Last night, VisitScotland rejected suggestions it had given up on the US tourist
market and insisted it was working hard to build trade to normal levels.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 21, 2002

MISSILES TO BE SET UP ON ROOF OF THE PALACE

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Andrea Perry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 521 words


MOBILE surface to air missiles are to be placed on key buildings including
Buckingham Palace to combat terrorists launching September 11 style air attacks
on the capital.

The Scottish Sunday Express has learned that the Ministry of Defence plan,
codenamed Operation Shield, has been devised to instantly respond to rogue air
strikes.

As part of the Defence white paper, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon recently
revealed that secret plans were in place to ensure that terrorists' biological,
chemical or radiological attacks could be thwarted.

Under the proposals Britain's air defences are also being strengthened to
improve their ability to respond to "rogue aircraft, " he said.

The powerful rapier missile can be fired over four miles and would be used to
protect likely terrorist targets such as the Palace of Westminster and strategic
government buildings. The camouflage disguised armoury is to be located on top
of the most threatened buildings.

Embarrassingly, the sensitive information was almost leaked in a RAF based
publication which is on sale to the public.

At the last minute an eagle-eyed government official noticed details of the
anti-terrorism measures in RAF News.

Mr Hoon was immediately alerted and all 100,000 copies were pulped before ending
up on newsagents' shelves. It w as, however, too late to prevent several hundred
copies being posted to units in the Falklands and Cyprus, but all have now been
retrieved.

A senior RAF source said: "There was a story about a secret plan to intercept
aircraft over London which would be used for September 11 type attacks.

"Although the item did not contain details the plan should not have been
published in an unclassified newspaper".

The article, sent in by a contributor from RAF Strike Command in High Wycombe,
does not appear to have been properly vetted.

Mr Hoon took the decision to stop the distribution of the July 5 issue after
being shown an advance copy.

Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Sir Peter Squire, ordered Portsmouth
and Sunderland Newspapers to stop the print run.

The paper was re-plated with another item and then distributed several days
late. An official explanation for the late appearance of the paper is published
in the latest issue out on Monday.

It states: "Due to technical difficulties at our printers, the print run of our
July 5 edition did not meet our usual high standard.

"As a consequence, we decided to recall the print run and have the entire
edition reprinted."

A year ago an issue of Soldier magazine was destroyed after the MoD spotted
reference in it to an SAS operation.

A spokesman for the MoD maintained that the edition was pulped because of
technical difficulties, and said it was "utter rubbish" to suggest otherwise.

He denied plans to locate any missiles on buildings in the capital but would not
comment on Operation Shield.

He added: "There is an air defence plan which is detailed in the white paper.

The RAF has quick reactionary aircraft at different locations which would
undertake the role of responding to air attacks."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              38 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 26, 2002, Tuesday

MISPLACED LIBERALISM

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 395 words


HOW quickly people forget. It is not six months since the world witnessed the
most cold-blooded, pitiless peacetime terrorist attack on a civilian population,
yet there are already forces at work challenging the legality of America's
holding of prisoners suspected of involvement.

Of course, the anti-Americanism which bubbles away just below the surface of our
society boiled to the top the moment America unleashed its military might
against the monstrous Taliban and their murderous guests.

Nor was it so long after that the voices of unthinking, reactive, sentimental
liberalism were ranting about the supposed war crimes of the US and its
principal ally against terrorism - Britain - based on misreading pictures of
prisoners released by the American authorities themselves.

But now we have a solicitor getting involved on behalf of a British Taliban
suspect held at Camp X-Ray in Cuba.

According to Louise Christian, acting for Zumrati Juma, whose son Feroz Abbasi
was taken to Guantanamo Bay after being caught allegedly fighting for the
Taliban, UN guidelines implicate Britain in the conditions under which he is
being kept.

Ms Juma, meanwhile, has called on Tony Blair to persuade the US government to
hand her 22-year-old son to British authorities, in the belief that her "polite
and obedient" boy's health will suffer if he doesn't get enough exercise.

Needless to say, a mother's love and loyalty to her offspring is unconditional,
and her faith in British justice and sentencing policy is touching and no-doubt
entirely warranted. Though if she is so concerned about her son's wellbeing, it
might have been better had she persuaded him to stay where she could keep an eye
on him.

But the solicitor's threat to bring proceedings against our Government, on the
grounds that Abbasi's interrogation by an MI6 officer amounts to this country's
complicity in an unlawful act, is extraordinary.

We have absolutely no jurisdiction over what happens on American soil, any more
than on Afghanistan's.

The Taliban respected the rights of noone and their record on human rights is
less than zero. Parents of all British citizens who ended up bearing arms
against America should be thankful they survived at all - unlike Daniel Pearl,
whose torture and beheading his kidnappers were thoughtful enough to preserve
for us on video.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              39 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2002, Friday

Spy chiefs warned ministers of al-Qaeda attacks

BYLINE: Michael Evans Defence Editor

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 790 words


Britain's spy chiefs warned the Prime Minister less than two months before
September 11 that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda group was in "the final stages" of
preparing a terrorist attack in the West, it was disclosed yesterday.

The heads of MI6, MI5 and GCHQ, the signals eavesdropping centre, suggested that
while the most likely targets were American or Israeli, there could be British
casualties. Their warning was included in a report sent to Tony Blair and other
senior Cabinet Ministers on July 16. But the agency chiefs admitted the
"timings, targets and methods of attack" were not known.

The disclosure was made yesterday in the annual report of the parliamentary
Intelligence and Security Committee, which questioned the intelligence chiefs
after the attacks. The July 16 warning to ministers was included in the weekly
precis of intelligence assessments made by the Cabinet Office Joint Intelligence
Committee (JIC), on which the heads of the intelligence agencies sit.

The JIC prediction of an al-Qaeda attack was based on intelligence gleaned not
just from MI6 and GCHQ but also from US agencies, including the CIA and the
National Security Agency, which has staff working jointly with GCHQ.

The CIA sometimes has a representative on the JIC. The contents of the July 16
warning would have been passed to the Americans, Whitehall sources confirmed.

The news is consistent with what is now known about warnings given by American
agencies before September 11. President Bush was given a CIA briefing on August
6 about a possible terrorist hijacking but the final pieces in the intelligence
jigsaw -when, where and how -were missing. Subsequently it has emerged that an
FBI agent's warning of Arab suspects taking flying lessons was ignored.

The Intelligence and Security Committee, headed by Ann Taylor, the former Leader
of the Commons, said that the JIC assessment was "not a stark warning of
immediate danger to the UK".

However, the July 2001 JIC assessment, warning that "organised attacks were in
their final stages of preparation", predicted that "UK interests were at risk,
including from collateral damage in attacks on US targets". Seventy-eight
Britons died in the attack on the World Trade Centre.

Yesterday Richard Perle, the former US Assistant Defence Secretary, said in
London that Britain was exposed to terrorist attack "more than anywhere else
other than the US. Britain is a very open place with a large population from
which terrorists can be recruited".

In examining Britain's preparedness for an al-Qaeda attack last year, the
committee report said "the shortage of specific intelligence and Osama bin
Laden's record could have warned all concerned that more urgent action was
needed to counter this threat". The eight MPs and one peer said it was a "matter
of conjecture" whether this would have forestalled bin Laden's actions. But they
noted that all three agencies had suffered cutbacks in funds and staffing in the
1990s and had been "operating under financial pressures prior to the September
11 attacks".

Mrs Taylor said that there had been "intelligence gaps", and one problem was
that the agencies had not envisaged the scale of the September 11 attack. The
committee report concluded: "With hindsight, the scale of the threat and the
vulnerability of Western states to terrorists with this degree of sophistication
and a total disregard for their own lives was not understood."

The committee, which oversees the work of MI6, MI5 and GCHQ and always takes
evidence in private, said: "The questions are whether the threat posed by UBL
(Osama bin Laden) was understood and whether it was effectively brought to
ministers' attention." Before September 11 the security and intelligence
services had "identified the pressing need" to gather intelligence about bin
Laden and al-Qaeda -a "notably hard target" to penetrate -and had informed
ministers "that action was in hand".

The report, the first parliamentary assessment of intelligence leads before
September 11, said: "The agencies have told us they had no intelligence
forewarning them specifically about the September 11 attacks on the US."

Sir Stephen Lander, Director-General of MI5, had told the committee seven weeks
after the attacks that a subsequent re-examination of material did not find any
that, with the wisdom of hindsight, could have given warning of the attacks.
John Scarlett, who took over as chairman of the JIC a few days before the
attacks in America, told the committee, according to the report, that there was
"an acute awareness in the period before September 11" that bin Laden and his
associates "represented a very serious threat" and that there was "planning
activity".


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 4, 2002, Monday

MISSION TO LURE BACK US TOURISTS;
 COVENTRY JOINS ROADSHOW

BYLINE: Colin Lewis Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 206 words


COVENTRY tourism professionals are to mount a major campaign in the United
States to lure American visitors back to the city.

Last year's foot and mouth crisis and the September 11 terror attacks combined
to frighten away many US tourists.

Coventry and Warwickshire Promotions marketing executive Jo Burns said: "A
quarter of Coventry's leisure tourists traditionally come from the USA, more
than from any other single country.

"Because of recent world events, our Tourist Information Centre has seen a drop
in visitors so it is important to get out there and convince the Americans it is
OK to keep on coming."

Representatives from CWP are flying out for the final week of a six- week UK
tourism event centred on Portland Westchester, Philadelphia and Washington.

CWP staff also attended the southern section of the UK roadshow in Tampa,
Orlando, Atlanta and Raleigh during January.

Ms Burns said that CWP would be selling the region's heritage, industrial
heritage, gardens, countryside, hidden Britain and city culture.

She said: "We aim to make and keep good contacts with the American travel trade
that we can follow up on our return to the UK with attractions,k guides and
suggested itineraries."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 8, 2002

REAL IRA SUSPECT ISQUIZZED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 122 words


A TERROR suspect was being quizzed last night in connection with a series of
Real IRA bomb attacks in Britain.

The 33-year-old man was arrested in Northern Ireland under the Terrorism Act at
the request of the Metropolitan Police's Anti-Terrorist Squad.

He was being held at a police station in central London - the third man to be
quizzed in connection with the campaign of terror by the Republican splinter
group.

Last August in Ealing, West London, 11 people were injured when a car packed
with 80lb of explosives was detonated.

Last March one person was hurt when a taxi loaded with explosives blew up
outside BBC Television Centre in West London. Last November a car bomb failed to
go off in Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              42 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 July 24, 2002

Calls for urgent review of port security

BYLINE: Joe Lumley

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


AN urgent review of security at UK container ports n such as those in Grimsby
and Immingham n has been demanded by MPs fearful of a "catastrophic" attack by
terrorists. MPs on the House of Commons Defence Committee say there is a "lack
of real urgency" in countering the threat from the sea.

The committee claimed only a small number of the five-million containers
shippedto Britain each year were searched leaving ports vulnerable to the
smuggling of terrorists and weapons of mass destruction.

Shona McIsaac, MP for Cleethorpes, believes the Government should study the
report carefully and bring forward proposals for improving the situation.

She earmarks the refineries, power stations and ports as potential terrorist
targets in the Grimsby area. But she believes the UK is "far better equipped"
todeal with the threat of global terrorism since September 11.

But in a hard-hitting report into Britain's defences, following the attacks on
New York, committee chairman Bruce George said: "We are concerned that the
Government has not responded to the scale and complexity of the challenge posed
by international terrorism." The committee conceded it would not be practical
toscreen every UK-bound ship, let alone every container.

This was a view shared by a spokesman for ABP, the Humber's major operator.

He said: "If we checked every container coming into Grimsby and Immingham the
ports would grind to a halt.

"There are senior special services who contact our senior management if they
areaware of any acts that are likely to effect our security." Insp Steve Page of
Humberside Police said: "We are active in the use of intelligence and proactive
policing at such locations to reassure travellers and the public that we are
conscious of the safety of people using such facilities.

"Whilst I do not want to go into specifics, the companies that run the
facilities and the police working with other agencies, talk together regularly
on such issues." The damning report followed a six-month study into UK
security,which alleged Britain was ill-prepared to deal with an incident similar
to the attack on New York.

The two-part study criticised a "lack of grip and direction" from the
Governmentwhich had failed to appreciate the scale of the threat international
terrorism posed to the UK.

Also see Page EIGHT Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              43 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           August 22, 2002, Thursday

TOURISM FIGHTS BACK AFTER WORST YEAR EVER

BYLINE: Richard Hazlewood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 408 words


FOOT and mouth and the September 11 terrorist attacks on America made 2001 the
worst year ever for tourism in Wales, industry leaders have claimed. The
outbreak of foot and mouth decimated the sector with a massive drop in bookings
from UK and international customers, a report by the Wales Tourist Board (WTB)
to the National Assembly has revealed.

The terror attacks on New York and Washington also ensured overseas
visitorsPolitical Correspondent richard.hazlewood@wme.co.uk stayed away for the
last four months of the year, just as the industry appeared to be recovering
from the foot and mouth crisis, the report adds.

WTB bosses have warned that recovery from the crises "cannot be expected
overnight" but insist that the introduction of short to medium-term measures -
including a pounds 5m overseas marketing campaign and pounds 10m three-year UK
promotions drive - have already ensured a steady increase in business and
bookings.

The foot and mouth crisis lasted 166 days in Wales, with 118 confirmed cases
centred on Anglesey, Powys and Monmouthshire.

Around 1.1 million animals were slaughtered to prevent the disease spreading
further. According to the WTB report, half of all tourism revenue is generated
by rural Wales.

The organisation said that, by early May 2001, advance bookings for the rest of
last summer had "collapsed".

"The foot and mouth crisis in particular had a detri-mental impact on one of the
country's most important industries, in areas where for some people, there are
few other employment opportunities," the report says.

"Some tourism businesses were unable to trade at all, whilst others lost
significant revenue and vital customer loyalty because of the widespread view
that Wales, as much of the rest of Britain, was closed for business."

The WTB says the 2001 crises presented the industry with its "greatest test" and
was met with a "co-ordinated, immediate and inno-vative" response, including a
tactical PR campaign, improved communication, and a new tourism charter
involving key public sector partnerships.

The National Assembly's pounds 60m rural recovery plan, set up in response to
the foot and mouth crisis, also included pounds 5m for tourism businesses.

"Global competition has not waned and the challenges for Wales to compete on the
international stage remain," the report adds.

"The Wales Tourist Board continues its quest for world-class quality."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RISING FROM THE ASHES; Welsh tourism is bouncing back after the
devastation of last year's foot and mouth outbreak.

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              44 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 13, 2002, Thursday

HOME GUARD' FORCE TO COMBAT TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 399 words


PLANS for a 6,000-strong reaction force of armed forces reservists, to come to
the aid of the civil authorities in the event of a major terrorist attack, were
unveiled by the Government yesterday.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said the forces' volunteer reservists could play an
"important role" in meeting the challenges posed by international terrorism
following September 11.

However the Tories warned Britain was already lagging behind the United States
in strengthening its homeland defences and said it was essential that the new
force was backed by additional cash.

"The UK is miles behind the US and other countries on the issue of homeland
defence," said shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin.

"The present commitments of the armed forces already outstrip resources. Will
this simply add to overstretch?"

Defence sources insisted the UK already had well developed structures in place
following decades of Irish terrorism and did not need the sort of radical
changes taking place in the US.

While they stressed money would be found to fund the new force, officials
acknowledged they would have to wait until next month's Government spending
review to find out how much extra cash they would get from the Chancellor.

Under the Government's plans, set out in a consultation document, the proposed
force will be drawn from the 50,700 reservists of the Royal Navy, Royal Marines,
Army and Royal Air Force.

The force would be held at a state of "graduated readiness" - with the first
elements available to assist the police and other civil authorities within hours
of any incident. It would be able to help in dealing with mass casualties,
mounting search and clearance operations, restoring transport and communications
and operating food and water supply points. It would also have command and
control facilities with the capability to operate in the aftermath of a nuclear,
biological or chemical attack.

L The US Defence Secretary said yesterday he had seen "indications" of al-Qaida
activity near the line of control that divides Kashmir between India and
Pakistan. Donald Rumsfeld is in New Delhi as part of international efforts to
calm tensions between the nuclear rivals. He heads to Pakistan today.

The US defence chief said he did not know which side of the frontier the
militants were operating on, or how many there were in the region.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              45 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 5, 2002

Giuliani to address Yorkshire convention

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: David Parkin, Business Editor

LENGTH: 307 words


RUDOLPH Giuliani, the former Mayor of New York and the man who embodied the
city's defiant response to the September 11 terror attacks, is to be the keynote
speaker at the Yorkshire International Business Convention.

Mr Giuliani, whose courage, compassion and clear thinking won him worldwide
admiration, has agreed to head the list of speakers in Harrogate next June.

The 58-year-old visited Britain earlier this year to receive an honourary
Knighthood from the Queen in recognition of this inspirational leadership.

His visit to the convention is believed to be his only trip planned to the UK
next year.

Mr Giuliani said that in his darkest moments after the collapse of the two World
Trade Centre towers, he was inspired by Winston Churchill's speeches to the
British public during the Blitz.

Even before the events of September put him in the international spotlight, Rudy
Giuliani had been no stranger to challenge and controversy. He was mayor of his
home city for two consecutive terms. During that time he cut crime by two-thirds
by employing an extra 16,000 police officers, moved more than half a million
people off the welfare rolls and boosted property values, but in the process
made many enemies.

In 2000 he was diagnosed with prostate cancer but continued his punishing
schedule while undergoing what proved to be successful treatment against it.

Yorkshire International Business Convention head Mike Firth said: I am
absolutely delighted that Rudy has agreed to come to Yorkshire. I don't think
anyone who saw those amazing scenes in New York can fail to have been moved and
impressed by the way he handled a crisis of unimaginable scale, and to have the
opportunity to hear his own thoughts and memories will I'm sure prove to be an
experience that no delegate at the Convention will ever forget.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              46 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                January 4, 2002

UK services industry begins recovery

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 526 words


Britain's services industry saw an improvement in fortunes last month, with the
transport, hotel and restaurant sectors showing a recovery in growth, a survey
said today.

The monthly report by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS)
showed while the service sector recorded a further contraction of business
activity in December, the rate of decline eased.

Levels of incoming new business increased for the first time in five months and
business confidence rose to a four-month high, CIPS said.

On its index, activity rose to 49.4, up from 47.3 in November. On the scale, a
figure above 50 indicates growth while below shows contraction.

CIPS said sectors such as travel, transport, hotels and restaurants - hardest
hit by the downturn in tourism following the terrorist attacks and war in
Afghanistan - showed the strongest recovery in growth in December.

Ross Walker, UK economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Financial Markets, said the
survey showed the service sector had demonstrated a "more convincing recovery''
in December than a month earlier.

"The service sector has clearly not been immune to either the global downturn
nor the domestic manufacturing recession, but has weathered the storm relatively
well,'' he said.

"The current services slowdown remains far less severe than at the time of the
early 1990s recession and there are now tentative signs that we are through the
worst.''

The improvement - which also follows evidence yesterday from the CBI that
shoppers went on a bumper pre-Christmas spending spree - strengthens economists'
views that interest rates will be left on hold next week.

It also comes after Bank of England governor Sir Edward George told the BBC's
World Business Report that interest rates might have to be raised to moderate
consumer demand.

John Butler, economist at HSBC, said he took today's survey evidence as "further
confirmation that the MPC are extremely unlikely to cut rates at next week's
meeting - supported by the Governor's comments to the BBC''.

He added: "Indeed, in our view rates have already troughed''.

The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee will announce its next decision
on interest rates on Thursday next week. Rates, which were cut from 6% to 4%
last year, are expected to stay unchanged.

EGi News 04/01/02

Shareholders of retail giant Kingfisher this weekend urgently requested
designated chairman Francis Mackay to push chief executive Geoff Mulcahy towards
retirement.

Investors are believed to be disillusioned with Mulcahy following Kingfisher's
low performance against the stock market over the past 18 months. They are
thought to be demanding a replacement for him within a year. Mackay is due to
succeed John Banham as Kingfisher chairman on December 7.

As part of dedicated restructuring of the group, Kingfisher is also rumoured to
be mulling the sale-and-leaseback of its B&Q stores and a handful of other
properties in a deal which would net the company around £1bn.

The move follows Kingfisher's £600m deal with London & Regional earlier this
year, which saw the retail group part with the freeholds of 182 Woolworths
stores before floating Woolies off earlier in the Summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2002 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              47 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 14, 2002

The unfinished war: Allies point the finger at Britain as al-Qaida's erevolving
door': Blame game or list of shame?

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 184 words


Plots the continental Europeans say are linked to Britain include:


* A plan to bomb the US embassy in Tirana, Albania. Documents prepared for the
trial of Misbah Ali Hassanayn, an Egyptian, which the Guardian has obtained,
quote a message from Rome police saying he was suspected of being in touch with
"a group of terrorists living in London that was about to carry out an attack on
the US embassy in Tirana".


* A planned attack on the 2000 Christmas market in Strasbourg. Until now thishas
been ascribed entirely to a Frankfurt-based group but a Milan police report
indicates that hit men sent from Britain were to have played the key role.


* Italian court papers point to Abu Doha's involvement in a prospective attack
on the US embassy in Rome. In January 2001, the embassy was closed. Court papers
say the US had been tipped off to a possible attack. Doha was described as "the
person in charge".


* A suicide attack by helicopter or lorry on the US embassy in Paris was planned
by a group including Djamel Beghal and Kamel Daoudi, who had lived in Britain.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                          September 12, 2002 Thursday

ROUNDUP OF LOCAL AUTHORITY STORIES IN THE NATIONAL PRESS - UPDATED 11:15HRS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; Families; Finance and Corporate Services;
News

LENGTH: 545  words



HIGHLIGHT: COUNCIL REFORM #1: NO IMPROVEMENT IN QUALITY      ...


COUNCIL REFORM #1: NO IMPROVEMENT IN QUALITYA huge amount of time, effort and
money has gone into restructuring councils into 'cabinet-style' government -
without improving the quality and credibility of local authorities, MPs said
yesterday. The changes were driven through by Tony Blair in the hope that
elected mayors or smaller, more powerful executive committees would lead to
quicker, and better decisions. Councils 'have become more introverted, looking
at their constitutions, rather than thinking about ways to improve services',
according to the commons committee on transport, local government and
regions.COUNCIL REFORM #2: CENTRAL POWERS 'GRUDGINGLY' DEVOLVEDLocal authorities
are still being treated as branch offices of central government despite all the
government's rhetoric about devolution, says the head of the Local Government
Association. 'We have had five years of some incremental progress towards
devolution and decentralisation,' Sir Brian Briscoe, told a seminar in London on
how councils can improve public services.BANKS AIMS TO OUST LONG-TIME RIVAL IN
LONDON MAYORAL RACEFormer sports minister Tony Banks has decided he wants to
stand as Labour candidate for London mayor in an attempt to oust Ken
Livingstone, a one-time ally at the old Greater London Council. Mr Banks and Mr
Livingstone fell out decades ago, and a contest between them would be lively and
bruising, reports      (p11).BENEFIT FRAUD AND OFFICIAL MISTAKES COST £3BN A
YEAROfficial errors and benefit frauds are costing £3bn a year according to
government figures, a commons public accounts committee report said yesterday.

The figures estimate £2bn a year is lost through fraud and £1bn through customer
and official errors, reports      (p13).IN DEPTH: FIREFIGHTERS' LEADER WARNS OF
GREATER STRIKE CHAOS THAN LAST TIMEThe general secretary of the Fire Brigades'
Union, Andy Gilchrist, has signalled that a fire service strike could plunge the
country into even greater chaos than the previous national stoppage 25 years
ago. However, he also hinted yesterday that if there were a terrorist attack on
Britain his members might come to the rescue. Speaking at the TUC conference in
Blackpool on the eve of today's special strike conference in Manchester, Mr
Gilchrist emphasised the difficulty that alternative emergency services will
face in keeping the country running, saying that 'without the usual first-class
fire services ordinary and everyday life in Britain will be affected', reports
the      (p4).NUMBER OF WORKING DAYS LOST THROUGH STRIKE ACTION HITS 13-YEAR
HIGHA summer of industrial action by public sector employees has pushed the
number of working days lost to strikes to a 13-year high. July's one-daystrike
by local authority workers and a string of other disputes claimed 521,000
working days, nearly as many as were lost in the whole of 2001, the office for
national statistics (ONS) reported yesterday, reports      (p23).IN BRIEF:-- The
backlog of security checks on people working with children is threatening to
cause severe problems for school meals providers across the country this week,
as dinner ladies face security checks, reports      (5-11/9/02, p5).by assistant
editor      Neil Watson

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2002 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 15, 2002

Shabby policies;
 TONY BENN attacks new Labour's double standards on war and the firefighters'
dispute.

BYLINE: TONY BENN

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 843 words


AFTER weeks of negotiation, a great deal of armtwisting and some significant
financial inducements, the US bullied the United Nations security council into
unanimously passing a resolution demanding the return of the weapons inspectors
to Iraq - which Saddam Hussein agreed to do weeks ago.

While the Prime Minister claimed this as an achievement for British diplomacy,
in claiming that he had persuaded Bush to go to the UN rather than go it alone,
the truth is that Bush still regards the resolution that was passed as a green
light for him to attack Iraq.

He was ready to wait only because the huge military build-up had not been
completed, so the delay caused by the security council negotiation did not
actually alter his timetable for the war.

In any case, both Bush and Blair have made clear time and time again their
belief that no specific UN authority for a war is needed and it will be launched
when the necessary forces are in place.

For these reasons, the interpretation of the latest resolution is of the
greatest importance and the peace has to make crystal clear that, if and when
the attack begins, we will not accept that it is a UNauthorised war that we
should support.

In truth, such a bombardment and invasion would be an act of aggression and a
crime against humanity.

Every innocent Iraqi civilian who dies as result of British military action -
and that might be the fate of thousands - will have been killed on the personal
decision of the Prime Minister, exercised without even the authority of the
House of Commons.

By siding with Bush, who has no intention of following the international laws to
which Britain is committed by solemn treaty, new Labour has, in effect, gone
along with a policy which will amount to a decision to tear up the UN charter
and take us back to the law of the jungle.

And, to make it all worse, the Prime Minister went to deliver his speech at the
Lord Mayor's banquet on Monday, in which he warned that innocent people in
Britain might be killed by a terrorist attack here, at the very moment when he
is planning to do just that in Iraq, and appeared at the Cenotaph on Sunday to
commemorate the dead of two world wars in the usual armistice day parade - when
we normally pray for peace.

The other issue at the top of the list this week is the thoroughly shabby way in
which the firefighters have been treated - men and women who would be in the
forefront of our defence if there was a terrorist attack - just as they were in
New York on September 11 2001.

The government's behaviour can only be interpreted as meaning that the PM
actually wants a strike to show that he is as tough as Mrs Thatcher was in
dealing with the miners over 18 years ago.

This analysis was confirmed when it was reported that Blair saw them as
representing a return to "Scargillism, " a contemptuous reference to the NUM
leader who courageously stood up for his members when they faced the destruction
of their jobs, industry and communities.

Here are a group of very brave and highly skilled public servants who just
cannot live in London, where the press has reported that the average house now
costs GBP 250,000 - putting it way above the range that public-service workers
can afford.

I learn that some who work in the capital actually commute from as far away as
Wales and Nottingham.

Moreover, having made a big speech at the Blackpool conference last month about
how he thought the state was too powerful and we needed more local discretion,
it was the Treasury which vetoed the 15 per cent deal that was actually offered
by the local authorities to the firefighters.

The Bain report, leaked to win public support, stuck with the 4 per cent and
even made it conditional on "modernisation" - a word that can be used to cover
anything - in marked contrast with the cut in MP hours that was also described
as modernisation.

And the argument that there are more applicants for vacancies in the fire
service, which justifies low wages, could be used to cut the salaries of MPs and
ministers, where even more people would like their jobs.

There is plenty of money for the projects that the Prime Minister favours like
the Millennium Dome, the Royal Family and the war, but nothing on offer that in
any way reflects the value of the firefighters' service to the community Indeed,
it is hard to escape the conclusion that everything that the labour movement and
the Labour Party stand for is being ditched deliberately in pursuit of a
permanent alliance with big business and Bush.

That is why we have to reclaim the Labour Party and work far more closely with
all those deeply committed people who went to Florence for the European Social
Forum, attended by around a million people.

This represents a movement here and worldwide for peace, democracy,
internationalism and socialism, with a significance for the future as great as
was the influence of the Tolpuddle Martyrs, the Chartists, Suffragettes and the
early socialists here 100 and more years ago.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              50 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 14, 2002

Pm Alerts Country To Risks

SECTION: News:Politics:Others, Pg.22

LENGTH: 468 words


Tony Blair has placed the country on heightened alert for a possible terrorist
attack. Fears are growing that al-Qaida and other extremist groups may be
planning to strike at British targets.

The Prime Minister has called on the public to be ''alert'' and ''vigilant''
although stressing that it was vital for everyone to carry on their lives,
wherever possible, as normal.

''Hardly a day goes by without some new piece of intelligence coming in via our
security services about a threat to UK interests,'' said the PM.

''Some of it will be reliable. Some of it may be misinformation being fed to
waste our time chasing shadows. Some of it will be gossip.''

But Mr Blair warned the threat was real and said Britain needed to be prepared.

Emergency planning departments in councils across South West Wales already know
how they will react should an attack happen. But are they getting the message
across to us?

The Post telephoned three local councils posing as worried members of the public
to see what their advice was.

NEATH Port Talbot Council has teamed up with Swansea and Bridgend in a joint
Emergency Planning Team to combat any threat of terrorism.

They want to assure people well rehearsed plans are in place to deal with the
effects of most emergencies that may arise.

Neath Port Talbot Council's head of strategic personnel and lead officer for
emergency planning, Graham Jones, said: ''Major emergencies can arise at any
time.

''A year ago, the tragic events at Corus required a speedy and expert response
from all emergency services and the council. The main M4 and Swansea to
Paddington railway line run through the heart of the county and a flight path to
the US crosses Neath and Port Talbot.

''We have a coastline, rivers and canal within the area as well an major
industrial sites.''

Mr Jones said the council worked closely with all agencies to respond quickly
and effectively with all such organisations working as part of a wider team.

Cabinet member with responsibility for emergency planning Lyn Harper said: ''We
need everyone to be vigilant and report anything suspicious to the police.

''Much of the public protection work of the council is not seen but I want to
assure everyone within the community that the council will respond to any
incident with the emergency services in a speedy and professional manner.''

Today, Carmarthenshire Council issued an official response to people concerned
about Mr Blair's warning.

The authority's emergency planning officer Richard Elms said: ''The council does
have a generic plan which will involve working with the police and the fire
service.

''We can't give any advice until the attack happens as it depends on the nature
of the attack.

''But www.ukresiliance.info gives a comprehensive guide on terrorism.''

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              51 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 08, 2002, Friday

Africa's gain is ours too, says Blair

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan in Abuja

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 695 words

TONY Blair delivered an impassioned defence of his growing interest in Africa
yesterday when he told the Nigerian parliament that "if Africa gains, we gain".

Opening his four-day visit to West Africa, the Prime Minister became the second
world leader after President Clinton to address a joint sitting of the Nigerian
Senate and the House of Representatives in the capital Abuja.

Rejecting criticism that he neglected domestic problems for the glory of the
world stage, Mr Blair argued that Britain's interests were bound up with those
of Africa.

"There is no leafy suburb far from the reach of bad things and bad people, not
in your country, not in mine, not in any part of the world," he said.

The terrorist attacks of September 11 had emerged from a "failed state", of the
sort that Africa would develop without Western help.

"You need our support, but we need you to succeed," he said. "If Africa gains,
we gain. The world will be safer and more just."

Mr Blair hit back at Iain Duncan Smith, by condemning the "cynics" and saying:
"When an African child dies every three seconds the developed world has a clear
duty to act. No responsible world leader can turn their back on Africa."

Addressing an audience that frequently burst into applause, he called on rich
countries to open their markets to trade and urged them to provide logistical
and financial support for peacekeeping by African countries.

Although he did not name the Tories, he said: "There is not much point being in
politics unless we try to do the bold and the brave things.

"The cynics say why should we succeed now where we have failed to make progress
before, but that is what they have said throughout human history. If we listen
to them, we would still be in the Dark Ages."

The West and other parts of the world have made economic progress that had
brought them wealth unimaginable to his father's generation, he said: "None of
it was ever achieved by cynics."

But Africa remained dogged by poverty, disease, war and corruption.

"The vision of globalisation driven by a global ethic, by global values, is not
utopian. It is modern realism."

Millions of Britons supported initiatives to relieve poverty and debt in Africa,
such as the Jubilee 2000 campaign, and contributed pounds 200 million last year
to Africa-linked charities, he said.

"The events of September 11 illustrated dramatically that the security of each
of us depends on the prosperity of us all.

"In today's inter-dependent world there can be no secure future for any of us
unless we manage globalisation with greater justice. There has never been a time
when self-interest and mutual interest were so dependent on each other.

"Which are the nations that export drugs and terror, extremism, weapons of mass
destruction that threaten the world's stability?

"The prosperous? The democratic? The ones at the cutting edge of technology and
progress? No, it's the failed states, the dictatorships, the economically and
politically bankrupt that do so.

"What we know today, what we saw was horrifyingly brutal in New York on
September

11 is that globalisation no longer applies just to technology, trade, capital,
culture and communications. Politics is global. The threat of weapons of mass
destruction, religious fanaticism and terror cannot be escaped."

Defending the New Partnership for Africa's Development initiative being drawn up
by the G8 countries, Mr Blair said: "It is not impossible idealism, it's a
down-payment on a decent future."

He called on G8 leaders, who will meet in Canada in June, to "practise what we
preach" on free trade by offering the poorest countries in Africa duty-free and
quota-free access to Western markets. Africa represented a potential market for
investors of 750 million people.

"We should commit not only to a reduction of overall tariff levels in the World
Trade Organisation next round but to the abolition of some which hit African
countries the hardest," he said.

Mr Blair flew last night to Ghana, the next stop on his tour. He is also due to
visit British forces in Sierra Leone before attending a seminar on development
in Senegal.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              52 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 4, 2002

Home front suffers while Blair travels

SECTION: FEATURES: GENERAL, Pg.13

LENGTH: 824 words


HOW proud were we to see our Prime Minister Tony Blair fulfilling that special
relationship with the United States in the wake of the terrorist attacks of
September 11, becoming the leading world ambassador against terrorism.

But while our PM's efforts on the international scene are heartily applauded,
can we say the same however in respect of the home front?

It is patently evident that our NHS is in chaos; our rail industry is the worst
in Europe; the performance of our teachers has been thwarted by administrative
duties and the denial of the right to discipline and we have the appalling
plight of both Farmers and fishermen who are suffering under not only the
devastating consequences of BSE and foot and mouth disease and further fishing
quota cuts by the EU Commission, but ministerial refusal to sanction a public
inquiry into foot and mouth or admit that there is an EU hidden agenda for our
farming and fishing industries.

Faced with such formidable difficulties, our PM recently spoke at Birmingham
University to the European Research Institute and the passionate speech that he
gave and the rhetoric he used, quite clearly indicates what his objectives are
for Britain and his apparent lack of British values and respect for its
honourable traditions.

Lambasting past administrations for having lamentably failed in grasping the
reality of European integration, they had also failed Britain's interests and
had even joined the ERM too late for the wrong reasons.

He went on to say that the UK's future is inextricably linked to Europe and that
the instability of the world today makes it more necessary to make a successful
Europe.  In an effort to ridicule the Eurosceptics, Mr Blair referred to them
being linked to their counterparts from the unrecognisable days of "powdered-egg
and Empire".

We have all heard too many arguments against giving up our Sterling currency.
In time it will mean the end of our independence.

A R Tregear-Olds

Teignmouth

The truth is out

SO the truth is out. Romano Prodi stated on live TV that the euro was purely
Political and not economic.

Tony Blair on the other hand says that the UK will have a referendum when the
economic conditions are right. This is obviously a lie to mislead the British
people.

Whatever are Tony Blair's political ambitions on the European Commission, for
there can be no other explanation for his actions. Is it not time for the
British people to have the promised referendum so we can reject Federal Europe
once and for all time.

If this Government is so keen on the Eurozone, its members always have the
option of going to live there and let the rest of us get on with our lives.

David Negus

Illogan, Redruth

Shining knights

DRIVING down to Treliske Hospital, my car broke down on the A30 near Carnon Down
and was unable to make it to a nearby layby.

Yes, I know all the arguments for having a mobile phone but I don't carry one.

Forced to leave the car at the side of the road (but on the carriageway) I was
fortunate enough to be able to call out the AA from the emergency phone in the
layby.

A woman travelling alone, my car causing a hazard to other motorists, I was put
on the priority list "just over an hour to wait"!

On returning to the car I found a policeman had pulled in behind me. He advised
me to wait behind the crash barriers, pointing out the number of "nuts" who,
although able to see his flashing lights, were speeding down the left hand lane
until nearly at his car and then swerving out to overtake it.

As we waited for reinforcements (he had radioed for help to push the car to the
layby) a driver of a White Arrow van stopped and offered to help with the
pushing.

Between them they got the car to the safety of the layby and I was able to sit
inside it out of the biting wind. When the AA man came, he fixed the problem and
followed me for a few miles to ensure all was well.

So to those three, and perhaps to the White Arrow man most of all, for he had no
reason to stop and help, I extend my grateful thanks. Gentlemen all!

Liz Buckingham

Padstow

Well done, Trevor

SINCERE congratulations to the Western Morning News' nature writer Trevor Beer
on his New Year MBE. It is gratifying to see such a prestigious award going to
someone whose life is bound up in the world of Nature and whose profound
knowledge of the countryside makes his writing so descriptive.

The award itself is also an acknowledgement by the powers-that-be that the world
of Nature that surrounds us is far more intriguing than that ever created by
man!

As a countryman myself, born, brought up and lived my life on a Cornish farm, I
can appreciate that Trevor knows what he is writing about.

Being almost 20 years older than he is, I find it becoming increasingly
difficult to move around the fields, woods and moorland as I used to and his
daily article keeps me very much in touch. More power to his pen.

Eric Higgs

Bodmin

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              53 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          February 28, 2002, Thursday

BRITAIN: BIRMINGHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 82 words


A MAN was yesterday jailed in Birmingham for 20 years for planning to cause
terrorist explosions in Britain using the high explosive HMTD. Moinul Abedin,
27, of Sparkbrook, Birmingham, stockpiled enormous quantities of the home-made
explosive and made detonators in readiness to cause a terrorist blast. His
co-defendant, Dr Faisal Mostafa, 38, of Stockport, Greater Manchester, was
cleared by the jury of conspiracy to cause explosions and doing an act intended
to cause an explosion.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              54 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               September 8, 2002

BAE TO TOP LIST TO SUPPLY SPY PLANE

BYLINE: Tracey Boles;

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 350 words


The defence company BAE Systems is tipped to be shortlisted for the £400m
(E640m) Watchkeeper defence contract to develop Britain's new pilotless spy
plane.

Industry sources say BAE will head a shortlist of two for the next phase in the
development of the reconnaissance and surveillance aircraft.

Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman are favourites to win the second place on
the list, to be announced this month, perhaps this week. French contractor
Thales is unlikely to be included.

Watchkeeper will be the UK's first sophisticated unmanned airborne vehicle
(UAV). The radio-controlled glider will beam high-definition images from behind
enemy lines back to central command. Rapidly deployable, it should be able to
pick out targets in all weathers.

The technology is expected to be tested in Iraq if the UK joins in a US attack
on Saddam Hussein.

The Watchkeeper programme has been accelerated to get the UAV "drones" into
service as quickly as possible so they can provide early warning of attacks by
terrorist leaders or rogue states. It could come into service in 2005 instead of
2007, as originally planned.

The US already has a family of airborne spy systems, including the Predator UAV
and the Global hawk high-altitude UAV. Aircraft manufacturer Boeing is also
working on an unmanned combat plane. UAVs are a huge growth market with some
defence experts predicting that 90% of combat aircraft will eventually be
pilotless.

After the competing contractors have been selected, Watchkeeper will enter the
next development phase, the £10m (E16m) "integration and assurance" stage. "The
problem is integrating the concept with the battlefield and adding value," said
one insider. The final contractor will be chosen in a year.

The project's sensors and platform will all be taken off the shelf to reduce
costs. BAE is offering the General Atomics RQ-1 Predator and the AAI Shadow as
the basic vehicle. If Lockheed Martin wins the contract, it will use EADS' Eagle
or the Meggitt Spectre 3 aircraft as a platform onto which the state-of-the-art
sensors are fitted.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              55 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 29, 2002, Monday

TERROR PLOT TO GRAB UK HOSTAGES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 67 words


INTERPOL are hunting terrorists planning to grab hostages in Britain, France and
Germany.

The plot was dreamed up in a bid to free arrested al-Qaeda suspects.

The gang are believed to be in Germany and are said to be part of an advance
guard of 30 suicide bombers from Iran, Yemen, Iraq and Sudan.

German police got a US tip-off about the plan and arrested nine Palestinians
last week.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              56 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 15, 2002, Monday

DOCUMENTS EXPOSE FARCICAL RESPONSE TO NUCLEAR ATTACK

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean And Severin Carrell A nation unready and unable to cope:
last week's IoS' story

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 309 words


A top-level exercise to simulate a jumbo jet crashing into a nuclear power
station ended in high farce, an unpublished report obtained by The Independent
on Sunday reveals.

Designed to test Britain's readiness to respond to a large-scale terrorist
attack, the operation focused on Bradwell atomic power station in Essex, and
exposed an astonishing series of failures in emergency responses.

Warnings about the disaster were incomplete, key staff could not find the
control room, phones did not work, and there were long delays in controlling the
catastrophe and protecting the public. At one stage, officials were even dealing
with the wrong power station. It was found that planning was based on
"assumptions", and there was little data on the radioactivity.

Instructions from the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate caused "a considerable
delay in putting out the reactor fire" and more than five hours went by before
the public was given potassium iodate tablets.

The failure to cope with the simulated attack further undermines confidence in
the Government's ability to handle a catastrophic terrorist attack. As reported
in last week's IoS, confidential Downing Street documents disclosed that the
nation's civil defence "effectively no longer exists".

The simulation, codenamed Operation Isis, supposed a 747 cargo plane had crashed
into the reactor 30 miles north-east of London, causing many deaths and
necessitating evacuation of the public.

The owner of the reactor, British Nuclear Fuels, confirmed yesterday that 1,000
people from 60 organisations were involved. The report on the exercise, however,
describes it as a chaotic shambles.

Stewart Kemp, the chief executive of the Nuclear Free Local Authorities Group,
blamed the fiasco on "decades of underfunding" of the emergency services.

Full report, page 6

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              57 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                December 8, 2002

Threat grows of cyber attack by terrorists groups

BYLINE: Robin McKie, Science Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 438 words


FEARS are mounting among computer experts that Britain may be becoming
increasingly vulnerable to attack by hackers.

They believe that both civil and military institutions, as well as major
companies, are in danger of a devastating 'cyber attack' - possibly as a prelude
to a terrorist assault on the country, or simply as a challenge for expert young
computer users.

Among the trends recently noted by computer security officials have been an
illegal trade in ageing Cray super-computers, which are ideal for cracking
complex encrypted passwords used to guard major installations and companies, and
a steady rise in attempts to recruit the services of young computer researchers,
particularly from eastern Europe, by a variety of shadowy organisations,
including terrorists.

There are also fears over the country's lack of readiness for possible attacks.
'The trouble is that we have got our priorities very badly mixed up,' said Paran
Chandrasekaran, head of the security consultancy Indicii Salus.

'Just take the recent example of Cherie Blair. I am sure she is very carefully
looked after by security guards, but her cyber security is abysmal.'

Evidence recently collected by experts includes reports that:

* Government institutions are successfully attacked by hackers an average of 84
times a week.

* A total of 44 per cent of UK businesses have suffered a malicious electronic
security incident in the past year. This figure is almost double the 24 per cent
that reported breaches in 2000.

* More than 200 UK companies are now targeted by hackers every day.

* Eight out of 10 office workers open and read other people's emails without
permission.

'It is incredibly easy to do a search on the internet for a program that you can
then download and use to read emails round your office,' said Dr Magnus
Ranstorp, of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, at St
Andrews University.

'Then you get recruited by a group or business outfit and used to infiltrate an
office with fake credentials. Someone starts working as a temp in one
department. After a few weeks, he or she could have gone through half the secure
documents in the whole building.'

To guard against such attacks, many key installations and government departments
change passwords with the departure of any worker for a new job. However, most
security officials now doubt that such efforts go anywhere near to protecting
institutions against committed cyber attacks.

'It's like standing in a field with your trousers round your ankles,' said one.
'You are still terribly exposed.'


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 9, 2002, Saturday

RYANAIR SHARES TO FUND 100 NEW JETS

BYLINE: Damien Lane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 329 words

HIGHLIGHT: PROFITS: Michael O'Leary


RYANAIR are to sell 26million shares to raise cash for new planes, it was
revealed yesterday.

The announcement came just three days after unveiling record profits and
passenger numbers.

Ireland's low-cost airline wants to raise g162.5million to help pay for over 100
aircraft it ordered last week.

The company said it had applied to the stock exchanges in Ireland and Britain
for the shares to be put on the market.

A Ryanair spokesman said the share offer was being directed at existing and new
institutional investors in Ireland, the UK and other EU member states.

The no-frills carrier plans to use the shares sale to help fund its purchase of
the new 737-800 jets from Boeing.

Ryanair said on Tuesday that its passenger numbers were up by 30 per cent to
2.7million and after-tax profits by 35 per cent to g28.8 million.

The positive figures come on the back of the worst trading period ever for the
airline industry following the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington.

During the final quarter of last year Ryanair's passenger numbers rose by 79 per
cent and revenue by 18 per cent, to g135.5 million.

Announcing the final quarter increases, a company spokesman said: "Unlike any
other airlines in the world following September 11, our margins rose from 19 per
cent to 21 per cent for the quarter and net profit increased."

Chief executive Michael O'Leary said the strong set of results, which were ahead
of most Dublin analysts' expectations, underlined the resilience of Ryanair's
"unique low fares model".

He said: "Ryanair led the fightback following September 11 by slashing fares and
offering one million seats for sale at g12.68."

The airline reckons increasing his fleet will help to play a key role in keeping
costs low and profit margins intact.

Low cost air travel only accounts for four per cent of the market and Ryanair
believes its performance highlight the sector's "huge potential."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              59 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 June 17, 2002

Nuclear security chief admits inspection lapses;

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 237 words


DEFENCE chief Michael Buckland-Smith admitted yesterday that security checks at
nuclear facilities across Britain have been halted due to a lack of staff.

Mr Buckland-Smith, who is director of the Office of Civil Nuclear Security, said
that a recruitment crisis had led to checks being cancelled at 22 of the 31
nuclear-power and waste-reprocessing stations.

In the office's first annual report, Mr Buckland-Smith disclosed that he had
lost highly experienced security staff to the private sector, which offered
better wages.

He stated: "It is impossible, without a thorough and comprehensive programme of
site inspections undertaken by experts, to identify security weaknesses or
monitor compliance with standards and regulations."

Mr Buckland-Smith said that his office had come across problems with security
arrangements at a number of stations.

The report said that one unnamed member of staff at a power station had
attempted to bring an unauthorised person into his place of work.

The security office was called upon to carry out checks at stations following
the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11.

Friends of the Earth Scotland head of research Richard Dixon described the
report as "damning."

He said: "If I were a terrorist, looking at this report and scouting out what is
happening with the nuclear industry across the world, I would be heading to
Britain."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              60 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 17, 2002

FURY OVER BLAIR'S SYRIAN DATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 204 words


TONY BLAIR faced furious protests yesterday after Syria's president Bashar Assad
brushed aside Britain's calls to rein in Palestinian terror groups operating in
his country.

Mr Assad, who met the Prime Minister during a controversial four-day visit to
Britain, insisted Palestinian militants in his country were "press officers".

He praised Iraq's "co-operation" with weapons inspectors and was "optimistic"
that war could be averted.

Hundreds of demonstrators outside Whitehall voiced anger at Mr Blair giving red
carpet treatment to a leader of a country described by the US as one of the
world's main state sponsors of terrorism.

British Jewish protesters criticised Syria's appalling human rights record and
ruthless suppression of the regime's internal opponents.

They also denounced Assad's support for Islamic militant groups, accusing him of
allowing Palestinian terrorists to plot against Israeli civilians from the
safety of Damascus.

Ex-Labour MP Eric Moonman, president of the Zionist Federation, said: "To
entertain the leader of a terrorist state sends out a terrible message when the
British public is asked to be vigilant in the face of a possible terrorist
attack by Al Qaeda."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              61 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               February 13, 2002

Britain denies hypocrisy on terror;

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 221 words


SECRETARY of State John Reid last night strongly denied claims that the British
government is deploying double standards towards 'terrorists' in the north and
in Afghanistan.

In a speech focusing on the September 11 attacks on the US, Dr Reid said many
people in Northern Ireland could sympathise with the victims of last autumn's
attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

He told the American Enterprise Institute in Washington: "Northern Ireland has a
special understanding of what it means to suffer from terrorism."

But rejecting allegations that British Prime Minister Tony Blair was softer on
paramilitaries in Northern Ireland, Dr Reid said: "Nothing could be further from
the truth.

Terrorism is terrorism, irrespective of who is responsible and what motives they
claim."

Dr Reid sought to share Northern Ireland's experience of violence. The image, he
said, of rescue workers picking their way through the rubble after the September
11 attacks was "all too familiar" to people living in Northern Ireland.

He said Northern Ireland had much to offer the US on how to deal with the trauma
caused by paramilitary attacks.

The Centre for Trauma and Transformation in Omagh, where a dissident republican
car bomb killed 29 people in August 1998, was planning to strengthen its links.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              62 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: KENYA: ALERTS - AUSTRALIA WARNED WEEKS AGO OF HIGH THREAT' OF
MOMBASA ATTACK

BYLINE: Declan Walsh And Cahal Milmo The Hotel Paradise is one of hundreds on
the coast

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words


THE AUSTRALIAN government issued a clear warning to its citizens two weeks ago
about the "high threat" of a terrorist attack in Mombasa.

The detailed nature of the advice from Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs
gave rise to fresh doubts about the amount of intelligence passed on to the
citizens of other Western countries, in particular Britain.

Travellers from Australia were given an updated briefing on 12 November that the
threat to "Western interests" in the Kenyan port city was high and that all
non-essential travel, including tourist trips, should be cancelled.

The advice was in stark contrast to that issued by the Foreign Office in London,
which repeated a generic warning issued after the attack in Bali on 12 October
that British citizens across the world should be aware of the increased risk of
"indiscriminate attacks" on public places by terrorists.

Foreign Office officials updated their travel advice on Kenya last night to take
note of yesterday's missile and bomb assaults in Mombasa, but stopped short of
adding Kenya to the list of countries they advise people not to visit.

A Foreign Office spokesman declined to discuss whether diplomats had known of
the Australian warning, saying: "We had no information about a specific attack
or threat to Mombasa. If we had received information of a specific threat, it
would have been reflected in our travel advice."

Even with its updated position, the UK government remained considerably less
prescriptive in its travel advice than other Western countries, in particular
Australia.

The briefing issued on the internet from Canberra warned Australians to avoid
hotels, clubs and restaurants in Kenya and in particular to avoid Mombasa.

It said: "Threats against Westerners and Western interests in Mombasa are high.
Australians are advised to defer all non-essential travel to Mombasa and
Australians in Mombasa who are concerned about their security should consider
departure."

Concern that Western intelligence agencies were aware of a specific threat of an
attack in East Africa was increased when French terrorism experts said it had
been known for three weeks that al-Qa'ida was planning an attack.

The Paris-based International Observatory on Terrorism said information had been
circulating that the Yemeni head of the terror group in the region was looking
to score a spectacular hit.

The FBI in America also warned six months ago that civilian airliners could be
targeted by terrorists using shoulder-launched missiles.

The Mombasa coast was an obvious choice for terrorists seeking to kill tourists.
Dotted along the length of its white sand beaches are hundreds of hotels and
resorts. It forms a key part of the Kenyan tourism industry that supports
500,000 people and accounts for 12 per cent of GDP.

Tourism chiefs in the country admitted that they were braced for a sharp short
-term downturn in visitor numbers because of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              63 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 8, 2002

BOMB SUSPECT IS HELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 119 words


A TERROR suspect was being quizzed last night in connection with a series of
Real IRA bomb attacks in Britain. The 33-year-old man was arrested in Northern
Ireland under the Terrorism Act at the request of the Metropolitan Police
Anti-Terrorist Squad.

He was being held in central London - the third man to be quizzed in connection
with the campaign of terror by the Republican splinter group.

Last August, in Ealing, West London, 11 people were injured when a car packed
with 80lb of explosives was detonated. Five months earlier, one person was hurt
when a taxi loaded with explosives blew up outside BBC Television Centre in West
London. Last November, a car bomb failed to go off in Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              64 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 18, 2002, Friday

BRITONS URGED TO AVOID INDONESIA

BYLINE: Jon Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words


BRITONS were last night told not to travel to Indonesia as Prime Minister Tony
Blair warned more terrorist attacks were inevitable. He told ministers: "We
can't predict when they will strike next, we can't predict where they will
strike next. But we have to be honest about this that there will be further
attacks."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw urged UK citizens already in the Indonesian
archipelago to leave, an exodus which will also include non-essential diplomatic
staff.

The dramatic decision to follow Australia's lead and order the effective
evacuation of British nationals in Indonesia was taken after a day in which
controversy surrounded what warnings might have been received about the threat
to Bali.

Shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram tabled a parliamentary question to Mr
Straw, asking him what assessment he had made of the apparent admission by
Australian premier John Howard that his country had been warned that Bali was a
potential terrorist target.

Mr Blair's spokesman insisted last night that, although an American warning had
been received by Britain: "My understanding is that it was very broad-based,
nonspecific, about a generic threat. I don't think we would be able to say any
more anyway."

Intelligence services were said to have received the warning, detailing several
Indonesian "hotspots", including Bali.

But they were unable to distinguish any specific warning that an attack might be
imminent there from the welter of information crossing agents' desks.

The Government insists that the vague warning was reflected in travel advice
issued on August 27, which urged caution on holidaymakers in those areas.

Mr Straw told reporters: "In the light of further information and consideration
this morning, I have now agreed that we should advise against all travel to
Indonesia, and also to recommend that all British citizens should consider
leaving Indonesia if their presence is not essential.

"British citizens who remain should exercise extreme caution, especially in
public places, including pubs, restaurants, bars, schools, places of worship and
outdoor recreational venues."

Eleven British have been confirmed dead with a further eight feared dead and 13
still missing.

The high death toll has led to delays in release of bodies, with only 39
positive identifications and Australian police warned some may never be
identified.

Opinion - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              65 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

FACE YOUR FEARS WITH A FLYING COURSE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 172 words


AS MANY as one in four people in Britain suffer from a fear of flying - and that
number has rocketed since the World Trade Center attacks.

But help is at hand for aerophobics in the Midlands who have been attending
courses in their droves.

A spokesman for Britannia Airways, which runs a 'Flying With Confidence' course
at East Midlands airport, said: 'We have been fully booked since September 11.

'Our pilots talk through how the plane takes off and cabin crew give a tour of
the plane.

'An expert on phobias then explains what people can do to combat their phobia
and after lunch they are invited to put their new-found knowledge to the test by
going on a short flight.'

Rob Bor, a qualified pilot and professor of counselling psychology, said there
has been a sharp increase in aerophobia since the terrorist attacks.

'The new cure for fear of flying is to break down fear into its constituent
parts,' he said.

Call Britannia Airways on 01582 424155 or Aviatours/BA on 01252 793250 for
details.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              66 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 25, 2002

EXPRESS EXCLUSIVE AS THE PRIME MINISTER DENIES CLAIMS THAT BRITAIN COULD NOT
HANDLE A TERRORIST ATTACK, WE EXPOSE GAPING HOLES AT COMMONWEALTH GAMES;
SECURITY? WHAT SECURITY?

BYLINE: By Richard Moriarty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 782 words


Express man lands a key job with no checks on references Is given access to all
the areas including stadium trackside Gets no training at all on how to search
for terror weapons Discovers that just 10 of the 25 X-ray machines are
operational

WORKING alongside a team of roadsweepers, gardeners, hardup students and even a
Dutch au pair, I found myself part of the "ring of steel" at Britain's
biggest-ever sporting event.

I was as amazed as the hundreds of unqualified people all around me to have
landed a job as a security guard at the 2002 Commonwealth Games.

No checks were made on my past, references were not taken up and I had not
attended any of the six training sessions I was supposed to.

Yet 48 hours before the Queen, Tony Blair and visiting heads of state from the
72 nations taking part are expected to attend the official opening ceremony
tonight, I was given a uniform and told by organisers that I was a "valued
member" of the security team.

Never having worked as a security guard before, I was stunned to find a
shambolic setup where there were not enough qualified staff available to operate
all the airport-style X-ray baggage machines brought in to boost security at the
new 38,000-seater, GBP 110million City of Manchester Stadium.

And while police had checked and sealed drains and increased the number of armed
officers in the city, I was able to wander - unchallenged - through the VIP area
and on to the main field.

The lack of volunteers also meant that council staff from the works department
had to be drafted in at the 11th hour and given a 20-minute training session
before being told their job was to search bags and check people for concealed
weapons.

And all this at a time when security is at the top of the political agenda as
fears continue that terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda and the Real IRA are
preparing a spectacular attack in Britain.

Greater Manchester Police launched a massive operation to ensure the city -
devastated by an IRA bomb six years ago - does not suffer again at the hands of
terrorists.

Sniffer dogs trained to seek out explosives are being used at all the Games
venues, including the village housing the 6,000 athletes and the city's hotels.
A significant number of officers will carry firearms.

But while the police operation is not called into question, our investigation
into security at the 10-day sporting festival showed it to be woefully
inadequate.

After applying as a volunteer via the official Commonwealth Games website, I was
invited in May to Heron House in Manchester for a short informal interview.

An immediate job offer followed as part of the Security Mag and Bag Team
searching the 80,000 visitors expected to pass through the Sportcity complex,
which includes the Indoor Tennis Centre, the National Cycling Centre and the
National Squash Centre as well as the main stadium. My references were not
checked and no questions about my past employment were asked. When I informed
organisers I could not attend any training before the Games began, I was told:
"It doesn't matter."

The man who "interviewed" me admitted that organisers had been forced to hire an
extra 2,000 volunteers at short notice because they could "not afford" to pay
for proper security. I was then invited to work at Sportcity, the venue for
tonight's opening ceremony. On Tuesday I collected my accreditation and went to
the Sportcity complex for the dress rehearsal for tonight's extravaganza -
already classified as a "live arena", supposedly ensuring the highest security.

The ceremony will also be attended by Prince Philip and Prince Edward.

Organisers claim that each of the 50 entrances for members of the public will be
manned by at least seven Mag and Bag security volunteers who have all had at
least five training sessions. But my experience of the security operation was
very different. My volunteer colleagues said they had not received more than a
couple of days' training.

My security team leader admitted he was only offered the position less than two
weeks ago.

He too had had just one day of training and confessed to "picking things up as I
go along".

Of the 25 security entrance points within my view, just 10 of the airport-style
security checks were fully operational.

Last night Jacqui Brock-Doyle, director of communications for the Games, said:
"Our security arrangements are extensive and have been developed alongside
Greater Manchester Police.

"Clearly, volunteers are only one part of a multi-faceted and comprehensive
security plan and we are confident that we will have the adequate security
measures in place when the Games begin."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              67 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 12, 2002

Teddy bear company taken over by top-name toy shop

SECTION: Business :Manufacturing :Others, Pg.23

LENGTH: 262 words


BRITAIN'S most famous toy store will once again own a shop in Bath.

In 1984 toy giant Hamleys opened its first store outside London in Bath.

It was there for four years before the prime Milsom Street site was sold to
Waterstones.

Now the toy group will own a shop in Bath again after it successfully completed
a deal to buy the remaining assets of troubled retailer the English Teddy Bear
Company.

In June it was revealed that the Bath branch of the teddy bear store was one of
four within the group that had escaped closure as the company cut back the
number of its shops.

Although trade at the store had fallen by 25 per in the previous year in the
wake of the foot-and-mouth outbreak and the terrorist attacks on America, it
still remained one of the company's most profitable outlets.

But three months on Hamleys has bought the remaining four stores in Bath,
Cambridge and two in London for 710,000 from the group's liquidator.

The English Teddy Bear Company, which sells teddy bears and themed tee-shirts
and sweatshirts, had suffered financial difficulties blamed on problems
including management issues.

But a spokesman for Hamleys said the four stores it had bought had been
profitable for the last ten years.

Chairman Simon Burke said the acquisition was an excellent addition to Hamleys
and its Bear Factory chain. "It offers us a great opportunity to use our
significant expertise in soft toys and accessories in a complementary and well
-branded business, " he said.

The company now plans to refurbish its new stores.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              68 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 22, 2002, Tuesday

BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY 2002: YEAR THAT PUT AN END TO DOUBTS;
 2001 WAS OUTSTANDING FOR MOTOR MANUFACTURERS IN THE COVENTRY AREA

BYLINE: Colin Lewis, Business Editor MILESTONE: Workers from the Coventry area
celebrate as the; 500,000th Peugeot 206 comes of the Ryton assembly track in
August last year; KEY PLAYER: Final assembly for the new version of the Range
Rover, which features prominently in Land Rover's sales target

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 506 words


WITHOUT doubt, 2001 will go down as one of the outstanding years in Coventry and
Warwickshire's long and chequered history at the hub of the motor industry.

In a year when new car sales broke all previous records - by a mile - and
investment in manufacturing capacity continued, any lingering doubts about the
area's standing on the world automotive stage finally evaporated.

It became clear that Ford, as parent of Jaguar and Land Rover, believed Coventry
and Warwickshire would play key roles in its future investment plans. And
Peugeot continued to support its manufacturing base, maintaining flat-out
seven-days-a week production of its 206 supermini range at its Ryton factory.

The future began to look rosier than ever, with manufacturers and their locally
-based suppliers talking not just about continued investment but also about
stepping up investment in the longer term.

Even the terror attacks of September 11, which dimmed economic prospects in the
United States, had little real impact on Britain's seemingly unstoppable motor
industry machine.

Jaguar felt the chill in the United States, laying off its UK workers for a week
as a precautionary measure to prevent a build-up of stocks of new cars across
the Atlantic. But the US economic trauma was short- lived, dying as quickly as
the Taliban surrendered in Afghanistan.

By the end of the year, the luxury car firm, helped by the launch of the new
baby Jaguar X-type, turned in a record US and British sales performance.

Jaguar passed the magic 100,000 sales mark for the first time in its history,
after setting a new record in its largest market, the United States. In Britain,
sales were pushed up by 47 per cent, largely on the back of the new X -type
range, which was launched in the autumn.

The new managing director of Jaguar, Mike Beasley, is confident that the sales
growth, helped by the X-type and the launch of a new S-Type this year, will
continue into this year.

Peugeot and Land Rover, which both turned in record sales figures, also look
like maintaining their sales growth, helped by new models arriving this year; at
Peugeot we will see the 206 estate version pushing the company towards its
target 10 per cent share of the UK new car market, and at Land Rover, the new
Range Rover will begin to impact the sales totals.

But in a notoriously cyclical industry, can the growth continue? Or will sales
fall back to earth with a painful bump, affecting Coventry and Warwickshire jobs
and investment decisions?

According to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, the body
representing all the major vehicle manufacturers and dealers, a slump is highly
unlikely.

Continuing low interest rates - which fuelled last year's sales boom - mean that
this year sales will still be buoyant, probably around the 2.3 million mark,
compared to last year's record 2.5 million.

In reality, many commentators are waiting for the car market to cool down, but
there is no sign of even a dip in the temperature.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 12, 2002

MI5 rapped for misjudgment on Bali bomb

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 374 words


MPs last night severely rebuked MI5 for a serious misjudgment of the terrorist
threat to British nationals in the run-up to the Bali bomb blast.



The Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee said MI5 failed to upgrade
its threat assessment for Indonesia in spite of concluding just days before the
bombing that terrorist attacks on British or United States targets could start
at any time.

As a result the travel advice issued by the Foreign Office was not updated and
did not accurately reflect the threat to British tourists.

In the Commons, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said MI5 had already launched a
review of its system of threat assessments and promised a comprehensive review
of the way the Foreign Office issued travel advice.

The tragic lesson from Bali is that British nationals are the targets of
terrorism in many parts of the world, he said.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Ann Taylor, told the House: The committee did
not lightly reach its conclusion that there was a serious misjudgment in terms
of the threat assessment that was made for Bali.

More than 190 people, including 26 British nationals, died in the bomb attack on
a nightclub packed with Western tourists on October 12.

The committee, which took evidence from the heads of MI5, MI6 and the GCHQ
listening agency, concluded there was no intelligence available to Britain or
any of its allies which could have prevented the attack.

However it disclosed that the agencies had begun receiving intelligence in
September that terrorists were planning possible attacks on British, US and
other Western interests in Indonesia.

Potential targets were said to have included tourists in Bali, and a number of
other locations, and nightclubs in the capital, Jakarta, as well as diplomatic
premises.

After terrorists launched an abortive grenade attack on a US diplomatic
residence in Jakarta on September 23 - less than three weeks before the Bali
bombing - MI5 conducted an analysis of the various intelligence reports.

The Joint Intelligence Committee, which prepares intelligence assessments for
Ministers, had reported in May that Osama bin Laden's Al- Qaida network had a
presence in Indonesia along with other groups.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              70 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 25, 2002

LEADERAS MPS DISCOVER HOW UNPREPARED WE ARE FOR TERRORIST ATTACK. . .; WHY
SEPTEMBER 11 COULD HAPPEN HERE

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 853 words


IMAGINE the unimaginable. A huge explosion engulfs the Houses of Parliament. As
the dust settles, it becomes clear that the area is heavily contaminated - with
radioactive isotopes or with anthrax, it makes no difference. What happens next?
If the Defence Committee MPs who wrote yesterday's Defence And Security In The
UK report are right, we should all be very worried.

As the emergency services arrive, they become contaminated because they have not
received proper training or equipment for chemical or biological warfare. Soon
troops are sent to the scene - many of them reservists - but they have neither
the proper decontamination equipment nor radios that are compatible with those
of the other emergency services.

In hospital casualty departments, hundreds of victims pile up. There are so few
beds that the wounded and dying are soon receiving treatment on canteen tables.

Attempts to send victims outside the capital, founder because local authorities
have failed to make contingency plans.

Enough. These examples of unpreparedness were uncovered by MPs as they
investigated how Britain might respond to a terrorist episode on the scale of
last September's World Trade Center attack. The lack of readiness detailed on
almost every page of the report is deeply worrying.

If an organisation such as Al Qaeda has not hit some great national landmark
like Canary Wharf, Buckingham Palace, the NEC in Birmingham, Cardiff city
centre, the Commonwealth Games stadium in Manchester or the nuclear submarine
base at Faslane in Scotland it is almost certainly because they don't want to -
but let's leave that aside for a moment.

What stands out most in any assessment of what might happen is complacency. It
embraces not just the usual, depressing Sir Humphrey-isms of the civil servants
who have set up steering committees about subcommittees to think about possible
plans but a wider public mood that sees such a cataclysmic terror attack as the
sort of problem that might hit the Americans or the Israelis but couldn't happen
here.

The Defence Committee report is particularly scathing about the Civil
Contingencies Committee, assembled at Downing Street to knock heads together and
provide leadership in planning for a British "9/11". The MPs say:

"It has become bogged down in the details.

Instead of being the solution to the habitual 'departmentalism' of Whitehall, it
has become a casualty of it."

The MPs want Britain to create its equivalent of America's Department of
Homeland Security and put a Cabinet minister in charge so that it has the
necessary clout. Now there's an unenviable brief for an ambitious politician.

All in all, the report sits rather uneasily with the national mood. People seem
to oscillate effortlessly between blissful surrender to the Jubilee or the World
Cup and prickly defiance in the face of ID cards or long security checks at
airports.

There is also a sort of defeatism at work, a feeling that if the terrorists
really want to do something terrible, they will do it. If they ever succeed then
presumably there will be an outpouring of righteous anger about why we were so
unprepared and why more wasn't done to stop it happening.

So Government has to deal with this public ignorance and scepticism while
discharging its responsibility to think the unthinkable and to do its best to
frustrate mega-terror or, if it happens, manage its horrible consequences as
effectively as possible.

Rumour suggests that MI5 has not been idle in the prevention department. The
disappearance of Osama bin Laden's London representative - aka Abu Qutada - is,
usually reliable sources suggest, connected with his past usefulness to British
intelligence.

Clearly, if Abu Qutada was being run as an agent and was helping to warn of a
possible attack on Britain or, better still, to stop it happening, then he may
indeed deserve the safe house and protection that he is now reportedly being
given somewhere in Britain.

SO IF Abu Qutada's usefulness is at an end we may have lost our warning of a
possible attack. Equally it may be that Qutada's bosses knew what many a
London-based Arab could tell you: that Islamists who have taken refuge here
would discourage militants from doing anything to bring the Special Branch and
MI5 down on the heads of the whole emigre community.

A sophisticated Islamist would also argue that a major terrorist act in Europe
would probably end the transatlantic War on Terror rifts overnight, to Al
Qaeda's disadvantage.

Be that as it may, the British Government would be stupid to gamble on the
rationality of Al Qaeda's fellow travellers.

Therefore, the emergency planning must go on and it must be more effective than
it has been up to now. An ambitious minister with a hide like a rhino ought to
be thrust into the Cabinet job. As for significant changes to the sort of
freedoms enjoyed in this country, I have the feeling that the public will be
ready for those only if it suffers the kind of shock that Americans felt last
September.

Mark Urban is diplomatic editor o Newsnight on BBC2.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              71 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 18, 2002

Timetable of a Government in confusion

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 322 words


THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7

DAVID Blunkett puts Britain on terror alert, claiming attackers could unleash a
radioactive 'dirty bomb'.

Intelligence reports point to an 'ominous' threat level.

'We must be clear that we remain a target and there can be no guarantee there
will not be an attack in the future,' he says.

'Maybe they will try to develop a so-called dirty bomb, or some kind of poison
gas.' Within 30 minutes confusion erupts in Whitehall as officials try to
withdraw the apocalyptic warning and issue a more bland alert, removing all
mention of 'dirty bombs'.

Mr Blunkett blames an 'administrative error' and insists there is no
intelligenceof an imminent attack.

In fact, according to Home Office sources, planning for the arrest operation in
London was already under way.

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9

TUBE- PLOT suspects arrested in a string of raids in North London. No
announcement from Metropolitan Police.

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 10

BLUNKETT again warns that the country is a prime target for terrorists, adding
that the security services are monitoring groups and individuals likely to pose
a threat.

'There is always a danger, because we are literally in the front line,' he says.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11

TERRORIST suspects appear in court in London. Hours later Tony Blair uses his
Mansion House speech to renew the warning, urging the public to be vigilant, and
revealing that he sees intelligence warnings 'on a daily basis'.

He says terrorists 'are looking for ever more dramatic and devastating outrages
to inflict upon the people they claim to be their enemy'.

He adds: 'It is a war I have total confidence we will win, but it will not be
without pain or come without a price.' Still no mention of the arrests.

Downing Street aides refuse to say whether any specific threats have prompted
the Premier's warning.

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17

NEWS of the arrests is leaked.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              72 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 11, 2002

United States on high alert for terror attack;
 International News, REMEMBRANCE SERVICES: Queen sends personal message

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 490 words


BRITAIN was today joining nations around the world to remember the horrors of
September 11 and pay tribute to those who perished in history's worst terrorist
outrage.

Special events were being held around the country, including a key memorial
service in St Paul's Cathedral, to mark the first anniversary of the attacks on
New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

Security was heightened in all major cities and airports amid fears of a
symbolic attack by extremists.

Security chiefs urged the public to be "alert but not alarmed".

Some transatlantic flights from Heathrow and Gatwick have been cancelled,
authorities at the airports confirmed yesterday, and security has been stepped
up at the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square.

As America staged its own tributes, Britain, and most of Europe and the world,
was likely to come to a complete standstill at 1.46pm when there was the first
of two oneminute silences - each to mark when the jets hit the Twin Towers of
New York exactly a year ago.

The Queen last night sent a message of consolation to the British community in
New York.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw read the royal message at a service in St Thomas
Church in the heart of Manhattan.

The Queen spoke of the terrible loss of life and the justice of the hunt for the
terrorists.

She said: "No words can adequately express the sorrow felt or take away the pain
of separation and the grief shared.

"The dreadful attacks of September 11 may have threatened freedom, innocence and
other values we hold dear, but they also inspired grace, charity and courage.

"We admire these qualities in the strength of the families of the victims; in
the determination of the rescue workers; and in the extraordinary spirit and
resilience demonstrated by the people of New York.

"We honour the courage and determination of those in our armed forces and others
who are striving to bring those responsible for this outrage to justice and to
prevent similar atrocities in the future.

"Right must and will prevail."

The Prince of Wales and Prince Harry were due to meet some of the 600 relatives
and close friends of the 67 British victims planning to attend the service at St
Paul's in central London today.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and other political leaders were also expected to be
in the 2,000-strong congregation.

The US was today on a major security alert as it marked the September 11
anniversary, after a senior al Qaida officer provided "specific intelligence" of
more terror strikes.

Officials raised the warning to the second-highest level of orange, putting the
country and American interests abroad at "high risk of terrorist attacks".
Attorney General John Ashcroft said the intelligence related overseas attacks.

In an echo of events a year ago anti-aircraft missiles have been placed outside
the White House and US fighters patrol the skies above Washington and New York.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              73 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               September 11, 2002

Allies Cannot Ignore Saddam

SECTION: News; Other; Comment; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 273 words


As we contemplate the anniversary of terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington we also ponder the prospect of Britain and the USA taking military
action to depose Saddam Hussein.  And not token military action - a shot across
the Iraqi leader's bows. The real word is war, almost certainly an out-and-out
war costing thousands of lives.

Opinion polls suggest the British people are unhappy about this, though their
views may change if national newspapers continue to publish graphic descriptions
of the weapons Saddam almost certainly has and the damage these weapons can do.

It is now four years since United Nations weapons inspectors were allowed into
Iraq and since then America has had to rely on satellite images which give only
a vague indication of what might be happening.

Much activity has been spotted around new installations but what is being made?
It could be soap powder, but then it could be anthrax, so no wonder George Bush
and Tony Blair are worried.

Their clear concern is that Saddam, humiliated when last he threatened the
mother of all wars, will not hesitate to use nuclear weapons when he has them at
his disposal, which inevitably he will at some point.

On that basis it is easy to see why Bush and Blair are rattling their sabres and
trying to get other major powers to support them.

America's foreign policy does not win widespread approval in some parts of the
western world let alone in Muslim countries. U.S.

middle east policy is cynically described as Israeli policy.

But against that the West cannot stand by like some giant aunt sally waiting to
be hit.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              74 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          February 28, 2002, Thursday

BUSINESS: MANUFACTURING IS 'VITAL INGREDIENT';
 NEW ENGINEERING PRESIDENT SETS OUT AIMS

BYLINE: Colin Lewis Business Editor WARNING: Jeremy Woolridge

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 284 words


THE new leader of the region's engineering industry today called for greater
government and Bank of England recognition of the importance of manufacturing.

Jeremy Woolridge, who has been elected president of the Engineering Employers
Federation West Midlands, said of the engineering industry: "It provides an
important share of our foreign exchange earnings and is a vital ingredient for a
healthy economy."

He also warned employers of the urgent need to improve the region's transport
systems.

"We also need to address - and urgently - the problems of our infrastructure in
the region which in terms of road and rail in particular, require significant
investment in order to reduce the congestion and delays which impact on local
industry in so many ways."

But he was confident that despite last year's downturn, the region's engineering
industry would see "real evidence of recovery" during his two-year term of
office.

Mr Woolridge is chairman and chief executive of B.E. Wedge Holdings, of
Willenhall, Britain's largest metal galvanizing business.

He said there was some evidence to suggest that customer confidence, badly
dented by the terrorist attack on New York, was beginning to return.

"I can be optimistic for engineering. We anticipate an improving trend over the
next two years.

"The effects of September 11 came as a short sharp shock for many businesses but
there is now a feeling that the US economy has bottomed out and there will be
the start of a recovery this year."

Such a recovery was important to the West Midlands, he said, as many of the
parts and components produced in the region were destined for products going
into the American market.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 3, 2002

Anti-radiation drugs stockpiled in cities

BYLINE: Jamie Wilson

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 410 words


Anti-radiation drugs have been stockpiled around the country as a precaution
against a possible nuclear attack by terrorists, it emerged yesterday.

Potassium Iodate tablets, which are normally only kept near nuclear power
stations, have been moved to secret locations across Britain since September 11.

The government has also established detailed plans for responding to major
incidents involving radiation, including regular exercises to test responses to
a nuclear incident.

A spokesman for the Department of Health yesterday confirmed the stockpiling of
the tablets near the UK's largest cities, but dismissed reports that it had been
done as because of fears of a so called "dirty bomb", in which conventional
explosives are used to scatter radioactive particles.

"We have always maintained stocks of potassium iodine tablets in the UK -
sensibly concentrated in areas surrounding nuclear power stations," he said.
"Following September 11 and a wide review of supplies needed to counter any
terrorist threat we increased the supply of tablets. These additional stockpiles
are distributed around the country so that the public could be protected against
radioactive iodine poisoning in the event of a wider incident." But the
spokesman said that the tablets, which protect the thyroid, the part of the body
most vulnerable to radiation, would help only against the release of radioactive
iodine. A "dirty bomb", he said, would be much more likely to be made from
plutonium or cobalt, against which there is simply no protection.

The tablets, he suggested, were more likely to be used in the event of an attack
on a atomic power station or some other nuclear facility.

The spokesman also dismissed reports that the tablets were being stored in
hospitals. "We cannot discuss the number or locations of the supplies as that
would compromise national security, but they are certainly not held in
hospitals," he said.

The preparations emerged in a parliamentary written answer by the health
minister, John Hutton. "The government has established detailed plans for
responding to major incidents involving radiation," he said. "Cross-departmental
contingency plans are in place and regular exercises test responses to a nuclear
incident. Careful consideration has been given to the practicalities of
distributing potassium iodate tablets and arrangements for distributing these
tablets have been tested in recent exercises."


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 9, 2002, Thursday

BRITS GO IN;
 BLAIR PLEDGES HELP TO STOP SUICIDE BOMBERS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts, Political Correspondent, And Alexandra Williams In Tel Aviv

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 470 words

HIGHLIGHT: SPEECH: Yasser Arafat; DESTROYED: Blood in blast pool hall


BRITISH security experts could be sent in to stop Palestinian suicide bombers
attacking Israel, Tony Blair said yesterday.

The British premier condemned the latest attack on an Israeli pool hall which
killed 16 people.

And he said the time had come for Britain and America to see what measures they
could take to stop a new wave of attacks destroying the Middle East peace
process.

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat strongly condemned terrorism in a desperate
attempt to prevent Israeli retaliation for the blast.

In a TV address he said: "I gave my orders to all the Palestinian security
forces to confront and prevent all terror attacks against Israeli civilians ...
and at the same time to confront any aggression or attack on Palestinian
civilians."

He called on President Bush "and the international community to provide support
for the Palestinian security forces, whose infrastructure has been destroyed by
the Israeli occupation, so they can carry out their orders".

In the Commons Mr Blair praised Arafat's words and added: "We are prepared to
work with the Palestinian Authority in any way possible to make sure they have
the proper security apparatus they require.

"But we cannot have a situation where every time it seems there is some hope of
political progress, that progress is immediately derailed by a terrorist attack.
" Mr Blair's spokesman said there was a "security void" where Arafat condemned
the suicide bombers but seemed able to do little to stop them.

He said: "We have to look urgently at ways of addressing this." That could mean
British security experts or international monitors to ensure peace agreements
were policed.

Britain has sent police, prison warders and military advisers to oversee the
detention of suspected terrorists arrested by the Palestinian Authority. Mr
Blair added: "We need to make sure we build on that and put the same type of
process in place across the Palestinian Authority."

Furious Israeli Premier Ariel Sharon vowed a swift and severe response to
Tuesday's bomb in Rishon Letzion, 10 miles from Tel Aviv. Cutting short his US
visit he said: "He who rises up to kill us, we will pre-empt and kill him
first."

Palestinians in the Gaza Strip braced themselves for a revenge strike after
Hamas, which is based there, said it carried out the attack.

America has long called for Arafat to denounce terrorism in Arabic to his
people, a demand his speech appeared to meet.

But Arafat's words were met with derision by Israelis. The mayor of Rishon
Letzion said they were "lies".

Calls mounted for tough action, ranging from a new military offensive to exile
for Arafat.

Education Minister Limor Livnat said: "It is very possible that in the end there
will be no choice and it will be necessary to expel Arafat."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              77 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 26, 2002, Sunday

ELITE ISRAELI BOMB TEAM ON UK ALERT;
 EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Chris Mclaughlin Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 286 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: This suicide bomber was killed by Israelis in Tel Aviv on;
Friday


A CRACK 24-strong Israeli bomb squad has been flown to London amid fears of an
attack by the al-Qaeda terror network during the Queen's Jubilee celebrations.

The team of volunteers are experts at gathering evidence in the immediate
aftermath of an explosion.

With security services on heightened alert during the Jubilee, there are reports
from Europe that dozens of terrorists loyal to Osama bin Laden are trying to
smuggle their way into Britain.

The news of the Israeli team's arrival came after a Palestinian woman and her
13-year-old daughter were killed yesterday while working in a field of crops in
the Gaza Strip.

A female relative was also wounded after Israeli forces opened fire with machine
guns and tank shells.

The Israeli army said it fired and killed two "suspicious figures" who were
within 50 yards of the border fence separating Gaza from Israel.

Officers said the area, a favourite launching point for attacks, is off limits
to the Palestinians.

Meanwhile, it has been claimed that while the Israeli team visiting the UK are
here at the request of the Jewish community in London, they will also be on
stand-by to help British intelligence and emergency services.

Similar teams were despatched to help the FBI after the September 11 attacks.

However, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said: "This is not something we
would talk about."

-A BRITISH-born aid worker was held by Israeli police after sniffer dogs found
traces of explosives in the boot of her car. Kirsty Wright, a Canadian
Government employee, was stopped and later freed after a routine search at a
Gaza checkpoint. The police investigation into the incident was continuing last
night.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              78 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 10, 2002

Blunkett 'doing well' after surgery: Prescott takes over key role as home
secretary convalesces

BYLINE: Alan Travis and John Carvel

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words


The deputy prime minister, John Prescott, yesterday took charge of
counter-terrorism in Britain as the home secretary, David Blunkett, began his
convalescence following a major hospital operation.

Mr Blunkett, 55, was admitted on Sunday for the planned operation which was
described as preventive surgery to deal with a long-standing problem relating to
his oesophagus and stomach.

The operation at an NHS hospital in Yorkshire was said yesterday to have gone
smoothly and Mr Blunkett was recovering well.

The doctors have given him a clean bill of health for the future but all his
public engagements between now and Christmas have been cancelled and he is not
expected to return to work full-time until the new year.

The home secretary will remain in close contact with the Home Office but is
expected to miss this week's cabinet meeting.

In the meantime the three Home Office ministers, John Denham (policing), Lord
Falconer (criminal justice) and Beverley Hughes (immigration) will take over the
day-to-day running of their own sections of the Home Office.

A Home Office spokesman said that during Mr Blunkett's absence responsibility
for counter-terrorism and resilience - the official term for home defence
measures -would pass to the deputy prime minister, John Prescott.

The senior Whitehall mandarin, Sir David Omand, who is in charge of preparations
in the event of a terrorist attack in Britain, will now report to Mr Prescott
rather than the home secretary while he re covers. Mr Blunkett broke his finger
last month when he was trying to protect his guide dog, Lucy, from a swinging
door. The incident left him with a strapped hand and he said at the time that it
was one of the penalties of being blind.

From the limited medical information in the Home Office statement on Mr
Blunkett's health, doctors were assuming last night that he had been suffering
from a long-standing problem of gastro-oesophageal reflux.

The condition occurs when acid and bile are regurgitated from the stomach back
into the oesophagus, the tube leading from the throat to the stomach.

This can inflame the oesophagus, causing the burning pain known as heartburn. On
occasions, the acid may be regurgitated as far as the mouth. Spicy foods,
chocolate, coffee and alcohol tend to make matters worse.

Michael Griffin, professor of gastro-intestinal surgery at the Royal Victoria
infirmary in Newcastle, said most patients responded well to medical treatment
with antacids or drugs to reduce acid secretions, such as H2 receptor
antagonists or proton pump inhibitors.

"The problem comes when patients are resistant to these strong medications and
get complications such as bleeding or stricturing (narrowing) of the oesophagus.
In those circumstances we may recommend an operation."

Prof Griffin said the mention of a long-standing problem appeared to rule out
cancer, and the words of the Home Office statement pointed to a problem of acid
reflux. In good hands, a 55-year-old man would have a 90% chance of complete
relief.

Charles Collins, surgical director of communications at the Royal College of
Surgeons, said it was likely that Mr Blunkett's doctors had kept the problem
under review for some time before deciding to operate. They probably used
keyhole surgery.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                August 29, 2002

Ministers Push For Deadline

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 404 words


Britain may push for a deadline to be imposed on Saddam Hussein to re-admit
United Nations weapons inspectors.  Ministers were prepared to consider a call
by the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee to propose a deadline for the Iraqi
dictator to comply with UN Security Council resolutions on weapons inspections.

"Existing UN resolutions require immediate Iraqi compliance, including on
weapons inspections.

The Government will nonetheless be giving further consideration to this
recommendation," the official response to the Foreign Affairs Committee's report
on the war against terrorism said.

The suggestion comes as British officials sought to play down suggestions of a
rift with the United States over military action against Iraq.

Hawks in the Washington administration, led by vice-president Dick Cheney, have
been pressing the case for action to topple Saddam before he can acquire nuclear
weapons.

Britain has argued the threat of military action could be lifted if the weapons
inspectors were allowed back in.

The Government response also emphasised the need to tackle Iraq's arsenal of
chemical and biological weapons.

It acknowledged Iraq would be a "better place" without Saddam but stopped short
of advocating a policy of "regime change" in Baghdad.

"The Government's policy is to secure full implementation of the Security
Council resolutions relating to Iraq.

"As the Prime Minister has made clear, we are determined to deal with the threat
posed by Iraq's possession of weapons of mass destruction." The report also
rejected criticisms that Britain's intelligence agencies MI6, MI5 and GCHQ could
have done more to avert the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade
Centre and the Pentagon.

"The Government does not accept that the UK agencies overlooked any intelligence
which would have forewarned of the attacks of last September," it said.

"A subsequent re-examination of material across the intelligence community did
not find any information that could have given warning of the attacks." The
Parliamentary Intelligence Committee disclosed earlier this year that British
and American intelligence had been aware in the run-up to September 11, that
Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network was planning an attack but did not know the
target.

The committee criticised the agencies for failing to do more to find out what
was going on.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2002 Hull Daily Mail

                              80 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 18, 2002, Monday

Innogy confirms bid approaches German utility thought to be leading takeover
pack

BYLINE: By Martin Strydom

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 516 words

INNOGY, which trades under the Npower brand, has confirmed takeover approaches
worth about pounds 3 billion, including one thought to be from RWE, the German
utility which owns Thames Water.

Innogy issued a statement yesterday noting speculation about its future that had
emerged over the weekend and confirmed it had received approaches that could
lead to an offer for the company.

The company would not comment on the identity of its potential suitors but a
source close to the situation said RWE approached Brian Count, chief executive
of Innogy, at the end of last year. He rejected the proposed offer, which valued
the company at about 250p a share, as too low.

Other parties put in the frame included Scottish Power. Last night Scottish
Power said it had held talks with Innogy but did not want to pursue a merger at
the present time.

Innogy's shares, which fell from highs of about 230p to 196p after the September
11 terrorist attacks in America, closed up 3 3/4 at 210 1/4 p on Friday. Some
analysts believe the RWE offer is too low. It represents around a 30pc premium
to last week's close. They claim deals in the sector have enjoyed premiums of
about 40pc.

RWE is expected to return with a higher offer. The giant utility company has
been keen to expand its presence in Britain, ever since its pounds 4.3 billion
cash purchase of Thames Water in September 2000. The deal made it the
third-largest water company in the world.

The company, which is also the the second-largest energy trader in Europe, now
wants to enter the UK power market. It has announced plans to sell electricity
to industrial customers from April and has also agreed to buy British gas
producer Highland Energy Holdings.

Pressure on RWE to do a deal has been increased by German rival E.on's Eu8
billion ( pounds 5 billion) takeover of Powergen, which is said to be close to
completion. E.on plans to use Powergen as a foothold to acquire other British
utility companies.

Innogy, which is Britain's second-largest power company, has expanded
aggressively in the UK since its demerger from the former National Power at 175p
a share in October 2000.

It acquired Yorkshire Electricity for pounds 1.8 billion and then agreed to swap
Yorkshire Electricity's wires for Northern Electric's customer base. This
allowed it to keep the Yorkshire customers and gave it 25pc of the UK power
market and 8pc of the gas market. The company is also said to have eyed Seeboard
but ruled out an offer.

With seven million customers, it is challenging Centrica in the gas and
electricity markets. Innogy is also planning to enter the water market.

RWE is said to regard Innogy's spread of interests as well-suited to its plans
for international expansion. Last September the company bid $7.6 billion for
American Water Works, the largest listed US water company. In December it paid
Eu4.1 billion for the Czech Republic's gas industry.

Earlier this month RWE said that profits for the six months to the end of
December were expected to grow by at least 20pc. It cited a strong contribution
from Thames Water.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              81 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 24, 2002, Thursday

GREECE SEEKS BRITISH HELP ON OLYMPIC SECURITY

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 262 words


THE Greek public order minister is to travel to London today for a series of
meetings focusing on security issues ahead of the 2004 Athens Olympics.

Mihalis Chrisohoidis is also expected to discuss the hunt for members of
November 17, one of Europe's most elusive terrorist organisations whose last
victim was Brigadier Stephen Saunders, the British defence attache in Athens, in
June 2000.

Chrisohoidis is to meet Home Secretary David Blunkett, Foreign Office Minister
Ben Bradshaw and Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, his ministry
said.

He will also visit Scotland Yard to be briefed on technology related to security
and the prevention of terrorist attacks, as part of Athens' preparations to host
the Olympics.

Greece is receiving advice from Britain, Australia, France, Germany, Israel,
Spain and the United States on counter-terrorism methods for the Games.

Athens has in the past been blamed for being unable to crack down on domestic
terrorism, which has raised worries about its ability to deal with a possible
threat against the Olympics. Its inability to stop November 17 has been of
particular concern.

Scotland Yard investigators have been helping Greek police hunt Brigadier
Saunders' killers since he was shot on a busy Athens street on his way to work.
Last year, the investigators presented Greek colleagues with a 200 page report,
which was not made public.

The group has claimed responsibility for the killing of 22 people with the 1975
assassination of Richard Welch, the CIA station chief in Athens.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 23, 2002

Bali faces tourism wilderness after outrage

BYLINE: Lorna Martin

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 452 words


TOURISTS will stay away from Bali for at least four years, it was predicted
yesterday.

A spokesman for Abta, the the UK's main association for tour operators and
travel agents, said the former island paradise would struggle to recover from
the terrorist attack which killed 181 civilians and injured more than 300.

The grim prediction for Indonesia's tourist industry came as it emerged that
British, Australian and US citizens had largely ignored pleas to leave south
-east Asia, despite security warnings that there may be more attacks in the
area.

Sean Tipton, a spokesman for Abta, said Bali would suffer an impact similar to
that suffered by Egypt after the terrorist attack at Luxor in 1997, when 78
people, mostly tourists, were shot dead by Islamic fundamentalists.

"In Bali as in Egypt, tourists were directly targeted. There are a lot of
terrorist attacks worldwide, but these are the only two recently that directly
targeted tourists," he said.

"People are very sensible after something like this happens. You might get
backpackers staying out in Bali, but in terms of package holidays or
honeymooners, people just won't go.

"The year after the attacks in Luxor, bookings were down 50% and it has only
recently got back to where it was before. Bali is fundamentally a lovely and
very safe country but, for a long time, people will associate it only with the
attack. It will be a very long time before that changes."

However, it emerged that British, Australian and US expatriates were ignoring
pleas to leave south-east Asia, despite warnings of more possible attacks. A
spokesman for the British embassy in Jakarta said expatriates had met and had
"universally agreed to stay put".

Britain, Australia, and the United States repeated warnings of potential further
attacks following the detention of Abu Bakar Bashir, a cleric and the alleged
leader of Jemaah Islamiah, the militant group suspected of planting the Bali
bomb. The State Department is to name it as a terrorist group.

Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, issued a long list of places Britons should
avoid, saying: "Further attacks cannot be ruled out."

Indonesian police said the attack bore the hallmarks of Jemaah Islamiah. They
were preparing a sketch of a single suspect in the bombings, based on witness
statements.

The Prince of Wales and the Archbishop of Canterbury are to join thousands of
mourners on Friday to pay tribute to the victims of the Bali outrage.

Charles and Dr George Carey will attend a special memorial service at St Paul's
cathedral, where the 2000-strong congregation will include family and friends of
the British victims. Some 8000 others could gather outside.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 12, 2002, Tuesday

FAMILY'S HOPE OF REPRIEVE;
 BATTLE TO BEAT DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 248 words


PROTESTERS fighting the deportation of an Afghan family tortured by the Taliban
were today anxiously waiting to find out if they have won an eleventh hour
reprieve.

Refugees Farid Ahmadi, his wife Feriba and children Seera, aged three, and
Hadia, six, are due to be deported to Germany from their home in Stourbridge on
Valentine's Day.

But campaign leader Soraya Walton, chairwoman of governors at the children's
school, Wollescote Primary, in Lye, said she may have found a solicitor in
London to take on the Ahmadi family's case - which will postpone the
deportation.

Miss Walton, who is leading the protest following the death of her American aunt
Touri Bolourbhi in the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York, said: 'We are
anxiously waiting to hear a final decision from the solicitor today and are
keeping our fingers crossed. If this doesn't work out, the family will be
deported on Thursday.

'The family is bearing up but it is an extremely difficult time for them.'

Feriba and the children are in London visiting Farid, who has been moved from a
detention centre in Dover to one near Heathrow Airport, in preparation for the
deportation.

The refugee family were placed in Lye after being discovered trying to smuggle
themselves into Britain in the back of a lorry in January last year.

They claim they spent their life-savings fleeing Afghanistan after being
tortured by the Taliban.

Dozens of residents across Lye are backing the family.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              84 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 18, 2002

Anti-Semitism is rife in Arab world of Middle East

BYLINE: DR EAMONN KELLY

SECTION: Features :General :Letters, Pg.11

LENGTH: 593 words


I VERY much agree with Mr Chatfield's first comment in his letter (Letters,
December 10) on the Middle East situation that 'every civilised person will join
in condemning the suicide bombers that have scarred Israel over the last two
years'.

Indeed, the citizens of Israel have been subject to terrorist attacks since the
inception of the state of Israel in 1948.

However, those who think that the creation of a Palestinian state will by itself
solve the problems of the Middle East and bring a halt to terrorism, should bear
in mind two facts.

Firstly, suicide attacks against Israelis were also common at the height of the
peace process in the mid 1990s, when the creation of the Palestinian Authority
was supposed to put an end to Palestinian terror attacks.

Secondly, the destruction of the state of Israel is a stated aim of Hamas,
Islamic Jihad and other Palestinian terror groups.

Israelis are therefore under no illusions that the simple creation of a
Palestinian state will bring security to Israel and furthermore they see Yasser
Arafat as unwilling and/or unable to stop Palestinian terror attacks.

People in Britain should try to understand the scale of the terror attacks;
since September 2000, over 600 Israelis have been murdered and more than 4,300
injured by Palestinian terrorists. Given that the population of Israel is about
one tenth that of the UK, this would equate to 6,000 dead and 43,000 injured in
the UK.

It is the reality of daily terror attacks that has led to the entry of Israeli
forces into the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which are in fact 'disputed
territories' (not 'occupied territories').

Mr Chatfield also states that whereas Iraq is made to obey UN resolutions,
Israel is not.

This actually highlights two common misunderstandings with regard to UN
resolutions.

Firstly, UN resolutions about Iraq have been made under Chapter VII of the UN
charter, and are thus enforceable by military action if necessary; resolutions
about Israel have instead been made under Chapter VI and are not legally
binding.

Secondly, the most commonly cited resolution (242), made in the wake of the six
day war in 1967, does not, as most people believe, simply call for the
withdrawal of Israeli forces to pre-1967 borders. Rather it calls for Israeli
forces to withdraw to recognised boundaries, and requests that all states in the
region be able to live within secure borders free from acts of force. Thus the
resolution is meant to address not only Israeli territorial gains, but also
Palestinian terrorism as well as military aggression by the Arab states of
Syria, Egypt and Jordan.

Interestingly, Resolution 242 was never intended to lay the foundations of a
Palestinian state and in fact the future existence of such a state is not
mentioned in the resolution.

There is no doubt that the Palestinian people are also suffering greatly in the
present situation, but if Israel is at fault then blame must also be apportioned
to the corrupt administration of the Palestinian Authority and the surrounding
Arab states.

It should be borne in mind that Israeli victims of Palestinian terror are the
result of completely indiscriminate attacks, where the murder of Jews, young or
old, is the sole aim.

Anti-Semitism is rife in the Arab world of the Middle East; we should not
confuse sympathy for the Palestinian people with sympathy for those who would
wish to wipe the state of Israel and its Jewish citizens from the face of the
earth.

DR EAMONN KELLY Priory Close Combe Down, Bath

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              85 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 8, 2002

Business: Low-cost market drives BAA's airports revival

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: Pg. 73

LENGTH: 199 words


SIX months on from the 11 September terrorist attacks, the number of passengers
going through Britain's airports is beginning to increase again, writes Robert
Lea.

BAA reported that at its seven airports across Britain, there was a 0.3%
year-on-year rise in February.

But showing how much the aviation industry has changed in recent months, the
figures reveal that traffic from the US is still significantly down and it is
the mushrooming low-fare domestic and European market that has driven the
recovery.

"Among the individual markets, all the short-haul routes saw increases, largely
attributable to intensifying competition by the low-cost scheduled airlines,"
said BAA.

While traffic across the North Atlantic was down by 7.7% and other long-haul
routes were still down yearon-year, the number of passengers flying around the
UK and to the Irish Republic increased by more than 100,000, with strong growth
at Stansted, Edinburgh and Glasgow airports.

Numbers of passengers going through Heathrow were down 0.1% in the month and off
6.9% for the 10 months of the financial year.

At Gatwick, the monthly fall was 10.8%, with a 5.2% drop for the financial year.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              86 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               February 12, 2002

Mixed fortunes for BAA's Scottish airports, but UK traffic recoveringPA and
Reuters

BYLINE: iforsyth

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; financial; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 455 words


Joe Watson BUSINESS EDITOR BRITAIN'S largest airport operator yesterday reported
mixed fortunes at its Scottish operations with passenger numbers in January at
Aberdeen down, but figures well up at both Edinburgh and Glasgow.

BAA blamed the continuing drop-off in long-haul air travel for the 2.2%
year-on-year drop in passengers at Aberdeen to 180,000, which was also down
1,000 on December's figures.

Aberdeen did, however, record two bright spots - an increase in helicopter
passengers and movements, and a 4.8% increase in international passengers
because of new flights to Scandinavia.

Helicopter passengers increased 11.6% to 36,839, with movements recording a 9%
surge to 2,927.

An airport spokesman said the rise in North Sea traffic was encouraging as it
was continuing to build on the increases seen at the same point last year. He
dismissed suggestions that the cancellation of charter flights from Aberdeen to
Ibiza this summer would hit traffic figures.

Services were still available to other destinations in mainland Spain as well as
Cyprus, the Canary Islands, Majorca, Jersey and Canada.

Scheduled flights were also available to Stavanger, Esbjerg, Amsterdam, the
Faroe Islands, Haugesund and Copenhagen.

BAA said passenger traffic at Edinburgh had seen a 10.2% year-on-year increase
to 429,700 because of a jump in people using low-cost flights operated by Go,
easyJet and Ryanair.

The 4.3% increase at Glasgow to 432,500 was because of growth in domestic
traffic.

BAA said passengers using the three Scottish airports in January increased 5.4%
to 1.042million. Aircraft movements in January were also up 2.6% at 21,740, with
Aberdeen accounting for almost one-third of that traffic at 6,809 flights.

Barbara Cassani, the chief executive of Go, had on Sunday called on BAA to
review its charges for low-cost airlines to help stimulate further growth.

She argued that Scots were losing out as BAA sought to recoup the investment it
had made in its Scottish operations through higher airport charges.

BAA sources, however, dismissed the suggestions, saying that its charges were
fair.

Elsewhere, BAA said its operations were still being hit by the impact of the
September 11 terrorist atrocities - although not as severely as before.

It said there had been a month-on-month recovery throughout its operations,
which also include Gatwick, Heathrow, Stansted and Southampton.

Total passenger numbers fell 3.9% in January to 7.988million against the same
month in 2001 - an improvement on December's 6.4% slide.

BAA said January's passenger figure represented a continued recovery, with all
major markets showing improvements.

BAA shares slipped 3p to 644p last night.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              87 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 15, 2002

Vet spin doctors, UK's top civil servant tells MPs

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 410 words


Ministers should consider vetting spin doctors such as Jo Moore through a formal
selection process, Britain's top civil servant said yesterday.

Cabinet Secretary Sir Richard Wilson was being questioned by MPs over the Martin
Sixsmith affair, which saw the former BBC correspondent and Ms Moore leave the
Department of Transport, Local Government and the Regions (DTLR).

Sir Richard denied ordering the Department's top civil servant to issue a
statement defending Transport Secretary Stephen Byers's part in the departures.

He also said Parliament should in the forthcoming Civil Service Bill be given
the power to cap the number of special advisers.

And procedures like those used to pick former Drugs Czar Keith Hellawell could
be used to fill the posts, he told the Commons public administration select
committee.

Mr Sixsmith left in a row over a leaked e-mail warning Ms Moore not to bury bad
news on the day of Princess Margaret's funeral.

Mr Byers had already faced criticism for keeping her on after she sent an e-mail
urging colleagues to do that on September 11, the day of the terrorist attacks
on the US.

The row was a result of a personality clash and not a weakening civil service,
Sir Richard said.

I wouldn't want it thought that what happened at DTLR should be taken as a
signal for what is happening across Government, he told MPs.

He said personal chemistry between a Secretary of State and his adviser was
vital and may not be achieved by the sort of impartial appointment rules
governing the civil service.

But Sir Richard told MPs: If you want someone who'll provide you with a
particular skill, then there's an argument that you should have to go through
some sort of competition.

Mr Sixsmith insists he did not resign as head of information, because his
departure was announced before terms were agreed.

The Cabinet Secretary denied reports that Sir Richard Mottram, permanent
secretary at the Transport Department, had been forced to give a public
statement backing Mr Byers's claims that he had resigned.

His understanding, which I think was right, is that he was not ordered or pushed
into doing it, he told MPs.

It is in the nature of that kind of statement that it has to be in the decision
of the person doing it.

I think it would be wrong to try to impress on that morning more order than it
actually had. That I think is why Richard Mottram found it difficult to remember
what happened.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              88 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 5, 2002, Saturday

SERVICE SECTOR SHOWS UPTURN

BYLINE: Business Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 377 words


BRITAIN'S services industry saw an improvement in fortunes last month, with the
transport, hotel and restaurant sectors showing a recovery in growth, a survey
said last night.

The monthly report by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply showed,
while the service sector recorded a further contraction of business activity in
December, the rate of decline eased.

Levels of incoming new business increased for the first time in five months and
business confidence rose to a four-month high, CIPS said.

On its index, activity rose to 49.4, up from 47.3 in November. On the scale, a
figure above 50 indicates growth while below shows contraction.

CIPS said sectors such as travel, transport, hotels and restaurants - hardest
hit by the downturn in tourism following the terrorist attacks and war in
Afghanistan - showed the strongest recovery in growth in December.

Ross Walker, UK economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Financial Markets, said the
survey showed the service sector had demonstrated a "more convincing recovery"
than a month earlier.

"The service sector has clearly not been immune to either the global downturn
nor the domestic manufacturing recession, but has weathered the storm relatively
well, " he said.

"The current services slowdown remains far less severe than at the time of the
early 1990s recession and there are now tentative signs that we are through the
worst."

The improvement - which also follows evidence yesterday from the CBI that
shoppers went on a bumper preChristmas spending spree - strengthens economists'
views that interest rates will be left on hold next week.

It also comes after Bank of England governor Sir Edward George told the BBC's
World Business Report that interest rates might have to be raised to moderate
consumer demand.

John Butler, economist at HSBC, said he took the survey evidence as further
confirmation that the MPC are extremely unlikely to cut rates at next week's
meeting - supported by the Governor's comments to the BBC".

He added: "Indeed, in our view rates have already troughed".

The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee will announce its next decision
on interest rates on Thursday next week. Rates are expected to stay unchanged.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              89 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 18, 2002

Pack your bags now, Straw warns Britons in Yemen

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 152 words


FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw told Britons in Yemen to leave yesterday amid
renewed fears of a terrorist attack.

His warning came as Britain closed its embassy in the capital Sana'a to the
public.

He told the 300 Britons living in the Arab state that Al Qaeda was operating in
the country the ancestral home of Osama Bin Laden.

Mr Straw said in a Sky TV interview: 'We are warning British nationals to stay
out of the Yemen on the basis of our own assessment of intelligence that we've
received.' It was also revealed that an Al Qaeda suspect had been arrested in
Kuwait, accused of plotting to use a car bomb to blow up a hotel in Sana'a used
by Americans. He is said to have collected GBP 100,000 to finance the operation
with the help of a retired Kuwaiti army officer.

The plot was foiled when Kuwaiti officials passed on the information to
American, Saudi and French authorities.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              90 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 2002

Storm over Iraq threat;Blair faces backlash after hint of military action to
topple Saddam Hussein

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 377 words


Tony Blair was back in Britain today - and stepped into a Labour Party row over
his threat to use military force in Iraq.

Former Labour defence minister Peter Kilfoyle attacked the Prime Minister's
stance on possible military action to topple Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.

Mr Kilfoyle said he thought concentrating efforts in Iraq was ignoring the major
problems in the Middle East.

Britain and the US would be better served by focusing on the growing hostilities
between Israel and Palestine, and not further destabilising the area by
attacking Iraq, he said.

His comments followed a speech in Texas last night in which Mr Blair said: "We
must be prepared to act where terrorism, or weapons of mass destruction,
threaten us."

Mr Blair, who arrived back in London this morning, is also likely to face
deepening unease among other significant members of his party.

Mr Kilfoyle, Labour MP for Liverpool Walton, said he was concerned about Mr
Blair siding with US President George Bush.

"I do have concerns about being seen to be tied in some of the more adventurous
notions of the American administration," he said.

"To deal with Iraq, you need to deal with the problems in the UN, not through
unilateral or bilateral action.

"They (the US) may be the most powerful nation in the world, but it doesn't make
them always right."

He also said there was no evidence linking Iraq to the September 11 terrorist
attacks and added that Mr Blair and Mr Bush were in "grave danger" of ignoring
the real problems which were destabilising the Middle East.

But Mr Blair, who arrived in London just before 7am, said he was confident of
winning backing from his MPs for his stance on Iraq.

He said: "What you will find is that what most people want is for us to act for
the right reasons in the right way.

"All I say to people is let's not get ahead of ourselves here. We are still in
the position of identifying the problem and laying down conditions for Saddam."

Meanwhile, President Hussein said Iraq would cut oil exports starting today for
30 days or until Israel withdraws from Palestinian territories.

In a nationally televised speech, Saddam said all exports would be cut.

Iraq produces three milllion barrels a day.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STRONG MESSAGE: Tony Blair gets tough on Iraq during last night's
speech in Texas

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 05, 2002, Saturday

Service sector shows pick-up in confidence

BYLINE: By David Litterick

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 359 words

BRITAIN'S service companies appear to be pulling themselves out of the doldrums,
with the latest evidence signalling a revival in fortunes for the sector.

December's report from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply showed
the sector still contracting but that the rate of decline has slowed sharply.

The headline business activity index rose from 47.3 to 49.5 over the month, just
a whisker below the 50 mark that separates growth from contraction. It had
dipped as low as 46.3 in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Levels of incoming business increased for the first time in five months and
business confidence rose to a four-month high, although jobs continue to be
lost.

The institute said that sectors such as travel, transport, hotels and
restaurants, which were worst hit by the downturn in tourism due to the
terrorist attacks and subsequent war in Afghanistan, showed the strongest
recovery in growth.

Ross Walker, economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland, said: "The service sector
has clearly not been immune to either the global downturn or the domestic
manufacturing recession but has weathered the storm relatively well.

"The current services slowdown remains far less severe than at the time of the
early 1990s recession and there are tentative signs we are through the worst."

The improvement - which follows evidence from the CBI that shoppers went on a
pre-Christmas spending spree - strengthens economists' views that the Bank of
England will be in no rush to cut interest rates further. Bank governor Sir
Edward George has already warned that interest rates might even have to be
raised to moderate consumer demand.

His fear was borne out by figures yesterday that showed borrowing grew by pounds
6.8 billion in November as consumers benefited from low interest rates. The Bank
said total lending to individuals grew by a seasonally adjusted 0.9pc in
November, the largest monthly increase since the series began in April 1993.

Mortgage borrowing also jumped a record 0.9pc, or pounds 5.3 billion, while
consumer credit was little changed on October at pounds 1.5 billion.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              92 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 06, 2002, Friday

Majority abhors terrorism - but not 'sinister' few

BYLINE: By Anthony King

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 819 words

THE portrait of British Muslims' attitudes towards international terrorism that
emerges from YouGov's survey for The Daily Telegraph is at once reassuring and
somewhat chilling.

An overwhelming majority condemn outright the September 11 attacks and most also
deplore the idea that terrorists might launch similar attacks in Britain.

YouGov's findings certainly convey no sense that British Muslims wish Britain or
the West ill or are anything but loyal to Britain and its values. On the
surface, everything seems placid.

But the survey also shows that within the Muslim community there are deep and
potentially sinister undercurrents. Roughly one British Muslim in 12 refuses to
repudiate the September 11 atrocities and an even larger proportion is ready to
justify attacks by Osama bin Laden on Western targets.

One British Muslim in five also admits to feeling less than wholly loyal to this
country, while a significant minority chooses to regard the British Muslims who
fought alongside the Taliban as heroes rather than traitors.

The survey reveals large-scale ambivalence.

Large numbers of Muslims give the impression of being in denial - of being
reluctant to admit, possibly even to themselves, that their genuine condemnation
of terrorism is in fact combined with a reluctance to take sides between their
Muslim co-religionists and the rest of the world.

More than one in three YouGov respondents either maintains, despite the
evidence, that bin Laden has not launched terrorist attacks against Western
targets or else replies lamely "Don't know" when asked whether they believe such
attacks are justified.

Similarly, more than a third maintain that they don't know whether the attacks
in Bali and Mombasa were the work of Muslims.

Taken as a whole, YouGov's findings point to a community with many members who
are uneasy within themselves and in their relationship with the wider society.

Probably for that reason, YouGov found the survey quite difficult to conduct.

The findings probably reflect reasonably accurately the feelings of the Muslim
community. But an unusually low response rate suggests - in the words of one
YouGov pollster - that many "are frightened and uncomfortable with being
surveyed on such a controversial subject".

Both the widespread disapproval of terrorism and the ambivalence are manifested
in the section of the chart headed "Are terrorist attacks justified?"

Most Muslims clearly abhor acts of terrorism but many at the same time recoil
from recognising that fellow Muslims have already carried out such attacks and
probably will in future.

For example, 26 per cent of YouGov's respondents still deny that bin Laden has
carried out terrorist acts and even more, 33 per cent, also deny that terrorist
attacks against British targets are now being planned.

Fifty-two per cent, instead of condemning young British Muslims for fighting
with the Taliban, are prepared to criticise such people only for "damaging
Islam's reputation in the world".

The section of the chart headed "Attackers Muslims?" reveals the same
ambivalence.

As the figures show, only one British Muslim in five, 18 per cent, was prepared
to accept last year that those who attacked the World Trade Centre were Muslims.
A total of 45 per cent still insists that Muslims were not implicated (21 per
cent) or claim that they don't know whether they were (24 per cent).

The figures in connection with the recent suicide bombings in Bali and Kenya are
even more telling.

Only 36 per cent of Muslims are prepared to acknowledge that those bombings were
the work of Islamic terrorists. Sixty-five per cent claim to believe they were
not the work of Muslims (27 per cent) or, as so often, reply "Don't know".

Apart from abhorring terrorist acts, the one thing most Muslims are clear about
is that September 11 and the subsequent attacks have done their standing in
Britain no good.

As the figures under the heading "Muslims and non-Muslims" indicate, 66 per cent
of British Muslims, believe relations between them and non-Muslims have
deteriorated since September 11. Eighty-six per cent fear that relations will
deteriorate further if renewed Muslim-inspired attacks take place.

The figures in the chart paint a mixed picture of British Muslims' loyalties.

On the one hand, 31 per cent of Muslim Britons declare themselves "very loyal"
or "fairly loyal" to the UK. On the other, almost one in five admits to being
"not very loyal" (13 per cent) or "not at all loyal" (six per cent).

YouGov elicited the opinions and beliefs of 310 British Muslims on-line between
Nov 28 and Dec 5.

The Muslim population, which in 1961 was estimated at 86,000, is today about two
million. Last year Muslim leaders reacted angrily to suggestions from Lady
Thatcher that she had not heard enough condemnation from them about September
11.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              93 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 17, 2002

LEADER COLUMN; PUBLIC SHOULD NOT BE KEPT IN DARK OVER TERROR THREAT

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 209 words


THE news that a gang of terrorists with links to Al Qaeda has been charged with
plotting to unleash deadly cyanide gas on the London Underground system is
terrifying on two counts.

Terrifying, first, because our worst fears that Britain would be next in line
for a catastrophic terrorist assault were so nearly realised. Terrifying,
second, in that, even though the terrorists were arrested up to eight days ago,
the British public was not told that the Government had been given the clearest
evidence imaginable that we were in grave danger.

Instead, we saw a disgraceful fudge. For, on November 7, the Home Office issued
- and then hastily withdrew - an explicit warning that a terrorist attack was
imminent. A bland, generalised, request for vigilance was issued in its place.

The suspicion must be that these arrests, and that withdrawn warning, were
linked.

As this newspaper revealed last week, the top secret national emergencies
committee - known as Cobra - has been telling the Government that a major
assault by Al Qaeda is imminent.

There can be no excuse for the Home Office not to tell the public everything
that it knows about the nature of this and other threats. To withhold
information now would be unforgiveable.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              94 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                November 5, 2002

UK services sector revival continues in October

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 413 words


Britain's services sector continued to recover in October, recording "robust
growth'' during the month, a survey said today.

The monthly survey by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said
activity in the sector recorded 55.6 on its index in October, compared with 55.5
the previous month.

On the scale, a figure above 50 indicates growth while anything below shows
contraction.

CIPS said the improvement signalled a continuation to the general recovery in
business activity which began at the start of the year.

The sector had been hit by the global economic downturn and the repercussions of
the 11 September terrorist attacks in the US.

The survey showed that transport and communications firms recorded the strongest
growth, while hotels and restaurants and finance firms saw the weakest.

Despite the gains, CIPS said business confidence eased.

It was still poor news for jobs, with a contraction seen in the service sector
workforce for the 13th consecutive month.

CIPS said: "With wages and salaries accounting for the largest proportion of
firms' costs, and companies still under pressure to cut costs and raise
productivity, the latest strong rise in new business failed to prevent further
redundancies and the non-replacement of leavers."

Roy Ayliffe, director of professional practice at CIPS, said: "Business activity
remained steady in October. However, although new business activity was buoyant,
purchasing managers protected their margins by decelerating input price
inflation, and maximising productivity through recruitment embargoes and
non-replacement of leavers."

EGi News 05/11/02

Shareholders of retail giant Kingfisher this weekend urgently requested
designated chairman Francis Mackay to push chief executive Geoff Mulcahy towards
retirement.

Investors are believed to be disillusioned with Mulcahy following Kingfisher's
low performance against the stock market over the past 18 months. They are
thought to be demanding a replacement for him within a year. Mackay is due to
succeed John Banham as Kingfisher chairman on December 7.

As part of dedicated restructuring of the group, Kingfisher is also rumoured to
be mulling the sale-and-leaseback of its B&Q stores and a handful of other
properties in a deal which would net the company around £1bn.

The move follows Kingfisher's £600m deal with London & Regional earlier this
year, which saw the retail group part with the freeholds of 182 Woolworths
stores before floating Woolies off earlier in the Summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2002 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              95 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 22, 2002

Fears over safety at Sellafield

SECTION: News, Pg.16

LENGTH: 179 words


FEARS are growing over the safety of one of Britain's biggest nuclear
reprocessing plants.

Euro MPs have warned that Sellafield in Cumbria could be targeted by terrorist
organisations.

It has also emerged an investigation has been launched after radioactive waste
was found to have leaked into ground water under the plant.

During a debate in the European Parliament Sellafield was described as one of
the worst polluters on the continent along with Cap de la Hague in France.

Angry Irish MEPs warned of the threat of a serious terrorist attack in the wake
of the September 11 outrages.

Meanwhile, radioactive material is thought to have leaked from huge 50-year -old
tanks at Sellafield used for storing thousands of tonnes of untreated waste.

Concern is growing about the extent of the leaks and the possibility of
contamination of the local water supply.

British Nuclear Fuels say they have launched an investigation but that there is
no cause for public concern.

A new 100million building is being created to replace the storage tanks.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              96 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 10, 2002

Al Qaeda attack on Vatican was plotted in UK

BYLINE: Jeremy Charles

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 148 words


AL QAEDA terrorists planned to attack the Vatican in a plot organised in
Britain, it emerged today. In a leaked antiterrorist document, undercover
officers described how St Peter's as well as the US Embassy in Rome and St
Mark's Square in Venice were all being targeted.

But the plans were cancelled two months before the Twin Towers strike in New
York, the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera reported today. It said that,
according to police documents dated May 2001, the plot was organised by a man
called Khalifa Mohamed Moussa Ahmed, taking orders from a man in London.

Today a police spokesman in Rome said: "It would not be appropriate to comment
on any leaked report. What I can tell you is that every day of the year
antiterrorist officers are engaged in the security of the country, that they are
dedicated and professional and their work never stops."


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              97 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 26, 2002, Tuesday

RUGBY UNION: WALES COULD FACE KANGAROOS

BYLINE: Ian Laybourn

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 345 words


NEXT year's Australian rugby league tour is likely to include two warm-up games
- possibly one against Wales - before the three-match Ashes Series.

Rugby Football League executive chairman Richard Lewis, who has held preliminary
talks with his Australian counterparts, said both countries were in favour of an
abbreviated tour. The original schedule for last year's Kangaroo tour, before it
fell victim to the September 11 terrorist attack, included club games against
all the leading Super League clubs but the recent clash between New Zealand and
champions St Helens attracted a paltry crowd of just 5,612. The Kiwis played
four matches in the run-up to the drawn Don't Drink Drive Series and, although
the preparations clearly helped the tourists, they were heading off to France
yesterday with a badly -depleted squad.

"We're talking about five matches, including the Tests, although it depends
where France fits into it," said Lewis, who is keen to help Great Britain coach
David Waite in his bid to win the Ashes for the first time for 33 years.

He added, "It's partly the time that's available but also partly us feeling that
a longer tour gives the opposition an advantage.

"I'll be quite open about it, ever since I arrived, David has made strong
representations to me about getting the balance right between doing what is
right for us from a performance point of view and what is right for everybody
else.

"Our relationship with the Australians is very good. They are happy to be
flexible and they don't want too long a tour at the end of their season. I think
the Kiwis felt the third Test was a match too far."

One of the warm-up fixtures is almost certain to involve England A, who played
the Kiwis at Brentford, home of London Broncos, while another clash with Wales
has not been ruled out, although it would be unlikely to be at the Millennium
Stadium.

The new stadiums in Hull and Manchester will be considered as possible venues
for the Test matches against Australia, which are pencilled in for November 8,
15 and 22.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              98 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 20, 2002, Wednesday

BOOMING BUSINESS IN TERROR;
 GAS MASKS, NUCLEAR SUITS AND BUNKERS ON XMAS LIST

BYLINE: Katrina Tweedie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words


FEARS of a terrorist attack on Britain are everywhere, with the public worrying
about "dirty bombs" and poison gas.

The Government tells people to be vigilant but, at the same time, not to panic.

So, should UK citizens try to protect themselves or should they just sit tight?

Should they wear gas masks on the bus, open the mail in buckets of water and
build bunkers in their gardens?

And if you have access to a bolt-hole, will it save you?

According to Dr George Morris, a consultant in public health at the Scottish
Centre for Environmental Health, people should not panic or buy chemical warfare
suits.

He said: "There is clearly heightened awareness at the moment.

"We have to regard it more likely that someone might release something like
anthrax, nerve gas or smallpox.

"But we remain abreast of all toxicological information and have a 24- hour
service to give advice."

For now, his advice is not to rush out and buy specialist equipment. But that
hasn't stopped many people.

Sales of gas masks and nuclear and chemical protection suits have never been
higher.

They are not hard to find and are probably on sale now in a high street near
you.

At the Clearwater Army Surplus store in Glasgow's Argyle Street, a suit and the
necessary protection paraphernalia can be bought for less than pounds 60.

Although it won't protect your life long-term in the face of a biological
attack, sales are still booming.

Salesman David Murray said: "I keep telling the public not to bother with gas
masks because you don't know what kind of chemical could be used and you need a
special filter for every chemical.

"A mask is no good without a nuclear biological chemical protection suit.

"And even they aren't great because, at some stage, you will have to take it off
for a drink or to relieve yourself."

Yet still, the public have been buying masks, NBC suits, NBC protective boots
and NBC inner and outer gloves.

But David thinks it is a bit over the top. He said: "The best advice I can give
the public is to sit with a nice bottle of wine, relax and don't panic."

A search of the internet provides advice on suspect mail. It warns to look out
for mistakes in addresses and stains and open it carefully.

But the signs of a gas attack are not as clear.

The rule of thumb is if a single person is on the ground choking, they are
probably having a heart attack.

If several people are down, it could be the result of a toxic substance. The
advice is to evacuate the area immediately.

And as the cold and flu season begins, experts are urging people not to jump to
the conclusion they have been infected with a biowarfare agent when they get the
usual Scottish winter sniffles.

You are more likely to get hit by lightning than infected by terrorists.

Despite recent reports about health workers getting smallpox immunisations,
people should not stockpile antibiotics. It could do more harm than good.

But even SCEH admits an infected water supply is one of the softest targets for
terrorists.

Boiling your water to kill any micro-organisms or using a personal filtration
system could protect you.

Preparing your family for the worst is the subject of many survivalist websites
and it is easy to follow their sensible advice, such as keeping a first- aid
kit, a bag of warm clothes, 72 hours' worth of water and ready-to- eat meals in
your car.

But where to go is the biggest dilemma for ordinary people.

There are nuclear shelters all over Scotland and occasionally they do come up
for sale but they are not cheap, at around pounds 30,000 for a 10- year lease.

Most have been decommissioned and are lying in a state of ruin.

Scotland's Secret Bunker, near St Andrews, would house 300 people 100ft below
the ground and, although still effective, is now a museum. Unfortunately, it is
closed for the winter.

For now, the public can only concentrate on supplies of food, water and clothes
and hope for the best.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              99 of 248 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 16, 2002 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

London in peril;
How the asylum jet that flew across the capital could have been hijacked

BYLINE: David Williams, Ray Massey

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 348 words


AN EXTRAORDINARY bid for asylum by a group of Afghans on an executive jet has
exposed a glaring loophole in Britain's security against terrorist strikes.

The nine men and seven women flew over the heart of London - and many leading
terror targets - in a privately hired British plane with an unsuspecting British
pilot before landing at Heathrow.

Coming days after Tony Blair's stark warning of a pre-Christmas Al Qaeda attack
on Britain, alarmed security officials admitted the plane could have been
hijacked.

Or the two-man crew could have been overpowered, as happened in the September 11
attacks in the U.S.

Astonished police and immigration officers were only aware what hap-pened on
Thursday afternoon when the 16 would-be refugees left the flight that had
carried them in comfort from Russia and claimed political asylum.

Only this week, Osama Bin Laden warned Britain against supporting the U.S. and
American intelligence sources told how an Al Qaeda captive had spoken of a plot
to attack Heathrow.

What has so disturbed anti-terrorist police is that the asylum-seekers from Al
Qaeda's one-time heartland were not detected on a route into Britain which could
easily have been followed by terrorists.

Home Secretary David Blunkett is said to be 'deeply concerned' and to have
ordered an urgent inquiry.

'This has a number of implications and we are looking at it very seriously,'
said a Home Office official.

The Civil Aviation Authority and air traffic officials confirmed that - other
than filing a flight plan - no details of passengers aboard an incoming plane
are known to the authorities until they reach Customs to have their passports
checked.

Flight experts have also raised concerns that security at executive jet
terminals may be more 'lax' than for commercial planes.

They fear security checks are likely to be even less stringent abroad for planes
coming to the UK.

Kate Southfield, business aviation editor of the respected Flight Interna-tional
magazine, said: 'After September 11, more and more people started hiring private
aircraft, believing them safer than commercial aircraft.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: LORD OWEN THE FORMER FOREIGN SECRETARY ON WHY TONY BLAIR MUST
AVOID SPIN AND TREAD MORE CAREFULLY IN TALKS ON THE KASHMIR CRISIS

BYLINE: Lord Owen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


EVER since September 11, I doubt there has been a waking hour when Tony Blair
has not anxiously wondered how long before something comparable happens in the
UK.

He knows better than most how many committed al-Qaeda supporters are lurking in
our own major cities here in Britain.

He would never forgive himself if the worst happened and he had not done all in
his power to prevent it.

What is more, we would not easily forgive a Prime Minister who did not devote a
significant part of the last three and a half months to countering
internationally sponsored terrorism. That's why it is strange to hear him
attacked about visits to Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan after a
holiday in Egypt.

The fact that he has been televised at this time of strained relations in four
Muslim countries as well as India gives the lie to Islamic fundamentalists who
endlessly try to portray the British as anti-Muslim.

The only criticism worth making of the Prime Minister is one which stems from
observing him at home even more than abroad.

Why does he continue to overhype his own speeches, spin their contents and
manipulate their meaning?

Why is he verging on developing an obsessive overestimation of his own personal
influence and, indeed, importance?

Even the most junior diplomat in the Foreign Office could have told him it was
unwise to talk of calming tensions and to make a speech in Bangalore about
Britain's pivotal role in foreign policy. As the old colonial power, the last
thing that was needed was to give the appearance of putting pressure to bear on
the long-standing dispute over Kashmir.

After the Second World War when Labour Prime Minister Clement Attlee accepted
the claims for independence, he set in motion events that led to the ruler of
Kashmir choosing to place his country under India and not Pakistan, despite
having a Muslim majority.

Old scars carry long memories. Even the Americans are reported to be backing off
the idea of sending a special envoy to the region.

What was needed was quiet, unbriefed conversations with all the key players. It
isn't in Mr Blair's nature to stay tight-lipped or stop his entourage spinning
to the press.

But when nuclear powers are confronting each other, the world would have
understood if his personal diplomacy had been conducted without a public
statement and he had confined himself in public to expressions of interest and
goodwill.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              101 of 248 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                               November 14, 2002

Visiting cop's Miami advice.

BYLINE: Phil Mills

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 171 words


A touch of Miami Vice came to Brighton and Hove this week. Hector Infante, a
crime scenes investigation supervisor with Miami police, is on a fact-finding
exchange with Brighton and Hove police. Although more used to dealing with
murder scenes in his home city, Mr Infante, 37, has been impressed with the
evidence-gathering techniques used in Sussex. He said: "The service for
obtaining DNA profiles here is quicker and more efficient." One fundamental
difference is how British police obtain cells for profiling. If a suspect
refuses to have a swab taken, then police here have powers to forcibly take a
hair from the suspect's body for cell analysis. Mr Infante said: "There is no
way we would be allowed to do that because of civil rights and the
constitution." Profiling may be more advanced in Britain but Miami is ahead in
other fields, such as forensic science. The exchange was organised after a visit
to Sussex Police by three FBI agents involved in investigating the September 11
terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              102 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 7, 2002

The week

BYLINE: By Abigail Wild

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 999 words


Home

Acas rekindles hope as fire strikes cancelled

A planned eight-day fire strike was called off by union leaders following the
surprise interven-tion of Acas, the conciliation service. Ministers, although
welcoming the move, signalled their determination to stick to

the pay framework of 4% and

not the 40% being claimed,

with any extra money being paid for by modernisation. Emerging from a four-and
-a-half-hour meeting of the union's executive, Andy Gilchrist, FBU general
secretary, announced the walkout planned for Wednesday would no longer go ahead.

The germ of an idea

The plan to stockpile enough smallpox vaccine to inoculate the entire UK
population in the event of a germ warfare attack by terrorists was revealed in
guidelines issued by the department

of health. The prime minister denied he had specific informa-tion on an attack
but said the move was part of a prudent contingency plan. Intelligence sources
claimed a renegade Russian scientist may have

sold Iraq a virulent form of smallpox that could render the vaccines stocked by
Britain and the US useless in the event of a biowar attack.

Beating the bigots

Jack McConnell, Scotland's first minister, revealed proposals for laws to make
religious hatred an aggravated criminal offence.

A 12-point plan to root out "Scotland's secret shame" of sectarian bigotry was
drawn up

by a cross-party group established after attacks on a mosque following last
year's 9/11 attacks. Mr McConnell said that existing legislation, particularly
in football grounds, would be properly implemented by the police,

courts, and football clubs, but added that legislation was needed to "make clear
in modern Scotland the difference between right

and wrong".

Leslie released on bail

John Leslie, the former This Morning presenter, was arrested and questioned by
police over allegations of rape and indecent assault. Leslie, who attended

the police station by arrangement with his solicitor, strenuously denied all the
allegations. Three women have made allegations against him. One claims she was
raped in south-west London in 1998 while another alleges indecent assault in
1997. A third says she was indecently assaulted by Leslie last year. He was
bailed without charge from the Belgravia station to return to a London police
station in January.

Abroad

Bomb defused at two Dutch Ikea stores

Explosives were defused at two branches of Ikea in the Netherlands, injuring two
officers at a police station in Sliedrecht.

All the store's Dutch outlets

were shut down, but officials

ruled out a terror link. Roads

were temporarily sealed off, causing huge traffic jams, and both Ikea stores in
Scotland increased their security.

Kenyan bombing

A statement purporting to be

from al Qaeda claimed it had carried out the bombing of a

hotel in Kenya that killed at

least 15 people, and a missile attack on a passenger jet as it left

a nearby airport. The Army of Palestine had claimed responsi-bility but
international intelli-gence agencies said the timing

and precision of the attacks bore all the hallmarks of Osama bin Laden's group.

Judge suspends trial

A judge suspended the trial of three suspected IRA members arrested 15 months
ago - and accused of training rebels in southern Colombia - after prosecutors
were unable to produce their main witness.

The witness had met James Monaghan, Niall Connolly,

and Martin McCauley in

1999 inside a rebel safe haven

in southern Colombia. The suspects, who were travelling

on false passports, insist they

were in Colombia to observe

the peace process between

Andres Pastrana, then presi-

dent, and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Columbia.

The Columbian rebels had technology they could only have got from abroad, it was
claimed

in court.

business

Full steam ahead

for Stagecoach

Shares in Stagecoach, the Perth-based transport company, leapt 44% as it
unveiled strong cashflow and better than expected pre-tax profits. Plans were
revealed to restructure its struggling North American bus subsidiary, Coach USA,
by shrinking it by 50% and slashing (pounds) 575m off the book value of the
unit. The group also said Brian Souter, the controversial

co-founder, would take over as permanent chief executive, a job he temporarily
took up after the July resignation of Keith Cochrane. Souter has been criticised
by some in the city for paying too much for Coach and for the subsequent 90%
collapse in Stagecoach's share price.

Banks take a pounding

The four biggest banks in Scotland had the highest percentage of customers
considering changing supplier and believing they had grounds to complain,
according to a Forum of Private Business report. The forum warned that, despite
an overall improvement in satisfaction, small/medium enterprises (SMEs) were
increasingly unhappy with their relationship with managers who handled their
accounts. Moves to cut costs by reducing staff had left bank managers too busy
to maintain personal relationships. Businesses were also concerned about banks'
increasing use of fixed charging structures in place of individually negotiated
fees.

sport

It's not all plain

sailing in Paradise

Good and bad news for Martin O'Neill, who was given a two-game touchline ban.
However, star

striker Henrik Larsson, who

missed the Bhoys' midweek

game against Hibs after catching

a bug, was given a clean bill of health to play in today's Old

Firm game. The club vowed

to appeal against the ban,

claiming the Uefa disciplinary committee's decision was

"unreasonable" punishment. O'Neill has appealed for Uefa to use "common sense"
and hopes to be allowed on the touchline for the return leg of the Uefa cup tie
against Celta Vigo. The Celtic manager was sent to the stands

by the French referee, Claude Colombo, 12 minutes before the end of the first
leg 1-0 win over the Spanish side.

LOAD-DATE: December 07, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 21, 2002

Outrage at U.S. magazine's criticism

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 192 words


THE Royal Marines' contribution to the Afghanistan conflict has been described
as ' disappointing' in an article written for U.S. armed forces.

The Stars and Stripes magazine criticised British troops for their
'empty-handed' missions and failing to engage with Taliban or Al Qaeda fighters.

It quoted U.S. Marines who questioned why they had been left out of Operation
Condor, the Royal Marines' mission to help Australian forces who were under
attack from enemy gunfire.

Amid angry accusations of American 'ingratitude', the Ministry of Defence
insisted yesterday that the article did not reflect the opinion of U.S.

military chiefs, who welcomed Britain's support.

But Liberal Democrat defence spokesman Paul Keetch said: 'Given that this
article appears in the official U.S. military publication, the words are
ill-advised.

'The author should remember that the UK has been the U.S's staunchest ally since
September 11.

'The British public will wonder why an article in such an important magazine
seems to be critical of British services risking their lives in the wake of a
terrorist attack on the U.S. homeland.'


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              104 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

Al-Qa'eda 'likely to be planning suicide bomb' Security and intelligence experts
rule out Underground nerve gas attack for terrorist 'spectacular', write Sean
O'Neill and Philip Johnston

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill and Philip Johnston

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 619 words

AN al-Qa'eda attack in Britain is more likely to take the form of a suicide
bombing than an attempt to release deadly chemicals, the authorities believe.

Despite claims that three men arrested last week were planning a cyanide attack
on the London Underground, no noxious substances nor details of a specific
target have been discovered.

Rather than foiling an imminent attack, the joint Scotland Yard and MI5
operation is more correctly viewed as an attempt to disrupt a suspected terror
cell in the early stages of its existence. Exactly what operation, if any, was
being planned or where it was to be carried out - in Britain or elsewhere - is
not known.

Reports that there was to be a poison gas attack on the Tube are "alarmist",
security sources say.

Britain appears to be in the grip of a severe case of the jitters - cyanide
fears following dire warnings from the Prime Minister and other senior
Government figures.

An alert about "dirty bombs" - issued erroneously by the Home Office this month
- was followed by David Blunkett's statement calling for increased vigilance and
warning that "whatever damage they [al-Qa'eda] are able to inflict they will do
so".

Tony Blair followed the Home Secretary by announcing that Britain was engaged in
"a new type of war, fought in a different way by different means". We would win,
he said, but not without pain.

Days later came alarm over a security alert at ports across Europe after French
and Dutch authorities passed on vague intelligence about a threat to shipping -
possibly a bomb on a ferry.

The reality is that ministers and the intelligence chiefs who advise them do not
know exactly what is going on but they suspect that something - possibly a
"spectacular" - is going to happen.

This nervousness is based on the amount of intelligence traffic - which is
running at the same level as it was immediately prior to the September 11
attacks.

Western intelligence agencies sensed something was afoot before the World Trade
Centre and Pentagon attacks. British agents flew to the United States to discuss
the threat.

The problem was then, as it is now, that they could not pinpoint the threat -
neither the type of attack nor where it would occur.

Terrorism experts and intelligence agencies expect that if al-Qa'eda strikes it
will do so using conventional explosives.

"We know from Afghanistan that they are interested in cyanide and have
experimented on dogs using nerve gas, but that is a long way from making such
agents operational," said Magnus Ranstorp of St Andrew's University.

"There is concern all across Europe at the moment, not just in Britain. But the
most likely scenario is a suicide attack on a public building or in a public
place. Simplicity is the name of the game for al-Qa'eda."

Bin Laden's followers prefer blunt and brutal methods. The September 11 attacks
were giant suicide bombs. The Bali bomb, the attacks on US embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania, the bombing of US and French ships off Yemen and the synagogue
attack in Tunisia have all involved high explosives in lorries, cars or boats.

While the state of alert is high, police, politicians and intelligence agencies
also acknowledge, however, that we could all be victims of psychological warfare
in the run-up to Christmas.

In his recent assessment of the terror threat, Mr Blunkett gave a warning of the
threat posed to a democratic society by creating a constant sense of fear.

He said: "We know that because the terrorists want us to live in fear and want
to damage our economy and the well-being of our people, that they are capable of
feeding false information to us in the hope that we over-react and damage our
economic and other interests."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              105 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 11, 2002, Friday

'THANK THATCHER FOR UK'S STRENGTH'

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 252 words


A FORMER adviser to Margaret Thatcher, the Liverpool based economist Professor
Patrick Minford last night said that Thatcherism was helping the UK meet the
challenges of recession and the US terror attacks.

He predicted that the UK economy would remain robust in the face of economic
problems facing Europe and the US in the wake of recession and the terrorist
attacks on the US.

Prof Minford said it was thanks to Britain's own Monetary Policy Committee and
the past Thatcher liberalisation which had greatly raised fexibility and speeded
underlying growth on the economic front.

Prof Minford, who heads the Liverpool Research Group in Macroeconomics, also
predicts that the US economy will recover in the early months of 2002 as both
normal activities resume and the massive doses of stimulus from fiscal and
monetary policy work through.

On a more chilling note, Prof Minford believes the US consumer and business
world may have to learn to live with an environment occasionally punctuated by
outrages and loss of life.

"Assuming that activity resumed, though with more security checks imposing
somewhat higher transaction costs, then we would see normal business normal
business substitution of activities - for example reduced business travel, less
concentration of activities in urban high rise landscapes.

"The world economy has slowed down a lot, but it is likely to recover in 2002,
and with demand in the UK generally strong it looks as if it can ride out this
weakness."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THATCHER FAN: Prof Minford

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              106 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 9, 2002, Monday

 BLAIR'S BLUNT MESSAGE TO THE TUC

BYLINE: Ian Hernon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 446 words


TONY BLAIR will warn MPs that none of their constituents is safe from Saddam
Hussein.

The Prime Minister will tomorrow tell the TUC at Blackpool that an attack on the
Iraqi dictator would be "self defence" if he refuses to dismantle his weapons of
mass destruction.

The warning came as a defence expert said Iraq could assemble a nuclear weapon
"in a matter of months" if it managed to buy or steal raw materials.

In the coming weeks Mr Blair will try to win over back bench sceptics and
opponents at home, including Bootle MP Joe Benton, Walton's Peter Kilfoyle and
Wirral West MP Stephen Hesford.

After the weekend's Camp David summit with US President George Bush, he faces an
uphill task.

Mr Benton said: "I am not impressed. I have heard nothing new from Camp David.

"I have never denied that Saddam is a terrible person. Anyone who can inflict
toxic warfare on his own people is a very dangerous man.

"But no evidence has been put to me that justifies Britain going to war."

Mr Kilfoyle, a former defence minister, is also unlikely to toe the Blair line.

He believes that a war in Iraq would put his constituents in peril from terror
reprisals and inflame Arab nations.

Under the deal thrashed out at the weekend, Saddam will be given four to six
weeks to re-admit UN inspection teams, then six months to a year to dismantle
his nuclear, chemical and biological arsenal.

Given his track record Saddam is unlikely to agree and Britain and America are
effectively on a countdown to war.

On Thursday, the day after the first anniversary of the September 11 terrorist
attack on America, Mr Bush is expected to unveil intelligence on Saddam's
weaponry.

That will include his ability to strike at neighbouring states and his long
-term aim to develop nuclear holistic missiles capable of hitting European
targets.

Mr Blair will follow that with a more detailed dossier on the Saddam threat.

Defence expert Dr John Shipman, author of a new document on Saddam's
capabilities being published by the International Institute for Strategic
Studies, said Saddam had been working hard on his nuclear capacity.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We certainly believe he has the ability
to put together a nuclear weapon very quickly, in a matter of months . . . were
he able to obtain fissile material from abroad, steal it or buy it in some way."

Earlier Terry Taylor, Washington director of the IISS, said: "I have no doubt
that Saddam Hussein's regime has nuclear, biological and chemical weapons
programmes and missile programmes which they are advancing and are a threat to
the region and a threat to the world."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE PROOF?: Satellite image of an alleged isotope separation facility
in Iraq. Insets: Tony Blair and George Bush

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              107 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 29, 2002

Video nasties call British Muslims to join terrorists

BYLINE: Dan Bridgett

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 363 words


VIDEOS designed to encourage British Muslims to fight for al Qaeda are to be
investigated by antiterrorist officers.

The tapes contain stomach turning scenes in which Islamic extremists backed by
Osama bin Laden murder and mutilate "infidels". In one scene, fighters are shown
cutting the throats of conscript troops in Algeria.

A second tape contains graphic footage of Taliban soldiers decapitating Northern
Alliance opposition troops after a shootout in Afghanistan.

Scotland Yard is examining whether those who circulated it have broken the
Terrorism Act 2000, which outlaws incitement to join terrorist groups.

The tapes were sold for GBP 10 each in the UK to raise funds for the militants'
anti-western "cause". The inflammatory commentary calls for viewers to "kill in
the name of Allah until you are killed". The videos were smuggled into Britain
only days before the 11 September terrorist attacks on the USA and circulated in
militant mosques, including Finsbury Park where the controversial one-eyed
cleric Sheik Abu Hamza preaches. It is understood they were produced by the
Salafist Group for Preaching and War, an Algerian organisation linked to Bin
Laden.

The arrest of several Britons in Afghanistan, three of whom are being held in
the maximum security prison in Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, appears to confirm that
Britain is a major recruiting ground for Muslim radicals.

There have been mounting calls for the Government to initiate a more
comprehensive crackdown on extremists fermenting discontent across Britain.

There has also been criticism from Middle East governments concerned about
Britain's willingness to provide a haven for extremists suspected of terrorist
offences in their own countries.

Meanwhile, the family of a third alleged terror suspect from Tipton in the
Midlands, denies he was a Taliban fighter.

Ruhal Ahmed, believed to be 20, was caught in Afghanistan.

Speaking from the family's terraced home, solicitor Raz Mann said: "As far as
the family were aware he had gone to attend a wedding in Pakistan and was on
holiday. As far as they know their son has never expressed any fundamentalist
views."


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              108 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 28, 2002

On this day - August 22.

BYLINE: Angela Kelly

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 265 words



1485: The Battle of Bosworth Field was fought in Leicestershire and Richard III
was butchered as he vainly tried to reach usurper Henry Tudor. He was the third
King Richard to die by violent means. Cautious monarchs have avoided the name
since!

1642: The Civil War in England began, between the supporters of Charles I
(Cavaliers) and of Parliament (Roundheads) when the King raised his standard at
Nottingham.

1862: Composer Claude Debussy was born in St Germain-en-Laye, France.

1922: Michael Collins, Irish politician and revolutionary, was assassinated by
extremist Republicans in an ambush in Ireland.

1960: Beyond the Fringe, one of the most influential satirical revues staged in
Britain this century, opened in Edinburgh.

1962: Fifteen terrorists attacked General de Gaulle in the 22nd of 31 attempts
on his life. Despite being sprayed with a volley of 150 shots, the General was
only superficially cut by flying glass.

1985: A British Airtours Boeing 737 burst into flames at the end of the runway
at Manchester Airport when take-off was aborted. Although 80 escaped, 55 died in
the flames and fumes.

ON THIS DAY LAST YEAR: Hundreds more British troops were preparing to leave for
Macedonia after NATO chiefs ordered them to begin collecting weapons from
Albanian rebels.

BIRTHDAYS: Karlheinz Stockhausen, composer, 74; Cindy Williams, singer, 55;
Steve Davis, snooker player, 45; Roland Orzabal, pop musician (Tears For Fears),
41; Tori Amos, singer/songwriter, 39; Mats Wilander, tennis player, 38; Steve
Craddock, guitarist (Ocean Colour Scene), 33.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              109 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                January 28, 2002

Hundreds hold protest against Israeli terror;
 Demonstrators demand peace in Middle East

BYLINE: by DANIEL COYSH

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words


HUNDREDS of people marched on the Israeli embassy in London at the weekend,
calling for an end to state terrorism against the Palestinian people and peace
in the Middle East.

Over 500 angry demonstrators gathered at noon on Saturday in Kensington for the
picket, which was organised by the Stop the War Coalition.

Stop the War groups came from all over Britain, despite torrential rain and
winds, with banners visible from Greater Manchester, Birmingham, Northampton and
all over London.

The Palestinian Solidarity Campaign, the Campaign for Palestinian Rights, the
Free Vanunu campaign, Islamic students' groups and peace campaigners also took
part.

Addressing the demonstrators before the march, Stop the War Coalition convener
Lindsey German condemned political assassinations in the West Bank and Israeli
reprisals against the Palestinians for extremist terror attacks.

She said: "Ever since September 11, all sorts of people have used the 'war
against terrorism' as an excuse to attack people in their region.

"At least 4,000 have been killed by US bombing in Afghanistan since October and
now America is now talking about war in Somalia.

"This war is not about fighting terrorism, it is about US and British
imperialism around the world."

Stop the War coalition steering committee chairman Andrew Murray announced the
date of the next national Stop the War demonstration, in London's Hyde Park on
February 23, and urged everybody to ensure that it was as massive as the last.

Campaigning Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn said: "If there is to be peace in the Middle
East, it has to be peace with justice."

Mr Corbyn slammed the "attack on civil liberties across the world" since the
September 11 events.

He spoke of his experiences last week as part of a backbenchers' delegation to
the US embassy to protest at the treatment of the prisoners held at Camp X-Ray.

Mr Corbyn revealed that the ambassador had admitted that their "finest legal
brains" were working on a justification for the US refusal to grant the al-Qaida
and Taliban suspects prisoner-of-war status, so depriving them of the minimum
rights guaranteed under the Geneva Convention.

After the speeches, the protesters marched on the Israeli embassy for a picket
which remained solid until the late afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

GRAPHIC: STOP THE TERROR: Peace activists mounting a lively demonstration
outside the Israeli embassy in London at the weekend. Pic: MIKE COHEN

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              110 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 10, 2002

Trade deficit narrows on sales to US

BYLINE: Larry Elliott

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 446 words


A sharp rise in exports to the United States helped reduce Britain's trade
deficit to its lowest level in more than 2 1/2 years in May, the government said
yesterday.

Sales of British goods to the world's largest market increased by 20% in April
as demand picked up following the downturn that followed the September 11
terrorist attacks, according to figures from the national statistics office.

In the best trade performance since September 1999, higher exports were
accompanied by falling imports, with scant evidence that booming consumer
spending in the UK has led to a new surge of goods brought in from overseas.

Overall, exports of goods rose by 4% in May to pounds 16.8bn while imports
remained unchanged at pounds 18.5bn. The shortfall in trade in goods of pounds
1.7bn was down from pounds 2.3bn in April.

The national statistics office said that the deficit in goods was offset by
Britain's traditional strength in services, which notched up a surplus of pounds
900m on the month. The pounds 800m deficit on goods and services was little more
than half the pounds 1.5bn shortfall in the previous month.

Officials said the narrowing global goods deficit was driven by higher exports
to non-European Union countries, particularly the US, of goods such as oil,
medical products, cars and works of art.

However, some City analysts warned that the improvement would be short-lived if
economic recovery in the US faltered over the coming months and might also be
influenced by the recent rise in the value of sterling against the dollar.

"The data are extremely encouraging though they do show just how dependent we,
and everyone else, are on a sustained recovery in US domestic demand," said
Geoff Dicks, economist at Royal Bank of Scotland.

The City said the improving export picture boded well for stronger growth in the
second quarter, following six months in which the economy has been all but
stagnant.

The deficit in trade and goods in the three months to May - a better guide to
the underlying trend than one month's figures - stood at pounds 4.2bn, down from
pounds 4.9bn in the previous three months.

A geographical breakdown of the latest trade data showed that despite the
strength of the pound against the euro, Britain broke even with the rest of the
EU in May, but ran a deficit of pounds 1.7bn with the rest of the world.

In the latest quarter, Britain had a trade deficit in goods of pounds 6.8bn, of
which only pounds 700m was with fellow EU nations. The national statistics
office said the latest data showed both the goods and services deficits, as well
as the global goods deficit, were narrowing.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 24, 2002, Sunday

EMERGENCY SERVICES TRAIN IN SECRET FOR REPRISAL ATTACK BY AL-QA'IDA;
 MOD REPORT SAYS BACKING BUSH INVOLVES RISK TO UK T LABOUR MPS PLOT LEADERSHIP
CHALLENGE OVER BLAIR'S WAR POLICY

BYLINE: Colin Brown Political Editor Blair: could face a leadership challenge

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 478 words


Police and the emergency services have been secretly trained by the Army for a
reprisal attack in the UK by al-Qa'ida terrorists using nuclear, chemical or
biological weapons.

A Ministry of Defence report to MPs reveals that senior planners have privately
accepted that Britain faces a "significant risk" of attack for supporting
President Bush.

The report's disclosure will reinforce doubts among a growing number of Labour
MPs about Tony Blair's leadership and his apparent unequivocal support for Mr
Bush's "war on terrorism".

Yesterday Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn confirmed that plotting for a possible
leadership challenge is being discussed, as reported in The Independent on
Sunday. Asked if there was a "stalking horse" plot afoot, Mr Corbyn said: "It is
a discussion that is going on. I am not aware of any name that has emerged yet
but discussions have taken place."

The report, drawn up in recent weeks by the Government to answer warnings about
gaps in Britain's home defence by a Commons select committee, says: "There
remains a significant short-term risk of further terrorist attacks and we are
conscious that our involvement alongside the US could raise the profile of the
UK as a potential target."

Last October, The Independent on Sunday revealed that emergency services had
been warned by ministers that thousands of people could be contaminated and
mortuaries overwhelmed by an attack.

However, ministers will argue the risk of reprisals against Britain is no excuse
for refusing to confront the "evil of terrorism". Jack Straw, the Foreign
Secretary, will warn tomorrow in a speech to the Foreign Policy Centre that
Britain must play its part with its allies to "push back the boundaries of
chaos" in Afghanistan and elsewhere.

MPs united in support of the deployment of 1,700 troops in Afghanistan but the
emergency debate exposed anxieties on all sides that Britain could get dragged
into an open-ended ground war.

The report to the Commons defence committee makes it clear the MoD and the Home
Office are preparing for the possible use of weapons of mass destruction by
terrorist cells in Britain.

It says that measures to tighten security in Britain have included additional
training "with the assistance of the MoD in chemical, biological, radiological
and nuclear (CBRN) protection and mitigation techniques. These include the
police and other emergency service personnel who would be in the front line of
any response to an attack."

The fact that the authorities accept that Britain is vulnerable to terrorist
reprisals with weapons of mass destruction, even though it still regards that
threat as "low", is bound to add weight to the calls to stop the war.

One Labour MP said: "Tony Blair should spend more time talking to Labour
supporters rather than defending right-wing psychopaths like Bush."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              112 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 3, 2002, Thursday

NO FOOLPROOF SAFETY SYSTEM';
 TERRORISM: UK BETTER PREPARED FOR CHEMICAL ATTACK BUT NO WATERTIGHT DEFENCE

BYLINE: Tomos Livingstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 645 words


THERE is no fool-proof defence against a chemical terrorist attack, a conference
of European experts in Cardiff was told yesterday.

Senior advisers and government officials were told that although the UK was
better prepared for an attack since September 11, no watertight system was
available.

Dr Pat Troop, the deputy chief medical officer at the Department of Health,
said, "You can never be fully prepared because some things will always come
unexpectedly.

"But hopefully, we have sufficient basics on which we can at least make a good
initial response and also a wide range of expertise and a back-up system."

Professor Gary Coleman, a government advisor on chemical incidents based at
Uwic, said it was not an exaggeration to say there was a threat of a chemical
attack. "There are genuine threats.

"It's a terrible thing to say but we only know when something like it happens,"
he said. However, Prof Coleman stressed the terrorist attacks on New York had
changed the way emergency services were prepared more than the threat of a war
in the Middle East.

"We're doing what we can but you have to think like a terrorist and we're not
used to things like that," he said.

"In reality it's local people who have to respond.

"We want to highlight recent advances in being prepared - our task is to make
sure people are prepared and make our response as good as we can get it."

Dr Dinko Kello, a chemical safety adviser for the World Health Organisation,
said nations had to work together to minimise the impact of a terror attack.

He told the conference in Cardiff's St David's hotel, "There is no such thing as
a fool-proof safety system. Therefore, there must be an appropriate response
system to minimise the impact of a terror attack.

"Public health is under-resourced and under-staffed in many countries and they
would be unable to take on the additional burden of responding to a terror
attack."

Dr Kello added, "Some politicians believe you can develop a fool-proof system
and you will have no problem. That is wrong." However, Dr Pat Troop said Britain
was as well prepared as any other country, although having more health service
workers would always be beneficial.

She said, "People forget that chemical incidents happen all the time and we are
used to dealing with those. "When there is a factory fire chemicals are
released. The way we respond to a major incident is not that different to the
way we would respond to a deliberate release."

The Government is setting up an agency across England and Wales to co-ordinate
preparation and response to a chemical attack.

It is due to become operational by April next year.

Dr Kello said the anthrax attacks in the US were the only incidents of a
deliberate chemical attack over the past year. But he said there had been more
than 200 other forms of terror attacks in Europe.

The WHO has set out a list of recommendations to improve the response to a
chemical terror attack. It wants countries to assess their ability to respond
and carry out simulation exercises, both nationally and internationally.
Governments have also been urged to share public health information.

Lessons learnt from foot-and-mouth

THE conference heard how the foot-and-mouth outbreak in the UK and the BSE
crisis had taught government officials vital lessons on how to deal with a
chemical attack.

Dr Troop told the conference, "We had to find a way to dispose of four million
carcasses as quickly as possible. We did a very detailed risk assessment of the
different methods of disposal in a couple of weeks.

"That taught us a lot about how to pull these sorts of people together very,
very quickly and we learnt a huge amount about cross-government communication."

European officials have looked at both cases to learn lessons on communicating
with the public.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY FOR ACTION: The chemical protection suit that was unveiled for
the conference of European experts at St David's Hotel in Cardiff Bay yesterday

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              113 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                   July 4, 2002, Thursday Edition JL0407-01A

USA thanks Ireland for support after terrorism

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 44

LENGTH: 322 words


   The American government will stage one of its biggest parties on foreign soil
tonight in gratitude for Irish support after the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Ireland stopped work nationwide in a day of mourning after the incidents and the
Americans plan to say thanks with a special July 4 Independence Day celebration
at the official residence in Dublin's Phoenix Park of the US ambassador to
Ireland, Richard Egan. About 2,500 people have been invited to the occasion in
the residence grounds, and among the American guests will be singer Neil
Diamond, who is appearing in Dublin this week.

He said: "I am happy to be here and looking forward to the great Irish
audiences, who are the best in the world. We are going to have fun. This is a
great party for America. We are thanking Ireland for its support of America,
especially since the tragedy of September 11."

Mr Egan said: "We will be celebrating America's 226th birthday, and this year it
has a special connotation.

"We have to thank Ireland for the wonderful support and expressions of sympathy
after the terrible events of September 11. The support from here was
overwhelming, with queues of people to sign books of condolence at our embassy
and the flowers were piled so high you could not see over the gates.

"It was just overwhelming, and we were taken aback in a very positive way."

Fleets of buses have been laid on to ferry guests from either the centre of
Dublin or a point close to the entrance to Phoenix Park.

An American embassy spokeswoman said one of the biggest marquees available in
Britain and Ireland had been hired for the occasion.

"It will be a very sophisticated but also entertaining evening. There will be
food, drink, music and fireworks.

"The fourth of July is always special, but this time it has extra meaning for
Americans both at home and abroad. The ambassador was so grateful for Irish
support after September 11."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              114 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            June 12, 2002, Wednesday

POLICE STEP UP FRAUD INQUIRIES AFTER SEPTEMBER 11

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 468 words


IN the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US, Wales was one of
the many countries to step up its security.

After the American attack on Afghanistan, Britain as a whole has been on alert
for possible reprisals.

In London, Scotland Yard had many extra security measures and contingency plans
in place, with dozens of armed police officers and teams using hidden video
cameras stationed at potential terrorist targets including Heathrow Airport, the
Houses of Parliament, Buckingham Palace, Scotland Yard and the US Embassy.

And thousands of extra officers were drafted on to the streets of London after
September 11.

In the nine months since the atrocities in New York and Washington, police
forces in Wales have admitted they are putting greater emphasis on investigating
fraud and money laundering.

The four Welsh forces are investigating fraud worth millions of pounds.

And, they admit that the events in the US last year have made them look far more
closely at where people's money is coming from in the cases they investigate.

Police officers were deployed at Cardiff International Airport immediately after
the terrorist attacks and passengers flying since September 11 were greeted by
security per-sonnel with guns for the first time. And, this week, the news that
Cardiff International Airport is to get pounds 1.4m to improve security has been
welcomed from many corners.

There have been fears that smaller airports such as Cardiff could be a target
for terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda.

The money is part of a wider funding package which sees South Wales, Gwent and
North Wales police forces receive a share of pounds 1.8m to combat terrorism.

The Chief Constable of Dyfed-Powys Police, Terrence Grange, also chairman of the
Association of Chief Police Officers Wales region, said that while he does not
feel the threat of terrorism to be as high in Wales as in other parts of the UK,
such as London, police forces are always aware of the potential risk.

"There is always the possibility," he said. "Yes, you should secure the airports
and planes, but you should also be looking to increase intelligence of who they
are, what they are like, who their associates are, if there are any in the
country."

Mr Grange said the ports in the Dyfed Powys area have always had extremely high
secur i t y.

"We have the Special Branch there for terrorism. They are always very thorough
and use high quality staff - they're good.

"Sir Anthony Burden (the South Wales Chief Constable) has got the issue of the
airport which needs regular staffing, adding on additional costs.

"These should be met from national funds not from local taxes."

"You should always assume there is a risk, understand the level of risk and
equip accordingly. "

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              115 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 7, 2002

PASSENGERS FACE PAYING FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS; FLIGHT PRICES ARE SET TO SOAR

BYLINE: By Victoria Fletcher Consumer Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 381 words


PASSENGERS could be forced to foot a multi-million pound bill to revamp
Britain's key airports after the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

Airlines may raise ticket prices as a way of passing on the cost for
improvements to airport shopping centres and departure lounges.

The British Airports Authority, which runs Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted, has
been hit badly by the fall-off in passenger numbers since the attacks.

Yesterday the Civil Aviation Authority recommended that extra money could be
raised by getting airlines to pay more to land and park their planes.

But this sum could be passed on to customers when it is introduced in April next
year, with some ticket prices rising by GBP 2. The plan has angered airlines. A
spokesman for British Airways said: "We believe these charges are very high and
are over-generous to the company that operates the airports. We cannot rule out
that this fee will not be passed on to customers but we may try and absorb some
of the costs ourselves."

Virgin said: "BAA will just build more shops at airports and we shall have no
choice but to pass on the airport charge increases to our passengers."

For the BAA, fewer passengers has meant that less is spent in airport shops.
Airlines have also paid less in landing fees because they are charged on the
number of passengers.

The CAA believes airlines could pay more towards the upkeep of airports. "These
costs would help to encourage airports to invest in facilities and make them a
better airport for passengers to use, " said a spokesman. As a result of the
terror attacks, he said the CAA had to revise its costs, which could "either
rise or fall before next April depending on how well passenger numbers recover".

It is thought the increase might help to fund the GBP 2.5billion phase one of
Terminal 5 at Heathrow.

Airlines using Heathrow already pay far less than carriers at major competitor
airports such as Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Charles de Gaulle in Paris.

Charges at Heathrow would rise by GBP 2 a passenger, by GBP 1 at Gatwick and by
GBP 1.70 at Stansted.

Prices at Manchester would stay the same.

With more than 100 million passengers passing through these airports, the BAA
would raise an extra GBP 180million a year.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              116 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 20, 2002

Threat of war: Moderate Muslims fear that war would isolate them further

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 362 words


Leaders of a moderate Muslim group feted by the government yesterday warned that
a war against Iraq would be "unjust" and leave British Muslims even further
isolated from the rest of society.

The Muslim Council of Great Britain warned that "indiscriminate" aggression by
the US and Britain would only help terrorists.

The stark warning came as the Islamic umbrella group published a collection of
essays on the effects of the September 11 attacks on Muslims across the globe.

The council's secretary general, Iqbal Sacranie, said that Islam had been the
focus of "irrational anger and hate".

In Britain nearly 2 million Muslims had also suffered, he said: "Tony Blair's
New Labour promise of inclusion drew the attention of British (minority)
communities, but it seems that the terror of September 11 not only brought down
the world's two largest buildings, it also hit our own high towers of equal
rights and inclusion, especially with respect to the British Muslim community."

The backlash had seen verbal and physical attacks on British Muslims and Mr
Sacranie said that war with Iraq, which almost all Muslims oppose, risked
further tearing the nation's social fabric.

Mr Sacranie also criticised statements by the home secretary, David Blunkett,
including his suggestion that English should be spoken in Asian homes.

"(The Muslim community) has been ostracised and excluded and, at the same time,
lectured about integration, as if the community was refusing to integrate," Mr
Sacranie said. "We have seen some statements that have come out, which I'm sure
are meant not to contribute to Islamophobia, but sometimes the statements can be
construed as though they are fuelling Islamophobia."

Mr Sacranie also attacked the treatment of alleged terrorists captured in
Afghanistan, and now held by the US in Cuba.

"Of course, if they have committed a crime, let's bring them to court, let
justice take its place; but detaining British citizens in parts of the world
because they happen to be Muslims is wrong."

The Quest for Sanity: Reflections on September 11 and the Aftermath, the Muslim
Council of Britain, pounds 12.75.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 12, 2002, Wednesday

BRIT 9/11;
 HIJACKED AIRLINER TO TARGET BIG BEN

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGET: Houses of Parliament under threat on 9/11


SUICIDE hijackers planned a September 11 attack on Big Ben and the Houses of
Parliament, it was claimed yesterday.

The plot to snatch a plane at Heathrow and crash it into the landmark was
aborted after flights were grounded soon after the World Trade Center horror.

The scheme was revealed by Rohan Gunaratna, author of Inside al-Qaeda, the a
comprehensive study on the terrorist organisation.

He has used testimony from the alleged Big Ben attacker, Afroz Mohammed - held
in India after fleeing Britain with accomplices.

He was having flying lessons in Bedford at the time of 9/11, it is said. Further
atrocities were planned in Australia and India.

Gunaratna also warns that the "most robust" terrorist infrastructure in Europe
has been set up in Britain - and attempts here to counter al-Qaeda have been
"gravely inadequate". The Big Ben hit would have gone ahead just after 2pm, says
Gunaratna.

He told CBS news in the US: "This team assembled at the Heathrow airport on 9/11
to conduct an airborne suicide attack on the Houses of Parliament." Arrested
Afroz is said to have admitted to the plan in an Indian security services'
document. He has since retracted his confession, claiming he was framed.

Gunaratna said Afroz attended flying schools in Britain, Australia and the US,
and received money from al- Qaeda-connected sources.

Police in Bombay said an e-mail sent by Afroz to an address in Australia
mentioned plans to attack Parliament after the hijack of a plane.

In December, three Scotland Yard detectives went to Bombay to interview Afroz.

Gunaratna, whose book is published this month, works at the Centre for Study of
Terrorism and Political Violence at St Andrews University in Scotland.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              118 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 13, 2002, Thursday

HOME GUARD TO COMBAT TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 209 words


PLANS for a 6,000-strong reaction force of armed forces reservists, to come to
the aid of the civil authorities in the event of a major terrorist attack, were
unveiled by the Government yesterday.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said the forces' volunteer reservists could play an
"important role" in meeting the challenges posed by international terrorism
following September 11.

However the Tories warned Britain was already lagging behind the United States
in strengthening its homeland defences and said it was essential that the new
force was backed by additional cash.

"The UK is miles behind the US and other countries on the issue of homeland
defence," said shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin.

"The present commitments of the armed forces already outstrip resources. Will
this simply add to overstretch?"

Defence sources insisted the UK already had well developed structures in place
following decades of Irish terrorism and did not need the sort of radical
changes taking place in the US.

While they stressed money would be found to fund the new force, officials
acknowledged they would have to wait until next month's Government spending
review to find out how much extra cash they would get from the Chancellor.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              119 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 10, 2002

Blunkett Recovers After Stomach Op

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 331 words


Home Secretary David Blunkett was recovering last night after major surgery
which will take him out of the political frontline until the new year. The Home
Secretary went under the knife because of a chronic problem involving his
oesophagus and stomach.

He is away from his desk at a crucial time and Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott will now handle the job of defending Britain from the threat of
terrorist attacks.

Mr Blunkett's junior ministers will take on the rest of his tasks, including the
asylum crisis and massive changes to the criminal justice system.

The Home Office revealed yesterday that Mr Blunkett underwent surgery on Sunday
in his native Yorkshire.

He avoided a political row by ensuring his operation was carried out in an NHS
hospital.

A spokesman said: "The Home Secretary is recovering well and is in contact with
the office, although he will use the Christmas period to convalesce fully."
Officials declined to give further details but said the 55-year-old is expected
to make a full recovery.

He is known as one of the hardest-working politicians at Westminster and puts in
exceptionally long days.

Mr Blunkett refuses to let his blindness hinder his career and his officials
tape-record briefing notes for him, which he listens to at double speed as he
jogs on his running machine each morning.

The Cabinet hardliner has been a national figure for more than 20 years since
becoming the leader of Sheffield City Council aged just 33.

He was elected Sheffield Brightside MP in 1987 and was quickly promoted to the
Opposition front bench.

After the 1997 General Election landslide he became Education Secretary and
switched to the Home Office after Labour retained power in 2001.

As a close ally of the Prime Minister, he is seen as Mr Blair's favourite in any
future leadership contest with Chancellor Gordon Brown.

Mr Blunkett's marriage broke up in 1988 after 18 years. He has three grown-up
sons.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              120 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

1998 bomb suspects still held in Britain

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston and Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 486 words

A KEY supporter of Osama bin Laden wanted by America over the bombing of the US
embassy in Kenya in 1998 is still in jail in Britain despite a House of Lords
ruling 12 months ago that he could be extradited.

As investigators hunt the al-Qa'eda cell responsible for this week's attacks in
Mombasa, Khalid al Fawwaz, a Saudi, and two associates have yet to be sent for
trial despite being arrested more than three years ago.

On Dec 17 last year, the Law Lords rejected a final appeal by lawyers acting for
Fawwaz and two Egyptians, Ibrahim Eidarous and Adel Abdel Bary.

They ruled that the trio could face trial in America on suspicion of involvement
in the explosions at the embassies in Nairobi and in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
which killed 224 people and injured thousands more.

The final decision on the extradition rests with David Blunkett, the Home
Secretary. But almost a year later, he has still to take it.

The Home Office said yesterday Fawwaz and his associates had made "substantial
representations" that had to be considered by Mr Blunkett.

"He is now making inquiries with the United States authorities and
administration and once we have received a report from our American collagues we
will make a decision as quickly as possible," said a spokesman. "Until that
time, Khalid al Fawwaz will remain in extradition custody."

There was no explanation as to why it has taken a year to consider the
representations. Even when Mr Blunkett has decided to let the extraditions
proceed, it would be open to a renewed challenge by judicial review. Akhtar
Raja, Fawwaz's solicitor, said he was awaiting the Home Secretary's decision
before considering any further legal moves.

Frustrations over the time taken to extradite suspects to friendly countries
were partly behind the new Extradition Bill, which is intended to speed matters
up.

Fawwaz, who lived with his family in Dollis Hill, north London, ran a group
called the Advice and Reformation Committee, which allegedly acted as bin
Laden's press and media office.

Eidarous and Bary, both of west London, also worked for the ARC and are
allegedly members of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist organisation which
merged with al-Qa'eda.

They are accused of conspiring to murder American citizens abroad and of giving
direct orders to the bin Laden cell in east Africa that carried out the
bombings. They deny the charges.

In 1993, Fawwaz was involved in establishing car import and shrimping businesses
in Nairobi which allegedly provided cover for the al-Qa'eda reconaissance and
logistics cell which planned the east African attacks.

Fawwaz and his associates were arrested in July 1999. Their lawyers said America
had no right to try them because their alleged crimes did not take place within
US jurisdiction.

But five law lords last December said jurisdiction could be interpreted more
widely than the territory of a foreign state.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              121 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 21, 2002

RAIDS 'FOIL PLOTS AT 11TH HOUR'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 155 words


FOUR suspects accused of planning a Christmas terror attack were caught just in
time, the French Government said yesterday.

Three men and a woman, all Algerian, had bomb-making equipment at their Paris
home when caught in a police swoop on Monday, said Interior Minister Nicolas
Sarkozy. The four, said to have trained for "holy war" and to have fought with
Islamic extremists in Chechnya, were to be charged last night.

Meanwhile, an asylum seeker claiming to be related to Osama bin Laden and
involved with suicide bombers has been deported from Britain to Morocco.

Adnan Abdelah, 22, of Fenham, Newcastle, had claimed he was a member of the
Hamas military wing and was willing to strap a bomb to himself and blow up a pub
in the city.

Kerim Chatty, 29, found with a gun in his luggage at Vasteras airport, Sweden,
as he was about to board a flight to the UK in August, was jailed for four
months yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              122 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 18, 2002

Scotland Yard team helps in inquiry

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 226 words


More than a dozen Scotland Yard officers are in or heading for Bali.

Specialists in recovering evidence from explosion scenes and identifying bodies
have been sent in and other officers are taking statements from Britons and
Australians on behalf of the Indonesian authorities.

Any DNA recovered for identification purposes will probably be sent to a single
gathering centre in Australia.

Anti-terrorist detectives said further reinforcements may be sent in to help .

Peter Clarke, Scotland Yard deputy assistant commissioner, said: "We are
assisting with identification of witnesses, scene examination, and offering our
forensic ability to the Indonesian authorities.

"We are helping with the investigation, taking statements from people out there,
and carrying out family liaison support both in Bali and the UK."

Mr Clarke issued an appeal to anyone who had returned to Britain in the
aftermath of the terrorist attack and who may have seen something vital.

He said he wanted to speak to anyone who was near the Sari nightclub on the day
of the explosion or before, as there could have been an earlier reconnaissance
trip by the terrorists.

He said he was also very keen to see video footage or photographs.

He said: "We are asking for people who may have information. They may not be
aware of its importance."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              123 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 14, 2002

Business: Britain slips down global standings

BYLINE: Jane Padgham

SECTION: Pg. 43

LENGTH: 393 words



BRITAIN has slipped from third to fourth in a global league table of business
competitiveness and could drop further unless its crumbling transport system is
overhauled.

The warning came today from the Economist Intelligence Unit, which put the
Netherlands at the top of the table, followed by Canada and the US.

Rankings are based on a wide range of criteria, including the political
environment, policy towards foreign investment and taxes. Britain's decline is
the result of a slight deterioration in its economic and employment environment.

But the think-tank singles out the transport system as the Government's biggest
challenge in maintaining Britain's reputation as an attractive place in which to
do business.

"Not only do the Government's transport plans rely on projections for
private-sector finance which look overoptimistic, but the Government seems to
have no intention of overhauling the Byzantine structures which have so far only
encouraged buck-passing and policy drift," the report says.

Nevertheless, Britain remains the second-most popular destination for foreign
direct investment, beaten only by the US. FDI inflows to Britain totalled $ 68.2
billion (£48.4 billion) last year, against a record $ 129.9 billion in 2000. The
fall reflected a slump in cross-border mergers and acquisitions because of the
global economic downturn and was mirrored across the world.

The EIU said Britain risks losing out on future FDI because of its
procrastination over joining the European single currency.

"Continued uncertainty over the UK's future membership of economic and monetary
union could have an adverse impact on FDI at the margin," it said.

The country could also lose out because of lack of investment in manufacturing
industry, finding it difficult to persuade overseas firms to keep research and
development operations in Britain.

Global FDI last year was $ 780 billion, a 40% decrease on the $ 1.3 trillion in
2000 - the first fall since 1991 and the sharpest for three decades.

But the EIU described the slump as a "temporary setback" and said the outlook
had been unaffected by last year's terror attacks in the US.

It predicts FDI will be stable at around $ 780 million this year before
accelerating to around $ 900 million in 2003. By 2006, it should be back at
record levels.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE PLACES TO BE: THE DUTCH CAPITAL AMSTERDAM, LEFT, AND TORONTO IN
CANADA, RIGHT ARE AMONG THE MOST COMPETITIVE CITIES IN WHICH TO DO BUSINESS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              124 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                February 4, 2002

We want to see more of our families

BYLINE: Robert Buckland

SECTION: Business :Others :General, Pg.39

LENGTH: 395 words


MORE than fourfifths of small business owners and managers in the West say they
plan to devote more time to family life this year, according to a new survey.

The growing importance of the work-life balance is in line with Government
thinking and the realisation that Britain's unenviable record for the longest
working hours in Europe are counterproductive to health and family life.

The latest research, carried out by Bristol-based Bibby Factors, shows how the
issue is growing in importance. Even among small business owners, who tend to
work far longer hours than other managers, there is a move to put family life
first.

The 81 per cent who vowed to spend more time with their family is an increase of
ten per cent on the response to the same question when it was asked last
January.

Underlining the pledge to focus more on family life, some 65 per cent of small
business owners in the region said they would work shorter hours this year.

The survey, conducted among businesses turning over between 50,000 and 1million,
gave owners and managers a chance to take stock of one of the most turbulent
years for a generation.

Small firms were hit by a slowing economy, the high value of the pound against
the euro, the impact of footand-mouth and the aftermath of the September 11
terror attacks.

Bibby Factors sales director James Hester said:

"Significantly more small business people are citing family life as a top
priority for the year ahead. There is a greater need for owners and managers to
ensure that quality time is made for the family and there appears to be a real
determination to work shorter hours in the coming year.

"It could be that the horrifying events of September 11 have been a factor in
giving people a renewed determination to change the way they view their work
-life priorities."

On business matters, 60 per cent of small business owners and managers said they
intended to improve their cash flow management this year - reinforcing the
central role that finance plays in business success and also pointing to a need
for strict controls to weather any decline in the economy.

But the survey results were not all doom and gloom.

Some 53 per cent of small business owners and managers said they would like to
invest in new plant and machinery in the next 12 months - suggesting a cautious
optimism.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              125 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            January 27, 2002, Sunday

I'M INNOCENT, SAYS MULLAH'S SON

BYLINE: Fiona May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 145 words

HIGHLIGHT: FREEDOM: Mohammed; RADICAL: Hamza


THE son of controversial Muslim cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Masri arrived back in
Britain yesterday after three years in jail for plotting a bombing campaign.

Mohammed Mustafa Kamel - convicted of plotting a sabotage campaign in the Arab
country in August 1999, when just 17 - flew in from the Yemen vowing to clear
his name.

But one-eyed hardline fundamentalist Hamza, head of London's Finsbury Park
mosque, was not there to meet him.

Hamza's mosque is widely believed to be a recruiting centre for the Al-Qaida
terror network and was under surveillance by MI5 and Special Branch before the
September 11 atrocities.

Many terror suspects have been linked with it, including alleged British shoe
bomber Richard Reid and Zacharias Moussaoui, claimed to be the 20th hijacker on
September 11. Hamza has been accused of "brainwashing" young Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              126 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 29, 2002, Sunday

LOCKERBIE FAMILIES TOLD LIBYA WILL CONFESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 318 words


THE families of the American victims of the Lockerbie bombing have been told
Libya is on the verge of an astonishing admission of guilt.

Lawyers wrote to them last week, just days after the Sunday Mail revealed the
Libyans' dramatic u-turn.

The letter confirms a meeting between Britain, America and Libya will take place
next month after "significant developments".

The confidential letter - written by a top law firm representing the American
victims' families - claims Colonel Gaddafi's regime will admit responsibility
for the atrocity.

But, as we revealed last week, the Libyan leader will insist he had no
involvement in the 1988 attack on Pan Am Flight 103 which left 270 dead.

Instead, the blame will be pinned on a few low-ranking officials and Abdelbaset
Al- Megrahi, who is now serving life in a Scots jail for the terror attack.

New York law firm Kreindler and Kreindler, who also act for victims of September
11 disaster, wrote: "We have been informed there may be significant developments
under way regarding the trilateral negotiations on Libya's acceptance of
responsibility.

"At the request of the Libyan delegation, we now expect to be in Paris from
October 8 through to October 11."

America and Britain are keen to forge a new relationship with Libya as they
gather support from Arab states for their war on terrorism.

A source close to the negotiations said: "This is the first clear indication
that the admission of responsibility will come very soon.

"Clearly, discussions are now at the crucial stage and it is a matter of how any
statement will be worded."

The move will also pave the way for Libya's compensation deal, where they will
pay pounds 2.5million to every family who lost a loved one.

Last month, we revealed the Libyan government had bought a pounds 500,000 home
in a Glasgow suburb for Megrahi's wife Aisha and their children.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              127 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: INTO A CAULDRON;
 BLAIR FACES TOUGH TASK AS INDIA TENSION RISES

BYLINE: James Hardy, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 517 words

HIGHLIGHT: PEACE MISSION: Tony Blair; INJURED: Indian troops help a victim of
yesterday's attack in Kashmir


A NEW terror attack in Kashmir by Islamic extremists yesterday plunged Tony
Blair's imminent peace mission into crisis.

Militant separatists hurled two grenades at the state parliament in Srinagar,
killing a police officer and wounding 23 bystanders.

The attack, in the Indian-controlled part of the disputed border region,
heightened tension between India and Pakistan - both nuclear powers.

And it came as India said it would use its full military might to defend itself
if required.

Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee said: "Whatever weapon is available, we will
use it.

"If, because of that weapon the attacker is defeated...if he is killed, we
should not be held responsible."

The day of escalating tension left Mr Blair, due to visit both countries in the
next few days, facing an uphill task in the search for a breakthrough.

The latest terrorist atrocity comes two weeks after Kashmiri separatists made a
suicide assault on the Indian national parliament in Delhi. Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw said Britain would not take sides in the long-running dispute over
Kashmir.

But he bluntly warned Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf that a new crackdown
on Kashmiri terror groups did not go far enough.

He said: "We welcome the action that President Musharraf has taken, with arrests
which have been recognised by the Indian foreign minister.

"But there has to be further action by Pakistan.

"It is not acceptable in the new climate against terrorism that there should be
groups in either of these countries - and they happen to be in Pakistan - who
seek to pursue their political objectives by violent means."

In the wake of yesterday's blasts, Mr Straw played down hopes of a breakthrough
during the PM's visit.

He said: "It is extremely important... that expectations about the potential of
the Prime Minister's visit to defuse tension should not be raised.

"There is no Blair peace plan whatever that the Prime Minister could or should
take out of his pocket."

India blames Kashmiri separatists based in Pakistan for the suicide raid on its
Delhi parliament which left 14 dead. And it claims the same group - the Lashkar
-e-Taiba - yesterday threatened to blow up the Taj Mahal.

An Indian official said the threat to its monument to love in the northern city
of Agra was sent by email.

"They have threatened to blow up the Taj Mahal, some other monuments and
government buildings," he added.

Yesterday's attack on the Srinagar legislature appeared aimed at a police post
and a nearby border guard patrol.

It echoes an assault on the heavily-guarded parliament in early October which
killed 40 people, again thought to be the work of Kashmiri separatists.

India and Pakistan were already massing forces on their 1,100-mile joint border
before yesterday.

Indian defence minister George Fernandes said troop build-ups along the border
were complete but were "not in battle positions".

Asked how seriously India was considering military action if diplomacy failed,
Fernandes said: "That will be the ultimate option."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              128 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                           September 1, 2002, Sunday

BRIT TEAM PIPS NEW YORK FIREFIGHTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


FIREFIGHTERS from New York yesterday took part in a gruelling fitness contest in
Britain and attended a poignant memorial service for victims of the September 11
terrorist attacks.

London's Fittest Firefighter Challenge was held in Covent Garden, central
London, with a tough assault course set up in the West Piazza to test the
competitors to the limit.

A memorial service, attended by two New York Fire Department firefighters, was
also held in St Paul's Church in Covent Garden to honour the lost fire crews and
other victims killed at the World Trade Centre last year. Among the physical
tests the firemen and women faced were sit-ups, quick changes into fire gear and
a climb up the side of the Dr Martens's shoe store to put on breathing apparatus
and rescue a "victim".

This year's winner was 26-yearold Stuart Crispin, from Bromley Fire Station, who
completed the tough course in nine minutes 16 seconds.

"It has been great. The crowd was really good and there were even more people
here than last year.

"I knew there would be tough competition. I came second last year and felt I
should have won and now I have," Mr Crispin said. After the London firefighters'
heats there was an overseas competition in which contestants from New York and
Germany tried to beat the winning London time.

But the fastest international time on the course was 10 minutes 42 seconds.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              129 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 19, 2002, Saturday

Women al-Qaeda suspects seized in new raids

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 752 words


Two women were among those arrested yesterday in the drive against al-Qaeda's
secret money-making operation in Britain which funded Osama bin Laden's
terrorist attacks.

Detectives were last night questioning 17 people in Leicester, where it is
believed al-Qaeda agents produced hundreds of fake credit cards and passports
for use by the network.The counterfeiting factories are understood to have been
run from family homes in the city, which has been used as a base by some of bin
Laden's key lieutenants since 1998.

The production of false passports and credit cards was crucial to bin Laden's
worldwide schemes and police still have no idea of the full scale of the
deception.

The two women, thought to be in their late twenties, were rounded up in
early-morning raids yesterday along with two men. All are believed to be of
Algerian origin.

They are believed to be the first female suspects arrested in Britain since the
investigation began after the September 11 attacks in America. Al-Qaeda was
thought to be a deeply chauvinist operation whose members did not trust women
with any important assignments.

Leicester police say nine people are being held under anti-terrorism laws while
the other eight are being questioned about alleged immigration offences.

A man of 27, who was arrested in northwest London, was driven to Leicester
yesterday where anti-terrorist detectives are questioning the suspects at
various police stations.

Last night three of the suspects seized in the past two days of raids were
transferred to immigration custody. Two men -Baghdad Meziane, 37, and Brahim
Benmerzouga, 31, -had been held by immigration officials since their arrest in
September in Leicester until they were charged on Thursday with plotting
terrorist attacks in Europe. The potential targets are known to include the US
Embassy in Paris.

It emerged last night that some of the al-Qaeda suspects in Britain arrived here
straight after being freed from jail in France where they were held over terror
offences. Among them was Djamal Beghal, who French security chiefs claim was bin
Laden's main recruiting officer in Europe.

Mr Beghal, 37, was jailed for three months for his links with an Algerian
terrorist and when he was released from jail in Paris he moved with his wife,
Sylvie, to Leicester. Police in several European countries have questioned why
Britain did not appear to keep these new arrivals under surveillance.

Former neighbours of Mr Beghal in Leicester remember the tall, handsome
businessman at local mosques distributing video cassettes condemning the war in
Chechnya in 1994. He raised money for Muslim fighters in Chechnya and was close
to radical clerics, including Abu Qatada, who held meetings in a youth club near
London's Baker Street. Mr Beghal claimed his business was buying designer
clothes in Germany to be sold in Leicester and London but Paris investigators
think he was funded by al-Qaeda.

Among the host of al-Qaeda suspects who gravitated to Leicester were two French
brothers, David and Jerome Courtailler.

David Courtailler has told French investiagtors how he was given Pounds 2,000 by
Mr Beghal, a plane ticket to Pakistan and a contact number of an al-Qaeda agent
who would take him to a training camp in Afghanistan.

Jerome Courtailler puzzled his neighbours in Leicester when the white,
middle-class Frenchman started wearing Arab robes, grew a beard and adopted the
name Abu Ayed. He is being held by Dutch police who are investigating his links
with Bromley-born Richard Reid -the alleged "shoe bomber" who lived in The
Netherlands. Mr Reid, 28, who appeared in an American court yesteterday, is also
said to have been recruited by Mr Beghal.

Muslim leaders in Leicester were shocked yesterday at the revelation that their
city is now regarded across Europe as a hub for bin Laden's network. Attention
concentrated on a terraced house, known as the Taqwa mosque. A mosque spokesman,
Idrif Waraich, said that the police round-up in nearby streets "is of great
concern to everybody around here".

"It is only a small place and people are very worried about what has happened.
It is quite shocking news for us all in such a small community."

He dismissed the suggestion that small mosques like the Taqwa were being used to
recruit supporters of the al-Qaeda terror network.

"That is absolute rubbish," he said. "It's just scaremongering. We condemn any
act of terrorism. Islam does not support terrorism."


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 31, 2002

Al-Qaeda alert for New Year's Eve revellers

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.15

LENGTH: 346 words


NEW Year's Eve revellers are being urged to stay "alert but not alarmed" across
the West tonight amid fears of terrorist attacks on Britain.

Security has been stepped up at the region's ports and airports amid fears of a
strike by Osama bin Laden's terror network.

While it is understood no specific threats have been made, the Government is
anxious to heighten safety precautions throughout the UK. Yesterday, Dorset
police confirmed security had been stepped up at local airports and ports.

The extra patrols were among a number of arrangements to ensure public safety
over the New Year, Chief Inspector John Wort said.

He urged the public to make life more difficult for terrorists by remaining
"alert but not alarmed", adding: "Nationally, the threat of international
terrorism continues to be high and the threat from Irish Republican dissident
groups operating on the UK mainland has not gone away.

"Contingencies are now in place to deal with terrorist-type incidents should
they occur."

The force has worked closely with the security services since the September 11
attacks and senior officers review security across the county regularly, Ch Insp
Wort said.

"There is no room for complacency," he added.

Jackie Broadbridge, a spokesman for Wiltshire police, said "extra vigilance" was
the key to ensuring public safety across the county.

Gloucestershire Constabulary spokesman Suzanne Lightfoot said: "We would
certainly repeat all those messages that we issue at any time of the year. The
public should always be vigilant and report anything suspicious to us."

Simon Reeve, author and terrorism expert, said he believed al-Qaeda intended to
kill as many people as possible and New Year's Eve would prove a "lucrative
potential target" for the organisation.

In London, the Metropolitan Police have urged party-goers to see in the New Year
close to home and avoid central London completely.

Trafalgar Square will be closed tonight and entrance to many Central London
clubs, pubs and restaurants is strictly by ticket only.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              131 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                               November 29, 2002

Britain Putting Itself In Danger

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 304 words


These people are united in their faith to a degree we, in the western world,
find difficult to understand. This unity can at times transcend the wider global
picture.  They forget no wrong and their desire for retribution is passed from
father to son.

We have already seen the surge in terrorist activities worldwide, partly in
response to the bombing of Afghanistan.

Since it was a British plane that dropped the first bombs, does Tony Blair think
that we in Britain can escape the repercussions of an alliance with the United
States? In the eyes of the Muslin world Britain appears to be so closely linked
with the American policy on Iraq that we as a nation are under enormous threat
of becoming a more easily accessible target for Muslin retaliation.

It has been stated that American people can no longer assume personal safety if
they travel abroad. How much more so would this restriction affect the British
public if a war is declared on Iraq with Britain's backing?  Our country accrues
many million of pounds from foreign tourists, an income greatly at risk if
Britain became a target for extreme Muslim 'justice'.

Much attention has been given to the fact that nearly 80 per cent of crime in
this country is related to the abuse of drugs, namely heroin and by-products of
this opiate. Afghanistan produced 2,700 tonnes of heroin this year-a record
crop, since all control of its production by the Taliban was eliminated, and not
replaced by other means of monitoring.

MENDAK have predicted a death toll of four million people should a war with Iraq
be instigated. President Bush, by reneging on the Kyoto agreement, has already
shown he has little real regard for the environment and the future of mankind.
Mr Blair should not go down in history as his accomplice TOM FARMER Totnes
Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              132 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                January 9, 2002

High Street boom may force rates up

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 252 words


BOOMING trade in Britain's High Streets and shopping malls was expected to
persuade the Bank of England to hold interest rates steady or even raise them as
it met today.

The Bank's Monetary Policy Committee is making its monthly assessment of the
base rate against a backdrop of a credit card-fuelled Christmas spending spree
in the shops, record car sales and rising house prices.

Fear of stoking a consumer spending splurge is expected to rule out any further
cut in the cost of borrowing, which was slashed from six per cent to a 37-year
low of four per cent last year.

Some economists predict that the Committee will try to control consumer spending
by raising the base rate, if not this week then over the next few months.

Last year's interest cuts were designed, in part, to fend off an expected
collapse in consumer confidence in the wake of the September 11 terrorist
attacks in the US.

Debt

But British shoppers have gone on spending, and concern is now focused on
growing levels of personal debt, which increased by a record (GBP)7bn in
November and was expected to have risen yet further in December. The Bank's
decision will be announced at noon tomorrow.

Martin Temple, director general of the Engineering Employers' Federation, has
warned that increasing rates too early could stifle any recovery in Britain's
hard-pressed manufacturing sector.

He called on the Committee to keep interest rates on hold this week to allow
"breathing space" for the recovery to begin.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              133 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 2002

False passport trio held after airliner revolt

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett in Madrid and Nicholas Pyke

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395 words


Three men were last night questioned by immigration officials after flying into
Britain on false passports - hours after passengers on an earlier flight from
Spain had refused to travel with them because they feared they were terrorists.

The trio, said by the Home Office to be Indian citizens, were arrested at Luton
airport on flying from Barcelona, and immediately claimed political asylum.

A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed that three people had been detained and
interviewed. A fourth man in the group, a British citizen, was released.

"They have claimed asylum and we are bound to deal with their claim," said the
spokeswoman. The three spent last night at the "fast track" Oakington reception
centre in Cambridgeshire.

A decision on their cases is expected in 10 days.

The group, travelling with only cabin baggage, first came to notice when
suspicious fellow passengers in Gerona, in eastern Spain, forced them off a
flight to the UK.

Twenty-four passengers on the My Travel MYT650 charter flight told the captain
they refused to travel with the men because they felt they had been behaving
suspiciously, according to a spokeswoman for the Manchester-based airline. The
captain then barred the four men, whose family names were given as Bhatti, Mahi,
Thind, and Badihan. They were discovered by El Pais newspaper's Gerona
correspondent, sitting despondently in the airport cafe and complaining of
"intolerable racism".

A spokeswoman for MyTravel company, which organised the original flight, said
the decision to refuse to let them board was because a "significant" number of
passengers had raised concerns at their behaviour. She would not reveal what
that was. The incident came the day after the first anniversary of the September
11 terrorist attacks on America.

In a statement the airline said: "The security and safety of all our customers
is our paramount concern. Any customers acting in an unusual fashion are likely
to be subject to increased security and monitoring. The captain decided that in
order for the flight to depart without delay or incident, he would make
alternative travel arrangements for the group of four."

After the passengers' revolt, the four were put in a taxi to Barcelona and flown
home by EasyJet, arriving 10 hours late at Luton, where they were detained for
carrying false passports.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 6, 2002, Monday

THREE-LINE WHIP FOR BRITISH JEWS OVER LONDON RALLY

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo And Jason Bennetto Jonathan Sacks, the Chief Rabbi, has
compared Israeli action to the; US 'war on terror' Steven Hird/Reuters; Benjamin
Netanyahu: To represent hawkish views

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 550 words


THE MESSAGE to Britain's 300,000 Jews could not have been clearer. Written in
inch-high letters and spread across a newspaper page, it read: "If you stand for
Israel and peace, stand with us on Monday."

If the predictions of the organisers of the Israel Solidarity Rally are correct,
up to 40,000 people will answer the call this lunchtime in Trafalgar Square,
London.

The gathering, which will take place amid a security operation to counter a
possible terrorist attack, is being billed as the biggest demonstration by the
Jewish community for a generation.

Scotland Yard, which will have 1,000 officers on duty, said it was concerned a
turn-out above 20,000 would overflow the square and create extra security
concerns. But such a number might not be surprising after organisers presented
the rally not so much as a bank holiday outing but a duty, with the existence of
Israel at stake.

The advert carrying the slogan "Israel is under threat" appeared in the London
Evening Standard on Friday. It read: "We stand with the people of Israel as they
face the daily reality of deadly terror attacks. We support them without
question, but equally we support Israel's determined quest for peace."

The demonstration follows a pro-Palestinian rally in London last month that
attracted an estimated 15,000 people, far more than organisers or police had
expected.

The march will see a nationwide marshalling of synagogues and community groups
at a time of unease for many Jews because of an increase in anti- Semitic
attacks. Last week, a London synagogue was vandalised and a Swastika daubed on a
lectern. Up to 350 coaches will bring demonstrators from across Britain.

Orthodox Jews are expected to have a sizeable presence after Dayan Ehrentreu,
the head of the London Beth Din, said it was "incumbent on all who are able" to
attend the demonstration. The rally follows comments earlier this month by
Professor Jonathan Sacks, the Chief Rabbi, defending Israel's military action as
equivalent to the American-led campaign in Afghanistan.

Organisers said the rally was not aimed at expressing support for the government
of Ariel Sharon or the incursions into the occupied territories. A spokesman
said: "This is purely in support of Israel. It is not a discussion on the rights
and wrongs of current policies, or the rights and wrongs of Sharon. It is purely
for people - Jews and non-Jews - to say there should be peace for the people of
Israel."

In an attempt to ensure both bodies of Israeli opinion are heard, speakers at
the rally will include the hawkish former Israeli prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and the former foreign minister Shlomo Ben-Ami, a member of Ehud
Barak's doveish government. A separate peace vigil by Jewish groups opposed to
the rally is expected to be held at the adjoining St Martin- in-the-Fields
church.

The Yard said it was not aware of any specific threat. A police source added:
"There will be spotters in the crowd looking for anyone suspicious, but, as you
can see in Israel, it is extremely hard to prevent someone who is determined to
blow themselves up."

The Community Security Trust, which employs between 1,000 and 2,000 security
staff to defend the Jewish community, said it would supply 400 people to help
the police.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              135 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

Fiddling while Kenya burns

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 421 words

The latest suspected al-Qa'eda attacks on Israeli tourists near Mombasa in Kenya
have been a sinister reminder of the terrorist assault four years ago on the
American embassies in the Kenyan and Tanzanian capitals, in which 12 Americans
and 212 Africans were killed. In July 1999, Khalid al Fawwaz, allegedly one of
Osama bin Laden's most senior Saudi lieutenants, and two Egyptian associates,
Ibrahim Eidarous and Adel Abdel Bary, were arrested here in connection with the
east African explosions. The Americans requested extradition. Their lawyers
objected, arguing that the crimes did not take place within US jurisdiction. A
year ago, the Law Lords ruled that extradition to the United States could go
ahead. Yet the Home Secretary still procrastinates. Why is he taking so long?

There is a legal doctrine, established since a ruling of the European Court of
Human Rights in 1989, that an extradition to a country, such as America, where
the death penalty might apply should be approved only on condition that
assurances are given that such a penalty would not be imposed. This doctrine has
never been properly tested and is certainly highly questionable. The only
relevant criterion for extradition should be whether the accused would be
subject to the rule of law. Whether or not one approves of the death penalty,
America undoubtedly practises the rule of law. In the Fawwaz case, the Law Lords
appear to have been satisfied on this score. They approved the extradition,
though Lord Scott observed that this was on the assumption that the accused
would not be tried before a military tribunal. Is this Mr Blunkett's reason for
delay? If so, it seems a feeble one.

The fact that Fawwaz and his associates have not been extradited sends out a
signal that Britain is not serious about defeating Islamist terrorism. As the
alleged head of al-Qa'eda's press office in Britain, Fawwaz is suspected of
close involvement with bin Laden and the east African cell that carried out the
bombings. The failure to bring him to justice possibly places British citizens
at greater risk of terrorist attack. It also arouses doubts in Washington about
Britain's commitment, thereby jeopardising Western solidarity. If Britain were
to come under sustained attack from al-Qa'eda, the Government would certainly
turn to the US. Yet if Mr Blunkett dithers about handing over men accused of
heinous crimes against US citizens, why should the Americans go out of their way
to help us?
[PS]Features: [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              136 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 8, 2002

Raising Cash In Heroes' Memory

SECTION: News; People; Charities; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 217 words


A singer has recorded a CD to raise money in memory of New York firefighters
killed in the terror attack of September 11.  Stephen Smith from Quorn has so
far raised GBP 1,800 from sales and another GBP 1,000 from a live performance of
the songs.

The concert, held at Spinney Hills Working Men's Club in Leicester, featured
himself and other acts on the CD.

He aims to raise GBP 5,000 in total from the CD which is being sold at working
men's clubs throughout the city.

Japanese music Japanese drumming will be shaking the foundations of the Sir
Robert Martin Theatre in Loughborough this week.

Touring company Mugenkyo is giving a concert on Thursday which showcases the
ancient Japanese music Taiko.

The group performs more than 100 concerts a year throughout Britain and Europe,
and have appeared at the Brit Awards.

Mugenkyo can be seen at the Sir Robert Martin Theatre, Loughborough University
on October 10 at 7.30pm. Tickets are available on 01509 222899.

Skills session A computer skills session for parents, grandparents, carers and
their children is planned for Leicester this weekend.

The drop-in session on Saturday, October 12, starts at 1pm at the WEA IT Annexe,
The Martyrs Hall, in Shaftesbury Road.

To book your free place call 0116 255 6614.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2002 Leicester Mercury

                              137 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 31, 2002

CIVIL DEFENCE FUNDS SLASHED DESPITE BOMB ATTACK FEARS; SEVEN MONTHS AFTER THIS
HAPPENED, WE STILL AREN'T READY IF THE TERRORISTS STRIKE HERE

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 613 words


GRAVE doubt has been cast on Britain's ability to cope with a large-scale
terrorist atrocity after it emerged that Labour has frozen emergency planning
funds.

Councils across the country have had their civil defence budgets slashed by 10
per cent, despite fears that Osama Bin Laden will launch a new wave of suicide
bomb attacks in the UK.

Nearly seven months after the kamikaze raids on New York and Washington, the
Government still does not have a comprehensive plan for dealing with a terror
assault.

Defence sources last night accused senior ministers of "potentially lethal
foot-dragging" and said Tony Blair is devoting more time to foreign diplomacy
than defence of the homeland.

News that just GBP 18.8 million has been budgeted for 2002/3 for emergency
planning was slipped out by John Prescott's Cabinet Office department on the day
MPs left for their Easter break - a time-honoured parliamentary trick to avoid
adverse publicity.

The failure to increase the budget comes just weeks after the Sunday Express
exposed how Al Qaeda cells remain active and only good intelligence has
prevented Bin Laden's henchmen from inflicting massive loss of life in assaults
at home and abroad.

Britain's leading anti-terrorist policeman has also warned that security chiefs
fear suicide bombers on home soil.

But a Cabinet Office spokesman admitted "we're basically talking about a freeze"
and revealed that it will be at least another six months before the Government
arrives at firm conclusions about what needs to be done.

Liberal Democrat Cabinet Office spokesman Mark Oaten said: "Six months after
September 11 one would have hoped that the lesson would have been learnt.

"The need to strengthen civil defence is obvious and I'm surprised that the
Government's response is so timid."

A defence source said: "There doesn't seem to be any great urgency at all. Mr
Blair is happy to go gadding off to save the world, but he doesn't seem very
interested in precautions on the home front. Someone needs to get a grip."

A review of emergency measures, set up last year when Labour created the Civil
Contingencies Secretariat, has been repeatedly delayed by the fallout from
September 11. It will not now report back until near the anniversary of the
atrocities.

The civil defence grants are provided by the Cabinet Office to allow councils to
set up emergency control headquarters to co-ordinate rescue operations and
emergency healthcare in the event of an attack or other disaster.

Yet key urban centres such as Bristol, which suffered the biggest budget drop in
England, have fallen victim to a new formula for calculating the funding.

Bristol City Council's civil defence budget has been cut from GBP 109,000 in the
current financial year to just GBP 98,100 in 2002/3. The reduction is even
bigger once inflation - currently 2.1 per cent - is taken into account.

The Cabinet Office spokesman said: "We 're not denying that it is a significant
cut for some councils, but the actual sums of money are quite small.

He denied that nothing has been done since September, but admitted that some
councils are woefully under-prepared for the worst. "We want to put an end to
the situation where one county council has excellent plans and another does not,
" he said.

"Things have already started to change and new proposals have been put in place.
We have sent out instructions to councils who have asked us about preparations
for chemical or biological attack.

"The work will carry on, but there's no formal timescale.

There are elements of the review that are complete and others that will take
more time to resolve."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              138 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 14, 2002

Leading Article: Doubters on the Right

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 373 words


THE PRIME MINISTER has deservedly won plaudits, within Britain and around the
world, for his surefooted response to the terrible events of 11 September and
his efforts since then to combat international terrorism.

Now, however, the inevitability of an American attack against Iraq - made clear
again yesterday by President Bush - poses fresh, and potentially more acute,
difficulties for Mr Blair. Six months ago, virtually the whole of domestic
opinion supported action against al Qaeda and the Taliban. Opinion today is far
more divided over Iraq.

Many Labour MPs who were enthusiastic about British troops entering Kabul are
more doubtful about supporting American action against Saddam Hussein.

The Conservatives remain officially supportive, but the party is far from
unanimous. Witness yesterday's comments by Sir John Nott, defence secretary at
the time of the Falklands war: "I am against the Americans smashing things up
with bombing raids, then letting us be the auxiliary policemen to pick up the
pieces." Doubts have also been expressed publicly by another former Tory Cabinet
minister, Mr Douglas Hogg, and in private many Conservatives oppose Britain
giving the US a blank cheque to take whatever military action it likes against
Baghdad.

Opinion polls, which showed overwhelming support for fighting the Taliban, now
find that the public is evenly divided on whether to send British troops to
Iraq. There is, moreover, the tricky question of legitimacy. The short war that
overthrew the Taliban was clearly sanctioned by the UN, which called on member
states to take action "to prevent and suppress terrorist attacks". Had firm
evidence been found to link Baghdad to al Qaeda, the same resolution could be
justified to attack Saddam.

However, despite Washington's best efforts, no such evidence has been found.
That does not mean the Iraqi regime is innocent of all wrongdoing. It is evil,
murderous and in violation of many UN resolutions. Saddam's overthrow would be a
great blessing - provided a more enlightened government took its place. But the
Prime Minister must be sure he has public support before he even thinks about
committing Britain any further to America's dubious Iraqi venture.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              139 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 28, 2002, Monday

RUGBY LEAGUE: MORLEY'S HAUNTING BALI ESCAPE

BYLINE: Ian Laybourn

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 432 words


GREAT BRITAIN forward Adrian Morley would have been in Bali at the time of the
October 12 bomb blast had he not lost out in a players' vote for the club's end
-of-season trip.

The Indonesian holiday resort has long been a popular destination for annual
Australian rugby league club jaunts and Morley had fond memories of Sydney City
Roosters' trip there two years ago.

"I was one of those saying let's go to Bali this year because we had such a
great time last time," said Morley. "It's such a good place.

"We would have been there at the same time as the blast. I don't want to think
about it really."

Six juniors from a Sydney junior team died in the October 12 tragedy and former
Roosters and Australian Test forward Craig Salvatori lost his wife in the
terrorist attack.

Salford-born Morley, 25, added: "A lot of the Roosters knew a lot of the blokes
whodied so it's a pretty bad time at the moment." Fortunately, the Roosters went
to Townsville in northern Queensland to celebrate the club's Grand Final victory
over New Zealand Warriors and Morley is now back in England preparing to take on
the Kiwis in next month's Don't Drink Drive' Test series.

The former Leeds Rhinos second rower was one of the first names on the squad
list unveiled over the weekend by Great Britain coach David Waite and, after
being plagued by injuries over the last two seasons, his return to the Test
scene is a timely boost.

He missed last year's Ashes series with a broken arm and the disastrous one-off
in Sydney in July with a back injury and so naturally is looking forward to his
first appearance for Great Britain since the Tri-Nations Series in Brisbane and
Auckland in 1999.

"It's been a while," he said. "I love playing for Great Britain and, after the
disappointment of missing out on the Ashes series and the one-off Test, I can't
wait."

Waite described Morley's return as "vitally important" as Britain seek their
first win over the Kiwis for nine years.

"The fact that he's spent week in week out playing in the NRL and is now a
member of the unique band of players who have won Grand Finals over there means
he becomes a real vital ingredient in the mix for us," said the coach.

"Coincidentally, the Grand Final success happened to be against 11 of the blokes
he's going to be playing against in the Test series.

"The Roosters have been threatening to get the prize for a number of years but I
don't think there is anyone who watched the games at the end of the season in
Australia who didn't think Adrian added something special to the side."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCK: Adrian Morley

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              140 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                December 8, 2002

Shake-up on way for crisis powers

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 539 words


A wholesale shake-up of the Cold War-era emergency planning system is being
mapped out to help Britain to cope with the threats of global terrorism, it
emerged yesterday.

A Bill will be put before Parliament early in the New Year to create a system
capable of dealing with catastrophic incidents on the scale of the suicide plane
attacks on New York and Washington on September 11 last year.

In recent months the Government has been consulting local authorities which have
responsibility for emergency planning across the country.

Its plans demonstrate starkly how sure the Government is that Britain is a
potential target for supporters of Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network.

Existing plans for major emergencies are based on legislation dating from 1948
and 1986, during the Cold War period, and are now considered to be outdated.

Local government Minister Nick Raynsford said: We want people to know we are
ready for any eventuality without alarming the public.

Preparations for the new Bill have been led by the Civil Contingencies
Secretariat in the Cabinet Office, set up by Prime Minister Tony Blair shortly
before September 11 to help to deal with unexpected emergencies. It is expected
to be introduced to Parliament within the first two or three months of next
year.

A Cabinet Office spokesman said: It will be a fairly substantial piece of
legislation, coming out next year and going through Parliament as soon as time
permits.

Events on September 11 and afterwards have shown the need to plan for these
sorts of catastrophic incidents..

The spokesman said it was too early to confirm speculation that every household
in the country would be provided with a leaflet advising people how to survive
biological, nuclear or chemical attacks.

Press reports suggested that Britons would be advised to go in, stay in and tune
in to their radios in case of attack.

New emergency powers will enable the Government to create community assistance
zones to help to move people faster in the event of an emergency, it was
reported.

The Cabinet Office spokesman was unable to confirm claims by the Independent on
Sunday that officials within the Civil Contingencies Secretariat were
pessimistic about Britain's capacity to cope with a major attack under present
conditions.

The newspaper quoted an internal document as saying that, since the end of the
Cold War, civil defence effectively no longer exists in the UK as a stand-alone
practical activity.

One document warned that while Britain could respond effectively to
smaller-scale emergencies, the capacity to deal with bigger ones was urgently
required, said the paper.

It added that officials had warned of catastrophic incidents simultaneously
occurring in diverse locations, arising from terrorist attack which could
threaten the viability of the nation as a whole.

Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes said: The threats and
inadequacies of current planning have been apparent since the events of 9/11. To
have a Queen's Speech setting out the legislative programme only a month ago
with nothing about emergency planning, and then to announce legislation five
weeks later shows a Government in confusion.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              141 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          February 6, 2002, Wednesday

DEADLY DISEASE;
 ANALYSIS: SURVIVORS OF THE 1962 SOUTH WALES SMALLPOX OUTBREAK HAVE HELPED TO
PAINT A TERRIFYING PORTRAIT OF HOW THE UK WOULD COPE WITH A BIO-TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: By Sasha Mansworth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 886 words


IN Maerdy in the Rhondda, people crossed the road when they saw Marion and
Malcolm Jones approaching.

As survivors of the last recorded smallpox outbreak in 1962, the couple were
warned what to expect of society before they left the isolation wards of Penrhys
Hospital.

But despite their deep facial scars and lack of hair, not everyone treated the
21-year-olds as lepers.

"Some people were marvellous, but some were frightened, " explains Marion, now a
62-year-old grandmother living in Edmondston. "If you saw us you would have been
afraid. We had no hair and we had a face full of scars."

The BBC docu-drama Smallpox 2002 - Silent Weapon, screened last night, drew on
the experiences of survivors of the deadly virus and their doctors in South
Wales.

Film-makers also recruited the cooperation of the world's leading experts in
bio-terrorism, smallpox epidemiology and emergency planning. With their
consultation and six months of research, they put together a detailed prediction
of how the authorities would respond in the event of a bio-terror attack.

Smallpox 2002 - Silent Weapon painted a devastating picture of Britain in the
grip of an attack which claimed 60 million victims worldwide. Mass graves were
prepared for victims around Britain, soldiers forced families who had had
contact with the virus into vans, and armed guards stood outside schools which
had been turned into quarantine centres.

Commissioned before the recent anthrax outbreaks in America, the docu-drama has
taken on a new significance in a world under the constant threat of terrorism.

Marion's scars took two years to heal, but the memories of the spring of 1962
when seven members of her family caught and survived the killer disease are
still fresh.

She caught smallpox from her neighbour's daughter Margaret Mansfield, who gave
birth to a stillborn child and later died. In the following months, Malcolm,
Marion's parents and her four brothers and sisters were all hospitalised. They
spent three and a half months in isolation wards in Penrhys Hospital.

Luckily, Marion's two-year-old son Anthony escaped the disease and went to stay
with his grandmother.

"I was in and out of a coma and my husband was worse, " Marion remembers. "We
had the same symptoms - a blister effect all over our bodies and swelling. You
couldn't describe it as being in pain as you weren't yourself. It was more
itchy, like chicken pox but 10 times as worse.

We were lucky - eight of us went into hospital and eight came out."

Not only did Marion have to face social isolation when she came out of hospital,
but she discovered that the authorities had burned her furniture. "But they had
left a line of baby clothes up in the kitchen, so I took them out into the
garden and burned them."

Marion received a compensation cheque of just pounds 60 from the council -
pounds 32 of which she owed to a store for her furniture.

"In Wales, the feeling was that people who caught smallpox had been ostracised
at the time, " says the docu-drama's assistant producer Colette Flight.

"There were five outbreaks in the UK - including South Wales.

Pakistani travellers carried the virus as there was an outbreak in Pakistan. One
went to Cardiff and somehow infected people in the Rhondda."

A Ministry of Health report reveals there was a smallpox epidemic in Karachi
between November 1961 and February 1962. Of the five Pakistani travellers who
entered Britain carrying the virus, two died.

One of the survivors was taken ill in Cardiff on January 13, 1962.

In the next few months, 46 people in South Wales caught smallpox and 19 died. Dr
Donald Foster was medical officer for Pontypridd at the time of the outbreak.

"There was a lot of worry - people turned up in large groups as they felt safer
if vaccinated, " says the 78-yearold, who now lives in Radyr, Cardiff.

"Around 900,000 people were vaccinated in South Wales during the spring of 1962.
There is no treatment - you either get better or die. A lot of people died."

He added: "Smallpox has become a hot topic. It doesn't exist in the wild, but
there are some stocks of the virus in laboratories. It is easily spread - so if
terrorists get hold of it, it's a potent weapon."

VIEWS ON THE STREET WE took to the streets of Cardiff armed with a picture of a
young victim stricken with smallpox.

Lorraine Russell, 32, of Treforest, says: "The picture is disgusting and it's
really frightening to think you could die from smallpox .

"It's worrying that there could be a natural outbreak.

But I don't believe an attack could ever happen in this country. There is more
likely to be an attack using nuclear weapons.

"The anthrax scare in the US was never proved to be the widespread lethal weapon
it was meant to be."

Ronald Whitehead, 58, Cyncoed, Cardiff, says: "I'd never have thought you'd end
up looking like you'd had a severe attack of acne if you'd contracted smallpox.

"I thought it was extinct as a disease, and when it came to biological warfare
they would send over something that sounded a bit nastier.

"But looking at the picture it doesn't look like it'd be pleasant - and I always
thought it was similar to chicken pox and wasn't enough to kill you.

"It's all a bit frightening, to be honest."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              142 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                December 4, 2002

Lift-off 'for 100,000 jobs'

BYLINE: By john scheerhout

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 460 words



A HUGE planned expansion at Manchester Airport will create 100,000 jobs by 2030.
That was the claim made by chief executive Geoff Muirhead at a conference in
Manchester on the expansion of the British aviation industry.

He told other airport bosses, union leaders and aviation experts that the number
of people using air transport in Britain would triple to a maximum of 600
million passengers a year by 2030. He characterised the depression in the
aviation industry after the terror attacks of September 11 as a "brief
downturn". And he said the number of jobs generated by Manchester Airport in
particular would spiral. At present some 17,000 people are directly employed at
the airport, rising to 30,000 when other associated industries are included.

Mr Muirhead said the latter figure would rise dramatically to 100,000, while the
value of the airport's expansion during the same period would increase from GBP
600m to GBP 1.7bn a year. He branded anti-expansion lobby groups like
environmentalists as "ostriches with their heads stuck in the sand", arguing
that if British airports failed to cater for an expansion in aviation, foreign
airports would. "Aviation is an international marketplace," he said. "If people
can't access air services they want in Manchester, Newcastle or Bristol, they
will access them in Dublin, Paris or Frankfurt.

"We will lose all the benefits associated with aviation to overseas countries
who have had the courage and foresight to see they need bigger airports to meet
legitimate demand." Mr Muirhead argued that regional airports like Manchester
should be allowed to expand faster than Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted in the
south east, which a disproportionate number of passengers were being forced to
use.

He pointed out that half the 1m passengers who flew from Manchester to London
last year connected on to other services which Manchester could and should be
allowed to operate. While Heathrow offered 182 destinations, Manchester served
just 83, he said. If the government, which is in the middle of consulting on
plans to expand aviation, fails to address the problem, then "we all may as well
pack up and move down south and leave the rest of the country empty," he said.

Earlier, Sir Roy McNulty, chairman of the Civil Aviation Authority, which
regulates the industry, said households living outside the expanding airports
like Manchester should receive more compensation than they have in the past. It
signalled a change of attitude by the authority to households affected by noise
and air pollution.  Laurence King, of the air traffic controllers' union
Prospect, questioned expansion of aviation without investment in the nation's
troubled National Air Traffic Control Services.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MR MUIRHEAD: "Environmentalists are like ostriches"

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              143 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 5, 2002, Saturday Edition 1

Leader offers hand of friendship

BYLINE: By the Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 271 words







Pakistan's president shook the hand of India's leader today after giving a
speech at a South Asian summit and offering "a hand of sincere friendship"
between the two countries whose armies are on a war footing.

General Pervez Musharraf walked over to Indian prime minister Atal Vajpayee, who
stood up and shook hands, with a faint smile.

"I extend a hand of genuine and sincere friendship to Prime Minister Vajpayee,"
Musharraf had said from the podium at the summit in Katmandu, Nepal. "Let us
together commence a journey of peace, harmony and progress in South Asia."

He said his government "remains ready to engage in sustained dialogue with India
at all times and all levels".

In an indication of the bitter differences that still divide the two nations,
however, Musharraf said that the global campaign against terrorism must maintain
a distinction between "legitimate resistances and freedom struggles on the one
hand, and acts of terrorism on the other".

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Tony Blair today condemned the terrorist attacks in
India which sparked the tensions leading the region to the brink of war. Mr
Blair, speaking in Bangalore, southern India, on the latest leg of his tour of
the sub continent, also used his speech to outline Britain's role in world
affairs after the US atrocities of September 11.

Addressing the Confederation of Indian Industry, he said the attacks blamed by
India on militant groups based in Pakistan were an outrage.

Mr Blair will soon head for New Delhi and the Pakistan capital Islamabad.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              144 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 11, 2002, Tuesday

Young Muslims favour Britain and America

BYLINE: By David Graves

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 461 words

AMERICA and Britain have remained the favourite nations of young Arabs and
Muslims, despite the war on terrorism after September 11, according to a survey
published yesterday.

The study, conducted by the British Council five months after the al-Qa'eda
attacks in New York and Washington, found that America was the favourite country
in the Muslim world, followed closely by Britain.

About 68 per cent of those interviewed were "very favourable or mainly
favourable" to the US, with 67 per cent approving of Britain. The two nations
are the main allies in the war against Islamic terrorism.

The survey, of people aged 15 to 25 in nine countries with substantial Muslim
populations, will hearten politicians in Washington and London.

When asked which countries, apart from their own, they most admired, the
respondents also placed America and Britain among the top four nations.

At 25 per cent, America was more than twice as popular as the second choice,
Japan. Egypt was the third most popular country, with Britain fourth on 11 per
cent, twice as popular as France. Iraq and Syria both received one per cent of
the combined responses.

Lady Kennedy, QC, chairman of the council, said the perceived strength of a
nation's economy appeared to be the most important issue for the majority of
respondents, despite any criticism of political or diplomatic policy.

Four of the five most popular countries were among the world's five most
powerful economies. Egypt's inclusion reflected great enthusiasm for the country
in the Palestinian territories and Saudi Arabia.

The inclusion of Australia,

Germany, Canada and Italy in the top 12 completed a list dominated by the
wealthiest and most advanced Western nations.

Lady Kennedy said a high regard for British education and admiration for the
consistently strong UK economy were the two positive messages cited most often
by the respondents.

Lady Kennedy said the survey found that 19 per cent of those questioned viewed
Britain more negatively than before September 11, while 18 per cent regarded the
nation more positively because of its support for the war against terrorism. The
report said Britain "shared in the fallout" suffered by the US because of its
perceived lack of sympathy with the "Palestinian cause".

There was "real antagonism" towards the UK, Lady Kennedy said at the launch of
the survey in London. However, almost an equal number thought more of Britain
because of its robust response to the terror attacks.

The survey questioned 4,700 young people in nine countries: Bangladesh, Egypt,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Palestinian Territories, Saudi
Arabia and Turkey. The council said they were most likely to shape the future of
their countries.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              145 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 22, 2002

THOUSANDS HEAD ABROAD TO ESCAPE THE COLD AND CROWDS; RUSH IS ON FOR GREAT
CHRISTMAS GETAWAY

BYLINE: By Juliette Maxam

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


A RECORD 1.5 million people will jet off over the festive season, in search of a
brighter alternative to the wet weather expected in the UK this Christmas.

Most are heading for warmer destinations, while skiing enthusiasts are flying
off to the slopes.

Meanwhile ferry and Channel Tunnel operators are expecting one of the busiest
weekends of the year as thousands head to France in search of cheap drink and
cigarettes for Christmas.

Some 500,000 people are due to cross the Channel in the run-up to Christmas Day.

In Britain, AA Roadwatch says more than 18 million cars will hit the roads
during the holiday period, with Monday and Tuesday afternoons likely to be the
busiest times.

Train operators are also facing their most hectic period, and strikes by
conductors at Arriva Trains Northern tomorrow and on Christmas Eve are set to
compound misery for passengers across northern England.

The record getaway is a surprise boost for the travel industry, which has been
hit by public concern following terrorist attacks on tourist destinations like
Bali and Kenya.

Stephen Bath, president of the Association of British Travel Agents, said: "2002
was always going to be about recovery and a record Christmas is just what the
travel industry needs."

Top destinations are the Canary Islands and mainland Spain, while Florida,
Mexico and the Caribbean are the favourite long-haul choices.

Heathrow Airport expects to handle 345,000 departures over the weekend, while
Gatwick will see 195,000 holidaymakers, Stansted 120,000, Birmingham 100,000,
Luton 96,000, and 80,000 will fly from Manchester.

Among those flying off is 90year-old Marjorie Littlejohn, who is going abroad
for the first time to spend Christmas with her daughter in Portugal. The
grandmother from Ferndown, Dorset, said: "I have never been further than the
Isle of Wight but if I don't take the plunge now I never will."

AA Roadwatch is warning motorists to be prepared for delays on the roads over
the next week, even though many roadworks will be removed.

"The run-up to Christmas Eve and the New Year are always among the busiest days
for traffic, " said Graham Webb, manager of AA Roadwatch.

"Many people will finish work early and be heading off to see friends and
relatives while others will make for shopping centres to buy last-minute
presents."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              146 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               February 19, 2002

House prices accelerate

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.6

LENGTH: 200 words


THE rate at which house prices are rising accelerated rapidly during January,
boosted by strong consumer confidence, a survey claimed today.

The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) said that during the three
months to the end of January property prices in England and Wales increased at
double their average rate since 1978 as consumers shook off fears that Britain
could be heading for a recession.

The group said prices had "taken off" during January, after dipping in November
and recovering slightly in December. Surveyors' confidence had now risen above
the levels seen before the September 11 terrorist attacks.

According to RICS 46% more chartered surveyors reported a rise in prices during
the three months to the end of January, than those that reported a fall, with
the majority reporting gains on average of at least 2%.

This RICS figure was 17 percentage points higher than that in December, and
double the figure reported in November, when the market took a downturn.

The group added that it expected price rises and sales activity to remain strong
in the coming three months boosted by historically low interest rates combined
with high consumer confidence.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              147 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 28, 2002

Daily Press Fact File

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 88 words


Terrorists could use small airfields or sea ports in the West to smuggle nuclear
or biological material into Britain, Ministers were warned yesterday. Lord
Carlile of Berriew QC described minor ports and rural land strips as the "soft
underbelly" in the country's defence against a terrorist attack.

As well as numerous small ports along our coastline, there are dozens of small
airfields across the West, including Kemble in Gloucestershire, Old Sarum in
Wiltshire, Filton in Bristol and Dunkeswell in Devon.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              148 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 30, 2002, Saturday

Insurance costs set to rise by a third Terrorism is partly to blame for costlier
travel policies, says Rosemary Behan

BYLINE: By ROSEMARY BEHAN

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 579 words

Holidaymakers buying insurance from Britain's biggest travel agents face a 30
per cent increase in the cost of their policies over the next four years. For a
family of four travelling to Spain or France for two weeks, that could spell a
rise from about pounds 75 to pounds 100.

The terrorist attacks of September 11 and the rising cost of medical claims are
to blame for increasing costs, according to the London-based company Mintel,
Britain's leading analyst of consumer markets. The firm said in its annual
report on the travel insurance market that there needed to be an overall rise in
premiums if the industry was to remain profitable.

The Consumers' Association, which this month produced a report on travel
insurance, said the predicted rise was "yet another reason" for travellers to
shop around when buying insurance.

Roger Lakin, a spokesman for Holiday Which?, said that with insurance premiums
rising holidaymakers should compare the costs of policies offered by travel
agents and small direct-sale insurance companies.

The travel insurance market has lost several big companies in the past year
because of rising claims bills, particularly in the cost of medical treatment in
the United States. This has reduced competition between firms, Mintel's report
states.

In June last year, Norwich Union, part of the CGNU insurance group, withdrew
from the market with the closure of its specialist travel scheme in Croydon,
previously known as the Travellers Insurance Association. Three months later,
Allianz Cornhill pulled out of the market, transferring its travel insurance
clients to its sister company, Mondial Assistance.

Home & Overseas, a subsidiary of Zurich, also ceased promoting its travel
insurance business last year after losing several travel company clients.

Sarah Hitchcock, who wrote the Mintel report, said: "Fewer suppliers will
inevitably result in price increases. In addition, insurance costs arising from
September 11, which all travel insurers will have to pay, are likely to be
passed on in increased premiums."

Banks and travel firms said this week they were "reviewing" the current price of
policies but would not give details of any increases. Ms Hitchcock, however,
said "all the main players" in the travel insurance market had quietly conceded
that premiums would have to rise.

A spokeswoman for the Association of British Insurers said premiums were rising
because more people were making claims. "There is an increasing awareness of
what people can claim for. If people go on holiday frequently it might be more
effective for them to get an annual policy."

While an increasing number of British travellers now buy their policies direct
from specialist insurance firms, the majority still use travel agents, tour
operators or other intermediaries who sell travel policies on behalf of the
insurance companies.

Mintel forecast that there is likely to be an increase in demand for travel
insurance, with increased security making cancellations and delays more of a
threat.

Ms Hitchcock said: "There perhaps will also be greater demand for the few
policies that provide cover for the failure of scheduled airlines."

A survey of 839 foreign holidaymaking adults found that, of the 21 million
Britons who take a trip abroad each year, about 18 million, or 86 per cent, will
be insured. But a quarter of respondents aged between 15 and 24 have gone abroad
without cover in the past year.
[PS]Travel: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              149 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 19, 2002

NEW ALERT FOR HOLIDAY BRITONS AS UK STEPS UP SECURITY; AMERICA WARNS OF MORE
ATTACKS

BYLINE: By John Ingham Defence Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 599 words


BRITAIN was warned yesterday of a new Al Qaeda terror threat after CIA chief
George Tenet declared: "They are coming after us. They want to execute attacks."

Many casualties were reported yesterday in the Philippines - which faces
militant Islamic insurgency - when a bomb exploded in the suburbs of the capital
Manila.

Last night Britain stepped up its defences against terror attacks. In London
alone more than 200 extra armed police are being deployed to combat the
increased threat.

And the Foreign Office warned tourists to be on their guard against "an
increased threat to British nationals and British interests in south-east Asia".

The warning applies to top holiday destinations - in particular Thailand,
Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines - as well as Singapore, Vietnam and
Brunei.

British visitors are told to "exercise extreme caution in public places, in
particular places of entertainment such as nightclubs, bars, restaurants and
places of worship known to be frequented by foreigners".

Foreign Office sources admitted: "It is prudent to assume that the Al Qaeda
threat is global."

In Washington Mr Tenet issued his starkest warning yet that Osama Bin Laden's
fanatics have regrouped after surviving the first wave of America's war on
terrorism.

His comments led military analysts and terrorism experts to warn that the blitz
of Afghanistan may have made beating Al Qaeda even more difficult by dispersing
its highly-trained killers round the world.

In the past two weeks an American soldier has been killed in Kuwait, a French
oil tanker blown up off Aden and more than 180 tourists, including up to 32
Britons, slaughtered in Bali.

Mr Tenet's warning came as he defended the CIA for failing to predict the
September 11 attacks. He said:

"The threat environment we find ourselves in today is as bad as it was last
summer, the summer before September 11.

"It is serious. They've reconstituted, they are coming after us; they want to
execute attacks. You see it in Bali, you see it in Kuwait.

"They plan in multiple theatres of operation. They intend to strike again."

Mr Tenet told a Congressional panel that the CIA had broken up several terror
plots before and after September 11. But he warned some plots would be
successful.

"It is important for the American people to know that despite the enormous
successes we've had in the past year - indeed over many years - Al Qaeda
continues to plan and will attempt more deadly strikes against us.

There will be more battles won and, sadly, more battles lost."

In London, extra police will be guarding embassies and other locations and are
expected to mount roadblocks to catch armed criminals and terrorists.

Britain believes that the Afghanistan campaign caused "serious disruption" to
Bin Laden's organisation.

And last night terrorism and defence experts warned that the Al Qaeda threat was
real - though they said its terrorists would struggle to operate effectively in
Britain.

Analyst Jonathan Stevenson of the International Institute for Strategic Studies
said: "There's evidence that they are in execute mode. Though they are not as
robust as they were before September 11, they have survived the global
mobilisation against terrorism and have established a new way of behaving."

Asked if Britain was more of a target than other European countries because of
Tony Blair's support for President Bush, Mr Stevenson said: "By inference, yes.
But Al Qaeda is a very opportunistic decentralised organisation and targets
depend on local circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              150 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 5, 2002

REMEMBERING OUR BRAVE FIREFIGHTERS;
 Memorial to those who lost their lives

BYLINE: JULIE HARDING

SECTION: 143, Pg.2

LENGTH: 373 words


THIS model provides the first glimpse of how a new memorial, to Bristol
firefighters who lost their lives in the line of duty, will look.

Avon Fire Brigade has commissioned a life-size bronze statue of a firefighter at
its Temple Back headquarters in the city centre.

Officers pay tribute in a number of ways throughout the year to the four
firefighters who have died on duty since the end of World War II.

The most recent was Fleur Lombard, the first woman firefighter in Britain to die
on duty in peacetime in a fire at the former Leo's superstore in Staple Hill
five years ago.

A memorial was set up in Broad Street opposite the store, which has since been
replaced by a new Co-op supermarket.

But the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York last September
focussed attention on the risks firefighters take every day at work, and Avon
Fire Brigade wanted a permanent memorial to all those who have lost their lives.

A local sculptor has been appointed to create a suitable image.

Station Officer Dave Pound posed for the statue, which will be 6ft 9ins high.

An 18-inch model in clay on which the memorial statue will be based has been
created and was on show yesterday.

The statue will be cast in bronze and sited outside the headquarters.

Beneath it Fleur's name will be inscribed, together with other firefighters from
the area who have lost their lives in the service of others.

The 21-year-old was the third Avon brigade member to have died, after Ian
Chalmers in 1982 and Terence Saunders in 1978.

Fireman Michael Blackmore was killed in 1970 before the formation of the County
of Avon brigade.

Another 23 firefighters perished in the Second World War on service with the
City of Bristol fire brigade.

The 900-strong brigade hopes to raise funds and sponsorship from suppliers and
local organisations to pay for the 14,000 statue.

Chief fire officer Kevin Pearson said: "Tributes to those who have lost their
lives are paid in a number of ways throughout the year but it was mentioned that
we haven't got a permanent memorial."

Anyone who may wish to make a donation can send it to the Avon Fire Brigade
Memorial Fund at the HQ, Temple Back, Bristol.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              151 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               February 27, 2002

UK economic growth slows to a standstill

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 402 words


Growth in Britain's economy ground to a halt during the final quarter of last
year, new figures showed today.

Data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) shows GDP in the fourth
quarter was unchanged on the previous three-month period.

That is the lowest return since the last decline in GDP during the second
quarter of 1992. The ONS had pencilled in growth of 0.2% last month but revised
that figure downwards following the release of more data.

Analysts, who hailed the 0.2 figure as an impressive performance last month, had
been expecting a revision down to 0.1% today. The year-on-year change was also
reduced to 1.7% from 1.9%, although the GDP figure for the whole year remained
at 2.4% - above the Chancellor's pre-budget forecast of 2.25%.

The impact of the 11 September terrorist attacks on the US have been blamed for
the sharp fall in GDP from the 0.5% growth recorded in the third quarter.

The main reason for the downwards revision was a weaker return from the service
sector.

Instead of the above-forecast figure of 0.9% reported last month, the sector is
now thought to have grown by 0.7%. The volume of output in production industries
fell by 2.1% in the fourth quarter and included a 1.7% fall in the manufacturing
rate.

The ONS said manufacturing output was now 5.6% weaker than the same quarter a
year earlier -the biggest decline since 1991.

Despite the slump, experts view the fourth quarter as being the trough of the
economic cycle and say figures should perk up in the first quarter of this year.

EGi News 27/02/02

Shareholders of retail giant Kingfisher this weekend urgently requested
designated chairman Francis Mackay to push chief executive Geoff Mulcahy towards
retirement.

Investors are believed to be disillusioned with Mulcahy following Kingfisher's
low performance against the stock market over the past 18 months. They are
thought to be demanding a replacement for him within a year. Mackay is due to
succeed John Banham as Kingfisher chairman on December 7.

As part of dedicated restructuring of the group, Kingfisher is also rumoured to
be mulling the sale-and-leaseback of its B&Q stores and a handful of other
properties in a deal which would net the company around £1bn.

The move follows Kingfisher's £600m deal with London & Regional earlier this
year, which saw the retail group part with the freeholds of 182 Woolworths
stores before floating Woolies off earlier in the Summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2002 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              152 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  May 28, 2002

Third missile test as talks are urged

BYLINE: Holmes Peter (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; NEWS; Pg. 4-NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEW

LENGTH: 370 words


Third missile test as talks are urged PAKISTAN test fired another short-range
missile today capable of carrying nuclear warheads into Indian territory, the
third in a much-criticised series of tests.

The test was conducted as British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was in the
region, hoping to defuse tensions and press the nuclear adversaries to the
negotiating table.

A security-conscious Straw travelled to meetings with Pakistan's President
Pervez Musharraf and foreign minister Abdul Sattar in a bullet-proof vehicle
with reinforced steel doors.

The British mission hurriedly evacuated its non-essential staff last week after
receiving "credible information" of a terrorist attack.

Straw has been one of the politicians urging Gen Musharraf to do more to stop
cross-border incursions by militants into Indian Kashmir.

Britain has also been critical of the missile testing when tensions are
inflamed.

Pakistan test fired the HatfII or Abdali which flew 108 miles, capable of
hitting most border positions inside India.

There are an estimated one million soldiers on both sides of the border.

The nuclear neighbours have been teetering dangerously on the brink of war since
December when India's Parliament was attacked in a daring daylight assault.
India blamed Islamic militants based in Pakistan.

An assault earlier this month on an Indian army camp that killed 34 people,
mostly women and children, further inflamed tempers.

Pakistan announced last Friday that it would conduct missile tests, drawing
international criticism. In keeping with their tradition of tit-for-tat actions,
Pakistan's tests followed similar tests carried out by India in January when
tensions were also high.

Last night Musharraf said in a televised address that Pakistan would not
initiate war, but it would defend itself if "war was thrust upon it." Musharraf
said cross-border incursions into Indian Kashmir were not occurring. India
disputes this and today Indian defence minister George Fernandes said al Qaida
and Taliban were also in Pakistan Kashmir.

Both India and Pakistan claim a united Kashmir as their own. They have fought
two wars over Kashmir and a third one over Bangladesh.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              153 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 23, 2002

Finance: Case is growing for a rate cut, says CBI: Employers' body warns of slow
recovery as US weakness affects Britain

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: Finance; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 610 words


Britain's leading employers' organisation yesterday said the case was growing
for a cut in interest rates to stimulate the flagging economy after cutting its
forecast for UK growth this year to just 1.5%.

The Confederation of British Industry blamed the faltering global economy and
tumbling share prices for its gloomier view about the prospects for the UK,
saying recovery would be slower and more protracted than had been expected.

Ian McCafferty, the CBI's chief economist, said: "The justification for a cut in
interest rates is increasing. In the past four to six weeks we have had an awful
lot of bad news."

He added that the Bank of England was unlikely to rush into a decision and would
probably need more evidence of the weakness of the global economy before acting.
"But the lack of inflation suggests another cut might be justified," he said.

The CBI has scaled back hopes of a brisk recovery in the economy that were
prevalent earlier in the year, when there was optimism that the global economy
would bounce back rapidly from the twin setbacks of the recession in the United
States and the terrorist attacks on September 11.

In its latest snapshot of manufacturing, the employers' organisation found that
the improvement in both domestic and export order books seen earlier in the year
had petered out.

Output from Britain's factories is expected to pick up slightly over the coming
months as firms replenish their stocks, but the CBI said the ferocious squeeze
on profit margins would be maintained by a further period of falling prices for
manufactured goods. With manufacturing output now expected to contract by 3.3%
this year follow ing last year's 2.3% decline, and consumer spending growth
showing signs of moderating, the CBI said that the prospects for growth were now
weaker than they had been three months ago.

"Global uncertainty has weakened the UK economic outlook. Predictions of a
speedy US recovery have failed to materialise, and recent stock market
volatility and corporate scandals have increased uncertainty at an already
fragile time", said Mr McCafferty.

"This recovery, in the UK and internationally, is likely to be slow going. The
global economy is still working off the excesses of over-investment and rising
levels of debt of the late 1990s. This is a necessary prelude to a stronger,
more sustainable recovery. Companies will need to be patient and maintain
realistic expectations for some time to come."

The CBI believes that the economy could perform even more sluggishly than it is
predicting, citing anecdotal evidence from its members that over the past two
months orders from the US have dried up. It fears that the world's biggest
economy could be about to enter a new phase of weakness, with spillover effects
for the UK.

Its economic forecasts for 2002 and 2003 show that higher public spending will
underpin growth of 2.7% next year, with consumer spending held back by high
levels of personal debt and rising unemployment. For the CBI, the first increase
in base rates is now not pencilled in until early next year.

Manufacturing is expected to record its first rise in output in three years, but
investment in new plant and machinery is forecast to drop for the third
successive year. Corporate profits are predicted to remain flat next year,
reinforcing the weakness of share prices. "The stock market is going to find it
hard going," said Mr McCafferty.

"The lack of pricing power on the part of companies means that the focus will be
on cost control and cutting jobs. This focus will drive market sentiment.
Profitability will remain very squeezed."


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 18, 2002, Friday

Blair calls on faiths to understand each other

BYLINE: By P J Bonthrone

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 214 words

TONY BLAIR told a gathering of Muslims and Christians yesterday that greater
understanding between faiths could put terrorism on the defensive.

In an indirect reference to the perpetrators of the September 11 terrorist
attacks on Washington and New York, the Prime Minister said there would always
be extremists who propagated perverted forms of their religion.

"Religious values can be warped or perverted, but when people are true to its
real value, religious faith can be immensely liberating.

"There is a tendency to extremism in all religious faiths, but one thing that
puts extremists on the defensive is a greater understanding of others' faiths."
Mr Blair was speaking alongside the Archbishop of Canterbury at the opening
session of a two-day Christian-Muslim seminar at Lambeth Palace.

He praised the 40 Christian and Muslim scholars and religious leaders from
America, Britain, Africa and the Middle East for coming together to further
mutual understanding of their different traditions.

Mr Blair said the need for greater religious and cultural understanding had
become crucial not only abroad, with the war on terror, but also at home. He
cited the killing of a postal worker in Northern Ireland simply because he was a
Roman Catholic.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              155 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 21, 2002

Policy and politics: Blair picks security services coordinator

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 374 words


Tony Blair last night appointed the equivalent of the US homeland security
secretary when he gave Sir David Omand the role of Britain's security and
intelligence coordinator, as well as the new permanent secretary of the Cabinet
Office.

Sir David, a former Home Office permanent secretary, will coordinate the work of
MI5, MI6 and GCHQ. He will also be given a seat on the joint intelligence
committee, which prepares intelligence assessments for the government.

His appointment follows a decision to change the role of the cabinet secretary
following the imminent retirement of Sir Richard Wilson.

Mr Blair has decided the new cabinet secretary, Andrew Turnbull, should not be
overloaded by being handed full responsibility for the intelligence services.

But the move follows warnings that the British intelligence services, and their
US counterparts, failed to spot the possibility of an attack by al-Qaida last
September. Last week the parliamentary intelligence and security committee
claimed the intelligence services had been warned last July of a possible attack
by anti-US factions based in the Middle East.

Yesterday the foreign affairs select committee questioned the resources
available to British intelligence agencies. It said the government needed to
state whether the intelligence services had the "human, financial and other
resources they require to offer the best possible protection against terrorist
attacks on the UK or on British posts overseas."

Its report added that, with hindsight, it was possible to see signs of war "were
previously unseen, misinterpreted or ignored".

It said: "If one lesson comes out of our consideration of why the attacks of
September 2001 were able to succeed it is that priority must be given to the
gathering, assessment and use of high grade intelligence information.

"Without that information this country and its allies are appallingly
vulnerable."

The appointment of Sir David, 54, comes only days after the parliamentary
intelligence and security committee said in its annual report: "The shortage of
specific intelligence and Osama bin Laden's record could have warned all
concerned that more urgent action was needed to counter this threat."


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 2002, Saturday

THE HIGH PRICE OF TERRORISM;
 ATROCITY AFTER ATROCITY HAVE TAKEN THEIR TOLL FOR GENERATIONS, BUT THE
ATTITUDES OF INSURERS MAY BE CHANGING TO EXCLUDE SOME OF THE NEWER FORMS, SAYS
TOM TICKELL. THAT DEPENDS ON THE SCALE

BYLINE: Tom Tickell Tony Blair, the Prime Minister, delivers his warning
Stephen; Hird/Reuters

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 775 words


Warnings about the need to be extra-vigilant for terrorist attacks are nasty
enough at any time, and worse when they come from the Prime Minister. Tony
Blair's Mansion House call for vigilance this week was delivered shortly after a
Home Office press release highlighting chemical and biological threats, as well
as potential attack on a high-rise target. That release was replaced by a far
more bland version, but that only made people wonder how much the Government is
keeping from us.

Insurers can provide cover for almost every basic risk their customers face, but
attitudes to terrorism vary. Legal and General will take on the risk of
terrorist damage to houses and cars, and so do groups such as Direct Line, if
damage does not involve biological, chemical or indeed nuclear weapons.

"Most insurers effectively have the same package as they did before 11
September, although they may have tightened up their wording," Ray Facer, head
of technical services at Legal & General, says.

"The only change we have made applies to cars. We will now pay only up to pounds
250,000 if a car damages property where terrorism is involved, though the old
no-limit' rule which used to apply still covers injuries. The change won't
affect people unless insurers believe customers have turned a blind eye to the
vehicle being stolen."

But insurers' attitudes towards terrorism may change, not necessarily because of
what happens in Britain. All the market's household names lay off some of their
risks with international reinsurers. If American companies want far more
re-insurance than they did, less capacity is available for companies in Britain
and elsewhere. Any rise in terrorist incidents in Britain provides more direct
pressure to tighten policy or raise premiums.

Ulster has faced constant terrorist attacks and damage for more than a
generation, and compensation rules are clearly defined. Insurers will settle the
standard claims for theft, subsidence and water damage just as they do
elsewhere, but the Government pays for damage caused by bombs, explosions and
terrorism.

But it has never had to face bio-terrorism, the deliberate spread of serious
illness. Last year's headlines were full of anthrax scares, though only a few
people in America were affected. Bupa, Britain's biggest health insurer,
excludes claims resulting from war and terrorism in its policies, but is likely
to be more lenient in practice, at present.

"We would certainly help people who were targeted with anthrax or any other
illness through the post, whether they are insured individually or via a group
schemes," Dr Natalie Mcdonald, BUPA's medical director, says. "But if we were
swamped with claims running into thousands, we would have to be tougher."

The same principles apply to permanent health insurance, which guarantees to
provide a long-term illness for as long as you cannot work. People working in
tall, high-profile buildings or landmarks know the odds against attack are
extremely high. But humans often think the unthinkable or have it lurking in
their subconscious. At least there would be some financial protection, if the
worst did happen.

Anyone seriously damaged in a terrorist attack can always claim from the
Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority. It has a grisly tariff setting out how
much lump-sum compensation you receive for 400 types of injuries, though it will
also provide funds to cover loss of earnings.

The Board's awards also cover death. It will pay out pounds 5,500 to each of
your immediate family if you are killed in a criminal attack. That will include
not just a wife or husband, but a long- term partner, too, whether straight or
gay. Funds can also go to your children, though rates are higher if they are at
school, or pre -school. Parents can receive the funds as well. The scheme pays
out pounds 11,000 if you leave just one person behind.

Pension schemes, based on your final salary, are generous where they still
exist, whereas the new stakeholder plans with their low charges - and designed
for a mass market - do not provide anything in respect of calamities.

And travel insurance will not cover terrorism. Many paid up after the attack on
the World Trade Centre, but were less generous when bombs exploded in Bali last
month. A few paid for local hospital bills. The people with travel policies are
guaranteed a pay-out when the Foreign Office warns a particular country is
unsafe, after customers have paid for a holiday, but before they have started
it. Insurers normally let them choose between recovering the cost of the
holiday, or going to another destination.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              157 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 July 25, 2002

great event

BYLINE: RAY KING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 474 words



BRITAIN'S leading churchmen celebrated the "miracle of Manchester" with the
Queen at a special service.  More than 1,000 people gathered at Manchester
Cathedral to give thanks for the city's remarkable recovery from the terrorist
bomb attack in June 1996.  The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh joined leaders of
the city council and neighbouring authorities, personnel from the task force
that led the GBP 500m rebuilding programme and members of the public at the
service, after engaging in a "walkabout" in nearby Exchange Square.  Later, the
Queen opened the new GBP 2.9m cathedral visitor centre on the site of a 15th
century bridge over Hanging Ditch, which had been hidden for more than 100
years.  At the service, the Most Rev David Hope, Archbishop of York, paid
tribute to "a great northern city" which had successfully translated its
imaginative planning strategy into impressive achievement; and to the "community
of people who had made this day possible. And he emphasised the "very happy
coincidence" which had aligned the Commonwealth Games with the Queen's Golden
Jubilee.

The Bishop of Manchester, the Rt Rev Christopher Mayfield, said generations of
immigration into Manchester meant the city's communities "included the world".
He said: "We celebrate the diversity of this great city which adds richness and
strength.

"The friendly Games will bring stronger relationships with each other." During
the service the Queen was presented with a copy of the original master plan for
the rebuilding of the city centre after the 1996 bombing. She handed them to the
Very Rev Ken Riley, Dean of Manchester Cathedral, for safe keeping in the
cathedral archives.  The Queen was also presented with a lighted candle, which
she passed on to a child, symbolising the handing on of her personal commitment
to service from one generation to another.  The Bishop of Salford, the Right Rev
Terence Brain, whose diocese includes Manchester, spoke of how Manchester had
recovered since the devastation of the IRA bomb.

"Through the confidence, commitment and co-operation of so many, a great evil
has been overcome by good - and a new Manchester has emerged from the ashes of
destruction," he said.  The Lord Mayor of Manchester, Coun Roy Walters, then
read a prayer for the city.

"Oh God, grant us a vision of our city, fair as it might be. A city of justice,
where none shall pray on others; a city of plenty, where vice and poverty shall
cease to fester; a city in community, where success shall be founded on service,
and honour given to worth alone; a city of peace where order shall not rest on
force, but on the love of all for their city.  "Hear, oh Lord, the silent prayer
of all our hearts as we each pledge our time, strength and thought to speed the
day of her coming beauty and righteousness. Amen."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WE ARE amused . . . the Queen shares a joke at the visitor centre at
Manchester Cathedral after the special service of thanksgiving Picture: DAVE
THOMPSON

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              158 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 June 11, 2002

Britain hails 'attack cell' swoop

LENGTH: 208 words


THE Foreign Office has welcomed the arrest in Morocco of three terrorist
suspects said to be planning suicide attacks on British and US warships.

Moroccan police said they had broken up a terrorist cell with links to Osama bin
Laden's al Qaida network with the detention of three Saudi Arabian nationals.

The men, who were arrested last month, were said by Moroccan officials to have
been plotting operations against British and US naval vessels patrolling the
Strait of Gibraltar.

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said last night: "We welcome the arrests if
they involve individuals who may have been planning terrorist attacks against UK
assets."

One Moroccan official said the arrests had been made with the help of
intelligence services of "several friendly countries". It was not immediately
clear whether British intelligence was involved.

The announcement came hard on the heels of the news that the US authorities had
arrested an American national for allegedly conspiring with al Qaida to build
and detonate a radioactive "dirty" bomb, possibly in the US capital Washington
DC.

Abdullah al Muhajir, who was born in New York and changed his name from Jose
Padilla, was detained by the FBI in Chicago.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              159 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 1, 2002, Tuesday

HEATH WARNED ON INTERNMENT;
 PM ACTED AGAINST ADVICE OF ARMY CHIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 590 words

HIGHLIGHT: PRESSURE: Brian Faulkner; POLITICAL: Edward Heath


CONSERVATIVE Prime Minister Edward Heath gave the go-ahead for the internment
without trial of terrorist suspects, despite the Army warning that it would
actually damage security.

Papers released today to the Public Record Office, under the 30-year rule, show
that the senior Army officer in the Province, Lieutenant General Sir Harry Tuzo,
cautioned just a week before internment was introduced that it would have a
"harmful effect".

Heath himself acknowledged that the measure was an explicitly "political act",
intended to shore up Ulster Unionist Prime Minister Brian Faulkner in the face
of the rising tide of IRA violence but went ahead with the move anyway.

The introduction of internment in the summer of 1971 has been widely regarded as
one of the biggest errors of the Troubles, turning thousands of Roman Catholics
against the Government and causing immense damage to Britain's reputation
abroad.

The position of Tuzo, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) in Northern Ireland,
and Defence Secretary Lord Carrington, had been clearly set out in a letter to
Heath's private office from the Ministry of Defence on July 21 of that year.

"The view of the GOC, with which the Defence Secretary entirely agrees, is that
the arguments against resorting to internment remain very strong and that other
possibilities for disrupting the IRA should certainly be tried first," it said.

Tuzo wanted to adopt a new strategy of "continuous harassment" of IRA suspects,
in an attempt to make it impossible for them to mount terrorist attacks.

However Faulkner, who became Northern Ireland Prime Minister earlier that year,
was under intense pressure from hardline unionists to take action against IRA
attacks and in separate private papers from Cabinet meetings at Stormont he
argued that local security force personnel wanted internment.

With Faulkner expected to come forward with a firm proposal for internment any
day, Heath met Home Secretary Reginald Maudling and Carrington in his room in
the Commons on August 2 to discuss how they should respond.

Carrington made clear that Tuzo's opposition to internment had, if anything,
hardened and described the measure as a "last fling", while Heath was determined
that, if Faulkner was to get internment, there should be some counterbalancing
measure for the Catholics, with a ban on marches.

Faulkner went to London on August 5 to formally propose internment and
reluctantly agreed to the marching ban for an initial six-month period.

It was pointed out to him that, when he announced the introduction of
internment, he could not claim to be acting on the advice of the security forces
but instead to say all the relevant considerations, including the views of the
security forces, had been taken into account.

On August 9, Operation Demetrius was launched, with police and troops swooping
to arrest more than 300 IRA suspects.

The operation was not a success. Out of date police intelligence meant many of
those arrested had not been active in the IRA for many years and it prompted a
new burst of civil unrest, with 21 deaths in three days.

In the first six months of internment alone, 2,400 people - all Catholics - were
detained without trial. The bitter experience led to a massive upsurge of
support for the IRA among the nationalist community.

It also failed to save Faulkner and his government, who were replaced the
following year by direct rule from Westminster as the tempo of sectarian
violence in killings steadily increased.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 24, 2002, Sunday

63F! IT'S SPRING IN TIME FOR EASTER...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 154 words


SPRING arrived in Britain at last yesterday as temperatures hit the Sixties for
the first time this year.

The hottest spot was Northern Ireland with 63F (17C). But it was a pleasant 57F
(14C) in North Devon and 55F (13C) in London.

As we gear up for next weekend's Easter break, forecasters say the fine patch
will continue in most of the country for the next few days.

Tourist bosses hope it will encourage families to visit holiday spots still
trying to recover from last year's foot and mouth outbreak.

Blackpool, Bournemouth, Torquay and Brighton are all banking on a bumper Easter
break.

A record 1.6 million sunseekers are also expected to fly abroad this week - 30
per cent up on last Easter.

Most popular destinations are the Spanish Costas and Canary Islands.

Travel chiefs are delighted that people have shaken off their fear of flying
following the September 11 terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              161 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 31, 2002

VATICAN ALERT AS US WARNS OF TERROR ATTACK ON POPE TODAY

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Gordon Thomas and Yvonne Ridley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 525 words


AMERICAN intelligence services have warned that Arab fanatics may be planning a
terrorist attack on the Pope today at his traditional Easter appearance in St
Peter's Square.

The ailing pontiff, who still has bullet fragments in his body following an
assassination attempt in May 1981, may be especially vulnerable because he is
too frail to wear a bullet-proof jacket.

"The security is a nightmare but we have received very strong intelligence from
the US State Department which says it has information His Holiness Pope John
Paul is in danger, " said a source close to the Italian intelligence service,
DIGOS.

There had been speculation that the 81-year-old Pope could miss Easter Sunday
mass for the first time in his 24-year tenure because of a painful knee
condition, but the Vatican insisted last night he would attend as usual.

American intelligence officers have revealed that a number of cities in Italy
could be targeted over the Easter weekend, including the historic American
Church in Florence and other Christian sites. Other high-profile European
targets include the Tower of London and the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

"There is credible intelligence that Hamas leaders in the Bekka Valley, Lebanon,
have triggered dormant cell units in Europe to launch a series of terrorist
strikes, " added the source.

British intelligence operatives based in the Middle East have reported a
"heightening of activity" in the region, which could suggest terrorists are
planning an Easter spectacular.

A source close to MI6 told the Sunday Express: "This all stems from total
frustration arising in Beirut and this frustration could be taken out on several
high-profile Westerners. There are some who think this is 'shoestring'
terrorism, designed to get all the Western security and emergency services on a
permanent high-alert.

"The outcome is that we all become fatigued and that is when security lapses
happen. It's almost a war of nerves."

Last month the Sunday Express revealed that Britain's security forces were
bracing themselves for the UK's first suicide bomber.

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, David Veness, admitted that
there was little anyone could do to prevent such an attack.

He also said that the threat of biological and chemical attacks had to be taken
seriously. His fears have been reinforced by a secret MI6 report submitted last
week which revealed that Czech authorities have admitted that a "substantial
number of vials containing deadly bacteria" had gone missing.

The Sunday Express has now learned that other European intelligence agencies are
investigating claims that a Hamas cell has acquired potentially deadly
bio-materials from two of the former Soviet labs in Prague - the Military
Institute for Microbiology and the Techonin Institute.

Hamas is the Arab group which claimed responsibility for the Jewish Passover
attack in which 18 people died and 120 guests were wounded by a suicide bomber
in Israel.

"All the intelligence which is being collated now tends to suggest this is going
to be a dreadful Easter, " said the British intelligence source.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              162 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               September 4, 2002

HAVE YOUR SAY - 4 SEPTEMBER 2002

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 1390 words


Better deal with euro

JANET Carter (YEP, August 30) is correct when she claims that introducing the
euro into Britain will not bring us identical prices to those of the euro-zone
countries overnight.

But there is evidence from a recent survey that prices across the euro-zone are
converging, a direct result of the transparency of prices between different
countries.

For example, in 1998 prices in Finland were 50 percent higher than in Portugal
(the highest and lowest priced countries in the EU). Today the difference is
only 40 percent. Similar figures between Germany and Portugal, show that the
difference has dropped from 45 percent in 1998 to 20 percent today.

Prices between the UK and Portugal have remained static at 40 percent higher in
the UK.

Currently, the countries with the highest price levels compared to Portugal are
Sweden, Denmark, Finland and the UK - apart from Finland, all outside the
euro-zone. Price levels in seven of the euro-zone countries are all at a
comparative level with each other, about 20 percent higher than Portugal.

With the introduction of the euro, consumers are able to see goods clearly
priced in the same currency and are able to compare with the same prices on
holiday or on the Internet. This puts pressure on retailers to explain price
differences.

The introduction of the euro into Britain will give consumers here the same
clout and put pressure on retailers and manufacturers to offer us the same goods
for the same euro price. Nor will manufacturers be able to disguise price
differences through exchange rates.

MIKE DODS, Wensley Grove, Leeds

Blair must resist war

In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on September 11 last year, Tony Blair
was portrayed as a figure of stature on the world stage. Now he has the chance
to live up to that description. He must tell the American government that an
invasion of Iraq would be an act of great folly and that we, as their closest
ally, would not be prepared to support such action.

Having just returned from the States I can report that American opinion is far
from united in support of military action. Doubts are not confined to the
political opponents of President Bush.

No evidence has been forthcoming linking Iraq to involvement with September 11,
a fact confirmed by both the CIA and FBI.

The effect of American action against Iraq could lead to the overthrow of
moderate, pro-western Arab governments and their replacement with fundamentalist
regimes. Pakistan's leader, General Pervez Musharaf, British trained and
Catholic educated, has been very brave in providing help in removing the Taliban
in Afghanistan. If his government were to be toppled, Pakistan, a nuclear power,
could become destabilised.

The other impact of US action would be to make a peace agreement in the Middle
East between Israelis and Palestinians much more difficult to achieve.

FRANK DIGNAN, Leeds 10

Fallacy of death penalty deterrent

AG Goldsbrough writes that given a referendum on the matter, capital punishment
would get an overwhelming vote (YEP August 29). Given the moronic scenes that
accompanied Maxine Carr's court appearance he may be right.

However, before placing justice in the hands of people who in days gone by would
shout burn the witch or take a picnic to public executions, we would do well to
remember the utter failure of the death penalty as a deterrent in America; and
the fact that one false prosecution resulting in the death of an innocent is
murder itself.

I agree that for serious crimes life should mean life, but we must not revert to
the barbaric practises of the past.

MRS J GILL,Cookridge, Leeds

Wrong track

How can Jeremy Spillane call (GBP)12.5m per kilometre of guided bus lane cheap (
(GBP)20m per mile) (YEP August 30)? Building a six lane motorway is not much
more per kilometre.

Every Saturday night I walk up York Road and have not once seen a bus on the
guided bus lane. Every Sunday I cross Scott Hall Road at night and haven't seen
a bus on that one yet either.

They are a waste of taxpayers' money.

B SCOTT, Easterley Road, Leeds

Exams aren't all

Among the despondency and jubilation following exam results, we might consider
the effects suffered by those less academically well equipped.

For them, five years of constrained suffering in a competitive, theory-based,
imposed curriculum has meant boredom, frustration and humiliation; resulting in
an abiding sense of failure, and of inadequacy, producing low self-esteem and
hopelessness.

By adding insult to injury, we then advertise their natural deficiencies for
public scrutiny and ridicule.

We must acknowledge that most people are not academically capable nor inclined,
that society equally depends upon the practical active contribution, that even
unskilled work has an essential value, and that no human distinctions of merit
can be made simply between minds and hands.

Exam results indicate hardwork, interest and aptitude.

They do not guarantee future happiness or fulfilment and are not an index of
personal worth.

This country has, many times, been defended by many of no account, and has now
been brought low by many of the well-qualified.

PAUL KILROY, Spennithorpe Avenue, Leeds

Give us our own English parliament

May I refer to the subject of regional assemblies.

Mr Blair (a Scot) by way of a referendum asked the people of Scotland if they
wanted their own parliament, the reply came back yes.

The result of this yes vote is quite significant to the people of England. The
Oxford English Reference Dictionary (1996) under the heading country reads: The
territory of a nation with its own government.

Mr Blair is offering England regional assemblies. If this goes through, we will
have a situation whereby Scotland with a parliament is a nation and England with
regional assemblies is nothing.

As an Englishman I demand an English parliament, with members elected by the
English and answerable to the English.

I do not want regional assemblies answerable only to Brussels.

STEVE WALLIS, Sigglesthorne, East Riding, Yorkshire

Guided bus lane folly

As usual preposterous claims are made to justify the waste of money spent on
guided bus lanes.

Most of the congestion in cities is caused by traffic control methods foisted on
the motoring public by politically-motivated labour councillors.

Why else would we have the vast expense of the inner city loop road with its
traffic lights designed to slow the free flow of traffic thereby in itself
creating pollution?

If the city council was really serious about public transport all they need to
do is have a trip to Prague or Warsaw to see how public transport can really
work!

Do away with the one man buses. All tickets should be prepaid, buses should be
stopped for no more than one minute at any stop and roads should be returned to
their original width. Many things could be done at minimal expense if only the
council had some foresight instead of following the old Labour anti-car agenda.

G GARTON, e-mail, Leeds

New rights for disabled children

As children return to school they may see that some of their classmates have
disabilities or special educational needs. This is because new rights for
disabled children have now become law, making it easier for them to attend
mainstream schools

At Contact a Family', the national charity which helps families of disabled
children, we have produced an easy to understand pack, a parents' guide on
rights from nursery to university to help parents find their way through the new
legislation.

The pack explains the disability provision of the Special Educational Needs and
Disability Act 2001 which makes it unlawful to discriminate against disabled
children in education and strengthens the rights of children to participate in
all aspects of schooling.

We would like to encourage anyone who would like more information or a copy of
the pack to contact our helpline 0808 808 3555.

FRANCINE BATES, Chief Executive, Contact a Family

Too tolerant

I agree with Sylvia Halliday. We are a tolerant people, much to our own
detriment at times. We should not be using the river Aire for such ceremonies.

When in Rome, do as the Romans do. Another thing which is ridiculous is giving
free driving lessons to asylum seekers.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              163 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 23, 2002

INTERPOL IN FRANTIC HUNT FOR 29 AL QAEDA FANATICS HEADING FOR BRITAIN TO BLOW UP
HIGH-RISE APARTMENT BLOCKS; RACE TOSTOP ATTACK ON UK

BYLINE: By Allan Hall and John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 447 words


A GROUP of Al Qaeda fanatics have been sent on a terror mission to Britain,
intelligence sources confirmed yesterday.

Interpol are frantically searching for the 29-strong group, currently believed
to be in Germany. But one, a key Taliban figure from Kabul, is said to have
already arrived in the UK via the "people-smuggling" routes used by
asylum-seekers. Another is being held by Slovakian police.

Their plan, according to intelligence officers in Germany, is to blow up
high-rise residential buildings with explosive fashioned from chemicals bought
at hardware stores.

Yesterday's claim of imminent terror attacks was made in Germany's Frankfurter
Allgemeine newspaper. It said the terrorists, some of whom are also Taliban
veterans from Afghanistan, were smuggled into western Europe via Bulgaria, the
Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria.

The paper said: "The target country is Great Britain where the aim is to form a
new group and plot possible actions."

The plans were forged at the Lebanese terror summit revealed by the Daily
Express yesterday, attended by leaders of Hezbollah, Hamas and Osama Bin Laden's
Al Qaeda.

The report said the suspects headed west in two groups. One group of 16 was
briefly arrested on the border between Slovakia and Hungary having paid GBP
1,300 each to Afghan people smugglers based in Bulgaria to get to the West. They
were placed in an asylum hostel in Slovakia. Police, subsequently made aware of
their true identity, went to detain the men but discovered they had shaved off
their beards and moustaches and escaped.

One man, Malek Imran, 27, from Kabul, was caught. He is believed to have
revealed the details of the murderous mission to Slovakian interrogators.

Another of the missing men has since been identified as Ahmed Zija, the former
brutal governor of a Taliban jail in Kabul. He is believed to be in Britain.

Other members of the gang have been named as Humajun Azizi, 32, Shabir Ahmad,
Wakil Ahmad, 18, Rahman Latif, 20, Kazim Mazlumjar, 50, Nodia Mohamadi, 59,
Abdul Rahmani, 20, and Muhamed Zaker, 20.

They were all present at a March conference in Lebanon in which members of
terror groups including Al Qaeda, Hamas, Hezbollah, Egyptian Islamic Jihad and
three other Islamic organisations were present. They resolved to provide each
other with support and to carry out the attacks in the UK.

A Home Office spokesman said: "Whilst we don't comment on intelligence, we don't
believe the overall threat to the UK has increased beyond the heightened levels
following the events of September 11. We believe that attacks against the United
States' interests remain Bin Laden's priority."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              164 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               November 10, 2002

BOMBERS 'WILL BLAST BRITAIN BY CHRISTMAS'

BYLINE: by SANDRO MONETTI and MICHAEL BOOKER EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 405 words


AL-QAIDA terrorists will attack Britain before Christmas, spy chiefs have warned
Tony Blair.

The threat is so serious that three top level meetings of the Prime Minister's
emergencies committee have been called in the past week to discuss the danger -
two of them in a single day.

The Daily Star Sunday has learned that Mr Blair was told more than a week ago
that intelligence pointing to an attack in the next two months was as clear as
it was before last year's September 11 atrocities.

The revelations will strengthen calls for the Government to come clean about
exactly what they know after the Home Secretary tried to withdraw a warning last
week that Britain should be braced for a poison gas or dirty bomb attack.

The Joint Intelligence Committee, which has drawn up the threat assessments
based on information from MI6 and the CIA, has not been able to pinpoint how,
when or where the terrorists will strike.

But everything from a September 11style attack on Canary Wharf or the House of
Commons to suicide bomb blasts on trains or boats, or even a high profile
assassination attempt has been considered at tense sessions of the top secret
Cobra emergency committee.

A senior security source said: "Cobra has met three times - that's how seriously
they take this. They are very, very worried. It is the most serious situation
since September 11.

"The best assessment is that we will be hit with something big before Christmas.

"Nothing has been ruled out. The analysts are looking at gas, dirty bombs,
planes - you name it. They are looking at car bombs and ships. There is good
intelligence and they are very, very worried indeed.

Alert levels at British miilitary establishments were raised last weekend and
the number of armed police patrolling Parliament was increased amid
unprecedented security for yesterday's Lord Mayor's Show.

The nuclear and chemical research facilities at Aldermaston and Porton Down are
also on full alert.

The Daily Star Sunday was tipped off about the new threat last Tuesday, two days
before the Home Office mistakenly issued a briefing paper in which Mr Blunkett
detailed the threats.

That was later replaced with a bland warning about attacks on "key economic
targets".

Interpol chief Ronald Noble warned a day later that Osama bin Laden was alive
and al-Qaida was "preparing simultaneous attacks" in several countries at the
same time.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              165 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 09, 2002, Monday

'Towering Day' conference at mosque

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 175 words

RADICAL Muslim clerics based in Britain are organising a conference to be held
on September 11 under the banner of A Towering Day in History.

The event will address "the lessons, benefit and harm" of the terrorist attacks.

It will be held at Finsbury Park mosque, north London, where Zacarias Moussaoui,
the so-called 20th hijacker currently in prison in the United States, and
Richard Reid, the so-called shoe bomber who allegedly tried to blow up a
transatlantic airliner, were worshippers.

The conference has been advertised on the website of the extremist group
al-Muhajiroun, some of whose members boasted of recruiting young British Muslims
to fight for the Taliban. Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of al-Muhajiroun,
will speak on "the positive outcomes" of September 11.

Sheikh Abu Hamza al Masri, the imam of Finsbury Park mosque, will also speak. He
is currently at the centre of an FBI inquiry into attempts to organise terrorist
training in the United States and has had his assets frozen.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              166 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 9, 2002

You Must Take Part Of Blame, Us Is Told

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 368 words


A majority of people in six European countries believe America was partly to
blame for the terrorist atrocities on September 11, a survey has revealed.
Researchers interviewing people in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands and Poland found the French were most critical, with 63 per cent
saying US foreign policy contributed to the attacks. The Italians were the least
critical, just over half of them blamed US policy for September 11.

Among the other four countries, 57 per cent of Britons, 52 per cent of Germans,
59 per cent of Dutch and 54 per cent of Poles saw such a connection.

Marshall Bouton, president of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, said
yesterday the poll found that many Europeans disagreed with how the US has
handled conflicts in the Middle East.

Mr Bouton said that when he was in France some residents told him they perceived
US policy as anti-Muslim.

They believe "it has provided the sea in which the terrorist can swim, so to
speak", he said.

Europeans were more critical of the Bush administration's handling of foreign
policy than Americans. Just 38 per cent said it was "excellent" or "good", while
56 per cent said it was "poor".

Americans gave the Bush administration's foreign policy higher marks, with 40
per cent rating it as "good." Despite their differences, Americans and Europeans
share many of the same views, said Steve Grand, an official with the German
Marshall Fund.

Mr Grand said the September 11 events have strengthened the bond between the US
and its European a l l i e s.

"It's brought Americans to be more internationalist, recognising that America
has more of an important role in the world, " he said.

"At the same time it's made Europeans more sensitive to the threats, and you see
a real readiness on the part of Europeans to address those new threats."
Researchers interviewed 6,001 Europeans and 3,262 Americans for the survey,
which was conducted in June by Mori and Harris Interactive on behalf of the
Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, which promotes public awareness of
international issues, and the German Marshall Fund, an organisation which tries
to improve foreign relations.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              167 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               November 11, 2002

Blair In Terrorist Warning

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 132 words


Prime Minister Tony Blair was today issuing a stark warning that Islamic
militants could bring their terror campaign to the UK.  He was due to spell out
in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror attacks at
home.

His warning comes just days after the Government was accused of unnecessarily
sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing - a statement
detailing possible al Qaida tactics including 'dirty' nuclear bombs and attacks
on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that Osama bin Laden's international terror network
remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, Mr Blair will say at the Lord Mayor's banquet tonight.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              168 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 3, 2002

(pounds) 33bn wiped off shares as UK is caught in Wall Street fall

BYLINE: Christopher Hope City Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 164 words


BRITAIN'S biggest businesses saw their value fall by (pounds) 33bn as fragile
investor confidence continued to rock the London stock market.

The jitters in London spread from Wall Street, suffering from the WorldCom and
Enron ac-counting scandals and fears of terrorist attacks tomorrow to coincide
with US independence day. The Dow Jones index slumped below its post-September
11 low, accelerating the decline in London where the FTSE 100 Index eventually
closed 139 points, or 3%, down at 4546.8.

The news came as the City's watchdog, the Financial Services Authority, said it
was concerned the world's corporate books were being checked by only a handful
of accountancy firms.

Companies, meanwhile, were granted a reprieve from a rule which has prompted
many employers to scrap final salary pension schemes. The Accounting Standards
Board intends to delay until 2005 the deadline for firms to reflect the value of
their pension funds on their balance sheets.

LOAD-DATE: July 03, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 4, 2002

BUDGET FIRM EASYJET TO BUY RIVAL GO

BYLINE: By Sarah Westcott Consumer Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words


ONE of Britain's biggest budget airlines is planning a huge expansion by buying
its closest rival, it confirmed last night.

No-frills airline easyJet plans to swallow arch rival Go, which was formerly
owned by British Airways.

Takeover talks, already at an "advanced stage", were made public following a
leak.

Luton-based easyJet insisted the deal would be in the best interests of
shareholders, customers and staff.

The airline has made no secret of its ambitious plans to expand in the European
shorthaul market and is planning new routes with 75 new aircraft.

It said last night that since the terrorist attacks of September 11 the
opportunities to expand had increased.

A spokeswoman for 3i, the venture capital group which owns Go, said easyJet had
approached the board of the company a few months ago.

The announcement comes just two weeks after Stelios Haji-Ioannou, easyJet's
flamboyant founder and chairman, announced he was quitting.

The Greek tycoon will resign as chairman next year, almost seven years after he
first set about building up the business with a loan from his wealthy father.
The airline's distinctive orange aircraft are a familiar sight flying out of
Luton and Liverpool airports to a host of European destinations, including
Amsterdam, Nice, Malaga and Madrid.

It flies to 45 destinations using 31 aircraft. Only budget carrier Ryanair holds
a bigger share of the market. Its main base is Luton in Bedfordshire. The
airline employs 1,900 staff and posted profits of GBP 40.1million for the year
ending September 2001 on turnover of GBP 356million.

Go started as a British Airways subsidiary in May 1998 under the leadership of
American Barbara Cassani.

Based at Stansted in Essex, the airline operates a 22-strong fleet of Boeing 737
aircraft to 38 destinations. Independent from BA since last year, Go has 900
employees and also operates from Bristol and East Midlands airports.

Phil Evans, of the Consumers' Association, said last night:

"There does not seem to be any market overlap so a merger could create an even
stronger competitor for British Airways."

But it could cause serious problems for low-cost rivals such as Ireland's
Ryanair.

The low-fare carriers have generally bucked the downward trend since September
11. Even business executives now shun the major airlines and favour no-frills
operators.

Two weeks ago, after Stelios's shock announcement, he warned: "You have not got
rid of me." The tycoon insisted the timing was "perfect" for him to pour his
energies into other ventures such as cinemas with 20p seats, and his Internet
cafes and car hire firms which are losing money.

EasyDorm is also planned - a budget hostel where guests can sleep in partitioned
beds for just GBP 5 a night.

He said: "I am a serial entrepreneur - that is what I like doing at heart. The
history of the City is littered with entrepreneurs who hold on to their
creations for too long."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              170 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 6, 2002

POLICE HUNT AL QAEDA HENCHMEN AMID FEARS FANATICS ARE PLOTTING TO SEIZE FERRIES;
CRUISE SHIPS ON ALERT OVER TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: By Alan Hall and Paul Broster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 767 words


BRITISH ports were on full terror alert last night amid fears that Al Qaeda
suicide fanatics were plotting to seize cruise liners and crosschannel ferries.

The threat was confirmed by police hunting for 30 terrorists believed to be
hellbent on mass kidnappings across Europe in an attempt to pressurise merica to
release suspects.

All British services, including ferries to France and ships from northern ports
to Holland and Scandanavia, are viewed as potential targets.

The threat, following a tip-off to German intelligence officers, raised the
terrifying possibility of a switch in tactics by terrorists eight months after
the airline hijackings of September 11.

Germany's Federal Office of Criminal Investigation, which is working with
Britain and other European partners to combat the threat of groups linked to
Osama Bin Laden, said it was taking the new information about sea attacks "very
seriously."

Office vice-president Bernhard Falk said: "The intelligence we received included
threats to destroy occupied ships if the demands of the pirates ere not met."

Security at all British ports and airports was stepped up in the wake of the
September 11 attacks in New York and Washington. Armed police were brought in at
Dover and French soldiers in battle fatigues patrolled at Calais.

The latest alert comes just a week after Interpol began hunting for three men
believed to be organising a 30strong suicide squad to launch mass hostage-taking
raids in Britain, France and Germany.

A precedent for terror strikes at sea as set in October, 1985, when Palestinian
fanatics seized the Achille Lauro cruise ship and murdered a 69-year-old Jewish
passenger by dumping him overboard in his wheelchair.

Last December there was a scare when a freighter feared to be carrying a deadly
cargo of anthrax or explosives was intercepted in the English Channel by the
Special Boat Service.

According to intelligence reports, the 30 suspects and their ringleaders from
Iran, Yemen, Iraq and Sudan, have received training in pre-liberated
Afghanistan. Officials warn that the gang will not hesitate to kill themselves
and their hostages if their demands are not met.

Nine Palestinians arrested 11 days ago in Germany, who were members of a
fanatical Divine Unity sect with links to Osama Bin Laden's network, supplied
police with information that strikes were planned in Britain. Then it was feared
that churches, concert halls and cinemas were prime targets.

An intelligence statement leaked to Germany's influential newspaper Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung read: "From information we received the plans were for the
seizing of hostages in Britain, France and Germany within the next 20 days in a
bid to pressure authorities in both Europe and America to release arrested
suspects of the Al Qaeda terrorist organisation."

An official added: "We are under heavy pressure to find these men."

The leaked document also included information from the FBI that Zia Hal Munid, a
Los Angeles-based Arabic fanatic, had bankrolled attacks by promising the gang
GBP 75,000 each for their involvement. One of three suspected ringleaders, who
are being hunted in an Interpol operation stretching from Calais to the Balkans,
was named as Schah Ahmed Pergham. The other two were identified by their code
names only, Raschid and Nisa.

Britain, France and Germany have been targeted, according to German
intelligence, because of their military commitment to the American-led war
against terror in Afghanistan.

Meanwhile, America was facing a fresh terrorist threat after pipe bomb attacks
injured six people. Four postal workers and two residents were taken to hospital
after four devices exploded in mail boxes in the Midwest. Another two bombs
failed to detonate.

The attacks took to 14 the number of mailbox bombs delivered to homes in
Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska since Friday. A note found with the bombs warned of
more "attention getters".

FBI agent Weysan Dun said: "To the individual responsible for this, I would like
to say: 'You have gotten our attention. We're not certain we understand your
message and we would like to hear from you. We are listening, you have our
attention.'" Each of the Illinois and Iowa bombs were accompanied by almost
threatening letters.

One said: "Mailboxes are exploding!

Why, you ask? If the government controls what you want to do they control what
you can do. I'm obtaining your attention in the only way I can. More info is on
its way. More 'attention getters' are on the way." It was signed: "Someone who
cares."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              171 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 2002

Dark thoughts Pinter tells of illness and its aftermath

BYLINE: Kirsty Scott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words


Harold Pinter spoke candidly yesterday of the "dark world" of his battle with
cancer, and of his determination to keep agitating on political issues.

Pinter, 71, one of Britain's most distinguished playwrights, told an audience at
the Edinburgh international book festival that a tumour in his oesophagus had
been removed and he now intended to be "even more of a pain in the arse" for the
government.

A long-term critic of American militarism and Britain's support for it, he
attacked Tony Blair for considering military action in Iraq, and said the prime
minister and the former US president Bill Clinton should be tried as war
criminals for bombing Serbia during the war over Kosovo.

In January Pinter was diagnosed with cancer of the oesophagus. He paid tribute
to his wife, Lady Antonia Fraser, and his surgeon for seeing him through the
worst of times.

"I found myself in a very dark world which was impossible to interpret," he
said. "I could not work it out. I was somewhere else, another place altogether,
not very pleasant. It is like being plunged into an ocean in which you can't
swim. You have no idea how to get out of it. You simply float about, bob about,
hit terrible waves. It is all very dark, really. The thing is: here I am."

Pinter admitted that his view on life had altered. "For many, many years I have
been politically engaged and quite passionately so. Now I am no less
passionately engaged, nevertheless I think I have come out of this experience
with a more detached point of view." But he was harshly critical of Britain's
potential involvement in any new military action against Iraq.

"If you bomb Iraq you are not going to kill Saddam Hussein. What you will do is
kill, as usual, thousands of innocent people. How Tony Blair can work that out
morally is beyond me."

Pinter, who has spoken out against the trial of Slobodan Milosevic at the
international tribunal in the Hague, told the audience of an eyewitness account
of the killing of a young girl by a Nato bomb during the war over Kosovo. "The
head of that little girl was never, and would never be, recognised by prime
minister Blair or President Clinton," he said. "The death and cutting off of the
head of that little girl would be totally irrelevant to those people, so
therefore I contend that Clinton and Blair should be arraigned as war
criminals."

He also described the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US as a "dramatic
act of retaliation" against America's "stranglehold" on the world.

Puttnam warns Blair, page 6


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                December 2, 2002

Al-Qaeda's e-mail war

SECTION: News :Other :War, Pg.6

LENGTH: 158 words


BRITISH and US spy centres are being bombarded with fake messages from terrorist
organisation al-Qaeda.

MI6 and the CIA said the sheer volume of messages sent by the terrorist group
could be enough to confuse Western intelligence agencies and disguise genuine
al-Qaeda communications.

They said up to 10million messages were being received by intelligence chiefs
via telephones, faxes and e-mails every hour.

Such large amounts of electronic mail are known as "chatter", the levels of
which dramatically multiply just before an al-Qaeda attack.

Computers at Britain's global listening headquarters at Cheltenham, GCHQ, sort
through the messages for keywords, which are then passed on to the secret
services and military agencies for analysis.

The "chatter" could explain the delay in issuing a warning about last week's
attacks in Mombasa, when travellers were given just 40 hours notice of possible
terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              173 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 25, 2002

WE CAN COPE, BLAIR INSISTS

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 331 words


TONY Blair yesterday dismissed MPs' claims that Britain was not adequately
equipped to cope with a terrorist attack on the scale of last autumn's outrages
against America.

The Prime Minister told the Commons: "I don't accept that we have not made the
most urgent preparations following September 11."

Urged by the Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith to take personal charge rather than
"leaving it to others to war and fight amongst each other", Mr Blair said
criticisms by the Defence Select Committee would be studied.

But there had been "massive" training of police officers, ambulance staff and
Health Service workers, GBP 250million extra to strengthen the anti-terrorist
regime and a 6.4 per cent boost to spending on security and intelligence
services.

"We are in a dilemma between protecting ourselves against every potential threat
and possibly spending billions of pounds, and taking no proper preparations at
all. We believe we have got the balance right, " said Mr Blair.

The committee said there had been "inadequate central coordination and
direction" in drawing up plans to cope with an incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked equipment and training to cope with a chemical,
biological or nuclear attack, and crucial radio equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

Ministers had failed to mount a "proper and comprehensive" review of disaster
management after September 11, it claimed.

Chairman Bruce George said a minister with more time than Home Secretary David
Blunkett should be appointed to spearhead improvements.

Mr George added: "We have identified weaknesses. I hope the Government will not
react, as they sometimes do, in a hostile, self-defence posture."

Mr Blair's spokesman said there had been a review and a lot had been done at
local level. Britain had been better placed than many other countries to deal
with threats, because of its past experience of terrorism: "However we are not
complacent, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              174 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 6, 2002, Sunday

WHYON EARTH WAS HE ALLOWED BACK?;
 FANANTIC WHO CALLED FOR TERROR ATTACKS ON BRITAIN RETURNS TO UK

BYLINE: Amardeep Bassey Investigations Editor BACK IN BRITAIN ... student Hassan
Butt who was exposed by the; Mercury after recruiting British Muslims to fight
for the Taliban. Also due to speak today is claw-handed cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza
and al-Muhajiroun leader Sheikh Omar Bakri

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 456 words


A FORMER Midland student who urged British Muslims to launch terror attacks in
the UK has returned from Pakistan to address a 'holy war' rally today.

Hassan Butt, a worker for the al-Muhajiroun militant group, was exposed by the
Sunday Mercury after boasting how he had recruited hundreds of young men to
fight alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The former University of Wolverhampton drop-out later encouraged British Muslims
to hit targets in the UK.

His comments, made while in Pakistan, provoked outrage and led to calls for his
arrest for incitement and promoting terrorism if he ever returned to these
shores.

But today the 23 year-old is set to address more than 300 supporters when he
speaks at a Manchester conference provocatively titled 'Jihad (Holy War) in the
UK.'

Other speakers advertised include al-Muhajiroun leader Sheikh Omar Bakri, who
two years ago told the Sunday Mercury he believed Tony Blair was a 'legitimate
target for assassination.'

The notorious claw-handed cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza is also due to address the
conference about the 'War on Islam.'

His son is currently being detained in Yemen after being convicted of terrorist
offences. Several Birmingham men were arrested in Yemen with him but were
eventually released. The Sunday Mercury was the first British newspaper to
interview Luton-born Butt at his secret hideout in Pakistan last November.

The self-styled mujhadeen leader told how he wished to become martyred like
other British Muslims who had lost their lives fighting against the Americans.

In a later interview, Butt claimed he was instrumental in directing three Tipton
men to Afghanistan after they visited him in Pakistan, hoping to join the
Taliban.

The three were later captured by Afghan Northern Alliance forces and are
currently being held by the Americans at the Guantanamo Bay base.

Butt said he had discouraged them from fighting and instead advised them to help
provide aid for the hundreds of Afghan refugees in the Pakistan/Afghan border
areas.

At today's meeting Butt, who now heads a new Islamic militant offshoot of al
-Muhajiroun called Harkatul Khilafah, is expected to re-issue his rallying call
to young British Muslims to launch a terrorist offensive on British shores.

And he will cite the British government's compliance with a planned American
attack of Iraq as an attack on Islam.

Calls for his arrest for treason have largely fallen on deaf ears because of the
difficulty in producing concrete evidence to support the charge.

Last year Butt tried to sell his story to a national newspaper - and boasted how
easy it was for him to sneak in and out of the UK despite his repeated diatribes
against the West.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              175 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 3, 2002, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: COMMANDOH!;
 MARINES ARE HELD UP AS PRESIDENT MIXES UP NUMBERS

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 433 words

HIGHLIGHT: READY FOR ACTION: Marines from 45 Commando training in Britain before
being shipped out to Afghanistan; MIX-UP: Gen Pervez Musharraf


MARINES heading for Afghanistan to take on al-Qaeda were delayed by an
extraordinary diplomatic mix-up.

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf gave 45 Commando's battle group permission
to reach the war zone through his country - thinking there were only 45
commandos in the unit.

When aides told him their total strength was really 1,700 he was worried their
presence would cause a riot.

Officials also feared it would provoke a terrorist attack from Muslim extremists
and said they could not offer enough protection for the force.

General Musharraf withdrew the offer in an embarrassing phone call to allied
commanders. And HMS Ocean, which was carrying 45 Commando, had to change course
for a friendly nation in the Gulf instead.

The incident, which threatened to throw the whole deployment into farce, is all
the more embarrassing for Musharraf because of his British military training.

The general was a pupil at Sandhurst 30 years ago, where knowledge of all
military units' names was elementary.

The misunderstanding came in a phone conversation between Musharraf and US
commander General Tommy Franks.

A British defence source said: "It does seem a pretty incredible mistake to
make, especially for someone like Musharraf with his background. But sometimes
military names and terms can confuse even the most senior people.

"Luckily his U-turn hasn't thrown our plans to off course as his error was
spotted a few days later.

"Transiting the men into Afghanistan through Karachi was the preferred and
quicker option. But another route in the Middle East is now being used that will
take a little longer."

The commandos, stacks of ammunition and their battery of 105mm guns are being
unloaded from the ship and flown to Kabul in RAF C130 Hercules transporters.

An advance party of around 120 marines arrived at Bagram airbase north of Kabul
last night and began preparations for the full force's arrival by mid-April.
Sources said combat operations will not begin until towards the end of the month
to give the commandos time to acclimatise to altitudes of up to 13,000ft where
they may be fighting.

More SAS and Special Boat Service troops are also believed to be arriving in
Afghanistan to help hunt down al-Qaeda and Taliban fighters.

-A ROYAL Marines Commando is the equivalent of a battalion in the Army with 600
infantry soldiers.

Arbroath based 45 Commando, under the command of Brigadier Roger Lane, has been
turned into a larger battle group with the addition of commando trained
artillery gunners and a host of support units.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              176 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                              May 13, 2002, Monday

TELLY: SPYING ON SECRET SERVICES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 391 words


THEY have the sort of gadgets that make James Bond green with envy.

Spooks is a gripping drama set behind the scenes of the modern British Security
Service MI5.

Jenny Agutter, Matthew MacFadyen and Keeley Hawes head the cast in what promises
to lift the lid off Britain's secret services, looking at what it's like to be a
spy through the eyes of spies.

It was in World War II that MI5's performance in running a stable of double
agents set the standard for future activities. They are still regarded as a
textbook example of how such operations should be conducted.

Linking fact with fiction were 1970s classics such as The Professionals, plus
the 007 films which are as popular as ever today. So if you are a lover of
tense, exciting drama, then this new series could be for you.

The BBC has plugged it constantly during the past few weeks, and no wonder - it
cost pounds 5m to make, so executives will be hoping it does well in the
ratings.

With Lisa Faulkner, Peter Firth and David Oyelowo also taking lead roles, that
shouldn't be a problem.

Plot themes include terrorist threats, an embassy siege - and artificial dog
dirt.

"There was one real story we came across and used, in which a fake piece of dog
dirt was left under trees in a big park with notes inside for a case worker to
get," says producer Jane Featherstone.

However, she also promises "Big substantial stories. We are not trying to
undermine the secret services or MI5, but they let you into a world that you've
never seen before.

"It's a grey world they live in, and it's a grey world that we try to show. We
have tried to give it that complexity: they are fallible, like anyone else."

In the wake of the September 11 attacks, advanced knowledge of enemy plans has
never been more urgent. Today's technology means there are new and previously
unheard of methods of crippling the opposition.

Gareth Neame, head of Independent Drama Commissioning for the BBC, says: "In a
world where the role of the intelligence services and secret agents is being
thrown into greater relief, Spooks is a timely new drama from a first-class
creative team and a superb cast.

"MI5 are in the news every day - they're in the front line in the war against
terrorism. But, until now, how they go about it has been hidden."

Spooks (BBC1, 9pm)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              177 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 7, 2002

Travelling man

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 508 words


RATHER than use his visit to India and Pakistan as an opportunity to engage in
some hard bargaining with these two frosty neighbours, the British Prime
Minister has seen it as a platform to espouse the Blair doctrine on
international affairs.

This rather frothy cocktail of platitudes, muddled idealism and overweening
ambition was listened to with undue respect by his dignified hosts. When he did
venture to suggest that his Indian hosts exercise caution over their fight with
Pakistan-sponsored terrorism, the Prime Minister was rightly on the receiving
end of a very public criticism. If Britain and American could have a free hand
in Afghanistan, why should India not be able to use all means to defeat the
foreign-backed terrorists making mayhem within its borders?

India's sharp rebuke brought home a hard truth for Tony Blair - that, without
the big guns of the United States behind him, Britain throws a very light punch
indeed. As the Prime Minister's new friend in Texas might say in an unguarded
moment, Mr Blair is all hat and no cattle. The best that Mr Blair can strive for
is to alienate neither New Delhi nor Islamabad on his whistle-stop tour. That,
after all, is what Labour MPs with sizeable Pakistani and Indian populations in
their constituencies will be wanting.

But such diplomacy has done little to advance the cause of peace in this most
volatile and dangerous of regions. Mr Blair's weakness was evident from the
outset. His spin doctors did their best to downplay the significance of the
visit, saying it had been planned long in advance of September 11. The
succession of photo-opportunities certainly made it appear as if the Islamic
terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre in New York had not happened and that
American aircraft and special forces were not at war in neighbouring
Afghanistan. Yet no one can think that his Indian hosts will have been silent on
the matter.

Only last month their parliament was attacked by Islamic suicide bombers, armed,
trained and possibly financed by militants in Pakistan. Mr Blair will have
offered sympathy for their plight, but will have refused to draw a direct
parallel between the events in New York and New Delhi. It would not be right, Mr
Blair will have said, for the Indians to launch air and ground attacks on the
terrorist training camps in Pakistan, as the Americans did in Afghanistan
following September 11.

But what should the Indians do? Thus far, they have registered their anger in a
series of measured and graduated responses, from the withdrawal of diplomatic
missions to Islamabad to the massing of troops on the border. They have also
spoken darkly of their willingness to use all weapons at their disposal - a
clear reference to their nuclear warheads. This threat, it must be hoped, will
have been made chiefly to warn the West (as if it needed the warning) of the
potential dangers inherent in the Kashmir conflict and to remind the Americans
not to neglect the interests of India in their sudden tilt towards Pakistan.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              178 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

JUDGES TO DECIDE ON FAMILY'S FATE;
 AFGHANS FACE DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Alison Dayani UNCERTAIN FUTURE: Campaigner Soraya Walton joins Feriba
Ahmadi and her children Seera and Hadia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 307 words


JUDGES at London's High Court were today deciding whether to halt the imminent
deportation of a refugee Afghan family who have settled in the Black Country.
Residents in Lye fighting to keep refugees Farid Ahmadi, his wife Feriba and two
young children in the country have won the chance of an eleventh hour reprieve.

Campaign leader Soraya Walton yesterday found a solicitor in London to take on
the Ahmadi family's case and lodge an appeal with the High Court.

Judges were today deciding whether to allow the appeal and postpone the family's
deportation tomorrow until the case is heard.

Miss Walton, who is chair of governor's at the Afghan children's school,
Wollescote Primary, said: 'I searched everywhere for a solicitor to take on this
case and finally found one in London.

'The High Court will today decide whether there are grounds for an appeal. If
they decide there is, the deportation will be postponed, if not the family will
be deported as planned.

'Whatever the decision, the important thing is that the family will get the
chance to have a voice and be heard. That is what this country is all about.

'They have suffered a great deal, but the decision on their future now lies with
the High Court.'

Miss Walton decided to help the family following the death of her American aunt
Touri Bolourbhi, who was on the second plane that crashed into the World Trade
Center in the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York. She said the death had
forced her to become more humanitarian.

The Ahmadis claim they fled Afghanistan with their children Seera, aged three,
and Hadia, six, and tried to smuggle themselves into Britain in the back of a
lorry after being tortured by the Taliban.

Residents in Lye have embraced the family since the Home Office placed them in
the town in January last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              179 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 29, 2002, Tuesday

NO ESCAPE!;
 FATE OF TIPTON TERROR SUSPECTS IN HANDS OF US

BYLINE: Dale Williams DETAINED: Asif Iqbal, aged 20 and 24-year-old Shafiq
Rasool, both from Tipton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 487 words


MIDLANDS terror suspects must stay in American hands and await their fate behind
the razor wire at Cuba's notorious Camp X-Ray.

That was the verdict today from British Government officials - a decision which
will bitterly disappoint relatives in their Black Country home town of Tipton.

The Prime Minister's office said the British prisoners would only return to
Britain 'at the request of the United States.' This has slammed the door on any
concerted Government bid to bring the Tipton terror suspects home.

Meanwhile, brothers Habib and Murtaza Rasool, of Tipton, said today they wanted
to travel to the US and then on to Cuba to speak to their imprisoned brother,
24-year-old Shafiq .

The White House said the detainees would be allowed to receive correspondence -
but not given the full rights of prisoners of war. That is almost certain to
halt any visits from relatives.

Rasool is being held along with pal Asif Iqbal, 20, also from Tipton. Meanwhile,
a school friend of the pair, Ruhal Ahmed, 20, is one of two British terror
suspects being held by American forces in the former Taliban stronghold of
Kandahar.

The Foreign Office has refused to say whether Ahmed would be moved to Cuba or
confirm if a fourth man being held with him is another friend, Munir Ali, 21,
also from Tipton, who has been reported missing.

Last night it emerged that Ahmed was involved in a gang fight with Iqbal in
Dudley town centre in May, 1998.

Their victim, 16-year-old Rahid Rashid, suffered a broken jaw and cheekbone when
he was attacked with a hammer and bottle.

Ahmed admitted causing actual bodily harm, while Iqbal pleaded guilty guilty to
violent disorder.

Both were given community service orders and ordered to pay pounds 500
compensation each.

In the past two days Rasool, Iqbal and another Camp X-Ray prisoner, Feroz
Abbasi, from Croydon, have spoken to a US Navy chaplain who said they were
'anxious and they want to go home'.

The cleric said: 'They fear they have brought shame on their families and they
have requested to send messages home to their loved ones.'

Today the Rasool family said they would continue to lobby Prime Minister Tony
Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw to ensure they can gain access to the
camp.

They are also urging Whitehall to lobby for his freedom and maintain Shafiq is
'100 per cent' innocent.

They have been liaising with the Foreign Office and yesterday gained
confirmation Shafiq was at the camp and in good health.

Habib said: 'We just want to contact him or see him and talk to him to make sure
he is OK and to find out what has happened.'

The Government today revealed that up to 100 Britons could be in custody for
backing Osama bin Laden.

A Foreign Office spokesman said scores of other Britons were likely to emerge as
prisoners in Afghanistan. A 'significant number' are expected to be from the
West Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              180 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 26, 2002, Saturday

END OF LAST YEAR SAW SLOW-DOWN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 252 words


BRITAIN'S economy slowed significantly in the last three months of 2001,
official figures showed yesterday.

Data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) showed growth slowed to 0.2
per cent in the fourth quarter, a fall from the 0.5 per cent recorded in quarter
three.

Year-on-year, growth was 1.9 per cent in quarter four, a slide from the 2.2 per
cent recorded in quarter three.

The figures show the slowest growth for more than two years.

Year-on-year growth was last lower in the second quarter of 1999, at 1.6 per
cent, while quarter-on-quarter growth was last lower in the first quarter of
that year, at 0.1 per cent.

However, the last quarter's figures were above economists' expectations.

Some had forecast growth grinding to a complete halt due to the September 11
terror attacks in the United States.

Economists view the fourth quarter as being the trough of the economic cycle and
say figures should perk up in the first quarter this year.

The last quarter's figures were hit by sharp falls in manufacturing, while the
oil and gas extraction industries also fell.

The energy supply industry also declined a little over the quarter, affected by
the warmer weather. But service industries were estimated to have grown at a
higher rate than the previous quarter.

Full year figures for 2001 from the ONS show the economy grew 2.4 per cent over
the year.

The UK has now registered growth since 1992, for nine-and-a-half years, or 38
successive quarters.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              181 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 15, 2002

The evil that knows no bounds;
 Blair to reveal action against Bali bombers

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.10

LENGTH: 425 words


TONY Blair will today reveal how he will hit back against the bloodthirsty
terrorists behind the Bali bomb blast.

The PrimeMinister spent yesterday in emergency telephone talks with world
leaders including US President George Bush about the atrocity.

And he warned the terrorists "will strike anywhere, any time, at any place and
they really do not care how many innocent people they kill".

With the death toll climbing towards 200, the feared total of 33 British victims
makes the terrorist attack on the paradise Indonesian island the worst on the UK
after September 11.

Mr Blair will today announce coordinated international action against the
terrorists who were behind the car bomb attack on the popular Sari nightclub in
the island resort of Kuta and are believed to have links to al-Qaeda.

Downing Street yesterday denied the Government has blundered in switching the
focus of the War on Terror to Iraq, before eliminating Osama bin Laden's murder
network.

Officials insisted al-Qaeda and Saddam Hussein must be targeted together as they
both threaten world stability.

With evidence suggesting the outrage was the work of Muslim extremists, four
Scotland Yard officers from the anti-terrorism SO13 unit flew to Bali to help
the investigation.

Mr Blair will outline his terror crackdown in an emergency statement when the
Commons returns after the long summer break.

Yesterday, in a brief statement outside 10 Downing Street, he said:

"It is important now that we consider what action we can take at an
international level to make sure these groups are dealt with and dealt with
properly before many more innocent lives are lost."

But he admitted: "As these events have shown, it is going to be difficult when
we are dealing with these extremist groups whose activities know no frontiers
and whose evil knows no limits." Mr Blair added: "We have yet again evidence of
the appalling depths to which these extremists will sink.

They are not worried in the least about the numbers of people they kill, about
the total innocence of the people they kill." Home Secretary David Blunkett
denied Britain is much less safe now following the bomb attack and the crisis in
the Northern Ireland peace process.

International figures led by ex-US President Bill Clinton have warned the
obsession with Iraq meant the West's focus on al-Qaeda has dimmed. Critics claim
since the Taliban were defeated, bin Laden's followers have been allowed to
regroup in Pakistan, the Yemen, the Philippines and Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              182 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

POLICE TO REMEMBER VICTIMS OF TERROR RAID;
 SOUTH WALES SPECIALS WILL MARCH IN MEMORY

BYLINE: Nick Sharpe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 257 words


THREE South Wales police officers will march in New York on September 11 to
remember those who died in last year's terrorist attacks.

Steve Davis, Howard Jeffrey and David Boyce will travel to the US to take part
in the remembrance parade on the site of the World Trade Centre and meet New
York mayor Michael Bloomberg.

The special constables, based in Porth and Pontypridd, will join officers from
across Britain who will be paying their respects to those who were killed.

"We are looking forward to taking part in the events on the anniversary of the
September 11 attacks," said Special Constable Steve Davis. "And we're very proud
to be chosen to represent South Wales police."

More than 400 of the 2,800 people who died in the attacks on the World Trade
Centre were rescue workers.

Divisional Commandant John Jones, of South Wales Police, who is sending the
officers to the US, said: "We would like to express our deepest sympathies to
our counterparts in America and we hope the visit by our officers will let them
know that we are thinking of them at this emo-tional time". The officers will
take part in a minute's silence at 8.46am - the exact moment when the first
passenger plane struck. Late in the afternoon, US President Geroge Bush will
visit the site of the attacks.

New York governor George Pataki said that the day should be one of "reflection,
introspection and a day of remembering" and urged people across the world to
take part in the minute's silence, which takes place at 1.46pm in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR STRIKE Thick black smoke billows from the World Trade; Center's
Twin Towers during the fatal day of September 11, 2001. The terrorist attacks on
America resulted in the loss of some 3,000 innocent lives.

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              183 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 31, 2002

Al-Qaeda Alert For New Year'S Eve Revellers

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 347 words


New Year's Eve revellers are being urged to stay "alert but not alarmed" across
the West tonight amid fears of terrorist attacks on Britain.  Security has been
stepped up at the region's ports and airports amid fears of a strike by Osama
bin Laden's terror network.

While it is understood no specific threats have been made, the Government is
anxious to heighten safety precautions throughout the UK. Yesterday, Dorset
police confirmed security had been stepped up at local airports and ports.

The extra patrols were among a number of arrangements to ensure public safety
over the New Year, Chief Inspector John Wort said.

He urged the public to make life more difficult for terrorists by remaining
"alert but not alarmed", adding: "Nationally, the threat of international
terrorism continues to be high and the threat from Irish Republican dissident
groups operating on the UK mainland has not gone away.

"Contingencies are now in place to deal with terrorist-type incidents should
they occur." The force has worked closely with the security services since the
September 11 attacks and senior officers review security across the county
regularly, Ch Insp Wort said.

"There is no room for complacency," he added.

Jackie Broadbridge, a spokesman for Wiltshire police, said "extra vigilance" was
the key to ensuring public safety across the county.

Gloucestershire Constabulary spokesman Suzanne Lightfoot said: "We would
certainly repeat all those messages that we issue at any time of the year. The
public should always be vigilant and report anything suspicious to us." Simon
Reeve, author and terrorism expert, said he believed al-Qaeda intended to kill
as many people as possible and New Year's Eve would prove a "lucrative potential
target" for the organisation.

In London, the Metropolitan Police have urged party-goers to see in the New Year
close to home and avoid central London completely.

Trafalgar Square will be closed tonight and entrance to many Central London
clubs, pubs and restaurants is strictly by ticket only.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              184 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 28, 2002

1bn war chest to fight terror;
 But nothing for firemen in Brown's speech

BYLINE: Matthew George Political Correspondent

SECTION: News :Politics :MPs, Pg.2

LENGTH: 556 words


GORDON Brown yesterday announced a billion pound treasure chest to pay for the
war on terror.

He set aside the cash, earmarked for a possible attack on Iraq in the New Year,
despite a massive increase in Government borrowing.

But the Iron Chancellor used his Pre-Budget Report to warn there is no extra
money for striking firefighters.

Britain will plunge 20billion into the red next year, twice as much as Mr Brown
predicted last April.

However, he insisted the biggest-ever spending spree on schools, hospitals and
the police will go ahead next April as planned and continue for three years.

The Chancellor tried to defuse the pensions timebomb by promising an end to
pension stealth taxes.

He said the new Pension Credit, to come into force next April, will mean a
couple with a 150-a-week income will get an extra 1,100 a year.

Mr Brown told MPs of global political and economic problems, including the
continuing impact of the September 11 terror attacks.

He also pointed to the impact of oil prices, the crisis in many IT firms and
concerns over boardroom corruption and incompetence.

But he said Britain's economy is the strongest of any major nation.

The Chancellor included an extra 1billion to meet the UK's "international
defence responsibilities".

This money will be needed if United Nations weapons inspectors fail in their
mission of disarming dictator Saddam Hussein's nuclear, chemical and biological
arsenals.

Mr Brown did not mention Iraq but if Britain joins a US-led assault, there will
be extra costs including hiring ships and aeroplanes to transport troops and
refits for Challenger tanks knocked out by sand on their last desert exercise in
Oman.

Because Saddam may use chemical and biological weapons, there could also be
massive costs in decontamination and protection.

Some experts warned the money will not be enough to pay for a war of any length
but suggested Mr Brown would not be able to reject a Ministry of Defence request
for funding.

If the US succeed in their ultimate aim of toppling the Baghdad regime, there
will be extra costs to rebuild Iraq under a new government.

Mr Brown insisted the huge spending splurge to make public services world class
will continue, despite lower-than-forecast tax revenues.

Because he refuses to cut costs, he told MPs he will have to borrow more money,
debts will be 20billion this year, when he predicted 11billion last April. Next
year's figure will be 24billion, rather than 15billion.

That is much lower than under the Tories a decade ago and is not a problem
because of the strong long-term position of the economy, he claimed.

Mr Brown admitted growth this year will be 1.6 per cent, not the 2 to 2.5 per
cent he forecast and will be lower over the next few years than he had hoped. He
blamed this on the world economic slowdown which he said is the worst for 30
years.

But shadow chancellor Michael Howard told MPs: "This is a moment of humiliation
for the Chancellor.

"He was forced to admit that his forecasts on growth were wrong, his forecasts
on revenue were wrong, his forecasts on borrowing were wrong.

"These are the downgraded forecasts of a downgraded Chancellor."

To boost enterprise, 2,000 new Enterprise Areas will be created in the most
deprived parts of Britain.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              185 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 29, 2002

TONIGHT on the box;
 Royal Marines at High Readiness, HTV, 7.30pm

BYLINE: TIM DAVEY

SECTION: News, Pg.23

LENGTH: 267 words


OPERATION Saif Saireea 2 is not a name to ring too many bells with the public.

Yet this military exercise in the Gulf state of Oman emerged from relative
obscurity to take centre stage so far as the deployment of some local troops was
concerned.

It had begun at the end of August 2001 when more than 20,000 British troops,
including Taunton-based 40 Commando, began a five-week voyage to Oman to take
part in the military operation.

Operation Saif Saireea 2 was to be the largest military exercise since the end
of the Cold War.

But one month later the presence of our troops in the Gulf had taken on a
completely different relevance for us, the rest of the world - and those men
from 40 Commando in deepest Somerset.

Tonight we'll see how as producer Mike Lomas brings us Royal Marines At High
Readiness, detailing the Marines involvement Their exercise went ahead as
planned but then the horrors of September 11 and the terrorist attacks on
America intervened.

So, just six weeks later, on October 26, came the announcement in Parliament
that many of 40 Commando had been anticipating.

Adam Ingram MP, Armed Forces Minister, announced that 200 of 40 Commando would
remain in Oman aboard HMS Fearless as elite elements of an immediately available
force to help support operations, while a further 400 were to return to Britain
and remain at a state of high readiness ready to return if needed.

Featuring exclusive footage shot in the Omani desert on exercise with the
Marines, Royal Marines at High Readiness follows the unit as they go through
their preparations.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              186 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 20, 2002

Business: National Express still hurting from Hatfield

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 228 words


BRITAIN'S biggest train operator, National Express, today reported a 10% rise in
underlying profits for 2001 but said the effects of the Hatfield derailment
nearly 18 months ago continue to hurt the company.

Chief executive Phil White revealed that even after all the problems on the
railways, profits from the group's London franchises - the Essex line into
Fenchurch Street, Silverlink and the Gatwick Express - grew. But overall
performance was hit by widening losses at Central Trains and ScotRail, which
worsened by 40% to GBP 19 million.

That held operating profits before exceptional items and goodwill at the trains
and buses group to GBP 156 million. Dividend growth has slowed to 6.3% with a
total of 22p for the year.

"UK train patronage has recovered to pre-Hatfield levels but there is still no
real evidence of growth returning," the company said. "We had, and still have, a
disproportionate number of emergency speed restrictions on our network which
have a negative impact on the punctuality and reliability of our services."

National Express shares opened at 5791/2p today, having slumped to a fouryear
low of 467p last autumn. It warned then that the effects on UK train passenger
numbers after the 11 September terrorist attacks had reversed the return to
growth after 12 months of disruption from the Hatfield train crash.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              187 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 15, 2002

Archbishop'S Ultimate Stamp Of Approval

SECTION: News:Politics:Others, Pg.26

LENGTH: 251 words


The outspoken Dr Rowan Williams is to be sworn into Britain's inner circle of
power, the Privy Council.

Downing Street confirmed this week that the Queen had approved the appointment
of Dr Williams to the Privy Council after he was appointed Archbishop of
Canterbury.

It is the ultimate seal of approval for the Ystradgynlais-born and
Mumbles-raised clergyman who has courted controversy and plenty of publicity
since he succeeded Dr George Carey.

Educated at Dynevor Secondary School in Swansea, Dr Williams studied theology at
Christ's College, Cambridge, before studying for the priesthood.

He is praised as a remarkable theologian but is best known for his liberal
social views and radical opinions on the church.

He has refused to condemn gay and lesbian clergy, himself ordaining a gay
priest, and he has been an outspoken critic of the West's policy since the
terrorist attacks of September 11, risking public anger by describing military
action in Afghanistan as ''morally tainted.'' The privy council includes more
than 500 past and present members of government, leading clergymen and heads of
the judiciary and was established to offer advice to the Queen.

Those who join are asked to swear to defend the Queen against ''all foreign
princes, persons, prelates, states or potentates''.

The full Privy Council only meets in the event of the monarch's death, but privy
councillors hold regular meetings with the Queen.

All members are required to keep secret any discussions.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              188 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 6, 2002

MI5 lists 300 likely terrorist targets

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 503 words


MI5 has advised the government to take extra precautions to safeguard potential
targets of al-Qaida terrorist attacks, Whitehall sources said last night.

The agency, whose job is to advise the government and companies on protective
security, has drawn up a list of over 300 possible targets, including oil
refineries, nuclear power stations, tall buildings such as Canary Wharf in
London's Docklands, and such obvious high-profile targets as the House of
Commons.

MI5 has been re-assessing its advice since the September 11 attacks on the US
but has consistently played down reports of similar attacks being planned
against targets here. However, security sources last night said a report in the
Times newspaper was exaggerated.

According to the report, more than 350 sites have been placed on a "critical
national infrastructure" list.

Whitehall sources said last night MI5 had "adjusted its thinking" since the
attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington.

It had been visiting the sites - including the country's 15 nuclear power
stations, the main National Grid sites, oil installations, petrochemical
facilities, key defence companies and research centres such as the chemical
defence agency at Porton Down in Wiltshire and the atomic weapons establishment
at Aldermaston in Berkshire - to check that security measures have been stepped
up.

This is in response to the perceived threat that is posed by extreme Muslim
groups who could be prepared to use suicide bombers, a threat never dealt with
in Britain before.

Although security services have had extensive experience of dealing with groups
such as the IRA which have developed strategies to cause terrorist disruption,
it is now thought that suicide bombers would be the likely means of any
potential attack if al-Qaida decided to launch an attack on Britain.

Scotland Yard has recently sent senior police officers to Israel and Sri Lanka
to seek advice on how to respond to the threat of suicide bombers.

The Ministry of Defence is also drawing up plans to use the armed forces and the
Terriorial Army to protect vital installations in Britain as part of a new plan
for "homeland defence".

An MoD document drawn up to debate the role of British forces in the strategic
context of the post-September 11 world says the TA should play a greater role
with new tasks. "Their wider geographical spread across the UK and associated
local knowledge gives the reserves a territorial focus, and strength, at the
local and regional level," it says.

However, defence officials are aware that an expanded role of the kind envisaged
may be far from welcome to the TA or reservists.

A Home Office spokeswoman said last night it was government policy not to
comment on operational security, except to say such matters were kept under
constant review. "All security measures are kept under constant review and have
been before and after the events of September 11," the spokeswoman said.


LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              189 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 12, 2002, Tuesday

TERRORIST THREAT IS REAL, WARNS BLAIR

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 647 words


TONY Blair last night gave a stark warning that al-Qaeda terrorists may be ready
to attack Britain.

Blair said: "At the moment, barely a day goes by without some new piece of
intelligence coming via our security services about a threat to UK interests.

"Some of it will be reliable, some of it may be misinformation being fed in to
waste our time chasing shadows.

"Some of it will be gossip. Other material will be based on technical
intelligence gathering.

"This kind of material is crossing the desk of the intelligence agencies, my
desk, the Home Secretary's desk, all the time, and other nations are in the same
situation."

Blair's warning came after Home Secretary David Blunkett last week stepped up
the security alert with a warning that Britain could be hit by a so- called
"dirty bomb"- a home made radioactive device.

And Blair made it clear that al-Qaeda had re-grouped and was once again posing a
serious danger.

Giving a speech in London, he said: "Where we know cells of al-Qaeda are
operating, here or abroad, our services are monitoring them, disrupting them
and, if they are here, imprisoning or expelling them."

Blair urged the public to be more vigilant over the possible threat, but also
said they should go about their daily lives. He said: "As the name suggests,
terrorism is about terror.

"It is to scare people, disrupt their normal lives, produce chaos and disorder,
distort proper and sensible decision-making."

Blair also used the speech to closely link terrorist activities with the
potential action in Iraq, where Saddam Hussein has been developing weapons of
mass destruction.

He said: "Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction are linked dangers.

"States which have failed, which repress their people brutally, in which notions
of democracy and the rule of law are alien, share the same absence of rational
boundaries to their actions as the terrorist."

And the PM gave a startling indication of the type of intelligence on terrorist
activity Britain had received.

Blair said: "If we acted on every piece of raw intelligence, we would have in my
time as Prime Minister on many occasions shut down roads, railways, airports,
stations, shopping centres, factories, military installations."

But he said a careful judgment had to be taken on every piece of intelligence.

He said: "If a terrorist thought that all he had to do to shut down the travel
industry for example was to issue a threat against our airports, we really would
be conceding defeat in the war against terrorism."

Blair's official spokesman made clear the level of threat had increased in
recent weeks.

He said: "We are justified in being more vigilant that before."

WAR JUST FEW WEEKS AWAY, SAYS POWELL

WAR against Iraq could be launched in less than four weeks if Saddam Hussein
refuses to give up his weapons of mass destruction, America warned last night.

It came as the Iraqi parliament urged the dictator to reject a UN resolution
forcing him to hand over a list of weapons by December 8.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell made it clear war would follow if he failed.

He said: "We're not going to wait until February to see if Iraq is co -operating
or not.

"If I were Saddam, I would take it with a great deal of seriousness and
understand it is not an idle threat."

Saddam has until Friday to indicate if he will co-operate with UN inspectors.
But Iraq's parliament is an undemocratic group loyal to the dictator. It had
been thought their meeting yesterday was called to give him a cover for backing
down.

But foreign relations chief Salim al-Koubaisi advised he shouldn't - "in
response to the opinions of our people, who put their trust on us".

Senior US officials said Bush had approved Pentagon plans for invasion - sending
a land, sea and air force of 200,000 to 250,000 troops.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              190 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            June 20, 2002, Thursday

ANTI-TERRORIST SQUAD IS BOOSTED AMID CONCERN OVER SUICIDE ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 600 words


BRITAIN'S ANTI-TERRORIST squad is to be doubled amid growing concerns that
London is to be targeted by al-Qa'ida suicide bombers, it was revealed
yesterday.

An extra 830 anti-terrorist officers are to be deployed throughout the country,
Assistant Commissioner David Veness, the head of specialist operations at the
Metropolitan Police, disclosed.

The huge expansion of the police's anti-terrorism capability comes as Scotland
Yard is developing a hi-tech bomb detector to help officers identify terrorists
who pack their bodies with explosives and shrapnel.

New measures to combat suicide attacks in large crowds have already been
introduced and were in force during the Queen's jubilee celebrations in central
London, Mr Veness disclosed.

The extra officers, 680 of which will be hired to double the Met's anti-
terrorist branch, and swell the ranks of the force's Special Branch and riot
squad, are in response to the threats since the al-Qa'ida attacks on America. An
additional 150 anti-terrorist officers are also being recruited to work in
regional offices staffed by Special Branch detectives from forces outside
London.

The cost of the hundreds of specially trained detectives will come from pounds
87m of money for anti-terrorism measures recently announced by the Home Office.

Mr Veness, speaking at a discussion on international strategies to combat global
terrorism at a conference in London, said the extra officers were needed because
of what he called a "new threshold of terrorism".

He said the new threats included suicide bombers, terrorists setting off
simultaneous attacks aimed at creating mass casualties, and the use of nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons.

The head of the country's anti-terrorist operations disclosed that the Met,
along with other forces, had asked scientists to help develop a hand- held
detector capable of identifying suicide bombers carrying shrapnel, such as nails
and bolts, amid at a crowd.

He said: "If you look at the devices used in suicide attacks in Israel they have
a very high metal content, from the mass of shrapnel, so we are looking at ways
of detecting that and are going beyond current metal detector systems."

The detector is for use in large crowds at public demonstrations rather than
preventing attacks in restaurants and bars which have been targets in Israel.
The Met has been to Israel and Sri Lanka to learn how to combat suicide bombers,
which is a common means of terror attack in those countries.

Mr Veness said that techniques already deployed during the Queen's jubilee
celebrations and the Queen Mother's funeral included measures to thwart car
bombs by blocking off streets from traffic and banning parking on the route of
the procession.

"If the major danger is larger bombs for example driving a truck or car - you
seek to reduce the impact by keeping the large device away. But you still have
the problem of an individual with an article concealed under their clothing - a
suicide waist coat," he said.

The police have also been looking for any suspicious-looking people in the
crowds, and have maintained a 200 yard safety zone between the dignitaries and
the public.

Mr Veness said the three most obvious targets for terrorist supporters of the
al-Qa'ida network were America, Israel and the United Kingdom. He said:
"Inevitably a suicide attack will occur in Western Europe."

"If you are looking at a UK target, London has to be top of the list," he added.

But he stressed that there was not intelligence of a specific terrorist attack
against Britain.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              191 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 1, 2002

A lost empire in the setting sun

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Stephen McClarence

LENGTH: 942 words


Tony Blair is due here in India to talk about terrorism. He couldn't be coming
at a better time.

The terrorist attack on the Delhi Parliament building has plunged the country's
chattering classes into war fever. The papers are talking up war with Pakistan;
the politicians have launched a war of words, diplomacy and speculation.

Informed and superstitious sources say, however, that no offensive is likely to
be launched before Jan 14, an auspicious day in the Indian calendar.

Meanwhile, Tony Blair - "the most handsome Prime Minister in the world", as one
newspaper here has called him - will find odd vestiges of Britain to recognise
when he arrives. I've had a few glimpses of them during an unofficial tour of
India's clubs over the past fortnight.

The most atmospheric glimpse was at the Gymkhana Club in Delhi, a venerable
institution with venerable members. In their cravats and sports jackets (with
leather-patched elbows), many of the male members look like retired brigadiers
as they take tea and cakes in the white-pillared lounge.

Some time after lunch, they may potter across to the club library, full of books
specially rebound to withstand India's climate and with a sign instructing "No
dependents"

by the door. They may doze quietly over the newspapers

in the reading room and dream of that happy afternoon when they took tea with
Nehru.

The lady members flock to the card rooms. One is devoted to bridge, the other to
rummy, and both are packed. As the door of the rummy room opens, you're hit by a
great waft of mothballs. The ladies have brought their shawls out of storage for
the winter, explains one of the younger members.

With fires roaring in the grates, the club's armchairs are a welcome retreat
from the foggy chills that can grip Delhi in January. The chills can cause all
sorts of disruption. As one unfathomable Gymkhana sign announced at this time
last year: "Due to winter, Thursday night will be held in the ballroom."

The club - which bans mobile phones and "tight skirts" - is full of pleasant
watercolours of the New

Delhi created for George V in the 1920s and, with a caprice worthy of Moghul
emperors, abandoned in 1947, when India got its independence.

The handing-over of power is marked in many small ways over the sub continent.
At the Boat House Club in Nainital, a hill station

reminiscent of the English Lake District, the board

listing officials takes on a subtle change of character as FW Champion, the Rear
Commodore for 1946/47, gives way to HCR Singh in 1948.

The Boat Club, eight hours' drive from Delhi and 6,000 feet up in the Lower
Himalayas, carries on as though nothing

ever happened. The clock over the log fire in the dimly lit Victorian bar marks
the passing hours with the Westminster chimes. The only surprise is that it
isn't set at London time.

The bar's wooden pillarshave small shields nailed to them, recording the moments
of glory of the commodores, vice-commodores and rear commodores.

Dear Sir Harcourt Butler, and, goodness, there's Sir Alexander Muddiman, and Sir
Harry Haig - you remember him? - and NC Stiffe - didn't he win the Baker Russell
Challenge Cup in '35? Or was it '36? Or was that EA Smythies?

The waiters materialise out of the dimness to top up the glasses with whiskey
and soda or Kingfisher beer and, if the stars weren't twinkling outside, you'd
swear the sun had never set on the Empire.

It certainly hadn't at the dingy Nainital hotel where

we stayed - a former rajah's summer palace whose walls were dotted

with splayed-out tiger and leopard skins, mounted bears' heads and mildewed
prints of The Charge of the Light Brigade.

The hotel had asked for a deposit when we made a telephone booking, but we
appeared to be the only guests for eight days.

Cold December is not peak season for hill stations particularly in hotelbedrooms
with 25ft-high ceilings and just a one-bar radiator for warmth. The blankets
were piled on the bed like geological strata. I was crushed to sleep.

So much for the old colonialism. The new colonialism - consumer

capitalism - is on offer a the American Club back in Delhi. The only tiger skin
I saw here was the fake print mini-skirt worn by a middle-aged ex-pat at an
Italian Evening dislocatingly serving risotto and tiramasu.

The American Club has a restaurant called Out of India, a floodlit baseball
field, a bowling alley and a bar called The Great Escape.

It also has a bookshop with a prominent display about

Bin Laden and the Taliban. Which suggests that escape isn't as easy as it might
seem.

Meanwhile, I sit here in a cyber cafe in Jaipur, with camels lolloping past the
glass doors and most of the car horns of India honking

outside.

Jaipur, for all its architectural delights, is one of the more hassling Indian
cities.

Its railway station is patrolled by taxi-touts on the lookout

for tourists to spirit away to hotels run by friends and relatives.

One attached himself to us as we searched for the car due to meet us from the
train. He wouldn't leave us alone. "Yes, yes, sir, I am 100 per cent

sure that the car will be here, but to be that extra 10 per cent sure, why do
you not take my taxi?"

It had been a dull train journey down from Delhi, and at 8.30pm, on Jaipur
station forecourt, I was in no mood for taxi-touts. For the first time in a
fortnight, I lost my temper. "Bugger off," I said to the man pestering us.

We found our car and, as we drove away, 30 or so taxi touts lined up alongside.
With one accord, they punched the air with their fists and shouted: "Bugger
off!"


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              192 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 9, 2002

They should be forced to leave;
 OPINION

SECTION: News :Other :Comment, Pg.8

LENGTH: 334 words


IN two days, the world will solemnly commemorate the dreadful events of
September 11. But, while most will be remembering the suffering and loss the
event brought to the city of New York, one group of Muslim clerics will be
meeting to celebrate the terror attacks.

Taunting the victims with the rhyme 'Remember, Remember the 11th of September',
the religious fanatics are enticing people to the rally with posters headlined
'A Towering Day In History'.

The so-called conference, which will be attended by the some of the most radical
mullahs in the UK, will argue that the atrocities were justified. This event is
not only an insult to all those who died in the tragedy and to the emergency
services who worked tirelessly to save lives, it is an affront to the British
spirit.

In a country renowned for its peace, tolerance and unabated sympathy with New
Yorkers for the September 11 attack, it is incredible that extremist mullahs,
given their history for spewing hatred, are permitted to obtain such a platform.

From these hate mongers, such as Muslim cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza who blatantly
urges followers to rob and kill Jews, there is no expression of regret or
condemnation for terrorist activities.

Astonishingly, extremist groups continue to chant their vile messages under the
eyes of Special Branch Officers there to 'monitor' certain individuals.

For too long we have understood and tolerated religious extremists. With the
millions of moderate Muslims who live here in Britain there is no argument and
in truth they too regard militant, outspoken Islamic leaders with fear and
loathing. This distasteful conference, timed to coincide with a memorial service
for the victims at St Paul's Cathedral, is an appalling attempt to allow
al-Qaeda sympathisers to gloat.

Ifthe clerics who have chosen our country as their home are not prepared to
respect British sympathies with the American victims, they should leave our
borders and peddle their views elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              193 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 11, 2002

A thank you to 'truest friend'

BYLINE: Harriet Arkell

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 244 words


US Embassy

MORE THAN 1,000 people gathered in front of the US embassy in Grosvenor Square
today to remember those who died in "America's darkest hour".

Ambassador William Farish said the ceremony was to remember all the victims,
particularly those from Britain, and to thank Britain for its support over the
past year. He said: "We gather here today in solidarity, united in our
determination to wipe terrorism from the face of the earth.

"We gather here today to say thank you again to all those who rushed to our aid
in America's darkest hour, and to those who have stood firmly by our side ever
since. Our thanks go first and foremost to the Government and people of the
United Kingdom - America's truest friend."

Lieutenant Frank Dwyer, New York's highest-ranked uniformed police officer,
presented Home Secretary David Blunkett with a tattered Union flag rescued from
Ground Zero. "This flag is torn and tattered but it still may be flown as a
symbol of the endurance and strength of the British people," he said.

Among the guests of the US Embassy were Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith,
former American First Lady Rosalind Carter, Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell and
Met chief Sir John Stevens, as well as police liaison officers who supported the
families of the 67 British victims. On display was an exhibition of tributes
left by some of the 50,000 people who went there in the immediate aftermath of
the terror attacks.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              194 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 7, 2002, Sunday

US TOURIST NUMBERS RETURNING TO LEVELS BEFORE FOOT AND MOUTH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 405 words


TOURISTS ARE flocking back to Britain after a disastrous slump in visitor
numbers sparked by the foot-and-mouth epidemic and the post- 11 September
crisis.

The upsurge suggests that memories of the disastrous Tony Blair photo-
opportunity, when he deterred tens of thousands of potential foreign visitors by
touring a farm in a protective yellow suit, are beginning to fade.

Government figures yesterday revealed that overseas visits have returned to
their level of two years ago. A total of 2.05 million foreign tourists came to
Britain in October, compared with 1.63 million in the previous October and 2.06
million the year before. They spent pounds 935m in Britain, an increase of more
than 20 per cent over last year.

The lucrative North American market is showing strong signs of recovery. A total
of 320,000 Americans and Canadians visited this country during the month,
compared with 257,000 the year before.

The increases come after a pounds 40m "Only In Britain" publicity drive, jointly
financed by the Government and the tourist industry, to promote the country to
its core markets of North America and western Europe.

The tourist industry collapsed after foot-and-mouth disease erupted in Britain
in February 2001, sending images of burning pyres and "countryside closed" signs
around the world. The photos of Mr Blair, in particular, did serious damage,
with Whitehall officials calculating it could have cost the country pounds 1bn.

Just as tourism was showing tentative signs of picking up, the recovery was
shattered by the 11 September terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.
Numbers of American visitors collapsed, partly offset by increased tourism from
Europe.

The number of UK residents' trips abroad rose from 5.27 million in October 2001
to 5.83 million in October 2002. Visits to North America, which fell after 11
September, rose from 467,000 in October 2001 to 550,000 in October 2002.

UK residents spent pounds 2.21m on overseas trips in October 2001, and pounds
2.58m in the same month this year. Tom Wright, the chief executive of the
British Tourist Authority (BTA), said: "These latest results are very positive
and proof that Britain is in a strong position for continued growth and recovery
as we enter 2003."

He said the BTA was planning a drive next year to sell the country in emerging
markets such as China and Russia.

Leading article, page 18

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              195 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 12, 2002, Tuesday

PM: OUR DAILY PERIL FROM AL-QAEDA

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 507 words


TONY Blair last night gave a stark warning that al-Qaeda terrorists may be ready
to attack Britain.

He said: "At the moment, barely a day goes by without some new piece of
intelligence coming via our security services about a threat to UK interests.

"Some of it will be reliable, some may be misinformation fed in to waste our
time .

"Some of it will be gossip. Other material will be based on technical
intelligence gathering.

"This kind of material crosses the desk of intelligence agencies, my desk, the
Home Secretary's desk, all the time. Other nations are in the same situation."

Blair's warning came after Home Secretary David Blunkett stepped up the security
alert last week with a warning that Britain could be hit by a "dirty bomb"- a
home-made radioactive device.

The PM made it clear al-Qaeda has re-grouped and once again poses a serious
danger.

Speaking at the Lord Mayor's Banquet at the Guildhall in London, he said: "Where
we know cells of al-Qaeda are operating, here or abroad, our services are
monitoring them, disrupting them and, if they are here, imprisoning or expelling
them."

He urged the public to be more vigilant but also said they should go about their
daily lives.

Blair also used the speech to closely link terrorist fears with Iraq, where
Saddam Hussein has been developing weapons of mass destruction.

He said: "Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction are linked dangers.

"States which repress their people brutally, in which notions of democracy and
the rule of law are alien, share the same absence of rational boundaries to
their actions as the terrorist."

And the PM gave a startling indication of the kind of intelligence Britain
receives. He said: "If we acted on every piece of raw intelligence, we would
have, in my time as PM, on many occasions shut roads, railways, airports,
stations, shopping centres, factories, military installations."

He said a judgment has to be made on all intelligence data.

He said: "If a terrorist thought all he had to do to shut down the travel
industry, for example, was to issue a threat against our airports, we'd be
conceding defeat in the war against terrorism."

POWELL: WAR IS JUST FEW WEEKS AWAY

WAR could be launched against Iraq in less than four weeks if Saddam Hussein
refuses to give up his weapons of mass destruction, America has warned.

The Iraqi parliament yesterday urged the dictator to reject a UN resolution
forcing him to hand over a list of weapons by December 8.

But US Secretary of State Colin Powell made it clear yesterday that conflict
would follow if he failed. He added: "We're not going to wait until February to
see if Iraq is co- operating or not. If I were Saddam, I would take it with a
great deal of seriousness and understand it is not an idle threat."

Saddam has until Friday to make his response on UN inspections.

Senior US officials said President Bush had approved Pentagon invasion plans
involving a land, sea and air force of 200,000 to 250,000 troops.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              196 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 12, 2002

Suspect in US anthrax probe trained in UK;
 World News

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 378 words


America - The chemical weapons expert at the centre of an investigation into a
series of deadly anthrax attacks in the US trained at a West chemical and
biological defence establishment, it emerged yesterday.

Dr Steven Hatfill has been linked to a series of letters infected with anthrax
spores which killed five people and left more than a dozen others fighting for
their lives.

Investigators in America have said the 48-year-old scientist is one of 30
suspects who have come under scrutiny.

But the researcher, who is an expert in biological warfare, has issued a
statement denying any link to the series of infected letters sent to politicians
and media organisations in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

Hatfill is believed to have been in Britain at the time a hoax letter was posted
in London to a senator in America.

It has also emerged that MI5 has been co-operating with its American
counterparts as part of the investig ation.

The security services have been checking on Hatfill's movements in the UK during
a two-week spell in November, when he attended a training course at Porton Down
in Wiltshire. Hatfill, along with 20 other scientists, was in Britain to learn
techniques used by weapons inspectors in countries like Iraq.

But yesterday, in an emotional statement which he read out to the press outside
his lawyer's office in Alexandria, Virginia, the scientist completely denied any
involvement with the letter campaign.

Speaking publicly about the investigation for the first time, he said: "I am a
loyal American and I love my country. I had nothing to do with the anthrax
letters and it is terribly wrong for anyone to contend or think otherwise." Law
enforcement officials have said that Hatfill is not a suspect and that no
evidence links him to the anthrax letters, but they have described him as a
"person of interest" in their investigation.

The scientist said: "I am appalled at the heinous acts of biological terrorism
that caused death, disease and havoc in America, starting last Fall.

"But I am just as appalled that my experience, knowledge and service relative to
defending Americans against biological warfare has been turned against me in
connection with the search for the anthrax killer."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              197 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

Guard against terrorism but don't panic

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 166 words

TONY Blair will today warn the nation to be vigilant in the light of the
increased risk that the country will be attacked by terrorists.

The Prime Minister will reinforce the message contained in a Home Office
document last week that said that groups such as al-Qa'eda were looking to
attack with "ever more dramatic and devastating effects". He will qualify his
remarks with an appeal to the public not to let fear stop ordinary life
continuing.

"People have to be aware that there is a higher level of threat than there was
this time last year," said the Prime Minister's official spokesman yesterday. Mr
Blair will address the subject in his speech at the Lord Mayor's banquet in the
City of London. He will say that the public needs to strike a balance by being
vigilant but not letting the country be paralysed through the fear of an attack.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, yesterday said Britain was "literally in the
front line" in the war against terror.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              198 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 19, 2002

Ministers Must Act On Security Breach

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.12

LENGTH: 736 words


In the frequent and often confusing statements coming from the Government about
the risk of a major terrorist attack on Britain, one message does ring out loud
and clear - the need for constant vigilance. The Prime Minister made reference
to it in his speech last week at London's Guildhall; senior police officers
regularly remind the public about the importance of staying alert to danger, and
security staff working in a range of different situations are all well aware of
the increased risk from terrorists at this time.

So it would be fair to assume that, in the wake of September 11, 2001, nowhere
would be better guarded than a nuclear submarine base in the heart of a large
city.  The potential damage a terrorist with a bomb could do in such a situation
does not bear thinking about. Yet, as the Western Morning News revealed
yesterday, it is alleged that two anti-nuclear protestors were able to break
through a security fence, get inside Devonport Naval Base and - if their
statement yesterday can be believed - enter the Trident nuclear submarine HMS
Vanguard, which is undergoing a refit.

The two alleged intruders, Petter Joelson from Sweden and Elisa Silvennoinen
from Finland, were charged with causing criminal damage and bailed yesterday.
They will deny the charges and it would be quite wrong to pre-judge the outcome
of the case. While the Western Morning News would always defend the right of
individuals and organisations to protest peacefully, we would never condone
illegal acts in support of a cause. But this incident has raised major concerns
about the safety and security of a military base in the Westcountry.  And that
is not something that can wait for the conclusion of the case to be addressed.

There are two issues at stake here.  The first is the security of the naval base
and the second is the public perception that something is being done to ensure
such a sensitive site is being properly protected - particularly given the
heightened concerns about terrorist activity.

That requires a statement from the very top if it is to convince people, not
just here in the Westcountry but across Britain, that there are not gaping holes
in our security.  And that means a statement and explanation from Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon.

It is ironic that, as the Western Morning News revealed, DML, the dockyard
operator, put a memo out to staff warning of a possible intrusion because of a
planned and publicised demonstration by the anti-nuclear group Trident
Ploughshares. "Some demonstrators may attempt to lock-on to gates, fences,
street furniture, vehicles, etc in order to cause obstruction at, or blockage
of, gates to the Naval Base," their memo read.

It went on with remarkable foresight to warn: "Others may seek to enter the
Naval Base to paint slogans, cause damage or ultimately gain access to the base
and/or a submarine." Yesterday DML said the MoD was responsible for perimeter
security while it took control of "specific areas of the dockyard". There is
clearly potential here for the Royal Navy and DML to blame each other for what
has happened.  That won't be acceptable. And ultimately it must be the Ministry
of Defence which shoulders the blame because it has to take overall
responsibility for the safety and security of all military installations.

Colin Breed, Liberal Democrat MP for South East Cornwall, suggested in the WMN
yesterday that security may have been reduced for the Trident Ploughshares
demonstration because of accusations that it was over the top the last time
anti-nuclear protesters staged an event in Plymouth.  "It appears that that
experience may well have influenced subsequent plans to a point that they are
now wholly inadequate," he said. That suggestion needs investigating.

This is not a time to be spreading undue alarm about terrorism.  Over the past
couple of weeks the Government has demonstrated that badly timed or
inappropriately worded warnings can spread fear and alarm, completely
undermining any good they might do.  But equally it would be quite wrong to play
down the significance of this alleged incident.

It should, at the very least, be the spur for a review of security at Devonport
Naval Base.  Only then can local people and the nation at large feel confident
that everything possible has been done to make this significant and sensitive
installation safe from a potentially devastating attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              199 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 19, 2002, Saturday

Four more arrests in hunt for al-Qa'eda cell War on terrorism

BYLINE: By Nick Britten and Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words

THE international operation to smash an al-Qa'eda cell allegedly planning a
suicide helicopter attack on the American embassy in Paris led to four more
arrests yesterday.

Police in Leicestershire are now questioning 17 people arrested in Leicester and
London in the biggest anti-terrorist swoop in Britain since September 11.

The raids are connected to arrests in France, Belgium and Holland that stem from
the detention at Dubai airport last year of Djamel Beghal, a key figure in the
European al-Qa'eda network.

Beghal, 35, who trained in Afghanistan, lived for up to three years in London
and Leicester and travelled extensively in Europe and Asia.

Kamel Daoudi, 23, who shared a flat with Beghal in Paris, was arrested in
Leicester in September and deported to France to face terrorist charges.

Beghal is also suspected of helping to recruit Richard Reid, the alleged British
shoe bomber, and Zacarias Moussaoui, the suspected 20th hijacker charged in
connection with the September 11 attacks, to the extremist cause.

At the Taqwa mosque, a terrace house in Leicester which Beghal is said to have
attended, worshippers at Friday prayers said they were shocked by the arrests.
"We condemn any act of terrorism. Islam does not support terrorism," said Idrif
Waraich, a spokesman for the mosque.

Nine of the men, aged 23 to 40, in custody in Leicester are being held under the
terms of the Terrorism Act 2000. One was arrested in London on Thursday night
and taken to Leicester for questioning.

They are being interviewed in connection with terrorist fundraising, credit card
fraud and possessing extremist material. The other eight detainees - including
two women - are being questioned about immigration offences.

The majority of those being held are Algerian asylum-seekers. Specialist teams
completed searches at six addresses in Leicester and one in London and were
continuing to examine two properties in the city.

Two Algerian men arrested in Leicester in September have been remanded in
custody after being charged with membership of al-Qa'eda and financing
terrorism.

Baghdad Meziane, 36, and Brahim Bemerzouga, 30, have been remanded in custody
until Jan 24.

The arrests have threatened to upset Leicester's reputation as a city with a
harmonious ethnic mix. Members of the predominantly Asian Muslim community have
sought to dispel suspicions by distancing themselves from those arrested.

Manzoor Moghal, chairman of the Federation of Muslim Organisations, said: "I am
in close contact with the police and can tell you that all those who were
arrested are from north African or Middle Eastern descent.

"They are outsiders. None of them are from Leicester or have been living in
Leicester for a long time and none of them are part of the large Asian Muslim
population that have been here for a long time. They do not mix with Asian
Muslims, attend their own little Arab-speaking mosques and live their own lives.
But they have brought the eyes of the world on to Leicester and it makes the
rest of us feel uncomfortable.

"We have strong inter-racial links and a very good relationship with the council
and the police and I am sure we will come out stronger for this crisis."

Prof Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrews University, said towns such as Leicester would
be perfect for terrorists.

"They have all the access to the internet and cash machines and everything they
need yet are out of the police and media spotlight," he said.

"But it would be wrong to assume that just because of the arrests Leicester is
alone. I am sure there is similar activity going on to the same extent in places
like Birmingham and Manchester."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              200 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 17, 2002, Thursday Edition 1

Couple saved by taking a nap

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 224 words


   A british couple on honeymoon in Bali cheated death after they fell asleep
and failed to meet up with friends in the Sari nightclub, it emerged yesterday.

Darron and Tracey Smart from Lofthouse, Leeds, were due to join some new-found
Australian friends in the popular nightspot but "crashed out" at their hotel
after a long day exploring the island.

Mr Smart's mother Yvonne from Cookridge, Leeds, is convinced the unscheduled nap
saved the couple's lives.

She said: "They had gone on an excursion but it had gone on a bit longer than it
should have.

"They were absolutely shattered and crashed out. The next thing they remember is
being woken up by a huge explosion."

"They had visited the club the previous night and a lad they were due to meet
had already saved them a table.

"As they were running a bit late he popped to the loo thinking they would arrive
when he got back. As he was in the loo the bomb went off."

Mrs Smart said he suffered relatively minor injuries.

She said Darron, 27, and Tracey, 30, were unsure how many people they were due
to meet that night had been killed or injured in the terrorist attack.

She added: "It is unbelievable. We are so lucky."

The couple married at Rothwell Parish Church on October 5 and flew out to Bali
shortly afterwards.

They are due back in Britain next week.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              201 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

SEPTEMBER 11 THE LEGACY: HEIGHTENED SECURITY ALERT IN CASE OF FURTHER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Emma Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 406 words


ON the first anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks, the world
remains on heightened security alert.

In Wales, airports and ports will be extra vigilant to any threats.

And, across Britain and the rest of the globe, US embassies and other buildings
are closed for business in case of any further terrorist attacks.

Security at Cardiff International Airport remains tight today.

Armed guards patrol the airport and travellers' suitcases and hand luggage are
subject to additional checks.

The spokeswoman for Cardiff International Airport, Nicola Greaves, said, "The
airport is on heightened alert as it has been for the last 12 months.

"We have had measures in place since September 11 last year. There is still a
visible armed police presence and will be for the foreseeable future. There is
also extra security for hand luggage."

Special Branch officers will be on their guard against any threat of terrorism
at sea ports throughout today.

Dyfed Powys Police provides security for some of Wales's main ports, including
Fishguard ferry port.

A spokeswoman for the force would not reveal what exact security measures were
in place for September 11, but said the force was prepared for any terrorist
threat.

She said, "Dyfed Powys Police is satisfied that all appropriate security
measures are in place in case there are any anniversary incidents."

North Wales Police provide security for Holyhead port.

A spokeswoman said, "North Wales Police are maintaining a higher state of alert
but it is very much business as usual in our ability to respond to any major
crime event that may occur."

Similar measures are in place across the rest of the UK.

Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs warned last week that lone terrorists
unconnected to al Qaeda could strike in a bid to exploit the "world stage"
offered by today's landmark.

Mobile armed road blocks will be in place around London as a first point of
defence, and the public have been warned to be on a state of "alert but not
alarm".

The armed forces are also believed to have stepped up patrols and other security
measures in the run-up to the anniversary.

A spokeswoman for Heathrow airport said 18 of today's scheduled transatlantic
flights had been cancelled by operators BA, Virgin and American Airlines.

"Security has been heightened since September 11 and it will remain at a
heightened state," she added.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              202 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 19, 2002, Friday

NATIONAL RESILIENCE' DRIVE TO PREPARE PUBLIC FOR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta And Jason Bennetto Police have carried out raids in
Edinburgh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 492 words


THE GOVERNMENT is preparing a campaign of "national resilience" to gird the
public for a prolonged war of attrition against the al-Qa'ida network.

Counter-terrorism experts fear that al-Qa'ida is preparing to use crude but
potentially devastating chemical bombs against "soft" British targets, such as
pubs or transport hubs.

French police are still trying to establish whether three Algerians arrested
with chemicals were planning to use them in such an attack. They are accused of
having been in contact with terrorist suspects detained in Britain.

Al-Qa'ida camps in Afghanistan trained followers of Osama bin Laden how to make
and use "simple chemical weapons" that, combined with high explosives, could
have devastating consequences.

Meanwhile, seven North African men suspected of being supporters of al- Qa'ida
were being questioned last night after raids were carried out in Edinburgh and
London. Sources said that the men, who are in their thirties, are not believed
to have been planning an attack in Britain, but are suspected of providing
support to terrorists. The arrests are understood to be part of a drive to
disrupt al -Qa'ida sympathisers and follows intelligence from MI5.

Senior Whitehall sources with links to security agencies believe al-Qa'ida is
expected to launch attacks on the UK despite the setbacks it is suffering as its
leaders are hunted down by the US-led coalition. They expect some al-Qa'ida
bombers to break through the defences and cause large numbers of casualties. One
source said: "The ideology behind al-Qa'ida is powerful."

The Government is focused on ensuring that the country bounces back from a
successful terrorist attack. "Right now the high-level threat is against soft
targets'. That's what we fear...and there is a high probability that sooner or
later a bomber will get through," the sources said. They added that intelligence
suggests that al -Qa'ida cells are in place in this country preparing attacks.

Interrogation of al-Qa'ida prisoners in Guantanamo Bay and other intelligence
has persuaded officials that some of the speculation about a nuclear "dirty
bomb" or a smallpox epidemic is wide of the mark.

The Government wants to brace the public for waves of possible attacks over the
coming years. "This is not going to bring British society to its knees, no more
than Irish terrorism did," the sources said.

Spending on counter-terrorism by the intelligence services had increased by more
than 6 per cent, while the Home Office has invested pounds 513m to prepare for
attacks.

Health services have bought new stocks of vaccines. The authorities are also
working with broadcasters for radio and television to carry specific warnings
and alerts. Preparations, including the stockpiling of body bags, are also being
made for dealing with mass fatalities and casualties and the decontamination of
sites after a chemical, nuclear or biological attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              203 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

INDEFENSIBLE;
 BRITAIN'S ANGER AS THE ISRAELIS MURDER NINE CHILDREN TO GET AT LEADER OF TERROR
GROUP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 417 words


BRITAIN yesterday slammed Israel over a missile attack that killed 14 people
including nine children.

One of the dead was only two months old.

Tony Blair's official spokesman branded the bombing "unacceptable".

Terrorist group Hamas' military leader Salah Shehadeh was killed in the F16
attack in the early hours of yesterday.

The attack came as peace talks continued in the shattered region. The Israeli
jet targeted and destroyed Shehadeh's three-storey apartment block in Gaza City.
Neighbouring buildings were also damaged and 100 people were injured.

Hundreds of Palestinians spent the night frantically searching for survivors in
the rubble. Israeli premier Ariel Sharon said: "This operation was one of our
biggest successes.

"We hit perhaps the most senior Hamas figure on the operational side."

But the move was condemned by the PM's spokesman, who called for an end to "the
cycle of violence which has scarred the region".

A Foreign Office spokesman added: "The action taken in Gaza is unacceptable and
counter- productive. We extend our sympathy to the families of the children
killed.

"While Israel is entitled to take steps to protect itself from terrorist attack,
such steps should be neither disproportionate nor excessive. With our partners
in the international community, we will continue to work towards a two-state
solution that brings a peace based on security for Israel and recognises the
aspirations of the Palestinian people."

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan added: "Israel has the legal and moral
responsibility to take all measures to avoid the loss of innocent life.

"It clearly failed to do so in using a missile against an apartment building."

EU foreign policy representative Javier Solana said: "This kind of operation is
not conducive toward peace and reconciliation."

Shehadeh, 48, was one of the founders of Hamas, the group behind the largest
number of the recent wave of suicide bombings.

He spent 11 years in Israeli and Palestinian jails for terrorism.

His daughter Iman, 14, and wife Leileh, 40, died with him.

Israeli defence minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer claimed: "The information we had
was that there were no civilians with him."

Palestinian information minister Yasser Abed Rabbo branded the attack a "war
crime". He added: "They're playing with fire."

Hamas' spiritual leader warned of retaliation. Sheik Ahmad Yassin said: "We
won't forget the blood of the martyrs. We will let deeds speak."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              204 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                               February 24, 2002

Omagh pain shared on Esther's show

BYLINE: PAULINE REYNOLDS

LENGTH: 487 words


MILLIONS of telly viewers, all over Britain, will tomorrow share Kevin Skelton's
moving story of the day his cherished wife, Philomena, died in the Omagh bomb.

The devoted dad of four is among a studio audience - on the top daytime
programme 'Esther' - who lost loved ones as a result of terrorist attacks.

And, he opens his heart to speak with deep emotion about the Saturday afternoon,
of August 15, 1998, when his world fell apart.

Kevin is joined by relatives of those killed in other atrocities, including the
harrowing September 11 Twin Towers suicide-bombing mission in the US.

He admitted it wasn't easy reliving the heartbreaking moments, when he realised
his adoring wife, of almost 20 years, was dead.

And, he talks of the frantic search for his daughter Shauna - just 13 years old
at the time - who was missing among the tangled wreckage of shops and offices.

"I spoke about how the hardest thing I had to do, after the Omagh bomb, was to
tell her two days later that her mammy was dead," he said with a reflective
sadness in his voice.

"The wee girl was in hospital, badly injured, and had to have an operation.

"To spend two hours looking for your child, and thinking she might be dead, is
an awful ordeal to have to go through.

"Then finding her, and having to tell her that her mammy was dead, is a pain I
will take to the grave."

Kevin said appearing on the programme, with people united by the common bond of
sudden and horrific loss, was a healing experience.

Other guests in the talk show, hosted by top celebrity Esther Rantzen, were
genuinely interested in his story.

"I met people involved in the so-called 'forgotten bomb', at Aldershot army
barracks, which killed seven, and was planted in retaliation for Bloody Sunday,"
he explained.

"I talked to those caught up in bombs at the BBC, Harrods and others, who were
affected by the Lockerbie plane explosion.

"It was good to meet people, who had gone through similar experiences, and let
them hear my story."

Kevin felt they had all been treated badly by the government in terms of support
and compensation.

And, he admits he had his own agenda when he agreed to appear on the programme.

He had hoped to talk of how victims of violence in Ulster "felt like second
class citizens."

The Omagh campaigner was also prepared to launch an attack on Prime Minister
Tony Blair, accusing him of "gallivanting all over the world, and ignoring
people on his own doorstep."

It's now made him think twice about appearing on pre-recorded TV programmes.

"I really enjoyed appearing on Esther, as it was a very emotional and personal
experience," he said.

"But, I will only consider live TV again, as it is there I will be able to drive
across my more serious concerns."

lThe hour long Esther show, which was recorded earlier this month, will be
screened tomorrow on BBC2 at 3.30pm.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              205 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 11, 2002

New budget airline ready to take off

BYLINE: Vicky Collins

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 363 words


BRITAIN is to get a new low-cost airline that will offer high-frequency services
to holiday destinations in southern Europe, it was announced yesterday.

The airline, bmi British Midland, said it was launching a new no-frills airline
to compete with budget carriers flying to Barcelona, Nice, Palma, Malaga and
Alicante.

The airline would be based at bmi's home base of East Midlands Airport in Castle
Donington, Leicestershire and offer high-frequency services, starting on March
23.

There are no plans as yet to extend the new airline's services to Scotland,
although a spokeswoman said nothing could be ruled out.

The airline will have a separate name and identity from bmi, which will continue
to operate as a full-service international scheduled carrier.

The new airline, whose name and corporate identity will be announced next week,
will offer one-way tickets from (pounds) 25.

In October, bmi moved to cut jobs and flights on its long-haul routes because of
falling demand for air travel in the wake of the terror attacks in the United
States.

Its new operation will compete directly with Go and rivals like Ryanair and
easyJet, which have been taking customers from their struggling full-service
rivals.

Go announced last month it planned to start services from East Midlands airport
in May.

Barbara Cassani, chief executive of Go, said yesterday that its plans to provide
services in the East Midlands remained unchanged.

She warned that bmi's decision to run both full service and no-frills businesses
was a "recipe for commercial disaster".

She added: "This tactic was tried many times in the US and failed every time,"
she said.

"It's a sign of a panic-stricken management that knows it's been ripping people
off for years."

A spokeswoman for bmi said the company had been planning the new airline since
last summer, long before Go's announcement, or the September 11 attacks on
America which resulted in a slump in the long-haul flights market.

She added that bmi had responded to a "decline in traffic" during the summer and
was targeting a niche in the market for a budget carrier in the English
Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 19, 2002

Threat to UK from al-Qaida at high level: Officials warn of highly probable
attack but play down nuclear or biological danger

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542 words


There is a "high level of threat" from terrorists linked to al-Qaida planning
attacks on Britain which could lead to mass casualties, but no evidence these
would include use of dirty bombs or smallpox, senior Whitehall officials said
yesterday.

An attack on Britain was "highly probable sooner or later" but "not inevitable",
they said.

Such attacks could be aimed at soft targets, like a pub, or an aircraft or ship,
or it could be an assassination, added the sources.

Though they said they could not "rule out" a smallpox attack, on the basis of
intelligence assessments vaccination of the whole population would not be
justified.

Some emergency service personnel have been vaccinated against smallpox "should
it turn out that this low probability threat actually starts happening", they
added.

And while evidence from Afghanistan showed that al-Qaida cells were interested
in the potential for chemical attacks they did not yet have access to
sophisticated weaponised chemical agents, the sources said.

Small cells of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network were operating in Britain,
they said, supported by a "ring of other groups" and a "large group of
sympathisers" who may have no idea what the inner circle or cells are planning.

The Whitehall officials yesterday would not put a figure on their number.
However, well-placed sources have told the Guardian at least 36 al-Qaida linked
Islamist extremists based in Britain are under surveillance by the security
services due to serious concerns they might be instructed to carry out a
terrorist strike here.

Police and MI5 now believe that between 500 and 600 British-based Muslims spent
time in al-Qaida training camps in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the months and
years prior to September 11. Training ranged from raft-building to the use of
chemical and biological weapons.

Yesterday the sources were briefing journalists on measures Whitehall civil
contingencies unit and officials responsible for home security - under Sir David
Omand, the top security and intelligence coordinator - are taking in face of
terrorist threats.

Their clear message was that the cumulative effect of media "scare stories"
would damage the credibility of warnings of a genuine threat.

"Alert" or "warning" were overused words, they suggested. As far as the security
services were concerned, they referred specifically to a real need for
particular vigilance and readiness to take some form of action. They should not
be bandied about.

Britain was in for a "long haul" in the fight against al-Qaida and international
terrorism, the senior Whitehall officials said.

* The fight against international terrorism has tied the armed forces into
"politico-military campaigns that will last decades because of their diffuseness
- not just a single terrorist with a bomb and a simple aim, but many of them,
spread widely across the globe", Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, chief of the defence
staff, said last night.

"We have moved from state-sponsored violence and conventional warfare to the
spectre of such destructive potential vested in an individual or small group
that we really do have to reconsider the way we do business", he said.

Flawed investigation, page 15


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                January 17, 2002

Asian crisis: 'Fight-on' fanatic is condemned.

BYLINE: Richard Brugger

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 215 words


An Asian community leader in Keighley has condemned a fanatic who is urging
young men to take up arms against the British Government.

Sangat Centre manager Khadim Hussain has vehemently criticised the actions of
British born Hassan Butt, who has called for terror attacks on political figures
in this country.

Mr Hussain fears that comments made by the 22-year-old, who was educated and
raised in Manchester, will have an adverse affect on the community, particularly
on young people. He said: "His comments are total and utter nonsense and are no
more than a madman's vision.

"We don't want young Asian people associated with anything like this because the
UK is their home and their base. Quite a high majority of young people are born
and bred in this country and have a commitment to this country, so they
shouldn't be intent on destroying it."

Mr Butt, who has now based himself in Pakistan, claimed in a radio interview
that he had recruited more than 200 British Muslims to fight for Afghanistan's
former Taliban regime.

He appeared on BBC Radio 4's Today programme and urged returning British
"mujahedeen" to take up arms against the government and leading politicians.

He warned that Britain was about to face a new phase of terrorism organised from
within.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              208 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 20, 2002, Tuesday

A flying carpeting from passengers

BYLINE: By Richard Alleyne

SECTION: Pg. 07

LENGTH: 216 words

TELEPHONE complaints against some of Britain's biggest airlines have increased
to record levels, a report reveals today.

But the Air Transport Users Council, the passenger watchdog, said that written
complaints had decreased, falling from 1,417 in 2000-01 to 1,163 between April 1
last year and March 31 this year.

The number of telephone complaints in 2001-02 was 4,252 - a 14 per cent increase
on the year before. Top of the list of concerns was mishandled luggage with 648
different complaints, up 17 on the previous year.

While EasyJet, Virgin and British Airways saw a drop in the number of complaints
against them, Air France saw an increase. However, British Airways topped the
written complaint list, with 117 letters from disgruntled passengers.

Problems with buying tickets increased by more than 239 to 513, mainly because
of the increased use of internet and telephone bookings. Ian Hamer, chairman of
the council, said: "We are handling increasing numbers of telephone inquiries
about reservation errors, most of which appear to have arisen from direct
bookings with airlines either over the phone or via the internet."

The Air Transport Users Council also blamed the increase in complaints on
schedule changes after the September 11 terrorist attack.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              209 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                  July 6, 2002

Terror checks up the cost of travel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 183 words



DEARER holidays could be on the way because of a new law to tackle terrorism.
Britain's biggest tour operator Thomson Holidays warned today that prices could
soar because of a new rule that all travellers must have personal details logged
before going abroad.  Holiday companies are furious because they are expected to
foot the bill for the extra work, which could cost millions a year. Thomson
Holidays believes the only option could be passing the exextra cost on to the
customer. "We are lumbered with something that will cost a tremendous amount and
we fear holiday prices will have to rise," said a spokesman.  Under the new law,
in the wake of the September 11 terror attacks, travel firms will have to ask
tourists their date and place of birth.

The details are expected to be compiled when a holiday is booked, as airports
would grind to a halt if it was done just before departure.  The Association of
British Travel Agents has said it is disappointed that the government's
consultations with the industry were not more through.

Gunman's 'mission to kill': See Page 7

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              210 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             March 17, 2002, Sunday

CIA WARNING PUTS BRITAIN ON TERROR ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 106 words


BRITAIN was last night put on terror alert as the CIA warned of possible attacks
by Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network.

The CIA tip-off was based on surveillance of two suspected al Qaida members in
Pakistan.

The two were quoted by the CIA as saying there would soon be 'good news' about
bomb explosions in Britain and Germany.

No target or method was apparently discussed, but authorities fear there could
still be al Qaida 'sleepers' in Europe. Meanwhile, Tony Blair yesterday played
down reports that Britain had been isolated over its support for posible US
military action against Iraq hardman Saddam Hussein.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              211 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                December 8, 2002

ASYLUM: THE REAL COST

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE ByTim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 620 words


A PATHETIC 32p is to be spent to protect each person in Britain from Al Qaeda
terrorists - despite the highest peacetime security alert in history.

The GBP 19million total for next year is dwarfed by the GBP 228million bill for
the Home Office's four planned asylum reception centres or the GBP 138million
legal aid bill awarded to fight asylum cases. And taxpayers will have to fork
out GBP 21million just to pay for 1,200 asylum seekers from the Sangatte camp
who began resettling in Britain last week.

Last night ministers were branded a "disgrace" after adding just GBP 70,000 to
next year's emergency planning budget. The "boost" quietly slipped out last week
and is expected to last until April 2004.

It is worth one penny for every six people or GBP 1.09 a day to each local
authority in England and Wales.

The Whitehall penny pinching - the GBP 19million total represents just 32p for
every man, woman and child - comes just weeks after the Bali and Kenyan bomb
attacks signal that Osama Bin Laden's henchmen are back in business. Last night
Al Qaeda was under suspicion of causing four more bomb blasts that killed 14
people in Bangladesh.

Senior security sources say that a wave of carnage against Western targets is
expected before Christmas and Britain is number one on the hit list - because
the UK is the only country singled out by Bin Laden that has so far escaped
attack.

But ministers say they won't pay more until a review of security arrangements is
completed.

Legislation to force local authorities to improve their precautions against
terror attack will not be published until the spring and will not become law
until this time next year.

A leaked Government document seen by the Sunday Express spells out the confusion
in Whitehall.

The Cabinet Office memo, passed to Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin, states:
"There is a gap in resilience planning between the central and local tiers of
government. This was one of the findings of the Emergency Planning Review."

Mr Letwin said: "This is just the latest in a series of very worrying
revelations that demonstrate the Government's lack of preparedness.

Although Britain is effectively on a war footing, the Government's response is
to increase each local authority's civil defence grant by just over GBP 1 a day.

"It is critically important that the Government sharpens up its act. We continue
to see a muddled and amateurish approach to the terrorist threat. There is
nothing like the sense of urgency and political will that one would expect."

Tory MP Patrick Mercer, who sits on the Commons Defence Select Committee, said:
"This is a disgrace.

With first the Bali bomb, then the Moscow siege and now the Mombasa attack, it
should be clear to the Government that September 11 was not a one off."

A Cabinet Office spokesman said:

"The Government does take emergency planning very seriously. We are committed to
having a modern structure for 21st century needs and as such that's what we're
putting into place."

The row came as Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith launched a fierce attack on Tony
Blair, accusing him of using the armed forces as a "crutch" while leaving them
underfunded. In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Express, Mr Duncan Smith
said: "The Prime Minister leans on them like a crutch.

Every time he has a difficulty, he calls in the armed forces.

"And my worry is that they are being used now as a way of propping up the Prime
Minister rather than actually being there for what they are meant to do which is
to be able to fight wars if necessary."

Additional reporting by Julia Hartley-Brewer and Hilary Douglas DUNCAN SMITH
INTERVIEW AND OPINION: PAGE 20

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              212 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                            January 13, 2002, Sunday

'HYPOCRITE' BLAIR IS BLASTED OVER POUNDS 1BN INDIA ARMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 315 words


TONY Blair was yesterday accused of hypocrisy after it was reported that the
Government has mounted a campaign to boost arms sales to India, despite his
mission to calm escalating tensions between the country and Pakistan.

The Prime Minister said during a tour of the subcontinent last week that he
hoped Britain could have a "calming influence" in the troubled region after a
terrorist attack on the Indian parliament in December.

Meanwhile, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon has been pressing Indian prime minister
Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government on a deal which includes 60 Hawk jets worth
pounds 1bn.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We have one of the toughest export licensing
regimes in the world. We will continue to judge all applications for Pakistan
and India against its stringent criteria."

A senior Labour MP called on the Government to justify the sale in what was a
highly sensitive area, while a spokesman for the Campaign Against the Arms Trade
said: "It certainly smacks of hypocrisy.

"It is interesting that we are three weeks away from a huge arms fair in India,
yet Tony Blair went there saying he wanted to calm tensions.

"One of the concerns Pakistan said last week was that it cannot keep up with
India in terms of conventional weapons spending so they had to focus on nuclear
weapons."

The uneven balance was a concern for regional stability, he added.

Since the terrorist attack on the New Delhi parliament last month, blamed on
extremist groups based in Pakistan, there has been a massive build-up of troops
from both nuclear powers on the disputed border in Kashmir.

Foreign Office officials estimate one million troops have now amassed there,
with Indian soldiers outnumbering those from Pakistan two to one.

A spokesman for the Pakistan High Commission in London said Pakistan was "very
concerned" at the arms build-up.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              213 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 17, 2002

I WON'T STOP TERROR, ASSAD WARNS BLAIR

BYLINE: By Alison Little and Richard Palmer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 489 words


FURIOUS protests engulfed Tony Blair yesterday after Syria's President Bashar
Assad brushed aside Britain's calls to rein in Palestinian terror groups
operating in his country.

Assad, who met the Prime Minister in Downing Street during a controversial
four-day visit to Britain, insisted that Palestinian militants in his country
were just "press officers."

He also praised Iraq's "co-operation" over weapons inspections and said he was
"optimistic" war could be averted.

The meeting went ahead to the anger of hundreds of demonstrators who gathered in
Whitehall to protest against Mr Blair's red-carpet treatment for a leader of a
country said by the US to be one of the world's main sponsors of terrorism.

Protesters banged pots and pans, shouted "terrorist" and threw eggs at the
Syrian president's car as he and his wife arrived in Downing Street. They
narrowly missed it, splattering bystanders instead.

British Jewish protesters, waving banners declaring "Blair: Don't take tea with
terrorists" and "Don't send our troops to fight abroad when you entertain
terrorists at home, " criticised Syria's appalling human rights record and
ruthless suppression of the regime's internal opponents.

They also denounced Assad's support for Islamic militant groups such as
Hezbollah, Hamas and Islamic Jihad, accusing him of allowing Palestinian
terrorists to plot against Israeli civilians in the safety of his capital
Damascus. Eric Moonman, the former Labour MP who is president of the Zionist
Federation, said:

"To entertain the leader of a terrorist state sends out a terrible message when
the British public is being asked to be vigilant in the face of a possible
terrorist attack by Al Qaeda."

Gili Yoshpe, an Israeli living in North London, said: "Britain is fighting
terrorism while Blair is having tea with one of the biggest terrorists in the
world. He is the No1 terrorist, perhaps only behind Bin Laden."

Those protests were echoed by Syrian Kurds who have fled state repression in
their homeland. They called for Britain to put pressure on Assad to stop the
abuse and allow their people basic human rights.

Jawad Mella, president of the Kurdistan National Congress, said: "We are here to
call for our own state and to condemn Syria's treatment of us."

Yards away but separated by a police cordon and barriers, pro-Assad activists
staged a counter-demonstration, shouting their support for the reforms the
president is making in his country and his condemnation of war on Iraq.

Downing Street insisted the meeting was mainly to discuss Iraq but ministers
said Mr Blair was determined to raise the issue of militant groups such as Hamas
and Islamic Jihad which have offices in Syria.

Assad told reporters: "Of course we don't have organisations in Syria supporting
terrorism. We have press officers. They represent Palestinians living in Syria
and those living in Palestine."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              214 of 248 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          January 23, 2002, Wednesday

MIRROR M@ILBOX - WAR ON TERROR: BARBARISM WILL FUEL FRESH HATE

BYLINE: A V Davar

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 98 words

HIGHLIGHT: DILEMMA: Tony Blair; CRUEL? Manacled prisoners at Camp X-Ray in; Cuba


IT IS indefensible for the world's most powerful democratic country to deny the
rights of its prisoners-of-war and trap al-Qaeda terrorists in cages, manacled
hand and foot (The Mirror, January 21).

If the US government thinks that by meting out barbaric treatment to those of
its enemies in its custody it can defeat terrorist attacks, it is sadly
mistaken.

For the sake of Britain's and his own integrity, Tony Blair should discontinue
his support for America until the country learns to honour its international
obligations to the Geneva Convention.

A V Davar, N London

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              215 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 15, 2002

FANATICS' TERROR WARNING OVER WAR WITH IRAQ; BRITAIN TARGET FOR NEW SEPT 11

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 8

LENGTH: 526 words


BRITAIN was yesterday warned it will be the target of September 11-style attacks
if it joins any military action against Iraq.

The chilling threat came from a radical Muslim cleric who claimed Islamic
fundamentalists were planning mass terror attacks in the UK in retaliation for
any assault on Saddam Hussein. In a thinly veiled warning, Sheikh Omar Bakri
Mohammed added that the British public should be "worried" and said launching
strikes against Iraq would "cause problems".

Sheikh Mohammed, who is the UKbased leader of the fundamentalist AlMuhajiroun
group, said: "We are giving advice to the British Government and also warning
the British public of the consequences of involving themselves in attacking
Iraq, as the consequences of playing with fire is always either you burn
yourself or cause other problems."

Asked if he had specific information of threats against the UK, the Sheikh said:
"If you are in my position and listening to the talk and discussion in different
rooms on the Internet and aware about Islamic activities, yes you'll be worried,
as I receive many of these type of threats.

"I know of many Muslims who are freelance, who are willing to take action
against the Western powers. There are Muslims abroad who believe they are at war
with the West."

The Sheikh has caused widespread fury in the past for his inflammatory comments.
He controversially called for Britain to be turned into an Islamic state with
the Muslim flag hung outside Downing Street and has described Bin Laden as a
"hero". The Sheikh also told BBC Radio 4's Today programme yesterday: "We want
to study reality and see what happened on September 11, which was a direct
response to the evil American policy in the Muslim world.

"If they are attacking Muslims in Iraq, maybe some Muslims abroad will retaliate
and we don't want to be caught in the middle."

Home Secretary David Blunkett has already warned Sheikh Mohammed that he is on
the verge of being arrested following a stream of provocative outbursts.

M15, special branch and the Home Office have been monitoring him, as well as
phone calls and e-mails made by other fanatics in his organisation.

Mr Blunkett said last year: "At a point when we believe he is causing danger by
literally inciting others to go out and take people's lives, we will take action
against him. We will be in a position to act decisively when the mark has been
completely overstepped."

Tory MP David Cameron, a member of the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee,
last night suggested the Sheikh should be deported. He sought political asylum
after being expelled from Saudi Arabia and has been given indefinite leave to
remain by the Home Office. Mr Cameron said: "Why on earth was this person given
succour in the UK in the first place? He seems to have no commitment to this
country."

Deputy PM John Prescott said the decision on whether to attack Iraq would be
made by the Prime Minister.

He said MPs may not be given a vote on the issue. Mr Prescott said previous
decisions to go to war had been dealt with in adjournment debates which allow no
opportunity for a ballot.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              216 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 31, 2002

Challenges ahead

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 392 words


THE NEW YEAR begins with auguries of war.


Military confrontation with Saddam Hussein, in spite of American denials to the
contrary, looks all but inevitable. Sufficient forces are now massed in the
region that only the most remarkable change of heart by Saddam can avoid the
inevitable assault. Whether what emerges from the ashes of such a conflict is
better or worse than that which it replaces, no one can be sure. But America,
post September 11, has declared its long war on international terrorism, and an
administration which came to office accused of being isolationist and unknowing
in the ways of the world, is now all too confidently striding across the global
stage. From North Korea to Afghanistan, from Iraq to Iran, President Bush now
has his sights set on régimes that either harbour or give succour to America's
enemies. Whether this makes the world a safer place, or leads the citizens of
the West to live in fear of the ever-present threat of terrorist attack, only
the unfolding year will tell.

In Britain, Tony Blair has firmly nailed his colours to Mr Bush's mast and, in
doing so, has put his country in the front line of the war on terror. For this
he has earned the opprobrium of the knee-jerk anti-American Left, the more
European-leaning political centre, and the independent minded Little Englanders.
It is an odd alliance, but one which Mr Blair will have to engage with in debate
if he is to win the hearts and minds of the British public. Nothing he has said
thus far has convinced them that Saddam is a real and imminent threat, rather
than a figment of America's paranoid imagination.

If Mr Blair finds this task difficult, he is unlikely to relish the more
hazardous one of persuading a sceptical public that this country's political and
economic future lies within a deeper, and more tightly integrated Europe.
Chiefly, his task is to convince them to relinquish the pound in favour of the
euro. This will be his most demanding challenge. Were he to win it, however, he
would secure his place in history as one of the great reforming Prime Ministers.
Should he fail - or, more likely, evade the issue by claiming the Government's
five economic tests have not been met - the nation will breathe a sigh of relief
that it has narrowly avoided the loss of its economic and political sovereignty.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              217 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 19, 2002

Banks threaten air control bankruptcy

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 229 words


FOUR banks that underwrote the part-privatisation of Britain's air traffic
control system are threatening to force it into bankruptcy, it emerged last
night.

Abbey National, Barclays Capital, HBOS and the Bank of America are seeking
millions of pounds in compensation following last summer's GBP 800million
sell-off. The banks claim that the sale was overinflated, according to The
Guardian.

Today they will tell Whitehall that unless there is a massive Government cash
injection they are ready to push National Air Traffic Services (Nats) into
administration.

The sell-off, strongly criticised at the time, is now being labelled a potential
'Railtrack of the skies', with Government money seen as necessary to keep the
business afloat just seven months after its sale.

Transport Secretary Stephen Byers Byers went against advice from the Civil
Aviation Authority that the business plan and financial structure was too
fragile to withstand a traumatic event. Within weeks, the terrorist attacks of
September 11 led to a steep decline in demand for air travel and a big drop in
Nats' income.

Last night a Nats spokesman denied there was a disagreement with the banks.

'There is no question of administration. We have been working with the banks to
keep them fully appraised and they are fully supportive of the steps we are
taking,' she said.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              218 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 2, 2002, Tuesday

MI5 CHIEF APPOINTED AS NEW LAW SOCIETY WATCHDOG

BYLINE: Robert Verkaik

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 517 words


ONE OF Britain's spy chiefs has been appointed to improve the Law Society's
troubled complaints procedure and help the public to resolve disputes with
solicitors.

Sir Stephen Lander, outgoing director general of MI5, is to become the legal
profession's first independent commissioner, a job that will involve a thorough
investigation of the Law Society's handling of complaints. Sir Stephen, who is
retiring MI5 in October, will be accountable to the Master of the Rolls, Lord
Phillips of Worth Matravers.

During his six years in charge of Britain's security service, Sir Stephen played
a key role in countering terrorism. Last month he announced that MI5 was to
increase its budget substantially to combat international terrorism in response
to the 11 September attacks and warnings of strikes against targets in Britain.

His new job may be no less challenging. There are currently 5,917 outstanding
complaints and regulatory investigations against solicitors. In 1999, this
figure reached 17,000.

Each year about 200 lawyers are found guilty of breaching the solicitors' rules
and sentenced by the Law Society's Solicitors' Disciplinary Tribunal (SDT). Last
year a report by the SDT showed that fines imposed against errant solicitors
increased from an annual total of pounds 201,250 to nearly pounds 300,000, while
the number of reprimands for breaches of the rules doubled.

The Lord Chancellor, Lord Irvine of Lairg, has told the Law Society that unless
it puts its complaints system in order it risks losing the right to self
-regulation.

Yesterday Sir Stephen said he was delighted by his appointment, which he
described as "part of a wider programme of change for the society designed to
improve the relationship between solicitors and the public".

The Law Society said Sir Stephen would play a crucial part in raising standards
in the profession, giving a greater voice to clients and improving the way
complaints were handled. Janet Paraskeva, chief executive of the society, said:
"It is taking time to change the old practices and procedures that have dogged
the complaints procedure, but we are beginning to make progress.

"Sir Stephen's appointment should help accelerate this - especially as one of
his first tasks will be to examine our procedures and advise us on how we can
make them better still." The Law Society has already met most of the targets for
handling complaints set by the Government and now claims to resolve 90 per cent
of complaints within one year of them being registered.

Sir Stephen has kept a relatively low profile as head of MI5 but has continued
to pursue the more open policy favoured by his predecessor, Dame Stella
Rimington, creating an MI5 website and advertising job vacancies in the national
press.

In a very rare public pronouncement last month, he encouraged members of the
public to give information on terrorism to MI5's new hotline.

He will be succeeded as director general by Eliza Manningham-Buller, the
daughter of a former lord chancellor. Sir Stephen will take up his new three
-year post in November.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 1, 2002

New York skyline changes colour in tribute

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 391 words


The Empire State Building in New York is to be lit up in purple and gold next
week to celebrate the Queen's golden jubilee.

It was announced yesterday that New York's tallest structure will beam the royal
colours across the city from sunrise to midnight on Tuesday.

The tribute is a reciprocal gesture following the Queen's order to have the US
national anthem played at the Changing the Guard ceremony two days after the
September 11 terror attacks.

A Buckingham Palace spokes-man said: "The people of Britain and the United
States share a close and unique relationship. Her Majesty is delighted and
honoured by this tribute."

Sir Thomas Harris, British consul-general to New York, said it was a "tremendous
honour and a testament" to the strong bonds that exist between the people of
Britain and New York.

"I know many Americans, following the tragic events of September 11, were moved
by the playing of the US national anthem by the Coldstream Guards at Buckingham
Palace.

"The people of Britain will be similarly moved by this tribute to Her Majesty."

The tribute is a rare honour of an individual and a non-US occasion.

The Empire State Building's tower lights usually are only lit in honour of
American holidays, landmark New York City events or the independence day
celebrations for the various nationalities that comprise the greater New York
City population.

The last non-American to be honoured in this way was Nelson Mandela during a
visit to the city in June 1990.

In the wake of September 11, the Empire State Building has changed its colours
very few times, instead remaining red, white and blue in honour of those who
died in the attacks.

Howard Rubenstein, spokes-man for the Empire State Building, said the structure
was a beacon nor just for New York, but for all nations.

"We are honoured to do this special lighting for the Queen's golden jubilee, as
a tribute to her reign and the ongoing friendship between our two nations," he
said.

The Earl of Lichfield yesterday was among photographers who saw their portraits
of the Queen go on public display.

The Queen's second cousin mingled with other photographers in the show at the
National Portrait Gallery in central London for the unveiling of 11 pictures
commissioned by Buckingham Palace to celebrate the golden jubilee.

LOAD-DATE: June 01, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              220 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 7, 2002, Saturday

ARMED POLICE GUARD SCOTTISH TARGETS'

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 265 words


MILITARY bases, airports and main rail stations in Scotland are imposing tight
security in the run- up to September 11.

They are among thousands of potential targets for an anniversary attack in
Britain.

And from this weekend, thousands of extra police will begin a round-the- clock
vigil.

More than 500 American-owned interests top the list of UK targets that could
have been earmarked for attack.

They include the US embassy in London, the headquarters of American-owned firms,
the homes of diplomats and senior military officers plus air bases like
Lakenheath and Mildenhall and other key defence facilities.

Next on the list are inter-national airports, main railway stations, the London
underground and the heart of Britain's financial world in the City of London.

Armed police will also be keeping watch on hundreds of mosques and synagogues.

Assistant commissioner David Veness, the top-ranking detective in charge of
anti- terror operations said: "We cannot afford to relax, we must be alert and
vigilant.

"We have no direct information about any specific threat, but the potential is
there.

"The threat could just as easily come from a lone fanatic as from an organised
group like al- Qaeda.

"We are looking at a full range of possibilities that go from shooting attacks
on individuals and small bombs to spectacular attacks, kidnappings, hijacks,
suicide attacks or large bombings.

"We will be putting a lot more police out on the streets and on the transport
system.

"The message to everyone is business as usual - but be vigilant'."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              221 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 19, 2002

'We will warn you of specific threats'

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 631 words


Tony Blair last night pledged that the public would be warned if the Government
received specific intelligence of a terrorist attack against a known target.



As Downing Street again denied weekend reports that MI5 had foiled a poison gas
attack on the London Underground, the Prime Minister briefed Conservative leader
Iain Duncan Smith on the current level of threat from Al-Qaida.

Mr Duncan Smith used their 25-minute meeting, described by Tory sources as
friendly and constructive, to press for a Commons statement by Home Secretary
David Blunkett to end the current confusion and prevent alarmist headlines.

He urged Mr Blair to spell out in as much detail as was consistent with
security, the measures it had put in place to protect against the threat of
terrorist attack.

He also raised with the Prime Minister the question of whether Ministers would
invoke emergency powers legislation to ensure public safety in the light of the
current terrorist threat and prospect of a further strike by firefighters.

The Government has so far resisted demands for a Commons statement.

Ministers have been trying to maintain a delicate balance between reminding the
public to remain vigilant and avoiding mass panic.

In an interview with ITV's Tonight programme to be broadcast tonight, Mr Blair
said that while they would warn of any specific threat, they had to be wary of
acting on what he described as general information.

The difficult dilemma we have here is this - constantly at the moment, because
of the terrorist threat, we have pieces of information, pieces of intelligence,
coming across our desks and we have to sift that and weight it and judge it, he
said.

If there is a specific threat against a specific target we, of course, will warn
people. But we have got to be very wary of acting on general information, of
issuing warnings when they are not really justified according to the evidence.

The risk then is we unnecessarily alarm people, we end up doing the terrorists'
job for them, and for the public, they will get confused if there are different
pieces of information coming at them the whole time.

Earlier, Downing Street stood by Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott's assurance
on Sunday that there was no evidence of any plans for a gas attack on the London
Underground. John Prescott is a senior member of the Government and he speaks
with the full authority of the Government, the Prime Minister's official
spokesman said.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, of St Andrews University's Centre for the study of
Terrorism and Political Violence, said that the current threat to Britain from
Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network was very high.

We know that Britain has been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a recent
audio tape. He threatens attacks against Britain and other countries that are
part of the terrorism coalition, he said.

The chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority, Lord Harris, said the head of
specialist police operations in London thought it was a case of when not if an
attack came.

He said that emergency planning had been upgraded in the light of the September
11 attacks in America, but acknowledged that they could not protect against
every eventuality.

We are much better prepared than we would have been 18 months ago. But, of
course, the reality is, no one can protect absolutely against ruthless
terrorists who are prepared to lose their own lives at the same time, he said.

London Underground's customer services director Mike Brown said that they were
ready to run a special poster campaign about a possible gas attack on the Tube
if necessary, but declined to say whether they had been approached about doing
so.

There are no posters at this moment in place.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              222 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                February 6, 2002

House prices rising at their fastest rate since 1980s boom

BYLINE: Jane Padgham

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


HOUSE prices across Britain are rising at the fastest rate since the boom of the
late 1980s, new figures show today.

Home loans giant Halifax revealed that property prices jumped by 1.6 per cent
during January after surging by 2.9 per cent in December. The year-on-year rate
of increase rose from 15.5 per cent 16.8 per cent - the highest since July 1989.

The average price now stands at GBP 100,412, breaking through GBP 100,000 for
the first time. Prices have risen tenfold since 1973 and six per cent in the
last three months alone.

In London, where prices have doubled in the past five years, the average house
now costs GBP 175,900, nearly three times the GBP 61,700 needed to buy
theaverage home in the North.

Halifax head of group economics Gary Styles said: "Although this largely
reflects a bounce-back in consumer confidence from the lows of the September
terrorist attacks, supply shortages in the market are also contributing to
higher house prices.

"However, we continue to expect slowing economic growth and rising unemployment
will result in an easing in house price inflation."

CAR SALES in Britain surged ahead by nearly 10 per cent last month - with UK
-based manufacturers making some of the biggest gains of all.

Customers bought 205,476 cars compared to 187,908 in January 2001. The figures
marked 16 months of continuous growth in the UK new car market, said the Society
of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. Makers which gained sales over the past 12
months include Jaguar, up 117 per cent, and Rolls-Royce, up by 28 per cent, the
figures show.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              223 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 5, 2002

A NATION IMMERSED IN THE PATRIOT GAME

BYLINE: RICHARD AND JUDY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 526 words


J HOW strange it has been to be in America over this New Year. Stars and Stripes
flags are everywhere - jutting from houses and apartments, streaming from every
other car you pass.

It's not just the official patriotism you would expect from banks, big business
and hotels but an outpouring from just about every humble domestic quarter. It
represents a kind of fervent personal affirmation from everyone here of their
belief in, and love for, America.

Can you imagine that in Britain? Yes, I know the Union Jack comes out at royal
weddings and golden jubilees. But after an IRA attack on, say, Canary Wharf, do
you see the British flag fluttering from every other car in the country?

I don't think so.

Touchingly, our local store here in the Florida Keys has sold out of Union Jacks
as Americans fly our flags along with their own. Everywhere you go, when people
find you're British, they thank you with overwhelming, sincere gratitude for
your support. The slightest news of British input into the war on terrorism is
top news on the TV bulletins: "Fifty British soldiers move into Kabul, " the
news anchors approvingly intone. It does make you feel humble.

And on the telly on New Year's Eve, an anchor talks about the positive things
Americans have learned from September 11. That life goes on. That disasters can
be dealt with.

Movingly but tellingly, Americans have now learned where towns like Kandahar and
Kabul are.

It's a rude awakening but a lesson, at great cost, deeply learned.

R JUDY and I both wanted to write about the moving and humbling sight of so many
Stars and Stripes fluttering everywhere you look, so we flipped a quarter and I
lost. Over to her. . .

except for this footnote.

Gas stations all over America can't sell enough little five-dollar flags to
drivers, who clip them to the top of their side windows.

The effect during rush hour is extraordinary - hundreds of American flags
rippling and snapping in everyone's slipstream, like a great patriotic cavalry
charge to work and back.

Occasionally this week Americans looked slightly askance at our flagless rental
car. "No flag, huh?", they asked beadily. But the moment they heard our accents
they launched into heartfelt and touching tributes to British solidarity, and
all was well.

But I liked the car-borne flags and secretly I wanted one too. I felt left out.

Judy could see what was coming. "You're not to buy one, " she said firmly.
"We're not American and it'll just look silly." Daughter Chloe stood
shoulder-to-shoulder with her mother. "Cheesy beyond belief, Dad. Don't even
think about it."

But when I was alone behind the wheel I pulled into the nearest garage
forecourt, handed over my five dollars and left with a little flag. And when I
got back to our street, guess what? Neighbours driving home from work honked,
others walked over to shake hands. They were chuffed to bits. "That's a very
nice gesture, " said one. "We should fly your flag too."

And next morning, proudly taped to our friends' back window, was a meticulously
handpainted Union Jack.

And I thought that was a very nice gesture too.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              224 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 14, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN'S TWIN TOWERS MEMORIAL GARDEN TO BE OPEN BY SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF
ATTACKS

BYLINE: Ben Russell Political Correspondent The garden opposite the American
embassy will be a memorial to those who died on 11 September Reuters; Carmen
Taylor/AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 291 words


A GARDEN of remembrance bedecked with plants native to Britain and America is to
be the UK's official memorial to the victims of the terrorist attacks on 11
September.

A plaque bearing the names of the 67 British victims of the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon will be at the centre of the memorial in Grosvenor
Square Gardens, opposite the American embassy in central London.

The oval design, featuring an oak pergola, has been produced in consultation
with the families of the victims by designers who devised the Princess Diana
Memorial playground in Kensington Gardens and landscaped the Eden Project in
Cornwall. The families will help to choose the plants.

Tessa Jowell, the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, announced the
project, which will be paid for by a pounds 1m government grant. She said: "Our
intention is to provide a garden that will be simple, dignified and designed to
the highest quality. It will also allow for privacy and seclusion for visitors
... It is fitting that the garden should be complete in time for the second
anniversary of this terrible tragedy."

Plans were also announced for a service of remembrance at St Paul's Cathedral,
to be attended by the Prince of Wales, William Farish, the American ambassador,
and relatives of the British victims on the first anniversary of the disaster.

Patricia Thompson, whose son Nigel died in the World Trade Centre, said: "I
think it is a very good thing to have this garden for people to visit and
remember people they lost."

Laura Eaton, from Brighton, whose son Robert, 37, worked on the 105th floor of
the World Trade Centre, added: "It will be lovely to be able to go and visit the
garden and sit there."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              225 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                           September 5, 2002 Thursday

Britain's cultural revolution

LENGTH: 537 words


With a continuing commitment to the promotion of excellence and celebration of
multiculturalism, the EMMA Awards [Ethnic Multicultural Media Academy] has
expanded its boundaries to make May 2003 the multicultural month of the year by
spearheading the first EMMA Festival.

The EMMA Festival will provide an umbrella to highlight independent
multicultural events, raising awareness and joining communities together in a
collaboration of art, cinema, music, dance, poetry, education, theatre & comedy.

Talented individuals and creative organisations will come together under the
EMMA Festival umbrella to provide a month of entertainment and educational
exhibition across London throughout May, including:

* Creative industry fair in Trafalgar Square

* Foreign Embassies showcase their native artistic and cultural talent

* London School's Competition to highlight cultural diversity

* 'World Cinema' & 'Exhibition' from The Institute of Contemporary Arts

The month's events will culminate in the glittering annual EMMA Awards ceremony,
which sees stars from the worlds of media and entertainment gather at London's
Grosvenor House Hotel.

EMMA Founder Bobby Syed said of the festival plans: "Since the terrorists
attacks of September 11th there has never been a greater need to unite people
from different ethnic backgrounds. The EMMA Festival will provide another
terrific opportunity for different organisations and individuals to work
together to celebrate multicultural excellence regardless of our racially
fragmented society".

More than 100,000 information forms are about to be distributed to businesses
and organisations across the UK to encourage participation in the event.

Muhammad Ali, EMMA 1999 Lifetime Achievement recipient said: "As in the United
States, Britain is lucky to draw from the talents of a community rich in ethnic
diversity. The vital cultural contributions by people of African, Asian, West
Indian and Middle Eastern decent are integral to the progress of British culture
and business at large".

Nelson Mandela, EMMA 2000 Lifetime Achievement recipient said: "EMMA is a great
initiative to bring together and acknowledge, publicly, the professionalism,
expertise and contribution of the recipients...and will continue to make a great
contribution to the ethnic and mainstream media in Britain".

The EMMA Festival will assist in promoting and advertising the various
independent Multicultural events, to reach a wide audience, working with
organizations like The BBC, ICA, GLA, V&A, London Tourist Board, Arts Council,
SOAS [University of London] and Royal Albert Hall through an Asian Music Show.
This celebration of Britain's multicultural revolution will lead the way to
education and entertainment for a younger generation with distinctive
multicultural value.

Note to Editors:

The Forthcoming census statistics will re-enforce the growth and impact of the
diverse multi-ethnic community on British society, with a young population
developing a dynamic urban youth culture with distinctive Diaspora influences
through music, fashion, design, business, cuisine etc. This has made Britain a
multicultural powerhouse in Europe through 'Cross Cultural Communications'.

CONTACT:

Alison Halstead/Joe Sangwin @ The Media Foundry 020 7792 2286/020 7243 2738 Or
Bobby Ayyub Syed at EMMA on 0207 636 1233/7468 3527 M: 07802 767 252 E:
bobby@hearsay.co.uk Website: http://www.emma.tv/ Fax: 0207 636 1255

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 PR Newswire Europe Limited

                              226 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 2, 2002

BLAIR WARNED ON IRAQ ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrea Kuhn

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 674 words


Rank and file members of the Labour Party in the Westcountry were last night
increasingly at odds with Prime Minister Tony Blair over his policy on Iraq.
Although all prominent Labour Party activists in the region contacted by the WMN
stressed they were expressing only personal opinions, they spoke as one in
saying they had grave reservations over the prospect of Britain backing an
attack on Saddam Hussein.

Their views reflected calls for caution being expressed both abroad and at home.
Nelson Mandela said he thought that such military action could see the end of
the United Nations as a co-operative group.

And senior political figures such as Shirley Williams, the Liberal Democrats'
leader in the Lords, said President George Bush had yet to make a substantial
case for military action.

However, many members of the Conservative Party, including leader Iain Duncan
Smith, have said they will support decisive action. In an interview with The
Sunday Times, he said: "It is now time for the Prime Minister to explain to the
British people what he already knows - that Iraq is a clear and growing danger
to Britain. Those who believe we can simply do nothing must say how we would
counter Saddam in the future when he has nuclear and biological weapons.
Ultimately, the question is not whether we deal with Saddam, but when and how."
Dr Edward Ferrett, chairman of the Cornwall County Labour Party, said he did not
feel this was a mission Britain should tackle single-handedly, and it should
only be considered with far more wide-ranging support from other United Nations
countries.

"I just think we have too many other commitments at the moment," he said. "We
have got problems such as Ireland and so on.  I think we also have to think of
our own soldiers." Carol Griffiths, Labour councillor for Exeter's St James'
Ward, said that even though she was unhappy about such a regime continuing to
exist in Iraq, she had "grave reservations" about calls for an attack on Iraq.

"I take note of what world leaders such as Nelson Mandela and Bill Clinton say.
When they are all calling for caution then I think we need to listen," she said.

"I don't say that I understand all the issues that are involved here but it's
simply a gut reaction.

"I have a lot of anxiety on that score and I think it (a military strike) could
do enormous and irreparable damage and lots of lives could be lost." Yesterday,
the Plymouth Socialist Alliance issued a statement urging members of the public
not support to an attack against Iraq.

The group, along with the Stop the War Coalition, has called a public meeting in
the city on the anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers in New
York on September 11.

Campaigner Pete Heddle said such events had sent shockwaves round the world but
that it was important to remain calm. "In a single day, a murderous act became a
politically historic occurrence.  But we must deal with ending the causes of
terrorism, not provoke more attacks," he said.

"We believe a war on Iraq would have nothing to do with 'weapons of mass
destruction' but everything to do with the determination of the US Government to
assert its dominance on the world stage." Exeter Labour councillor Michael Mills
agreed, saying: "I really don't think sufficient evidence that Iraq has chemical
weapons has been produced.

"I would not like us to see us out on a limb purely with them (the US) or riding
on the coat-tails of America." Mid Devon councillor Alan Griffiths, who was in
the Navy for 20 years, said any kind of conflict needed very deep consideration.

"To coin an old phrase, jaw jaw is better than war war. Perhaps in hindsight it
was wrong to have stopped last time.  But there was a clear mandate from the
United Nations which was followed. Any death is one too many.  I don't believe
people should be putting their lives at risk." The public meeting called by the
Socialist Alliance will be held at 7pm on September 11 at the Ballard Centre,
Plymouth.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              227 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 17, 2002

AFGHAN BUG IS BROUGHT TO UK;
Army medic develops illness after flying home from Kabul

BYLINE: Chris Stephen

SECTION: Pg. 1;4

LENGTH: 563 words


THE mystery illness that has hit British forces in Afghanistan has struck its
first victim in Britain.

A medic treating the sick troops flew back home and spent three days unaware
that he had contracted the potentially fatal disease, meaning he could have
spread it to others.

Only now has he been diagnosed as suffering from the illness and put under
quarantine. Experts believe the disease, which is still unidentified, is spread
through the air and fear an outbreak here.

The news came as it emerged that 18 British military personnel in Afghanistan
had contracted the disease, and that two are very seriously ill.

Seven soldiers have been airlifted to Britain for treatment and one to a US base
in Germany.

The bug is capable of spreading without direct contact with those affected and
causes fever, vomiting and severe stomach cramps.

Military experts have insisted there are no reasons to suspect biological
weapons.

The unnamed medic flew back to RAF Brize Norton after treating troops in Kabul.
Because he was not considered at risk he was not isolated or put in quarantine
while he travelled home. During his journey he could have spread the disease to
dozens of soldiers and civilians he encountered.

The medic, an anaesthetist, was flown out to Afghanistan this week to take home
one of eight medical evacuees hit by the first outbreak. Three days after
returning he developed the symptoms.

The case has confirmed the worst fears of British commanders, which is that the
disease is airborne, rather than caught from local food, and has caused concerns
about infection because of the cramped conditions of the 9,000 troops based here
in Afghanistan.

At Bagram, a further 20 cases have joined the six remaining patients still
affected, and the bug has spread beyond the 34 Field Hospital unit, where the
original cases were found.

The new outbreak dashes hopes that the disease has been contained by the
quarantine of the field hospital unit.

Despite the area being quarantined, the bug has spread among other British
troops among the 1,700-strong 45 Royal Marines Commando task force. British Army
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Ben Curry refused to say which British units were
involved but said three soldiers were in isolation and 17 more had symptoms.

But he said the new cases all came from two camps, Camp Gibraltar, home to the
main marines force, and Camp Hacienda, home to special forces units.

Despite evidence that the bug is airborne, the base commander has not ordered
the isolation of units affected and there is no general quarantine.

Colonel Curry said terrorism had been ruled out: "There's absolutely no reason
to suggest there's a bio-terrorist threat."

Meanwhile, British Marines have launched a major attack on al Qaeda forces in
southern Afghanistan, killing several terrorists in an ongoing operation.

The marines, backed by artillery and air strikes, are fighting the first battle
of their deployment in mountains 8,000 feet high.

"I can confirm that the coalition has made contact with the enemy and some have
been killed," said British commander, Brigadier Roger Lane.

Brigadier Lane said the battle began when a patrol of Australian SAS were fired
on by mortars and machine guns while on patrol late yesterday afternoon.

He said there had been no coalition casualties.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              228 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 21, 2002

Business facing biggest test since last recession

BYLINE: EMMA CORLETT

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 320 words



THE influential Institute of Directors says business optimism is at its lowest
level in Britain in four years.  While confident the UK will avoid a full-blown
recession, the IoD - which boasts some 55,000 members in the UK alone - says its
latest survey shows a (lsquo)significant' weakening of confidence between
September and December. It also warns the true picture is probably far worse as
the September survey did not fully pick-up the impact the events of September 11
has had on business.  The balance of firms which were more - rather than less -
optimistic about their prospects was 10 per cent, against 23 per cent in the
September quarterly update and 28 per cent in June and March.  Company
performance also slipped, although the majority of respondents said their
businesses were performing well.  The balance of those performing well versus
those performing badly was 72 per cent compared with 76 per cent in September
and 80 per cent in June.  The balance of directors reporting higher output minus
those reporting lower output fell back further in December to 33 per cent from
38 per cent in September with both total orders and export orders down.  Ruth
Lea, head of the policy unit, said: "Our latest survey suggests that general
business optimism weakened significantly between September and December - even
after allowing for the fact that our September survey did not fully pick up the
impact on UK business confidence of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the
US.

"In addition, every activity indicator - company performance, output,
employment, profits, total orders, export orders, capacity utilisation -
significantly deteriorated.  "The manufacturing sector continues to underperform
the rest of the economy, reflecting its exposure to difficult overseas trading
conditions and the weak euro. Business is facing its biggest challenges since
the early 1990s recession. "

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              229 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 14, 2002

It's the rainbow revolution;
Britain's most colourful designer has decamped to New York

BYLINE: Laura Craik

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 851 words


MATTHEW Williamson is holding up a patchwork bag with a number 5 stitched on the
side, baseball-style.

Why a 5? Is it his lucky number? He looks apologetic. "Actually, the bag did
have an 11 on it but we had to take it off." It takes a moment for this to sink
in. "I mean, you have to be careful.

New Yorkers are still very sensitive about the terrorist attack."

We are in a loft on lower Broadway, several scant blocks away from the gaping
hole that is Ground Zero.

Williamson, a charming, chain-smoking wraith of a man, has decided to show his
autumn collection in New York after nine seasons of showing in London.

"It was purely a business decision," he says with the air of someone who is
tired of defending himself. "We'd reached a point where we were showing to the
same buyers and the same press - not that we became complacent, but I felt I
needed another challenge. From a retail point of view, we're well stocked in the
UK. In the US, we have Barney's and Henri Bendel, but we'd like to reach more
people. We've just had an appointment with Bloomingdale's, so touch wood they'll
put in an order."

Though his move to New York has been trumpeted as another body blow to British
fashion, Williamson's reasons for decamping go some way to highlighting the
problems endemic in the industry. When he launched his label in London five
years ago, the fashion press feted him as nothing less than the man who would
change the face of fashion.

"I was heralded as this amazing revelation, and I sat there thinking, 'It's only
a f*****g cardigan and a dress.' I was so naive. One problem with London is you
don't even have to be good and new. You just have to be new.

Too much hype is dangerous. You get pigeonholed. I became known for Jade Jagger
and making pink dresses."

Ah yes - Jade Jagger.

Like many young designers eager for celebrity endorsement, Williamson was
delighted when Jagger took a shine to his creations. In vibrant colours like
fuchsia, tangerine or turquoise and embellished with ornate embroidery
influenced by his trips to India, Williamson's dresses were perfect for
premieres and any place where looking photogenic was paramount. Kate Moss and
Naomi Campbell were happy to model in his shows in exchange for a cashmere
cardie, while Kylie Minogue and Sadie Frost wore his dresses for pleasure.

Whereas some British designers may be guilty of having their heads in the clouds
when it comes to the business side of their operations, Williamson is as savvy
as it gets. His mission might be to make whimsical, handcrafted clothes, but he
is far from whimsical about the modus operandi he needs to accomplish this.
While other designers might baulk at having their precious image contaminated by
corporate sponsors, Williamson is realistic. Motorola, WH Smith and Ariel Color
are just three of the companies he has worked alongside, and his New York show
was sponsored by Du Pont. A percentage of the collection is made out of Tactel
fabrics.

"You have to play the game. I'm a British designer. We don't have any outside
backing or investors. Nobody owns us, and I'm really proud of that.

We've built this up ourselves."

Would Williamson baulk at being bought up by a luxury-goods house such as Gucci
or LVMH? He looks at me as though I might be mad. "Would I like to be bought?
Absolutely! If you hear of anything that's part of the game plan here. I would
love to attract the attention of a house; that's the only way for a British
designer to jump out of the box and become perceived as an international brand
and an important global name. Look at McCartney and McQueen."

Williamson cheerfully says he "could write a book" about the state of the
British fashion industry and its role within the international scene. "I'm not
going to sit here and slag off London Fashion Week, because it has got me where
I am now. But it does have a short fuse.

If it wants to be considered as more than just a creative place which brings out
new talent, then the issue has to be addressed from grass roots.

But maybe we should just be content with the fact that we launch the new names,
and when they get great they get bored and then they go to another city."

Or maybe it's time to be less parochial in our attitudes. Maybe it's time to
accept that designers, British and otherwise, have the right to show their
collections in whichever city best suits their business needs. Parisbased design
house Balenciaga opted to show in New York this season, as did British-based
designer Luella Bartley. Both can expect increased orders in the US. McCartney
and McQueen will show in Paris next month, exposing their collections to a far
wider audience than in London.

Design houses have to think globally if they are to survive.

"I think (each city is) getting less territorial, and I'm really glad," says
Williamson. "The mix is what makes any city interesting. If it's too staid and
formulaic, people will get bored."

Welcome to the brave new world of the fashion nomad: putting style back on the
map. Or lots of maps, in fact.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MATTHEW WILLIAMSON: BUSINESS SAVVY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              230 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 29, 2002, Tuesday

YARD PROBES OSAMA VIDEOS

BYLINE: Phil Banner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 262 words


ANTI-TERRORIST officers were today investigating videos which might have lured
British Muslims to fight for al Qaida.

The tapes are believed to contain violent scenes including one in which Algerian
extremists supported by Osama bin Laden kill Algerian soldiers.

It is understood Scotland Yard has received one of the videos and is examining
whether any law has been broken by circulating it.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said the tapes would be 'fully and thoroughly'
investigated.

'Any information passed to us is assessed.'

Birmingham MP Khalid Mahmood today pledged to call for an inquiry into how the
videos were smuggled into Britain and circulated in mosques.

'This was clearly done to target vulnerable people,' said Mr Mahmood (Lab, Perry
Barr).

'I shall be asking for a full inquiry to try to find the people responsible.'

Distributing or selling the videos could violate the Terrorism Act 2000, which
outlaws incitement to join terrorist groups.

It is claimed they were smuggled into the UK only days before the September 11
terrorist attacks in the US as part of a recruitment drive for the al Qaida
terrorist network.

They are said to have been produced by the Algerian Salafist Group for Preaching
and War.

One reportedly shows the deaths of a group of young Algerian conscripts, with
many having their throats slit, after their truck hits a mine.

Mr Mahmood, a Muslim, said: 'I would like to see one of these tapes to determine
who the atrocities were committed by. They could have been done by anyone.'

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              231 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2002

LEADER HOW CAN BLAIR ALLOW THE FIRE STRIKE DURING SECURITY ALERT?; MINISTERS
ABANDON THEIR PRIME DUTY

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 818 words


LISTEN, for the umpteenth time can we all please acknowledge we are not facing a
rerun of the 1978-79 Winter of Discontent. No, things are far worse than that.
True, rubbish is not piling up in the streets, the dead are not being left
unburied and even if every threatened public service strike takes place, the
days lost will be a mere fraction of the number chalked up during that wretched
winter. But the main difference between this November and November 1978 is that
the citizens of Britain are in far greater peril of their lives today than they
were back then.

Even the spectacularly inept Labour administration of Jim Callaghan did not
manage to combine a protracted emergency service strike with the greatest
terrorist threat this country has ever faced.

Wednesday November 13, 2002 will go down as the day on which a British
government, for the first time in recent history, signally failed to discharge
its most fundamental duty. The subjects of Her Majesty the Queen are today
criminally under-protected from the consequences of a terrorist atrocity,
despite the unprecedented risk of a series of massive attacks upon them by Al
Qaeda.

Whether an attack comes by train or boat or plane - a prospect Home Secretary
David Blunkett pondered over in a Burt Bacharach moment last week - is
immaterial. It will be answered in the first instance not by a modern fire
service but by barely-trained squaddies in 50-year-old wagons with no cutting
gear, breathing apparatus or extendable platforms.

Incredibly, the Prime Minister is leaving negotiations to halt the firefighters'
strike to a bunch of doddery old councillors and their hapless officials. So far
as any minister gets directly involved, it will be the ineffectual Fire Service
Minister Nick Raynsford or, worse still, his bombastic boss John Prescott.

But the Government line remains that this is a matter to be sorted out between
the Fire Brigades Union and local authority employers.

Despite the Al Qaeda threat and the simultaneous and terrifying onset of this
strike, ministers do not envisage any emergency legislation to ban the stoppage
or shortterm intervention to coax the firefighters back to work.

Tony Blair is happy to fly halfway across the world to try to sort out the
dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir but apparently will not cross
the road to ensure the British public is properly protected.

No doubt his spin doctors will reply that things are considerably more
complicated than that - and they are - but this is to miss their own fabled "big
picture", which is as follows: You, I and every British taxpayer are forced to
plough an amazing GBP 400 billion a year into the coffers of the British State.
We have long done so in the knowledge that our governors will fail in return to
provide us with high quality, value-for-money public services responsive to our
needs.

But, not unreasonably, we do expect certain things in return for that mountain
of cash.

Protection against extreme threats to life and limb is numbered among services
we are quite justified in taking for granted.

Yet today, ministers are failing to provide us with a basic emergency service
despite scaring the population witless about poison gas, dirty bombs and truck
loads of explosives. Blunkett can quote Bacharach to his heart's content but it
does not make easy listening for the British public.

For all their bleating about not becoming involved in industrial disputes, it is
these New Labour ministers who are failing to discharge their duties. They are
entitled to choose their means of doing so but it is unarguably their ultimate
responsibility to make sure we are protected.

MR BLAIR'S famed antennae for the heartbeat of public opinion are surely not so
dulled by the desire to be free of focus groups that he can believe it is
sustainable for him to continue to sit this one out. After all, he did not put
the fuel dispute of two years ago in the hands of the Local Government
Association for resolution. And he turned the cowswith-blisters controversy that
was foot and mouth into a full-scale national emergency overseen by himself.

As ministers yesterday unconvincingly sought to strike a balance between
encouraging vigilance against the terrorist threat and preventing panic, they
simply did not want to talk about the firefighters' strike.

On their part, if our firefighters want to continue trading on the September 11
heroism of their counterparts in New York, they must be ready to roll at a
second's notice until the current terror alert is over - not be standing outside
fire stations waving placards and keeping their kit under lock and key.

Meanwhile, troops must do their best with equipment straight out of Dad's Army.
How appropriate that ministers should offer advice from Corporal Jones's manual:
Don't panic!

No, don't panic. Just be very afraid.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              232 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 24, 2002, Sunday

UK 'IGNORES' AL-QA'IDA SUICIDE PLANE PLOT;
 WAR ON TERROR: INDIAN POLICE SAY A PILOT HAS CONFESSED TO PLANNING ATTACK ON
PARLIAMENT BUT SCOTLAND YARD DOESN'T WANT TO KNOW

BYLINE: Nick Meo In Delhi And Andrew Johnson Mastermind behind a plan to attack
the Houses of Parliament - or naive young man who wanted to be a pilot? Afroz
(right) at the Cabair flight school in Bedfordshire

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 597 words


An al-Qa'ida plot to crash an airliner into Parliament is being "swept under the
carpet" by Scotland Yard, one of India's most senior policemen has claimed.

On Tuesday, Mohammed Afroz, 24, a trainee pilot, will be taken from a top
-security Bombay prison to be charged in court with masterminding a plan to
hijack a Manchester-bound aircraft and fly it into the House of Commons on 11
September.

According to the Indian authorities, the plot was abandoned when security was
stepped up in the hours after the terror attacks on America. Six days later Mr
Afroz, who was studying at the Cabair flight school in Bedfordshire, returned to
India and was arrested at a Bombay hotel.

Indian police, who travelled to Britain to investigate the alleged suicide plot,
have now criticised their British counterparts for not doing more to investigate
Mr Afroz. They insist he was part of an underground Islamic terror ring in the
UK. They also accuse Scotland Yard of refusing to arrest two British Asians
claimed to be al -Qa'ida operatives.

"I feel this matter needs to be taken more seriously by the British police,"
said Bombay's most senior policeman, Commissioner M N Singh, who led a team to
Britain last month. "I believe what Afroz says, based on the evidence from his
passport of frequent travels and training in flight schools in Britain, America
and Australia. If somebody wants to put it under the carpet, that's their
choice. I don't want to. He has made a full confession in court and he is
clearly not insane "

The plan to attack Parliament was allegedly mentioned by Mr Afroz in an email to
Australia. British detectives flew to Bombay in December to investigate the
case, but did not see Mr Afroz. Scotland Yard, which co-ordinates anti-terror
policing for the UK, insisted it was taking the case extremely seriously. "We
are continuing to liaise with the Indian authorities," a spokesman said. "We
have not had access to Afroz but have asked the Indian authorities for access
and are still awaiting a reply."

Indian detectives claim Mr Afroz confessed he got as far as the check- in queue
at Heathrow, complete with a back-up squad of hijackers. It was only when they
saw security had been beefed up after the attacks earlier in the day that he
abandoned his mission and fled back to India.

The Indian police, who also went to Australia and the US during their
investigation, have refused to name the British Asians they accuse of being al
-Qa'ida operatives, but they are believed to be a businessman living in London
and a man in Leicester.

Mr Afroz grew up in a Bombay slum, where his father works as a tailor. The
police say their suspicions were aroused by the fact that a poor Muslim had
spent tens of thousands of pounds studying at flight schools abroad, but his
family insists he is a victim of post-11 September paranoia.

His elder brother, Mohammed Farooque Abdul Razzak, a customs clearing agent,
said Mr Afroz's flight training had been paid for out of "black money" from
illegitimate import deals. "Afroz is a very naive young man who wanted to be a
pilot," he said. He claimed his brother's confession was made under torture, and
that he had been denied access to lawyers.

"My brother was at his flight school on 11 September. He has nothing to do with
al-Qa'ida. We've been plunged into a nightmare."

Mr Afroz's British uncle, Iqbal Shaikh, a Leicester taxi driver, described the
accusations against his nephew as "rubbish". "The Indian police have made this
up. He is a Muslim learning to fly, so he fits the bill."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              233 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 5, 2002

Britain, a force for global good;
We will help police the world, says Blair

BYLINE: David Hughes

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 536 words


TONY BLAIR will today thrust Britain into a hugely ambitious and demanding role
as a global troubleshooter.

In a foreign policy speech in India, the Prime Minister will depict his country
as a 'pivotal player' in a worldwide crusade to right wrongs and ease suffering.

In a highly moralistic message, he will say our role in the 21st century is to
become a 'force for good'.

Although our armed forces are already stretched to breaking point around the
globe, Mr Blair will unapologetically showcase Britain's role as a world
policeman and offer to take up fresh challenges.

In doing so, he lays himself open to the charge that he is turning into a
latter-day imperialist.

His call for an international moral crusade may grate with a British public that
faces daily battles on the home front, with a worn-out transport system and a
Third World health service.

But the Prime Minister is convinced Britain can once again become a global
player by drawing on its unique array of international allegiances, backed by
the unrivalled professionalism of its armed forces.

He is determined to draw a line under Britain's post-Suez international
reticence by ensuring that we make a mark on the world stage.

Building on a theme he first explored in his Labour Party conference speech last
October, the Prime Minister will say that the response to the September 11
terror attacks has shown that the world community can respond powerfully and
effectively to a common threat.

He will tell his audience of Indian business leaders in Bangalore he is 'very
proud of the role Britain has played since September 11' on military, diplomatic
and humanitarian fronts.

He will add: 'I am proud of our role not just because it is the right thing to
do and because we have been able to make a contribution but also because in
today's globally interdependent world, foreign policy and domestic policies are
part of the same thing.

'Dealing with international terrorism abroad is not just right in itself. It is
vital to our economy, our jobs, our stability and our security.' The Prime
Minister will claim this means national self-interest can work hand-in-hand with
an assertive foreign policy.

'In so doing I believe we have found a modern foreign policy for Britain,' Mr
Blair will say.

'We do not have an empire. We are not a superpower. But we do have a role and,
in playing it properly, we benefit Britain and the wider world.

That role is to be a pivotal player.

'It is to use the strength of our history, our geography, our language, the
unique set of links with the U.S., Europe, the Commonwealth, our position within
the UN and Nato, the skill and reputation of our armed services, our
contribution to debt and development issues to be that pivotal player and to be
that force for good for our own nation and the wider world.' The Prime Minister
will claim he has been 'clear for some time' that this should be Britain's role
in the 21st century. The events of September 11 only reinforced that conviction.

Mr Blair's rhetoric will be greeted with scepticism by military chiefs, who may
see it as an opportunity to appeal for more resources.

d.hughes@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              234 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 25, 2002

Bin Laden 'envoy' is arrested in London

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 312 words


A MOSLEM cleric said to be Osama Bin Laden's European 'ambassador' has been
arrested in Britain.

Abu Qatada, described as the spiritual leader of Al Qaeda, is being held under
the new anti-terror laws.

The Palestinian-born cleric is a convicted terrorist facing a life sentence in
Jordan. He was on a list of suspects issued by the U.S.

after the September 11 attacks.

Last night, in reply to a Parliamentary question, David Blunkett revealed Qatada
had been arrested in South London.

Police believe he has been on the run from his home in Acton, West London, since
December. A few weeks after September 11 the Treasury froze his assets he had
GBP 180,000 in a London bank account.

Qatada, 42, has lived in the UK since 1993, when he won political asylum.

Britain will not extradite him to Jordan because the country uses the death
penalty.

Investigators there say Qatada, also known as Omar Mahmood Abu Omar, is Bin
Laden's 'roving ambassador' in Europe.

He is also thought to be a member of Bin Laden's fatwa committee, which gives
the blessing of Islamic law for terror attacks.

Earlier this month he broke cover to outline the 'moral case' for the September
11 attacks on the internet.

Details of his arrest bringing to 12 the number of people held under the
Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act, which allows the Home Secretary to
detain foreign nationals indefinitely emerged in a written Parliamentary answer
to a question by Conservative MP Humfrey Malins.

Mr Blunkett said: 'My decision to detain these individuals was made on the basis
of detailed and compelling evidence.' He did not say when Qatada was detained or
where he is being held.

It emerged that the cleric, one of Britain's most wanted men, has been living a
few hundred yards from the House of Commons and half a mile from Scotland Yard.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ABU QATADA: POLITICAL ASYLUM

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              235 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            August 27, 2002, Tuesday

THINK AGAIN ABOUT IRAQ, BLAIR WARNED;
 TERRORISM: PEACE CAMPAIGNERS FOLLOW ARCHBISHOP'S PLEA WITH CLAIM THAT UK FACES
DIPLOMATIC ISOLATION

BYLINE: Claire Hill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 670 words


DIPLOMATIC and political isolation could face the United Kingdom if Prime
Minister Tony Blair continues to support a war on Iraq.

Campaigners also say that if his emphatic support of an "unjustified" war on
Iraq continues the UK will be the target of future terrorist attacks. The claims
came yesterday hard on the heels of a message from Archbishop of
Canterbury-designate Dr Rowan Williams urging the West not to see last year's
terrorist attacks on the United States as an act of war.

Archbishop of Wales Dr Williams said the fear that people felt that day was
something others around the world had been forced to live with for years.

His speech to an August Bank Holiday festival at Cheltenham contained what could
be seen as veiled warnings to political leaders in the West urging them to think
about the wrongs they had committed or mistakes which they had made with certain
areas, to question why the attacks occurred.

"What we perhaps need at a time of crisis like that is for people to be able to
say there is something we have not understood, something we have not done," he
said.

There was little doubt yesterday among Mr Blair and President George Bush's
opponents in the West that a war against Iraq would both be illegal and provoke
a violent reaction in the Middle East.

The chairman of the Stop the War Coalition, Andrew Murray, said, "War with Iraq
will force the Middle East to see Britons as evil and an enemy.

"It will be another sign that Britain does not have its own foreign policy but
just supports America.

"This will leave us quite isolated in Europe. Tony Blair should stop fantasising
about being a war leader when he is not."

Opposition for the war comes from all quarters and the UK is standing alone in
its support for the United States.

Playwright Harold Pinter is the latest cultural person to voice his despair over
the situation.

He said at the Edinburgh International Book Festival yesterday, "When you look
at a man like our Prime Minister, who I gather is a very sincere and serious
Christian, he is, we understand, considering another bombing of Iraq.

"This would be an act of murder, premeditated murder, because if you bomb you
are not just going to kill Saddam Hussein.

"You won't do that anyway. What you will do is kill, as usual, thousands of
totally innocent people."

President Bush claims that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein is secretly building
an arsenal of chemical and biological weapons and developing nuclear ones and
has hinted at military action if Iraq continues to refuse to allow weapons
inspectors back in to check.

Timeline

September 11: Terrorist attacks in the United States.

September 21: US officials tell Washington Times that Saddam Hussein made
contact with Osama Bin Laden days before the attacks.

October 9: Donald Rumsfeld threatens direct action against Iraq if it was
involved in the Florida anthrax outbreak.

November 19: John Bolton, the under-secretary for arms control and international
security, tells an arms conference in Geneva that President Saddam may have
covert-ly developed biological weapons in the past three years.

November 26: President George Bush tells Iraq to let in United Nations weapons
inspectors or face the consequences.

December 27: A military blueprint, the first of many, emerges for an attack on
Iraq.

January 29: Mr Bush lists Iraq, Iran, North Korea and Syria as part of an "axis
of evil" in his state-ofthe-nation speech to Congress.

March: Tony Blair tells the Australian Broadcasting Corpora-tion that Iraq poses
a threat to world stability and signals that Britain will line up with the
United States in any military action.

June: The CIA and US special forces are given authority to use "lethal force" to
capture or kill the Iraqi president.

July: Former Iraqi military officers meet in London to discuss a coup.

August: President Bush is taking advice on the situation after a poll in the
United States showed opposi-tion.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              236 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 7, 2002

BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR ALERT;
 Warning from anti-terrorism chief

BYLINE: Michael Ribbeck

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 487 words


BRITAIN went on full alert against terror attacks last night as the anniversary
of September 11 approached and worldwide tension reached new levels.

Security chiefs in the UK have warned lone bombers could mark the sombre
anniversary with attacks on key sites across the country. And, as Tony Blair
announced he was ready and willing to "pay the blood price" to preserve
Britain's special alliance with the US, politicians warned his uncompromising
stance was likely to make the country a target for terrorists.

Before heading off to George Bush's private retreat in Camp David for talks, the
Prime Minister spent the day speaking to leaders across the world in a bid to
court support for the expected onslaught on Saddam Hussein and Iraq. Meanwhile,
security experts revealed terrorists may seize the opportunity to mark the first
anniversary of the New York and Washington attacks as a chance to further their
bloody causes.

Several high-profile sites in the West including Hinkley Point nuclear power
station and Porton Down, the chemical warfare research base, have already been
highlighted as potential targets.

Police say London will be encircled by armed road blocks and anti-terror chiefs
warn the public to be in a state of "alert but not alarm".

Head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, Assistant Commissioner David
Veness, urged people to be extra vigilant and to report any unusual activity.

Known terror groups including al-Qaeda are being monitored and the Assistant
Commissioner added terrorist groups "could be drawn to the anniversary because
of the publicity it represents".

The City of London is seen as one of the most likely targets and companies have
been extensively briefed in the run up to the anniversary.

Since the terrible events of last September, Scotland Yard has received 8,000
requests for assistance from the FBI.

Police forces across the country have been preparing for the anniversary and
security is being stepped up at public buildings and events.

The terror warnings came on the day Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith
claimed Saddam possesses weapons of mass destruction and is more than ready to
use them.

But he added Britain's decision to stand "shoulder to shoulder" with America has
made it vulnerable to attack.

He said: "There is a clear and growing danger in Iraq that Iraq has continued to
develop weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them." Analysts
believe a mass US and UK air strike on military bases in western Iraq on
Thursday heralded "the beginning of chapter one" of an all-out Gulf War.

Air Vice Marshal Tony Mason, professor of International Security at Birmingham
University, said the attack was a demonstration of the power of the allies in
the region.

"Whatever else this is, to the best of my knowledge, it's the largest package
that has been put together since Kosovo, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              237 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 22, 2002, Sunday

LIBYA: WE'RE GUILTY;
 GADDAFI TO ADMIT LOCKERBIE BOMBING L HE'LL CLAIM HE DIDN'T ISSUE ORDER

BYLINE: Lorna Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8/9

LENGTH: 565 words


TRIPOLI

LIBYA is to admit responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing within weeks.

But Colonel Gaddafi will claim he knew nothing of the planned atrocity when Pan
Am Flight 103 was blown up, killing 270 people in 1988.

In an astonishing statement being finalised with his ministers, the Libyan
leader will pin all blame on jailed Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi. Gaddafi
will claim he acted alone.

The news will come as a huge blow to legal teams fighting to free Megrahi, 50,
who is serving life in a Scots jail for the terrorist attack.

And it will signal an incredible U-turn by Gaddafi, who has supported and bank
-rolled Megrahi's bid for freedom.

Libya will also agree to pay out millions in compensation to relatives of the
people killed when Pan Am Flight 103 exploded in the sky and crashed on to
Lockerbie in December, 1988.

Intelligence agency experts says the move is part of a series of tactical moves
by Gaddafi and Western leaders to allow Libya to return to the international
fold.

America and Britain are keen to pave the way for a new relationship with Libya
as they attempt to gather support from Arab states for their rolling war on
terrorism.

A source close to the Libyan government said: "The statement will say Megrahi
planned and carried out the crime on the orders of the officials who had no
authority.

"It will make clear Gaddafi had no knowledge of the plan and did not sanction
it.

"In fact, it will say he would never have approved it, under any circumstances."

Intelligence expert Grant Staten said Libya was preparing to "sacrifice" Megrahi
for the greater good of the country.

The America-based authority on Middle East said: "Whatever the truth, Gaddafi
will now realise it was a foregone conclusion that his government had to admit
to some part in this.

"But they will not be seen to be told to do so by the West. However, they also
appreciate the times the world is now in and, let's face it, they do not want to
be on the wrong side."

Until now, Gaddafi has criticised Megrahi's conviction at Holland's Camp Zeist.

And former South African President Nelson Mandela, who visited the Megrahi at
Glasgow's Barlinnie jail, expressed concern at the guilty verdict handed down by
the Scots court.

Others, including veteran Labour MP Tam Dalyell and some of the families of the
Lockerbie victims, believe Megrahi is innocent.

One well-placed diplomatic source said: "Megrahi is only one man and they will
sacrifice him in order to get back into the international fold. The United
Nations resolutions have ordered them to accept responsibility for the bombing
and pay compensation.

"They have to comply. If that means turning their backs on Megrahi, then so be
it."

The news could shatter plans by Megrahi's Scots lawyers to take his appeal to
the European Court of Human Rights.

Last month, we revealed the secret deals behind the Megrahi family's move to
Scotland.

The British Government agreed to relocate his wife and children, in return for
the Libyan being handed over for trial.

The Libyan government bought a pounds 500,000 home in an upmarket Glasgow suburb
for Megrahi's wife Aisha and three of their sons.

Protected by bodyguards and round-the-clock CCTV surveillance, the family are
just a 30-minute drive from Barlinnie.

Until now, Gaddafi has been footing the bill.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              238 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 15, 2002

Markets in turmoil as (pounds) 34bn is wiped off top shares

BYLINE: Rob Crilly

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 348 words


WORLD stock markets ended the week in turmoil as investors lost confidence in
the pace of economic recovery in the United States, fuelling fears that
companies would fall short of profit expectations.

In Britain, almost (pounds) 34bn was wiped from the value of the blue-chip FTSE
100 Index.

The latest 3% fall means the FTSE 100 lost nearly 300 points during one of the
most depressing weeks in the City since September 11.

Confidence in London was shattered by heavy losses on US markets, where worries
about consumer confidence dominated. But the prospect of higher UK interest
rates added to the gloom and meant trading screens stayed red throughout the
day.

By the close, only three stocks were in positive territory as the FTSE 100 Index
- which started the week at 4920 - fell 141.1 points to 4630.8, its lowest level
since the immediate aftermath of the US terrorist attacks.

European investors shared the pain and France's CAC 40 fell nearly 3%, while the
Dax index in Germany slumped by almost 4% and, in the US, the Dow showed a fall
of 28 points.

In London, telecoms stocks again struggled, although City experts said financial
firms were a crucial addition to those on the slide this week. Alex Scott,
analyst at Seven Investment Management, said five of the leading banks - Royal
Bank of Scotland, HBOS, HSBC, Abbey National and Lloyds TSB - had been
responsible for around a third of the fall this week. Previously rock-steady
confidence in the banking sector has been hit by fears of higher interest rates
and increased bad debt provisions.

The mood was not helped on Thursday by comments made by Sir Eddie George,
governor of the Bank of England, before the Commons Treasury select committee,
warning the current rate of house price inflation was unsustainable and would
lead to higher interest rates if inflation began to creep up.

Retail - another normally reliable sector - was also under pressure yesterday
after Tesco reported slowing sales growth, easing nearly 6%, while rivals
Safeway and Sainsbury were both off similar amounts.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              239 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

Rock celebrates with message of defiance to Madrid and Blair

BYLINE: By Colin Randall in Gibraltar

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 679 words

WITH rock music, prayer and tub-thumping oratory, the people of Gibraltar turned
out in strength yesterday to send a message of defiance to London and Madrid.

In blazing sunshine, most of the Rock's 30,000 inhabitants crammed into
Casements Square, just inside the ancient city wall, turning celebrations of
Gibraltar's National Day into a carnival with attitude and exuberance.

All around the square, and from surrounding buildings, Union flags flew and
pro-British slogans reaffirmed Gibraltarians' resistance to Spanish designs on
their tiny but strategically important corner of the Iberian peninsula.

But even these symbols were overwhelmed by the riot of red and white, the
colours of Gibraltar's flag, which were worn by virtually everyone. Those
without clothing in the flag's colours improvised with the red football tops of
England, Liverpool, Manchester United and Arsenal.

National Days have been held each year since 1992 on the anniversary of the
near-unanimous 1967 referendum that dismissed the notion of an end to links with
Britain.

Yesterday's 35th anniversary of the poll provided a powerful show of local
feeling ahead of a second referendum planned for Nov 7, in which voters are
expected to reject with another huge majority Anglo-Spanish moves towards joint
sovereignty as a means of resolving the Gibraltar Question.

Feeding the high emotions throughout the day was the gathering suspicion among
the Rock's residents that the British Government has embarked on a course
leading to a sell-out of their interests. At the main rally, sandwiched between
live and recorded disco sounds and a thanksgiving mass at the Shrine of our Lady
of the Europa, booing greeted each mention of the absent villains, Tony Blair,
Jack Straw and Peter Hain.

Michael Howard, the shadow chancellor, was cheered when he reiterated the
Tories' commitment "not to be bound in any way, shape or form by any agreement
that may be reached by the present Government and the government of Spain on the
future of Gibraltar".

During reflections on the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks on America,
and on the possibility of action against Iraq, a lot would be said about
"principle", Mr Howard said. "What greater human right can there be than the
ability of people to decide to which country they wish to owe allegiance?"

A Labour MP, Lindsay Hoyle, chairman of the all-party Gibraltar group, departed
from his Government's line to argue forcefully against "any arranged marriage"
with Spain.

Peter Caruana, Gibraltar's chief minister, said Britain had no right to
negotiate or enter into agreements affecting the future of Gibraltar "against
our wishes and without our consent".

Among the spectators, Angela Soiza, 77, 22 times a great-grandmother, said: "We
want to be British. But Britain, or its Government, wants to give us away. We
just want Spain to leave us alone."

Steered by their parents along the densely packed Main Street, Kasey Santos,
five, and his brother, Ethan, three, wore red tops bearing the message: "50 per
cent Geordie, 50 per cent Gibraltarian, 100 per cent British."

Their mother, Louise, 28, from Tyneside and married to a Gibraltarian
ex-soldier, was against any plan for joint sovereignty between Britain and
Spain. "It wouldn't work," she said. "Give the Spanish that and they'd just want
to take over the rest. Let's keep this bit of Britain in the Med."

Holding court over lunch at a harbourside restaurant, Mr Caruana spoke of
Gibraltarian disappointment that the Queen had not visited the Rock in 48 of the
50 years of her reign, apparently to prevent upsetting Spain.

Mr Caruana expressed exasperation, too, at what he sees as Madrid's occasional
outbreaks of pettiness. After years of harmonious involvement as judges at
Gibraltar's annual international dog show, Spanish canine association officials
had been formally ordered not to attend.

"A silly example," said Mr Caruana, "but a monument to Spain's lack of
commonsense in signalling to Gibraltar any change in attitude."
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              240 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                 July 29, 2002

Study in terror.

BYLINE: Emma Barnett (author email emma.barnett@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: Southampton



IN the wake of the terror attacks in America on September 11, 2001, a team of
experts from Southampton University are joining a new study on how the UK
responded. Dan Newling reports

EXPERTS from Southampton University are set to work on a major new study into
how the UK responded to the September 11 terrorist attacks.

The team from Southampton will join forces with worldwide specialists in
criminology and disaster management during the study, which has been funded by a
GBP 250,000 grant from the Economic and Social Research Council.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, of St Andrews University, who will lead the team, said
new responses were needed because the tragic events of September 11 marked the
advent of a new form of terrorism.

The British experts will also be helped by researchers from the Potomac
Institute in the United States.

The team at Southampton will be responsible for looking at threats to nuclear
and chemical installations, cyber terrorism and how policing and law enforcement
in western countries can cope with the world post-September 11.

Leading Southampton's three-strong team based at the Mountbatten Centre in
Southampton is Frank Gregory.

He said the threat from Islamic fundamentalist terror groups was of a different
kind to that which had been faced by Britain when the IRA were conducting their
campaign of bombing in the UK.

He said: "The IRA had a specific political agenda. These terror groups want to
smash the western system. Time does not mean anything to them and life, both
theirs and other people's, does not either."

He said the current threat had the potential for making western governments
taking a range of security measures they may not normally take.

He added: "This kind of activity is very unpredictable. It could happen at any
time.

"The real question for government, and one to take seriously, is how do you
balance the probability of risk against the resources you can reasonably
deploy?"

Prof Wilkinson said: "This study is not simply a first response to the events of
September 11 or even events post-September 11.

"Our aim is to provide a comprehensive analysis of the current state of UK
response to both the threat and the actuality of terrorist attack," he said.

The professor, who is director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrews, said researchers would study the experience of
the UK in managing terrorist attacks before and after September 11.

They will also analyse the responses to terrorist threats of areas, including
the US and some European countries.

"Our ultimate aim is to provide an empirical base for a wider consideration of
steps that might be taken in the UK and elsewhere for enhancing the existing
range of policy tools capable of responding to terrorism," Prof Wilkinson said.

The academic, who is a specialist in aviation security, told how he was already
aware of security loopholes in the US domestic flight arrangements before
September 11.

However he added: "But even in my worst nightmares I had not envisaged a
multiple hijacking which would bring more civilian deaths in one day than either
the Pearl Harbour attack or the Northern Ireland conflict has caused in the past
50 years.

"September 11 marks a transformation from terrorism as a form of low intensity
conflict to mass destruction on an unprecedented scale.

"Mass terrorism in this form and with this scale of effect has become a
strategic threat not only to the security of the US but to the peace and
security and economic well-being of the entire international community."

Prof Wilkinson said it particularly affected the UK, given its close ties to the
US and its position at the centre of global finance.

"Moreover, as we have seen, terrorism in certain parts of the world has become
the trigger for wider conflicts that can be even more deadly than terrorism," he
added.

"So it is in the interests of the entire law-abiding international community to
find the root causes of terrorism and to suppress this threat to human rights."

The professor said that the government alone could not protect people from
terrorism and politicians depended on the expertise and co-operation of the
private sector to improve their defences against attacks.



LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              241 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               December 11, 2002

Aden vet discovers old pals at new club

BYLINE: S. TEVEN BLAAKMAN

SECTION: News; People; Appeals/campaigns; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 495 words


A veteran of a forgotten conflict is to be reunited with his old comrades thanks
to the Express & Echo.  Former Royal Marine commando Gordon Sills was reading
the Echo on Monday when he noticed an article about a newly-formed organisation
for Aden veterans.

Aden, a port in Yemen on the southern tip of Arabia, was a vital staging post
and naval base for Britain for more than a century.

British forces, famously led by Colonel Colin "Mad Mitch" Mitchell, had to face
continual attacks from nationalist terrorists before the withdrawal of 1967.

Mr Sills was 21 when he was sent to Aden for 12 months in 1963.

Now, thanks to the Echo article, the former marine is able to see fellow former
servicemen again.

For Mr Sills, of Exminster, the period in Aden was a very interesting time. He
said: "This conflict was played down but it was dealt with very well at the time
by British troops.

"The situation could have gone wrong but it didn't. It wasn't as bad as Cyprus.

"Unfortunately, the younger generation doesn't know much about it.

"Aden was where the oil shipments came from and we were charged with
safeguarding them." British forces were subject to attacks from nationalist
terrorists with a fearsome reputation.

Mr Sills, 62, said: "They were very barbarous to their own people. They would
behead people left, right, and centre.

"People got caned and flogged." The servicemen were targets for sniper attacks
on their camps, while the heat in Yemen could climb up to the 120s and 130s.

Mr Sills said: "You get acclimatised. In Aden you had air-conditioning, but when
you were up in the mountains you had to sleep on the ground with a poncho
wrapped around you. The nights were very cold." The veteran said his spell in
Yemen seemed like a return to bygone times.

He said: "There were no such things as hospitals.

"The emir used to rule with a rod of iron.

"Women had a bar driven through their wrist and were manacled to walls.

"We had an interpreter and we asked him one day why this was happening to a
woman and he told us she had been unfaithful." However, life there also had its
brighter side. "The comradeship was very good," Mr Sills said.

"We used to play volleyball quite a lot. And we had our own cinema.

"A Scottish regiment was there as well. We used to wake up every morning with
bag pipe music, which didn't amuse us." The first meeting of the Exeter branch
of the Aden Veterans' Association took place last Saturday at the White Ensign
Club in South Street.

The veterans presented a pennant bearing their crest to the White Ensign Club.

Mr Sills said he was looking forward to going to the next meeting and was hoping
to get more people involved.

Anyone interested in joining the Aden Veterans' Association in the South West
should ring Barry Sillitoe on 01392 833189.

The next reunion is planned for February 22 at the White Ensign Club in South
Street, Exeter.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              242 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

BOMB RAID THREAT TO BLAIR TRIP;
 MILITANTS ATTACK PARLIAMENT AGAIN

BYLINE: James Hardy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 397 words


ISLAMIC extremists plunged a peace mission by Tony Blair into crisis yesterday
with a fresh terror attack in India.

Militant Kashmiri separatists hurled two grenades at the province's parliament
in Srinagar, killing a police officer and wounding 23 bystanders.

The attack, just a fortnight after a suicide assault on the Indian parliament in
Delhi, raised tensions between India and Pakistan to new heights.

It left Blair, due to visit both countries in the next few days, facing a
massive task in the search for a breakthrough.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted Britain would not take sides in the long
-running dispute over the Moslem-dominated Indian state.

But he bluntly warned Pakistan's President Musharraf a new crackdown on Kashmiri
terror groups did not go far enough.

He said: "We welcome the action that President Musharraf has already taken, with
arrests which have been recognised by the Indian foreign minister.

"But there has to be further action by Pakistan.

"It is not acceptable that there should be groups in either of these countries
who seek to pursue their political objectives by violent means."

Straw then played down hopes of a breakthrough during the PM's visit.

He added: "It is extremely important that expectations about the potential of
the Prime Minister's visit to defuse tension should not be raised. There is no
Blair peace plan whatever that the Prime Minister could or should take out of
his pocket."

India and Pakistan, both nuclear powers, were already massing forces on their
1100-mile joint border before yesterday's attack.

The Indian government blamed Pakistan-based Kashmiris, for the suicide raid on
the Indian parliament which left 14 dead on December 13.

An attack on the Srinagar legislature in early October killed 40 people,
including dozens of civilians.

Indian defence minister George Fernandes said troop build-ups along the border
were complete - but he still hoped for a diplomatic deal.

Meanwhile, the suspected 20th hijacker in the September 11 attacks yesterday
refused to enter a plea on charges that could bring him the death penalty.

Zacarias Moussaoui, 33, is accused of six counts of conspiring to kill thousands
of people with Osama bin Laden.

In Virginia, Judge Leonie Brinkema said she was recording a not guilty plea.

The trial begins in October.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              243 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 5, 2002

Dozens of al-Qaida linked extremists in UK: Al-Qaida linked extremists in UK

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor and Nick Hopkins

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 818 words


At least 36 al-Qaida linked Islamist extremists based in Britain are under
surveillance by the security services due to serious concerns they might be
instructed to carry out a terrorist strike in the UK, the Guardian can reveal.

Although they are considered "willing to get involved in attacks" on behalf of
al-Qaida, none of them has been arrested or interned since September 11.

The "risk-management" strategy of keeping them under surveillance has been
adopted due to lack of evidence, or because the security services and the police
believe this is the best way of assessing the threat posed by al-Qaida and a
number of linked Islamist groups.

This hard core represents only a small proportion of extremists living in
Britain who have been identified as either al-Qaida supporters or sympathisers
since MI5 stepped up investigations into extremist groups after the bombings of
the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania five years ago.

THE GUARDIAN HAS BEEN TOLD THAT:


* Police and MI5 now believe that between 500 and 600 British-based Muslims
spent time in al-Qaida training camps in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the months
and years prior to September 11. Training ranged from raft-building to the use
of chemical and biological weapons.


* Most have returned to Britain - some since September 11 - but nobody has been
arrested or charged.

Investigators say establishing who "raised arms" against British and US forces,
and finding corroborating evidence, is proving extremely difficult. They believe
that some of those who returned have "jumped off the al-Qaida escalator" because
of what they saw and heard in Afghanistan.


* About 50 Britons identified as having links with al-Qaida and who went to the
region have yet to be traced. "We do not know where they are, nobody knows where
they are," said a police source. Investigators are convinced that many more went
to Afghanistan before September 11 and have yet to be identified.


* Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch believes an attack either here or in
Europe "is inevitable" and that the likely method is a suicide bombing. Officers
have been to Israel and Sri Lanka to learn how to deal with this form of attack.

But while Scotland Yard has been surprised by the extent of the "roots of
al-Qaida in this country" and has described the top end of the network as "more
sophisticated than any of us thought", two assumptions by the security services
and the police have not been shaken by their work over the past year. They are
still sure that activities in Britain played no part in the conspiracy which led
to the attacks on New York and Washington, and they have had no intelligence
"from a credible source about a specific threat to the UK" since then.

There has been "background noise", but nothing to lead MI5 and the police to
suspect that Britain is in imminent danger or facing "more than its fair share
of problems".

In fact, the security services still regard dissident republicans as posing a
more immediate threat. "If a bomb went off tomorrow it is more likely to be the
Real IRA, but if it was Islamists, it would kill a lot more people," a source
said.

Another significant theme which has emerged over the past 12 months is the
danger of focusing investigative efforts on al-Qaida itself. The name, security
sources say, is misleadingly used as shorthand to cover what in reality are
networks of groups and individuals with shared beliefs and objectives, rather
than an entity in itself.

THE SOURCES DESCRIBE THREE CATEGORIES:


* What they call "al-Qaida proper" - determined individuals based in Afghan
istan and Pakistan, but not in Britain, engaged in long-term planning.


* Supporters of Kashmiri, Algerian and Egyptian Islamist groups, who are in
contact with al-Qaida, including the network's supporters and activists in
Europe. They comprise the main group of potential terrorists in Britain.


* Radicalised individuals, such as the "shoe bomber", Richard Reid.

Security sources describe a "mouth and trousers" league table. Individuals high
up on the "mouth" end are known for their rhetoric - labelled by investigators
as the "noisy clerics". But they are not considered as dangerous as those who
keep a low profile but are high on the "trousers" scale.

The sources are cautious about discussing numbers, mainly because of the wide
range of involvement with Islamist groups, from sleepers to those providing
money or material for terrorist attacks.

Tracking the funds of al-Qaida and related groups is regarded as one of the key
elements of the fight against Islamist terrorism, which is why a terrorist
finance team was set up within the national criminal intelligence service after
September 11.

By August it had assessed 3,000 terrorist-related "suspicious transaction
reports" and sent them to Scotland Yard for further analysis.


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 11, 2002

Brits to watch Yasser?;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 92 words


WESTMINSTER: Tony Blair tonight offered to send British observers to the Middle
East to ensure that Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority kept wanted terrorists
behind bars.

In a Commons statement, the Prime Minister joined international demands for
Israelis and Palestinians to end the bloodshed and get back round the
negotiating table.

As at least nine people died in another Palestinian suicide bombing attack, he
said both sides had to accept they could not win through violence and that a
return to the peace process was overdue.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              245 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 10, 2002

Terror attack on Sellafield 'would wipe out the north'

BYLINE: Paul Brown and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 617 words


A terrorist attack on Sellafield could render the north of England uninhabitable
and release 100 times the radioactivity produced by the nuclear accident at
Chernobyl in 1986, the House of Commons defence committee was told yesterday.

The most vulnerable part of the facilities at Sellafield, dating back to the
1950s, contain giant tanks of high level radioactive waste which has to be
constantly cooled and stirred to prevent a chain reaction.

Gordon Thompson, executive director of the Institute for Resource and Security
Studies in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said he believed documents from both the
nuclear industry and the government showed neither had ever attempted a thorough
analysis of the threat or the options for reducing it.

Dr Thompson, who was based in Britain for 10 years and gave evidence at the 1977
Windscale inquiry into reprocessing at Sellafield, and at the Sizewell inquiry,
is an expert on the potential fallout from a nuclear accident or act of
terrorism.

As well as the threat of a bomb, missile or hijacked plane hitting Sellafield,
Dr Thompson raises the possibility of a rogue worker or terrorist infiltrator at
Sellafield sabotaging the cooling equipment which prevents the stored waste from
boiling and causing a massive radioactive release.

Dr Thompson's report, sent this week in response to the committee's call for new
evidence after a report it published last month, is likely to further alarm the
Irish government, which has repeatedly protested about danger from the high
level waste tanks at Sellafield.

The problem is that the plant which is supposed to turn this liquid waste into
more manageable and less dangerous glass blocks has never worked properly and a
backlog cannot be cleared for 15 years.

Among the possibilities Dr Thompson raised was a vast release of liquid waste
into the Irish sea. That would contaminate fisheries and travel north on
currents, making fishing in western Scotland impossible.

Anywhere downwind of Sellafield during the releases would be rendered
uninhabitable probably for generations and people caught in the fall-out would
have a greatly increased chance of getting cancer.

Depending on the direction of the wind, cities including Newcastle, Edinburgh
and Leeds would be well within fallout range, as would be Dublin.

Dr Thompson said: "A civilian nuclear facility is a potential radiological
weapon if the facility contains a large amount of radioactive material that can
be released into the environment.

"A notable example of a potential radiological weapon for an enemy of the UK is
the B215 facility at Sellafield. This facility houses 21 steel tanks and
associated equipment in above ground concrete cells. The tanks contain high
level radioactive waste in the form of self-heating, acidic liquid that requires
continuous cooling and agitation."

He said these tanks contained 2,400 kilograms of caesium-137, the main cause of
off-site radiation exposure from the Chernobyl accident.

The total amount released from Chernobyl was 27kg, almost 100 times less than
the potential release from the facility at Sellafield.

Dr Thompson said the buildings designed in the 1950s could not withstand a crash
from an airliner.

The Commons defence committee in its report said that "attention has
particularly focused on perceived vulnerability of nuclear installations.

But the Ministry of Defence said yesterday that a "quick response procedure was
in place to cover the whole of the country in the event of a hijack attack.

The task of shooting down a hijacked commercial airliner has been assigned to
RAF Tornado F3 fighters based at Coningsby, Lincolnshire.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                 September 16, 2002, Monday Edition EC1609-01A

Saudi yes to war on Saddam

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 425 words


   Saudi Arabia says it will allow Britain and the United States to use bases on
its soil to attack Iraq if this is approved by a United Nations resolution.

Saudi Foreign Minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, urged Saddam Hussein to quickly
allow the return of UN weapons inspectors to prevent such an attack.

Asked if Saudi bases would be available to the US in an Iraq invasion, the
Foreign Minister said: "Everybody is obliged to follow UN decisions."

The Prince's comment came after months of Saudi opposition to the idea of
attacking Iraq.

Britain's Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, warned the Iraqi dictator that time is
running out for him to rid his country of weapons of mass destruction or his
regime will have to end.

Although it is US policy for a regime change in Baghdad, the warning shot was
the most unequivocal yet from the British Government.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell said a strict deadline and clear consequences
must be in any UN resolution demanding Iraq allow a return of arms inspectors.

Mr Powell told American broadcaster NBC he thought a resolution would come in
weeks rather than months and must be clear on military action if Saddam fails to
allow inspectors in.

In Britain, the Government faces an uphill struggle convincing Labour MPs and
the public to support Britain's role in US-led military action against Iraq if a
long-awaited dossier against Saddam fails to produce enough evidence. Mr Straw
said the dossier, published on September 24th, when Parliament is recalled, will
contain new facts about Saddam's regime which had been playing games with world
peace for long enough.

But Downing Street played down a report that the dossier would reveal that the
Iraqi dictator trained leading al Qaida terrorists.

QThe US wants custody of suspected September 11th terror plotter, Ramzi
Binalshibh, who was captured in Pakistan last week after a gun battle.

Pakistan said a second high-level al Qaida figure was also captured last week,
but has refused to identify him.

An alleged terrorist cell in New York trained by Osama bin Laden's al Qaida
network had been watched by the FBI before the September 11th attacks, a
prosecutor said.

The investigation into the group of five men, who were arrested on Friday, began
in early summer 2001, after the men returned from Afghanistan.

The Pentagon is stepping up the hunt for al Qaida fighters in Yemen, the
ancestral home of Osama bin Laden, which remains a terrorist hotbed despite
efforts of US and Yemeni authorities in the past two years.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              247 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 24, 2002

CHANNEL FERRIES IN NUKE FEAR

BYLINE: By John Ingham and Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 430 words


BRITAIN is at risk of a nuclear attack because of an astonishing loophole which
allows passenger ferries to carry radioactive material.

A Daily Express investigation can reveal today that it is legal to transport the
deadly cargoes on the same vessels used by thousands of crossChannel "booze
cruisers".

At least one major operator confirmed last night that it carries "low level"
radioactive material on passenger boats.

But the breach in Britain's defences was condemned by politicians, pressure
groups and terrorism experts.

They said such shipments could be hijacked by Al Qaeda fanatics known to be
desperate for radioactive material to help build a "dirty bomb".

Norman Baker, environment spokesman for the Liberal Democrats, said: "This is a
foolish and irresponsible risk to take.

"If terrorists knew this nuclear material was on board, they could steal it and
make a dirty nuclear bomb.

"The Government should be seeking to minimise the movement of radioactive
material for safety and environmental reasons."

John Large, an independent nuclear analyst, said: "This type of material is just
the sort which could be used in a dirty bomb. If you used it to contaminate any
inhabited area, it would cause devastation."

Dr Doug Parr, chief scientist with Greenpeace, said: "Radioactive material
should certainly not be carried in vehicles used by the public.

"We do not think you can guarantee the safety of the transport of radioactive
material."

The loophole emerged in written answers from junior transport minister David
Jamieson after Mr Baker, MP for Lewes, raised the issue.

He asked if it is "permissible" to transport "high-level" and
"intermediate-level" radioactive material either on passenger ferries or through
the Channel Tunnel.

Mr Jamieson replied that "the transport of radioactive material on passenger
ferries is permissible", subject to British and international safety
requirements and restrictions.

Transport of low-level "radioactive material" was permissible through the
Channel Tunnel "only as authorised by prior agreement between the manufacturer
and Eurotunnel."

P&O, one of the biggest crossChannel operators, uses passenger vessels to ship
small amounts of "very, very low level" radioactive material.

A spokesman said: "We are allowed to do this - it presents no danger and is
needed for medical treatment."

A Department of Transport spokesman said: "Transport would not proceed if the
Government considered there to be a threat which could put at risk the security
of the material."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              248 of 248 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          January 23, 2002, Wednesday

PLAY IS STAGED FOR US AUTHOR

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 324 words


AMERICAN playwright Adina L. Ruskin was fascinated to learn that a Heswall drama
group was about to use one of her plays in a competition.

So she kept in touch with the Riverside Players through all the finals of the
All England One Act Drama Festival.

To her delight, the drama The Art of Remembering helped win the Players the
first prize in the contest.

She was only disappointed that she could not travel to Britain to watch one of
the performances.

Now, by way of a thank you, the group is to stage a special one-off charity
performance for her.

And Ms Ruskin will be flying in from New York to see the production staged at
the Gladstone Theatre in Port Sunlight on Saturday, February 2.

The writer had been an inspiration to the group, explains the Riverside Players'
business manager Helen Belcham.

"She kept in touch with us by e-mail at every stage of the competition. We
thought it would be nice to put on the production one more time for her."

Money raised at the performance will go towards the fund set up to help families
of British people killed in the New York terrorist attack of 11 September.

The writer Adina Ruskin is a New Yorker, a trainer, teacher, actress and writer.

And as part of her visit to Merseyside, she will be conducting a workshop on the
morning of February 2, also at the Gladstone Theatre.

Her play The Art of Remembering is unusual in having three actresses play the
same character, a woman who arrives in New York for her father's funeral.

"The actresses all play different aspects of the woman, " explains Helen
Belcham.

"It is surprisingly topical also with its theme of man's inhumanity to man."

The Art of Remembering is at 7.30pm on February 2, Gladstone Theatre; the
workshop is at 10am.

Tickets are pounds 8 for each event (joint tickets pounds 14).

Tickets available from various outlets including Gladstone Theatre or from 0151
-678 1696.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-748
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:25:35

