NOTE: ***New Document***





Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:40:01
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 31, 1984

Irish policy in new US test / Ulsterman to be tried in America for obtaining an
illegal visa

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER REED

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Government may face another embarrassing case in which a United States court
will be asked to rule on the political implications of British policies in
Northern Ireland.

The FBI arrested Robert Hunter, an ironworker from Belfast who has been living
in the Los Angeles area for six years, at Hollywood horsetrack. He is accused of
making a false declaration in his application for a US visa at the American
consulate in Belfast.


Applicants are asked if they have ever served a prison sentence, and this
question was either denied or not answered by Mr Hunter.

But his lawyer in California, Mr Jim Shannon, confirmed that Mr Hunter had spent
four years in Long Kesh, Northern Ireland, 'for activities in connection with
the Provisional IRA'.

If the authorities sought to deport Mr. Hunter, he would defend him on the
grounds that 'his confinement was political and not a criminal imprisonment in
the traditionally accepted sense.'

There was no suggestion Mr Hunter had been accused of anything other than
membership of or association with the IRA, said Mr Shannon.

Mr Hunter appeared before a federal magistrate after being arrested last Friday
and was released for a later hearing on bail of 15,000 dollars (pounds 11,500).
An FBI spokesman said it wanted Mr Hunter deported.

In two other cases, it has been argued that alleged Irish terrorist activities
of men the authorities have sought either to extradite or to deport have been
political and therefore not a violation of US law.

A magistrate in New York ruled that a man wanted in Britain on IRA bombing
charges was protected by a clause giving him exemption on political grounds. A
similar extradition case against a man in San Francisco wanted in Britain for
murdering a policeman is going through the appeal courts.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 14, 1984

The troubles claim 200th RUC victim / The controversies of Ulster's police force

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 770 words


Seven hours after the violent scenes in West Belfast on Sunday afternoon which
led to the death of a young man at a Republican rally, the Royal Ulster
Constabulary suffered its 200th casualty since the start of the present troubles
15 years ago.

At 11.10pm, in the Royal Victoria Hospital, Sergeant William MacDonald, aged 27,
a married man with two children, died as a result of the injuries he had
sustained in an IRA bomb attack at Ulster Polytechnic last November.


Since that incident nine months ago - in which three other RUC officers were
killed - Sgt MacDonald had drifted in and out of consciousness while his
condition slowly deteriorated. His family had not been sanguine about his
chances of survival, but his colleagues could never have expected that his death
would coincide with the anniversary that Republicans had gathered to observe on
Sunday.

Fifteen years ago today, when British troops were deployed in the province, the
role of the RUC in the emerging troubles began to come under critical scrutiny.

In the wake of the riots which surrounded the Catholic civil rights
demonstrations in Northern Ireland in the summer of 1969 the Labour government
under Harold Wilson was determined to reform the system of policing the
province.

In London the Ulster police were regarded as too paramilitary in character and
too Loyalist in personnel and attitudes. An inquiry set up by the then Home
Secretary, Mr James Callaghan, and headed by Lord Hunt recommended in October
1969 that the RUC should be unarmed and reorganised so that it resembled police
forces on mainland Britain.

A separate tribunal headed by Lord Scarman earlier that year had already
concluded that the RUC represented 'a fateful split between the Catholic
community and the police.' Whilst recognising that the province's police were as
prepared to act against Protestant mobs as they were against Catholics, the
tribunal said it could not overlook the fact that the minority population in
Ulster no longer believed that the RUC was an impartial service.

Ironically, it was during the angry responses that these criticisms elicited
from Loyalists that the first RUC officer was killed. On the night of October
11, 1969, Constable Victor Arbuckle was shot dead by a mob in the Protestant
Shankhill area of Belfast. They were protesting at the proposed disarming of
their police force.

In the event, the RUC was not disarmed, but its senior level management was
restructured to conform with practices on the mainland.

As the troubles in Northern Ireland escalated in the early seventies the numbers
of RUC officers killed each year in terrorist attacks increased. Constable
Arbuckle had been the sole victim of the troubles in 1969. Two years later the
toll was 11 RUC men. A year later it was 14.

Yet British governments of both colours over the succeeding decade remained
adamant that the RUC, and not the army, must resume responsibility for law an
order in the province. The prevailing policy was, and still is, that Ulster's
troubles were the result of law-breakers, not combatants in a war.

In turn, that requirement led to the RUC arming and armouring itself in ever
greater strength. By the end of the seventies some 2,000 RUC men had been
trained in the use of the M1 carbine rifle and the issue of plastic bullet
launchers was almost universal among their ranks. Their Land-rovers were
practically invisible behind a protective armoury of asbestos shields, metal
grilles and steel ploughs fixed to the bonnets. They were quickly dubbed as
'Paddy-pushers' by Protestants and Catholics alike.

But the RUC role in maintaining security in the province became even more
controversial two years ago when a number of suspected Republican terrorists
were shot dead by officers in the murderous borderlands between the Republic and
Ulster.

The fury over these incidents - in which the RUC always maintained that suspects
had been escaping arrest or firing on them - led to calls for inquiries from the
Republican movements' political wings and some members of the Roman Catholic
hierarchy.

But such calls received little attention, especially when the alleged police
offensive had taken place in 'murder triangle,' the border territory where the
RUC had suffered some of its highest casualties in land mine attacks and
ambushes.

Indeed, the officer who became the 199th victim of the troubles - Sergeant
Malcolm White, aged 26 - died from injuries sustained in a land mine attack near
Cookstown, in the triangle, on Saturday. He died half an hour before RUC victim
number 200.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 1984

Agenda: Where the Left confuses anti-semitism with anti-zionism

BYLINE: By DAVID WINNICK

LENGTH: 839 words


Has the Left in Britain become anti-semitic? Has sympathy and support for the
Palestinian cause, and opposition to Israeli policies, spilled over into plain
anti-semitism? Is anti-zionism just a more acceptable way nowadays of being
hostile to Jews in general?

There is certainly no doubt which side in British political life was much
permeated with anti-semitism before the war - and for some time afterwards. Many
people active in Tory politics, both in and out of the Commons, made little
secret of their negative feelings towards Jewry; combined with a traditional
centuries-old prejudice there was a strong feeling that Jews were far too
numerous in revolutionary and radical movements.


The Russian revolution itself was sometimes seen as a Jewish conspiracy against
the established order everywhere. There was no doubt about the origins of
Trotsky, Zinoviev, Kamenev and Sverdlov, and was not even Lenin rumoured to be
half-Jewish? And what of other notorious revolutionary trouble-makers like Rosa
Luxembourg and Bela Kun - not forgetting the founder of Marxism himself?

The Times was in no doubt at all. It described the Bolsheviks as adventurers of
German-Jewish blood. Behind them, the paper declared, stood prominent Jewish
financiers in New York. Plotting by Jewish revolutionaries and bankers together
is the very stuff of classic anti-semitic fantasy.

The anti-fascist struggles of the Thirties inevitably drew in many Jews,
particularly in Leeds, Manchester and London's East end. A good number of
working and lower middle-class Jews would have been active in the Labour
movement in any case, but the rise of nazism and the need to combat fascism at
home was a further reason to be aligned with the Left. And this served to
strengthen the views of those on the Conservative Right who saw Jewish
participation in organisations they disliked as yet more evidence of the
negative role played by Jews, some of whom had not been born in Britain.

Prejudice against Jews has been much reduced in this country in recent years, as
in other parts of Western Europe. The marked post-war reduction in the number of
working-class Jews, and their gradual absorbtion into the middle and lower
middle-class, has helped to ensure a more general welcome for them by the
mainstream Right. Witness, for instance, the increased number of Tory MPs of
Jewish origin.

So has anti-Jewish feeling simply be transferred to the other side in British
politics? I do not think so, unless one equates - as some ardent zionists tend
to do - opposition to Israel's policies as being anti-semitism thinly disguised.
It is understandable that apologists for Israel's recent activities should wish
to equate the two.

The Israeli military action in Lebanon - the terror bombing, the civilian
casualties, the massacre in the refugee camps - has produced amongst Jews more
criticism of Israel than anything since the state was founded in 1948.

Whereas public criticism was once seen as giving aid and comfort to those who
challenged Israels right to exist, the situation has changed since Lebanon. For
many Jews to remain silent would be as if they approved the actions and crimes
of Begin, Shamir and Sharon. Hence the growth of the peace movement inside
Israel, and the massive demonstrations which occurred when the slaughter at
Sabra-Chatila became known.

In Britain the correspondence columns of the jewish Chronicle have been full of
the debate over Lebanon and the settlement policies on the West Bank, with the
critics having their say. Chaim Bermant has used his column in that paper to
expose the antics of the political and religious extremists who have gained so
much influence in Israel. If non-Jewish criticism of Israeli policies were to
imply anti-semitism, then what about the peace movement and the Left in Israel
itself and the Jewish critics outside? Are they all to be branded as
anti-semitic?

Of course, there are anti-semites on the British Left, and it would be strange
if it was otherwise. Anti-semitism, after all, has survived successfully through
the ages since the early Christian Church embarked on a hate campaign against
the Jewish infidel.

Anti-zionism can of course be anti-Jewish, as is shown by the activities of
various fascist and Nazi groupings here and abroad; and no doubt many
anti-semites now hide behind the cloak of being against zionism. The irony is
that without anti-semitism in the first place political zionism would never have
taken off in the latter part of the last century.

A pre-1914 German marxist, August Bebel, probably had in mind those on the Left
who had given in to racialism when he said that 'anti-semitism is the socialism
of fools.' For democratic socialists it must remain the position that
intolerance and hostility towards any racial grouping is a poison that,
unchecked, can erode democratic liberties for all. This applies whether the
minority happens to be made up of Jews - or Arabs.

David Winnick is Labour MP for Walsall North.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1984

Conservative Party Conference: Defiant Thatcher says that terrorism will not win
/ Premier makes speech

BYLINE: By JULIA LANGDON and JOHN FAIRHALL

LENGTH: 1365 words


The bomb attack at the Grand Hotel during the night had been an attempt to
cripple the democratically elected government of Britain, a defiant Mrs Thatcher
said yesterday in her speech winding up the conference.

The fact that the Conservative conference had completed its business according
to schedule was a sign not only of the failure of the attack but that all
attacks to destroy democracy by terrorism would fail, she said.


She described the explosion as an inhuman undiscriminating attempt to massacre
innocent and unsuspecting people and sent heartfelt sympathy, as Prime Minister
and as leader of the party, to all those who had suffered.

Mrs Thatcher was cheered to the echo at the conclusion of the 45-minute speech.
The Conservative representatives waved Union Jacks, flags and banners
proclaiming 'Long Live Maggie' and 'We love you.' But the usual atmosphere of
the leader's triumphal peroration to the week's events was missing.

The Prime Minister covered a wide range of government policy and philosophy
during her address, but the most significant aspects were two sections on
unemployment and on the current industrial dispute in the coalfields. Although
she did not connect the terrorist attack with the disruption in industry, her
message was the same: that her Government would not be destroyed by those
determined to act unlawfully.

'The battle to uphold the rule of law calls for the resolve and the commitment
of the British people,' she said. 'Our institutions of justice, the courts, and
the police require the unswerving support of every law-abiding citizen ..

'The nation faces now the most testing crisis of our times - the battle between
the extremists and the rest.

'We are fighting for the rights of the little man as well as for the big man. We
are fighting, as we have always fought, for the weak as well as the strong. We
are fighting for great and good causes. We are fighting to defend them against
the power and might of those who rise up to challenge them.

'This Government will not weaken. This nation will meet that challenge,
Democracy will prevail.'

Mrs Thatcher heaped praise upon the sheer bravery of the thousands of miners who
had remained in work to keep their industry alive. It was a tragedy when a
striking miner attacked his workmate, for the working miner was saving both
their futures. 'Scabs' their former workmates call them. Scabs? They are lions!'
Mrs Thatcher declared.

'When this strike is over we must do everything we can to encourage moderate and
responsible trade unionism so it can now once again take its respected and
valuable place in our industrial life.'

Meanwhile, she claimed that the present executive of the National Union of
Mineworkers knew that they were demanding something which could not be conceded.
There was only one explanation for this: 'They didn't want a settlement. They
wanted a strike.'

Britain had seen the emergence of an organised revolutionary minority prepared
to exploit industrial dispute s, but with the real aim of breaking down law and
order and destroying democratic parliamentary government.

It was in the section on unemployment that Mrs Thatcher attempted to answer some
of the damaging criticism which has been made by many Conservatives in private
and by a few in public from the rostrum this week. She described unemployment as
the scourge of the time, but said that to suggest that her government did not
care was deeply wounding and utterly false.

'Do you think that we don't understand what it means for the family man who
cannot find a job to have to sit at home with a sense of failure and despair?'
she asked.

'Or that we do not understand how hopeless the world must seem to a young person
who has not yet succeeded in getting his first job? Of course we know, of course
we see, and of course we care. However could they say that we welcome
unemployment as a political weapon? What better news could there be for any
government than the news that unemployment is falling? And the day cannot come
too soon for me.'

She also attempted to counter the charge that her Government's policies would
not achieve its objective. She cited John Maynard Keynes's diagnosis in the 1944
white paper on employment - and waved a copy which bore the name 'Margaret H
Roberts' that she had bought at the time.

Politicians had adopted some parts of the Keynesian formula and ignored the
rest. As a result, Britain ended up with high inflation and high unemployment.
Her government was heeding the warnings about weakening personal enterprise,
relating wages to productivity and pursuing industrial efficiency.

'It has acted on the basic truths that were set out all those years ago in that
famous white paper. If I'd come out with all this today, some people would call
it Thatcherite: but it was vintage Maynard Keynes.'

Mrs Thatcher said that it was the spirit of enterprise that provided jobs and
the readiness to venture. The Government was cutting taxes, cutting inflation,
keeping costs down, cutting through regulations and providing better education
and training.

The idea of spending more money on investment was an attractive one, she
acknowledged. But she warned of the difficult choices with which the Government
was constantly faced and asked how extra funds would be found.

The speech was noticeably short on criticism of the Opposition. But Mrs Thatcher
did not spare the Labour Party in one section dealing with defence.

'No responsible Prime Minister could take the colossal gamble of giving up our
nuclear defences while our greatest potential enemy kept theirs.' Policies which
threw out American nuclear bases from Britain would wreck Nato and leave Britain
isolated from her friends in the US. 'And friends they are,' she said. 'This
party is pro-American.'

The Labour Party's proposal to give up Britain's nuclear deterrent did not mean
that Britain would escape the result of a nuclear war and it was a delusion to
assume that conventional weapons were sufficient defence against nuclear attack,
she said.

Labour's defence policy nevertheless remained: no Polaris, no cruise missiles,
no US nuclear bases, no Trident, and no independent nuclear deterrents. 'There
is, I think just. one answer, the nation will give: no defence, no Labour
Government.'

Mrs Thatcher claimed successes for government policies in achieving a resolution
of the Hong Kong issue and in securing a long-term settlement of Britain's
budgetary problems in Europe. Patient diplomacy - and occasionally, she
admitted, a little impatience - had done the trick. She did make reference to
the 'painful adjustment' that the new deal had meant for British farmers.

In dealing with domestic issues she claimed that her Government had fulfilled
the promises of its election manifesto and was reasserting Parliament's ultimate
responsibility for controlling the total Burden of taxation. When she reaffirmed
her intention to introduce legislation to abolish the metropolitan authorities
she received long applause, despite the anxiety that the plan has aroused.

At national level the Government had denationalised 13 major enterprises since
1979. Again and again, this had brought greater motivation to managers and
workforce, higher profits and rising investment.

The Government had not finished this programme yet.

The Prime Minister also defined the philosophy of the Conservatives' belief in
enterprise, profits, and the wider distribution of property. 'We have no truck
with outmoded Marxist doctrine about class warfare,' she said. 'For us it's not
who you are, who your family is or where you come from that matters. It's what
you are, and what you can do for your country that counts. That is our vision.'

The conference stood in silence for two minutes and said prayers before opening
of yesterday's debate as an expression of grief, at the bomb outrage in the
Grand Hotel.

The party chairman, Mr John Selwyn Gummer told the conference: 'We intend to
carry on. We shall do so because those who wish to interrupt democracy must be
shown that whatever means they use, those means will fail.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1984

Brighton Bombing: Thatcher right to carry on, says Kinnock / Labour leader
applauds determination of Conservatives

BYLINE: By MARTIN LINTON

LENGTH: 716 words


The Prime Minister received hundreds of messages from world and United Kingdom
political leaders expressing their horror and outrage at the bombing and their
sympathy for the bereaved and the injured.

The leader of the Labour Party. Mr Neil Kinnock, applauded her decision to carry
on with the conference as normal. 'That is good. That is exactly the reaction we
must have in a democracy like this,' he said.


'We must make no concession of any kind to people who believe they can secure
influence over event by using bombs. They are our sworn enemies.'

The same point was made by the Irish Prime Minister, Dr Garret FitzGerald, who
said that the bombing was 'A gross miscalculation of the character of the
British people and the nature of British democracy.'

The IRA was concerned that the British and Irish governments were working
closely together and were trying to prevent this, 'but our determination can
only be reinforced by this kind of action,' he said.

'People are very clear that the IRA are outlaws and aliens in these islands and
that what they do in no way represents the Irish people. Events of this kind go
to show that there is one common enemy - the terrorist - the enemy of us all.'

President Mitterrand of France calling the bombing an 'indescribable attack,'
sent his deepest sympathy to Mrs Thatcher and condolences to the victims'
families, and the French Premier, Mr Laurent Fabius, said in a telegram: In the
name of the French government I wish to assure you of all our sympathy in this
ordeal.'

Chancellor Kohl of West Germany currently visiting China, said: 'I convey my
condolences to all the victims of this incomprehensible act, which I
emphatically condemn.'

The Italian Prime Minister, Mr Bettino Craxi, said, 'I wish to convey my most
sincere solidarity and heart-felt condolences for the victims of the barbarous
outrage. I am relieved that you escaped injury.'

The White House spokesman said President Reagan had sent a cable expressing
concern and sympathy, calling the bombing 'an attack against ..democracy,' and
expressed his concern and sympathy for the families of the dead and injured.

Mrs Indira Gandhi, the Indian Prime Minister, sent a message saying that all
terrorism and violence was contemptible and should be condemned. She expressed
distress over the casualties.

The UN Secretary-General, Mr Perez de Cuellar, and Mr Paul Lusaka, president of
the General Assembly, also condemned the attack.

Tass reported the attack briefly but made no comment.

The leader of the Social Democratic Party, Dr David Owen, sent a message of
sympathy to Mrs Thatcher and expressed his determination that terrorist activity
'will not stop the normal democratic open exchange between politicians and
people.'

In the absence of the Liberal leader, Mr David Steel, who is in Panama, his
chief whip, Mr Alan Beith, sent messages of sympathy to Mr Norman Tebbit and Mr
John Wakeham, wishing them a speedy recovery from the 'monstrous events of the
early hours.

The Queen, who is in Kentucky, sent a message of sympathy, expressing her shock
and her deep concern. She will continue her American visit. 'The tradition in
Britain is to carry on,' said a spokesman. 'We are not deflected in Britain by
this kind of violence.'

Political leaders in Northern Ireland were among the first to send messages of
sympathy. The Ulster Unionist leader, Mr James Molyneaux, expressed the
'heartfelt relief' of the people of Ulster that Mrs Thatcher had been spared
injury and said: 'We know from experience that neither violence nor threats will
affect your determination to stand your ground.'

The Democratic Unionist leader, Mr Ian Paisley, told her that the Northern
Ireland people knew exactly what bombings were like, and felt deep sympathy for'
the dead and injured.

Lord Whitelaw summed up his party's determination that business must go on as
usual. 'One must keep a sense of balance and continue with life exactly the same
as before. If you don't, you are giving the terrorists the chance they want.'

The former Northern Ireland secretary, Mr James Prior, who was not at the
conference, said he thought the attack was probably carried out by an IRA cell
which had been lying low in Britain for some time.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1984

Brighton Bombing: The businessman who killed a PM / Short history of
assasination attempts in Britain

LENGTH: 370 words


The bombing makes Mrs Thatcher the prime minister who has come nearest to
assassination in the 172 years since the fatal shooting of Spencer Perceval.

Perceval (1762-1812), despite the method of his death, is one of the least
remembered prime ministers of modern history.


He occupied 10 Downing Street for 2 1/2 years after he narrowly defeated no less
a figure than George Canning, a celebrated foreign secretary, for the
premiership at the end of 1809.

His assassin was John Bellingham, whose business entanglements led to his arrest
in Russia. Perceval refused to help.

Queen Victoria was the target of at least five attempts by men in the former
category, The first was in 1840, when Edward Oxford fired twice at her carriage
as she was driven through Green Park in London.

The other attempts were made in 1842 by John Francis, whose death sentence was
commuted to transportation for life.

The last attempt, again by a lunatic with a pistol, was at Windsor railway
station in 1882.

The same year produced the Phoenix Park murders in Dublin when Lord Frederick
Cavendish, chief secretary for Ireland and a MP since 1865 and Thomas Henry
Burke, his under-secretary, were stabbed to death by a group of nine men.

Bruke was the intended victim of the 'Invincibles,' a murderous offshoot of the
Fenian movement.

Two Sinn Feiners killed Field Marshal Sir Henry Wilson at his home in London in
1922, soon after the partition of Ireland. On retiring as chief of the Imperial
General Staff he became MP for North Down in Ulster, and he was an outspoken
supporter of Ulster Unionism.

More recent prominent victims of IRA assassins include Christopher Ewart-Biggs
in 1976, just after he became British Ambassador to Dublin and Mr Airey Neave,
MP, Tory spokesman on Northern Ireland and a close friend and adviser of Mrs
Thatcher, who was killed in 1979 by a car bomb as he drove out of a House of
Commons car park.

On August Bank holiday of the same year, Earl Mountbatten, the Queen's uncle,
was killed with three other people when a bomb blew up his motor-cruiser.

The Brighton blast brings to 82 the number of people killed by the IRA on the
British mainland since 1972.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1984

Bomb ours, says IRA / Responsibility claimed for Brighton bombing

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


Responsibility for the Brighton bomb attack was claimed by the IRA yesterday in
a statement issued by the Irish Republican Press Bureau in Dublin and passed to
a Press Association reporter based in Belfast.

The statement said the target for the attack was the British Cabinet and what it
called the 'Tory warmongers.'


It read: 'The IRA claims responsibility for the detonation of 100 lb of
gelignite in Brighton against the British Cabinet and the Tory warmongers.
Thatcher will now realise that Britain cannot occupy our country, torture our
prisoners and shoot our people in their own streets and get away with it.'

The statement added: 'Today we were unlucky, but remember we have only to be
lucky once, you will have to be lucky always. Give Ireland peace and there will
be no war.'

The message was signed 'P O'Neill' - a pen-name used in past statements from the
IRA.

What was curious about the issuing of the claim of responsibility was the way
Sinn Fein in Dublin and Belfast refused to confirm its validity. IRA statements
are usually passed through Sinn Fein, but on this occasion both party offices
would describe it only as unconfirmed.

A short time before the statement was supplied to the PA in Belfast a telephone
caller, a man, rang RTE, the national radio and television company in Dublin,
saying that he had a message and would give it once only.

The statement he gave was the same as the one received in Belfast - apart from
missing out the last sentence and omitting the signature. Because the man did
not give a code word RTE and other organisations treated it with some
scepticism.

Further doubt was cast on the claim because of the mention of 100lb of gelignite
when all the evidence from Brighton was that a much smaller amount of explosive
was employed in the hotel attack.

The Irish Prime Minister, Dr Garret FitzGerald, condemned the attack yesterday
and told Mrs Thatcher that his Government would stand firm in the fight against
terrorism.

In a message to Mrs Thatcher he said: 'This outrage was directed not only at
human lives but at the democratic institutions which we, like you, are
determined to uphold.'

In a later interview before IRA responsibility had been confirmed Dr FitzGerald
said it appeared to represent an attempt by the IRA to prevent present progress
towards peace and stability in Northern Ireland.

He went on: 'A trouble with the IRA is that they do not understand the
democratic system. They do not understood how it works, they do not understand
the British, they do not understand the Irish people.'

Mr Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said in a message to
the Prime Minister - 'Northern Ireland people during the past 10 years know
exactly what these bombings are like and the sorrow and pain they inflict.'

Mr Gerry. Adams, president of Sinn Fein and MP for West Belfast, said that the
bombing was the inevitable result of British occupation of Northern Ireland. He
said that such incidents would continue until there was a British withdrawal.

A spokesman for the Irish Republican Socialist Party, the political wing of the
outlawed Irish National Liberation Army, said in response to the attack: 'If you
play with fire you can expect to get hurt.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1984

Leading Article: Outrage is not a reason for inaction / Political implications
of the IRA bombing of the Conservative party conference in Brighton

LENGTH: 1258 words


After the bomb Dr Garret FitzGerald said the British and Irish people would be
more than ever united against IRA terrorism. Whether that was a rhetorical
flourish or a prediction about what will happen in the politics of Northern
Ireland must be a searching question in the weeks to come just as there is a
politics of the last atrocity so there is a tendency for the last atrocity to
interrupt politics altogether and to inhibit moves which, desirable in
themselves, are not made lest they should be viewed as some kind of surrender.
Mr Jim Prior gave an accurate warning when he told the Commons in July that any
moves towards a new and better dispensation in Northern Ireland would probably
lead to increased rather than diminished violence. The Brighton bomb is all the
evidence required. The IRA has not so much a specific objective in planning its
campaigns, as the general one of preventing any Anglo-Irish cooperation which
might lead to piecemeal improvements in Northern Ireland. More than at any time
before, it is a millenarian organisation for which anything short of the
millennium foreshadowed in a thousand Irish writings is a shabby compromise.

Not every compromise is shabby - can one foresee anything but compromise? - and
the last twelve months have seen the scope increase for compromise of a creative
kind. But it has first to be shown that there is any settlement for Northern
Ireland which will put the IRA out of business. No realistic approach to the
problem will satisfy 100 per cent of the nationalist population of the North.
The question then becomes what proportion of Republican opinion, North and
South, the IRA needs behind it to keep up its momentum, and the answer is only a
small proportion. It is able to operate in Britain with the connivance of people
who are a minuscule fraction of the community, and the fraction supporting it in
Ireland will always be larger than that. Moreover comparisons with past
experience of the IRA and Sinn Fein are misleading. The international terrorist
fraternity is something new and there is, in the liberal democracies, a sympathy
with the guerrilla tactics employed against far-flung and oppressive regimes on
which the IRA can capitalise. Even in the hypothetical case where Britain left
Northern Ireland and watched the violent events unfold, and even if an
all-Ireland government then began to pick up the pieces, there would still be
the grievance, real or imagined, that Ireland was under British economic
domination and therefore 'unfree.' A third possibility, one which we have
advocated, is that Britain and Ireland should themselves enter into a confederal
union, leaving the sovereignty of each intact but blurring the sharp and
provocative edges of constitutional definition in Northern Ireland. History and
geography would appear to favour such an outcome, but it is certainly not one
which Sinn Fein could condone even if the other parties were persuaded (as they
might be, given the threat which the IRA poses to Irish institutions) of its
merits. The IRA's capacity to coarsen the British democratic process, and, by
the technology of the digital time-bomb, to impose serious constraints on all
public occasions may not therefore be easily impaired.


Politics cannot be carried on, however, if they are based only on the worst
assumptions. A debt of gratitude is owed to Mrs Thatcher (and her political
opponents as well as friends) for their personal and immediate reminder of that
fact on Friday morning. If we don't suppose that the Irish question will be
amenable to reason we can't make any suppositions whatever. So what is the
outlook? The British and Irish governments have for several months been working
on the theory that there are ways, short of the ultimate preferred by the New
Ireland Forum, by which the nationalists in the North can be fully reassured
about their place in both the province and the island as a whole. Mr Prior's
acknowledgment that the Dublin government is entitled to speak 'on behalf' of
the Catholic minority was a statement of major import because the clear
implication is that Dublin must have some say in the administration of the
province. This can be brought about in a number of ways, and speculation may not
help the peace process. But among the cleanest and clearest would be the
deployment of Irish security forces up to a very senior level north of the
border, acting along with the British Army and the RUC under joint political
authority. The Irish Republic's input into such a system could not, however, be
limited to security narrowly defined, because nearly every decision taken at
Stormont can have actual or potential security implications. No British
government can wish upon the Irish government that responsibility without power
which for so long was the miserable lot of Britain in Rhodesia. On the other
hand the Irish government cannot require the British government to cede its
sovereignty (that entrenched but misleading and deeply unhelpful term). That is
not simply because of the guarantee but because, guarantee or not, no country
can relieve itself of its citizens so lightly.

The limits of the guarantee need constant reassertion. It emphatically does not
extend to the securing of Unionist permission for every change which Westminster
makes in the administration of the province. The Unionists were emboldened by
the craven weakness of the British government on the collapse of the
power-sharing executive to believe that they did hold such a veto. They have
constantly to be reminded that the Union is a two-way process and that under it
Westminster has the right to decide how the province shall be governed in the
best interest of the United Kingdom. That interest includes a freedom from
violence and a cordial relationship with Dublin. Ulster cannot be treated as a
limboland where British interests are put on one side because it happens to be a
one-party statelet where different rules apply.

These arguments were being advanced before the Brighton bomb went off, and the
bomb does not invalidate them. What the bomb may have done, which would be the
IRA's signal success, is to make them harder to carry. The Sunday Times
yesterday, in a dismissive reading of the situation, said that 'In the aftermath
of the Brighton bomb, liberals will call for a new political initiative to meet
the Ulster problem .. Initiative has become a degraded word and is not in any
case applicable to ideas which have been exchanged between London and Dublin
over many months. Only a week ago Dr FitzGerald told his party conference that
for the first time in 60 years real progress in tackling the Northern Ireland
problem was now possible, and the IRA will have succeeded beyond all measure if
that possibility is removed. We should not be deceived, any more than was Dr
FitzGerald, into thinking that the progress will be easy, rapid, or painless.
There are too many vested interests on both sides of the border which can see a
settlement only in their own terms. The Forum report can be an opportunity but
it can also be an incubus, allowing any opponent of the Irish government of the
day to cry surrender at any proposition short of a unitary state. Extreme
Unionists can cry surrender to any adjustment whatever. But if Mrs Thatcher were
to act with half the resolution she showed on Friday she might then make her
contribution to the long-term diminution of the carnage. That intention now,
with the rubble still being searched, would redound greatly to her credit.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1984

Brighton Bombing: Long delay IRA fuses not new / explosives technology

BYLINE: By BOB RODWELL

LENGTH: 459 words


Highly accurate long delay bomb fuses of the kind thought to have detonated the
Brighton bomb are not new, as was suggested on Saturday by the head of Scotland
Yard's anti-terrorist squad, Commander William Hucklesby.

The first such devices to be found in Provisional IRA hands were recovered by an
army search squad in Ulster in November, 1976.


A long delay electronically-timed bomb exploded on the New University of Ulster
campus at Coleraine, County Londonderry, on August 11, 1977, five hours after
the Queen visited it on her silver jubilee tour.

Another had exploded there two days before, and one had been recovered intact
with its electronic fuse in a campus lavatory on July 29.

Commander Hucklesby's remarks have caused considerable surprise in Belfast, and
have again raised questions in the minds of security authorities about the
readiness of Scotland Yard to learn anything from the hard-won and often tragic
experiences of the RUC in the fight against terrorism.

Senior RUC officers believe that the Metropolitan Police suffers from what they
call the NLIL syndrome - 'not learned in London.' One very senior RUC officer
characterised it after the Harrods bombing last December as 'if it hasn't
happened in London it hasn't happened, period.'

The chief constable, Sir John Hermon, gave voice to RUC irritation when speaking
after a senior officers' dinner in Britain last year, when he was applauded by
provincial police chiefs for his remark: 'You can always tell a Met man - but
not much.'

The Provisionals' capacity to plant so-called 'sleeping bombs' which can be
accurately timed to explode for up to three years after planting - and not
merely three weeks, as Commander Hucklesby suggested on Saturday - was first
disclosed in August, 1977, by the army's then chief ammunition technical officer
in Northern Ireland, the late Lieutenant-Colonel Derrick Patrick.

'They will operate effectively for as long as the batteries hold out. With the
right power pack it could be up to three years,' he said.

Since his statement was made, long-life lithium batteries and very low-drain
electronic devices have been further developed and have become much more
generally available, both being easily purchased off the shelf.

Colonel Patrick's disclosure was the subject of the front page lead story in the
Guardian on August 19, 1977, and was well covered in other national newspapers
that day.

He said that the first such fuses recovered had been home-made by an obviously
skilled electronics specialist but that, even then, they were easily available
off the shelf. The timing element has widespread applications in automation,
instrumentation, telemetry, remote control and communication systems.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1984

Crippled cabinet and retribution in Ulster was aim of IRA / Background to the
Brighton bombing

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 588 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The reasoning behind the IRA bomb attack on the Grand Hotel in Brighton began to
emerge yesterday with the explanation that the aim was to kill several members
of the Cabinet, destabilise the Government, and provoke a crisis in Britain.

It was anticipated that this would have led to severe retribution in Northern
Ireland - possibly the banning of the IRA's political wing, Sinn Fein, and maybe
the reintroduction of internment.


Either or both of these measures would have given the IRA fresh impetus by
increasing support and pushing Northern Ireland and the paramilitaries into
sustained international prominence for the first time since the Republican
hunger strikes of 1981.

Although the active service unit of the IRA which carried out the attack failed
in its primary objective, to murder Mrs Thatcher, the operation is being hailed
in Republican circles as a success.

The argument is that it will restore morale inside the outlawed organisation at
a time when it seemed that the political wing was dictating strategy. It also
confirms the IRA's capacity to strike right at the heart of the British
establishment.

There were suggestions yesterday that the Brighton bombing could be followed by
more IRA attacks on what the organisation perceives to be prestige targets in
Britain.

Mr Danny Morrison, publicity director of Sinn Fein and an elected member of the
Northern Ireland Assembly, said he thought that if members of the Cabinet had
been killed there would have been a political re-think. He argued that this
would have led to British withdrawal from Northern Ireland all the sooner. The
IRA is known to view the bombing in the context of a long-term struggle. Twenty
years is mentioned as the time by which it hopes to have achieved the objective
of forcing Britain out of the province.

There was speculation yesterday about the nature of the operation carried out by
the IRA. Some sources said that the IRA army council had net after the death of
the hunger striker, Bobby Sands, and had decided that Mrs Thatcher would be
their top target.

It was also said that a special unit was then established, using English-born
men and women of Irish parents who had offered their services to the
para-militaries, and that the planning which culminated in the Brighton bombing
had been going on for three years.

The hole in this theory is that the IRA is known to have been wary of some of
those who joined the Republican movement after the hunger strikes. Because of
the need for secrecy, it seems unlikely that virtual outsiders would have been
trusted.

There also remains the point that any Prime Minister is a target for the IRA. It
did not need the death of Bobby Sands to make the terrorists look towards Mrs
Thatcher.

The IRA is opportunist in many of its operations, and one theory is that the
attack was authorised earlier this year by the army council after it had
recognised that the plan was feasible.

Although it is only speculation, it would seem likely that members based in
Britain were used, probably with assistance and expert aid coming from the
Republic or the north of Ireland to help to assemble, set, activate, and place
the bomb.

The IRA in County Fermanagh claimed yesterday that it planted two explosive
devices at the Lough Erin Hotel in Kesh. They were dealt with by the security
forces after 200 guests at a function at the hotel, and a number of local
residents, had been evacuated. There were no injuries, and little damage was
caused.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1984

Scotland Yard warns that IRA bombers could strike again

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN and DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 1006 words


The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad warned yesterday that an IRA
unit could strike again as part of a bombing campaign that began with last
Friday's attempt to assassinate the Prime Minister and members of the Cabinet.

Commander Bill Hucklesby told a Brighton press conference that the IRA unit
responsible for bombing the Grand Hotel may be out of the country but another
could be planning further action.


He said, 'I don't discount the possibility that a unit could be still in this
country with the intention of causing more incidents of this kind.

'We don't discount the posibility that there may be some who remained to carry
on what they have started. Following this incident, it is essential that
everybody notes the dangers and is alerted accordingly.

'It would be silly to assume that this was just a one-off attack. It may have
been but there may be more to come. If there are we are prepared for them.'

Bomb experts inspecting the rubble 90 feet up in the shattered Grand Hotel now
believe the bomb, containing 201b of commercial explosive, which tore a hole in
the facade, was concealed behind bathroom panelling between rooms 628 and 629 on
the sixth floor.

Police are now tracing those who had access to the rooms, including hotel guests
and workmen who completed a pounds 500,000 refurbishment contract at the hotel
eight days before representatives began to arrive for the Conservative Party
conference.

The death toll was finally confirmed as four yesterday when the body of Mrs
jeanne Shattock was recovered from the sixth floor. She was in room 628 with her
husband Gordon, the chairman of the western area of the Conservative Party, who
survived the blast.

Two men who were arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act over the weekend
were yesterday eliminated from the Brighton investigation.

One of the men was detained at Speke airport, Liverpool, as he was preparing to
board a plane to Dublin and was taken to the Sussex town for questioning.

A second man was subsequently detained in Brighton early yesterday. Although
charges may be brought against one of the men they will not be connected with
the bombing.

At yesterday's press conference Mr Roger Birch, the Chief Constable of Sussex
vehemently denied a report in yesterday's Sunday Times that his force had been
warned about the risk of an IRA attack shortly before it took place.

Mr Birch said that Sussex police headquarters at Lewes, received a classified
message from the Special Branch in London on Wednesday night.

This was a general warning which had gone out to all police forces. They had no
indication of the place or time of any attack.

Mr Birch said that his force's plans included security precautions on a 'vastly
more elaborate scale' than those denoted by the Special Branch alert.

He condemned the Sunday Times report as 'a mischievous invention' which would
undermine the confidence of the public in the police and their services and
would give satisfaction to those seeking to damage democracy and the way of life
in Britain.

Mr Hucklesby said a 'thorough' search of the hotel by sniffer dogs for bombs had
been carried out before the explosion.

They may have missed it, he suggested, because the explosive was wrapped in
cellophane to stop the dogs sniffing it out. They may not have been trained to
sniff out the particular type of explosive.

But Mr Birch refused to say whether the sniffer dogs went into the room where
the bomb was placed. He said it could prejudice the inquiry into the Sussex
police's security arrangements which he has invited Mr John Hoddinott, the
Deputy Chief Constable of Hampshire to carry out.

Mr Hoddinott's report will be handed to the Sussex police committee, made up of
county councillors, who will decide whether it should be published.

Mr Birch said that unless the Hoddinott inquiry revealed a major error in the
security arrangements - which he was confident that it would not - he was not
prepared to contemplate resignation- 'Nothing could be further from my mind.'

Mr Hucklesby said the bomb was probably equipped with a long-range timing device
which marked 'a different dimension' in IRA bomb making on the mainland.

He denied that it was of Libyan origin and said there was no evidence that it
was triggered by a remote control or a video machine timer.

Mr Hucklesby said that his officers knew the IRA had the capability of timing a
bomb to explode precisely at a pre-set date three or more weeks ahead after the
discovery of a bomb cache at Pangbourne, Berkshire, in October, 1983.

He went on: 'Because of what we found in our recoveries of IRA equipment, we
have got now to consider so many other dimensions that we thought we had defined
before on clock timing, it is a different ball game now.'

Blast residue indicated that the bomb was made of commercial explosives,
possibly the gelignite Frangex, and was probably placed in panelling concealing
cisterns.

The device would have been small enough to carry in by hand in a briefcase or
toolbox, and could have been assembled in the room.

Security surrounding the Grand Hotel included a black and white time lapse
camera, film from which showed detectives the balcony of the Prime Minister's
Napoleon suite lit up by an intense flash of light registered at 02.54.00 on
Friday.

The anti-terrorist squad and bomb squad experts yesterday reached the rubble
about 90 feet high in the exposed floors where they believe the remains of the
bomb may be.

The bomb was placed five floors directly above the first floor suite occupied by
Mrs Thatcher and her husband, Denis. The path of falling masonry was deflected
by the structure of the Victorian hotel over the fourth floor and crashed
through the rooms of Mr John Wakeham, the chief whip, whose wife, Roberta, was
killed, and Mr Norman Tebbit the Trade and Industry Secretary, and his wife.

The Prime Minister's bathroom was badly damaged two minutes after she had used
it.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 22, 1984

Dublin denies receiving 'IRA' extradition request / UK request for extradition
of those connected with Hyde Park and Regent's Park bombings of 1982

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: BALLYSHANNON


The Irish Government said yesterday that it had received no request from the
United Kingdom for the extradition of John Downey or anyone else allegedly
connected with the IRA bombing in Hyde Park and Regent's Park in 1982.

Such a transfer to British jurisdiction would be lengthy and complicated,
involving presentation of a warrant and production of evidence linking the
suspects with the crime.


It is likely that a case like this would go as far as the Republic's Supreme
Court. If completed, it would create a precident because no-one has been
extradited from the Republic to mainland Britain on terrorist offences, although
two men, one of them Dominic McGlinchy, have been extradited to Northern
Ireland.

Senior Scotland Yard officers are known to have met the Attorney General and the
Director of Public Prosecutions several times in London seeking the extradition
of Mr Downey, who they believe can be linked to the IRA bombing campaign of 1982
in London.

A story in the Sunday Times naming Mr Downey, 'as a top IRA terrorist' seems
likely to put pressure on the Government to demand his extradition from the
Republic.

In May 1983 he was identified by Scotland Yard as wanted in connection with
several alleged offences,

Mr Downey, aged 32, who moves about Co. Donegal and Co. Cavan, along the border
with the North, was believed by Scotland Yard to be in Britain but much to
police embarrassment he surfaced in the Republic.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 1984

Parliament: Intelligence unit to combat Irish terror / Home Secretary Brittan on
the Brighton bombing

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN

LENGTH: 1072 words


The Home Secretary, Mr Leon Brittan, yesterday announced the setting up of an
intelligence unit at Scotland Yard to counter the Irish terrorist threat,
following the Brighton bombing which resulted in four dead and 32 injured.

In a statement on the bombing to the Commons on its return after the summer
recess, Mr Brittan said: 'We will not be bombed into bolt holes by terrorists.'


His message won united support from all sides of the House, including Mr Gerald
Kaufman, the Shadow Home Secretary, who said: 'Let it go forth that an attack on
any of us is an attack on all of us - we shall resist that attack and we shall
win.'

The Commons joined with Mr Brittan in expressing sympathy for the families of
the victims.

Mr Kaufman, in expressing the sympathy of the Opposition, was cheered when he
said Labour MPs hoped soon to see the Industry Secretary, Norman Tebbit,
restored to health and returning to the Commons 'in his usual rude health.' Mr
Tebbit and his wife. Margaret, are also still in hospital.

The Home Secretary told MPs that the explosion had no less a purpose than 'to
strike a blow at the heart of our democracy by killing the majority of the
Cabinet.'

Praising the police. and the security services, Mr Brittan said: 'The task of
obtaining evidence about the bomb itself was formidable and the police were not
yet in a position to describe it more fully beyond that it was believed to have
been about 20 pounds of commercial explosive.' A total of 31 skips and 750
dustbins full of debris had been removed from the Grand Hotel and 228 police
officers were engaged in this task.

More than 200 police officers were engaged in a pursuit of inquiries about the
bombers. Mr Brittan said that it would be wrong to anticipate the conclusions of
the police report on security at the conference. 'I shall, however, to the
extent that this does not prejudice security, report them to the House in due
course.'

Mr Brittan assured the Commons that new measures to improve security in the
Palace of Westminster were in hand.

'The Brighton bombing also demonstrates the vulnerability of party political
engagements, This applies locally as well as nationally. Local party organisers
should be careful to contact the police about arrangements well in advance,'
said Mr Brittan.

New arrangements for countering the Irish terrorist threat had been set in hand
centrally. The aim, he said, was to bring to bear the widest range of experience
in assessing Irish terrorist intentions and capabilities and to advise on, and
coordinate, the counter-measures required to meet them. These would supplement
the continuing role of the Metropolitan Police Special Branch.

Mr Brittan said: 'Total security is impossible in a free, democratic society.
Political and other leaders are vulnerable because they must be accessible.
Everything which can be done, will be done to prevent such outrages and protect
their targets. But we will not be bombed into bolt holes by terrorists.'

Mr Kaufman, for the Opposition, said: 'This was no random act of violence. It
cannot be compared and should not be compared with any other act of violence,
great or small, which takes' place in our society.

'This was a deliberate attempt to destroy the Government by mass murder.

'That Government is a Conservative Government with which we have the most
serious differences. But it is the democratically elected government. It is the
British Government and let it be said in the plainest terms, the only way to get
rid of a Government in Britain is by the ballot box.

'Terrorism and assassination have no place whatever in the political process in
this country.

'We utterly and unanimously reject it and will fight with every fibre of our
being against it. With Voltaire, we say to the Government we disapprove of what
you say but will defend to the death your right to say it.'

Mr Kaufman called for an examination of the whole question of security
surrounding the Government and parliament.

He added: 'But while we here are obvious targets for terrorist action and it is
important to ensure the maximum possible security compatible with the right of
the people to have access to their elected representatives, let us be clear that
our security is no more important than that of the whole of the population who
are at risk from the foul gangsters.'

Just because politicians have chosen to take part in public life, they could not
expect greater safety than those caught up in the Harrods bomb, the Regents'
Park atrocity or those in Northern Ireland, civilians and troops, who face these
dangers every day.

'We are all in the front line. We must face these risks unitedly together.'

Mr David Steel, the Liberal leader, on behalf of the Alliance, said the IRA had
misunderstood both public and parliamentary opinion. 'We are one family in this
House and when one member of that family is attacked, the only effect is to
unite all members of the family. We will not bow to terrorism.'

Mr Julian Amery (C Brighton Pavilion) protested about the very unfair criticism
of the police force before any inquiry had taken place.

Mr Andrew Bowden (C Brighton Kemptown) protested about an article in the Sunday
Times claiming that there were serious differences between the Sussex police and
the Metropolitan police. He said it was totally and completely untrue and one of
the most scurrilious pieces of journalism he had seen.

'They have printed the names of witnesses when they were specifically asked not
to do so by the Assistant Chief Constable. Is that not impeding his inquiry and
making it more difficult to bring the guilty to book?' he said.

The Home Secretary said it was important to make it absolutely clear there was
no truth at all in the suggestion of differences of opinion between the forces
investigating the murder nor any truth in the suggestion of inadequate resources
being available.

Mr James Molyneaux (OUP. Lagan Valley) told Mr Brittan that in seeking the
cooperation of the Republic of Ireland in the battle against terrorism, the
Government should avoid paying any price which concede the objectives of the
terrorists either in whole or in part.

Mrs Jill Knight (C Edgbaston) said the IRA could not continue their campaign of
anarchy without help from their two major sources of supply for money and arms -
the Soviet Union and the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1984

French bomb test sours state visit / Security row as President Mitterrand visits
London

BYLINE: By SARAH BOSELEY and PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: LONDON and PARIS


Explosives planted in the French ambassador's residence in London by a French
bomb disposal expert to test the efficiency of the British police led to
diplomatic row last night.

The incident occurred because the French were worried about the security
surrounding President Mitterrand, who was undertaking a state visit to Britain.


Metropolitan Police officers with sniffer dogs were invited to search the
grounds of the residence in Kensington Palace Gardens on Tuesday evening.
President Mitterrand was due to host a reception there for the local French
community.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: 'The French put our ability to the test by
planting two amounts of explosive substance in the grounds of the residence
which were quickly located by police dogs.'

The anti-terrorist squad were immediately called in and their enquiries focused
on one man.

At 8.45 am yesterday, officers from the squad went to the Grosvenor House Hotel
in Park Lane where they identified the man and found more explosive in his room.

The man was taken to the Scotland Yard and not released until five hours later.
He was requested to leave Britain and returned on a plane to Paris last night.

MPs last night called on the Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, to demand an
immediate explanation from the French for the 'insensitive act' only days after
the bomb attack on Tory Government leaders in Brighton.

They were angry that explosives should be brought into London via diplomatic
routes while security was being stepped up in the wake of the IRA bombing.

This is not the first time security precautions for President Mitterrand have
led to Anglo-French discord. On the last day of the economic summtt in London in
June, two of the President's bodyguards were found to be carrying guns Their
weapons were confiscated on the grounds that they did not hold British firearms
certificates.

Police sources in Paris also said the request by Scotland Yard for the bomb
disposal expert to return to Paris was only one of a series of incidents in
which there have been increasingly bad relations between Scotland Yard and the
security team around President Mitterrand.

'Scotland Yard has done everything possible to humiliate our men' one French
policeman said. 'Our men have been body searched and forced to answer Scotland
Yard interrogation as if our men were terrorists.'

The French version of the discovery of the explosives coincides in its main
points with the story given by Scotland Yard.

Scotland Yard issued a statement which put the exercise down to the spirit of
entente cordiale. The explosives, which police would not identify, were 'intert,
unarmed and would not have exploded.'

The French leader and his staff have sought to assure Mrs Thatcher and her
ministers - especially Mr Britton - that the planting of the explosives had no
authority from the top.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 26, 1984

Attempts to defuse bomb scare embarrassment / French security man's bomb hoax
during President Mitterrand's London visit

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY and PATRICK KEATLEY and PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 829 words

DATELINE: LONDON and PARIS


An intensive operation in diplomatic damage limitation was under way yesterday
as British and French security services hotly disputed what actually happened in
the embassy explosives incident during President Mitterrand's state visit to
Britain.

The embarrassingly bungled attempt to test British security by hiding a bomb at
the French ambassador's residence in London has cast a fleeting shadow over the
President's visit.


Mrs Thatcher told the Commons that it was a most regrettable incident and the
French embassy issued a terse statement which said it was a 'misunderstanding'
which 'must not modify the excellent climate' in which the President's state
visit was taking place.

The two packets of military plastic explosives, each weighing four ounces, were
planted in the grounds of the residence in Kensington Palace Gardens by a bomb
disposal expert of the President's body-guard unit, the PRPR.

Scotland Yard officers with sniffer dogs were invited into the grounds on
Tuesday evening, before an official reception. The dogs unearthed the
explosives, and the French bodyguards then admitted hiding it - much to the
Yard's outrage. The British officers then traced the bomb disposal expert and
interviewed him for four hours.

The Yard's anti-terrorist officers - Who had been called off the Brighton bomb
investigation to deal with the incident - also found explosives in the PRPR
man's hotel room.

A senior Scotland Yard officer concerned with the incident said last night: 'It
was a dangerous and crass thing to do, as well as being a complete waste of time
in the middle of a major inquiry at Brighton.

However, the bomb disposal expert blamed for the incident yesterday told his
superiors in Paris that the Scotland Yard version of events was a lie.

He is being strongly supported by other members of the presidential bodyguard
who have interpreted the expert's arrest and interrogation as a 'shabby revenge'
by Scotland Yard after a series of incidents between British and French security
men.

The French interior ministry said that the unamed explosives expert had 'carried
out his mission normally' in London and that 'sensational declarations' that he
was trying to test British security were without foundation.

The ministry said that a bomb disposal officer equipped with around 150 grams of
plastic explosive accompanied President Mitterrand's security men on every trip.
The explosive was intended to be used to detonate suspect bombs.

Officials said that the Scotland Yard bomb squad was called to the embassy by
the French themselves to ask for a search to be carried out by sniffer dogs.

French officials believe that two of Scotland Yard's most experienced dog
handlers were at the ambassador's residence on Tuesday afternoon, having another
look around in preparation for the state Banquet which was to follow on Thursday
night.

Two dogs, named Lucy and Oliver, were, their handlers boasted, second to none in
the speed with which they could trace explosives, indoors or out.

This conversation took place in a relaxed atmosphere with the French claiming
that their tracker dogs were second to none.

The upshot was the decision to put Lucy and Oliver to the test and the bomb
disposal officer was brought into the discussion in order to provide the target
material. He broke out the gelignite carton and took two small sticks which were
placed at two points in the garden. The British dogs were let loose and found
both targets in just under 10 minutes. The two sets of security officers toasted
Lucy and Oliver, as well as Anglo-French friendship, and said goodbye.

Where things began to go wrong was on Wednesday morning when a British police
officer from a different unit, whose manner is described as cold and heavy,
appeared at the hotel room of the French bomb disposal officer and interrogated
him for a long time. One account says this interrogation lasted four hours.

The upshot was a sense of outrage on both sides, with French and British
officers reporting upwards to superiors and to administrative colleagues. Some
three hours later, when word reached Scotland Yard that there had been a leak to
at least one newspaper in London and possibly to some in Paris, a formal police
statement was released and the fat was in the fire.

The French claimed that Scotland Yard wanted to improve its image after the
Brighton bombing.

The Foreign Office is now satisfied that there has been no breach of the Vienna
Convention on Diplomatic Relations and that the French embassy's diplomatic bag
was not misused to bring in the gelignite.

Mrs Thatcher told the Commons: 'This was a most regrettable incident. The French
authorities are aware of our views - it was wholly wrong for the individual to
have acted as he did - and they have regretted the misunderstanding.' She added
that it was 'a matter of most serious concern' that the explosives had been
brought into Britain.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 30, 1984

UK promises rethink on Middle East arms policy

BYLINE: FromARIE HASKEL

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, last night promised his Israeli hosts
that Britain would reconsider its embargo on arms sales to Israel and would also
re-examine its arms sales policy to Arab states.

Sir Geoffrey, who arrived in Israel on Sunday for a three day visit, spent most
of yesterday meeting Israeli leaders, although he began with a tour of the Yad
Vashem memorial to the victims of the Nazi holocaust.


Sir Geoffrey invited his Israeli counterpart, Mr Yitzak Shamir, to Britain and
delivered an invitation to the Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, from Mrs
Thatcher.

British and Israeli sources spoke of harmonious talks, the only discordant note
sounded was the Israeli protest against what was considered Britain's one-sided
attitude to arms for the Middle East. However, even on this, Sir Geoffrey
succeeded in smoothing ruffled feathers.

On Lebanon, the Foreign Secretary discussed in details Israel's withdrawal plans
with the Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabain and declared plans for playing the
role of mediator, he would do everything in his power to help achieve a solution
to the problem.

With Mr Shamir, Sir Geoffrey discussed the growing menace of international
terrorism and also Israel's fears of having its exports to Europe badly hit by
the accession of Spain and Portugal to the EEC.

Israeli sources say that the leaders he met yesterday found Sir Geoffrey a warm
and sympathetic listener and they are confident that the already close
relationship between the two countries will be further enhanced by this visit.

This morning, Sir Geoffrey is having breakfast with Arab leaders from East
Jerusalem and the West Bank but it was thought last night that again he would be
listening while the other side did most of the talking.

In the course of the day, the Foreign Secretary also called on President, Mr
Chaim Herzog, as well as lunching with the Speaker of the Knesset (Parliament).

In Bethlehem it was quiet last night after a day of violent disturbances in
which students from the local university threw stones at cars with Israeli
number plates, in protest against Sunday's rocket attack in Jerusalem, on an
Arab bus.

The young Arab killed by the rocket was buried over night and of the 10 injured
only one remained in hospital yesterday. Jerusalem police released three
suspects detained shortly after the incident and yesterday closely questioned
supporters of ultra right wing Knesset member, Rabbi Meir Kahane, but made no
arrests.

The police also disclosed that the missile used was an American made anti-tank
rocket which is shoulder fired, weighs only five pounds.

But it is believed that the missile had been stolen from the Israeli army.
Police also think those responsible had hurled a grenade into a cafe in
Jerusalem's old city, a month ago, injuring four people.

The trouble in Bethlehem began when students hoisted banned Palestinian flags
and began stoning passing cars. An Israeli border unit was brought in and by
using tear gas, succeeded in pushing the students back into the campus. The area
around the university was closed off. The students continued throwing stones at
the police but with dusk, tempers cooled and by early evening the police were
with drawn and the students went home.

Jerusalem's mayor, Mr Teddy Kollek condemned the attack on the bus and expressed
the belief that those responsible may have been influenced by the hero status
that rightwing elements were giving arrested members of a Jewish underground who
are still being tried for a series of crimes against Arabs.

Mr Kollek said that the presence of a cabinet minister (Mr Ariel Sharon) at
religious celebrations held in Hebron recently, and which turned into a
demonstration of sympathy for the Jewish underground could have inspired
misguided individuals.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 12, 1984

Havers soothes wrath over 'bungled extradition' tale / Plans to extradite
alleged terrorist Miss Evelyn Glenholmes

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON and STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN and LONDON


The Irish Government was furious last night after leaks emanating from London
claimed that politicians and police in the Republic were reluctant to hand over
for extradition a woman identified by Scotland Yard as an alleged terrorist
bomber.

Dublin's reaction to what it saw as 'a vicious and slanted attack' provoked the
Attorney-General, Sir Michael Havers, into issuing a statement clearing the
Irish security forces and Irish Government of either negligence or bureaucratic
feet dragging.


Last night, police in the Republic counter-claimed that Scotland Yard's bungling
and premature release of information to the Sunday Times would hamper their
efforts to trace Miss Evelyn Glenholmes, who is wanted by the Yard for
questioning about five bombings in England.

She has disappeared from her home in Dundalk, close to the border with the
North, and has not been seen for several days.

Dublin was particularly angry that the allegations should surface just before
the summit between Mrs Thatcher and the Irish Prime Minister, Dr Garret
FitzGerald.

Yesterday afternoon the British Ambassador in Dublin, Mr Alan Goodison, was
summoned to a special meeting with Dr FitzGerald.

Later the Irish government said it welcomed Sir Michael's repudiation of the
allegations made in the Sunday Times report.

An official added: 'The Irish Government also share the view communicated to i:
on the behalf of the British Government that the publication of this story has
clearly been damaging to the process of justice and whoever provided this
information to the press could not have been unaware of the damage it might do
to the enforcement of the law.'

The Sunday Times had reported that Yard detectives had arrived in the Republic
armed with an extradition war rant for Miss Glenholmes but had to return to
London for fresh documents when an error in them was discovered.

Irish officials and police were described in the report as stalling and an
unnamed police source in London was quoted as saying that the whole affair was
now in the hands of Irish politicians, who were accused of delaying tactics.

The suspicion in Dublin is that the story had been leaked either because police
in Britain, frustrated at the delay, did not appreciate the sensitivity of
extradition in the Republic, or because they wanted to give the impression that
they were hard on the heels of suspected terrorists.

One Dublin Government source described the story, which it said, got the woman's
name and age wrong, as 'the most scandalous article we have seen for some time.'

The newspaper said last night that their reporters, Barrie Penrose and Simon
Freeman, had known Miss Glenholmes's identity for more than three weeks but
agreed not to name her after Whitehall and Yard sources said a story could
jeopardise attempts to arrest her.

A Sunday Times statement went on: 'Penrose and Freeman learnt from sources in
Dublin on Friday that a warrant for the arrest of Glenholmes had been served
earlier in the week by offlcers from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch.

'The paper contacted senior Whitehall and police sources and told them that, in
view of the fact that news of the warrant had leaked in Dublin, and because of
apparent delays in arresting Glenholumes, it now felt able to publish the
story.'

They told the Irish embassy in London that the story would be carried on Sunday.
There was no request not to publish the story, although the Irish were asked to
say if publication would prejudice the Irish police operation.

Scotland Yard denied last night that one of its officers may have anticipated
that the Glenholmes's extradition attempt was unlikely to succeed, and leaked
information.

Although the Sunday Times story linked Miss Glenholmes with last month's bombing
at the Conservative Party conference in Brighton, where four people died the
Yard said it wanted to interview her in connection with five terrorist bombing
incidents in London.

It admitted there had been 'a technical error, not a spelling mistake' in the
first draft of the arrest warrant.

A Yard statement said it had not given any information to the press concerning
Miss Glenholmes, except to confirm what the Sunday Times had put to it. It had
made a specific request that the paper should not print the story.

One of the five incidents the Yard wanted to talk to her about was the bombing
in 1981 outside Chelsea Barracks.

Others were the explosion at the Oxford Street Wimpy bar in which a bomb
disposal expert died, the car bombing of Sir Steuart Pringle, the attack on Sir
Michael Havers' Wimbledon home, and the attempted bombing of Debenhams, all in
1981.

According to the Sunday Times, Miss Glenholmes, who is aged 26, and comes
originally from Belfast, has gone from her home on a Dundalk housing estate
where she is believed to have lived for the past 12 months.

But a member of her family said last night that she had never been to England -
'not even to see her father in prison.'

The Royal Ulster Constabularly in Belfast said last night that Miss Glenholmes
was not wanted for any offences there.

She was arrested and charged on September 12, 1983, with membership of the
women's IRA between July 1981 and 1983.

She was charged solely on the evidence offered by the informer, Robert Lean, who
later retracted his statements. She was released and the charge was withdrawn.

Her father, Richard, was gaoled for 10 years in London, in March, 1981, for
attempting to free another Ulster man from Brixton prison and of possessing
firearms.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 13, 1984

Search for bomb suspect centres on border town / Irish police concentrate search
for Evelyn Glenholmes in Dundalk

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The search continued yesterday for the alleged terrorist bomber, Miss Evelyn
Glenholmes, amid recriminations over how her name came to surface in public
before an extradition warrant could be served.

Irish police co-ordinating the hunt from the border town of Dundalk, where the
26-year-old Belfast-born woman had been living with a brother, were
concentrating their efforts on the immediate vicinity but keeping a watch on
railway stations, ports, and airports.


Miss Glenholmes went missing just before a warrant for her extradition to
mainland Britain - where Scotland Yard believes it can link her to five bombings
during 1981 - could be served.

An apparent mistake by the British authorities led to fresh warrants having to
be prepared, but a story in the Sunday Times which identified her provoked anger
in Dublin because it said Irish politicians and police were stalling over the
terrorist suspect.

Yesterday the Irish Attorney-General, Mr Peter Sutherland, said that any
suggestion that there was any political involvement in the extradition process
in the Republic was incorrect. 'Successive Irish governments have had absolute
commitment to deal with the problem of violent crime.'

The editor of the Sunday Times, Mr Andrew Neill, said in a BBC radio interview
that the British Government knew the newspaper was intending to run the story,
and there had been no attempt to stop publication.

Despite the publicised eagerness of Scotland Yard to take Miss Glenholmes into
custody, no description or photograph of the woman has been issued. Sources in
Belfast yesterday described her as about 5ft 9in tall, thin, with ginger hair.

One theory is that she moved out of the house in Dundalk after a tip-off that
she was wanted. Miss Glenholmes was arrested last year in Northern Ireland by
the RUC and held in custody for a month on a charge of belonging to the Women's
IRA.

The informer who named her, Bobby Lean, later retracted statements made to the
police. She was freed and the charges dropped. The RUC has said it does not want
to question her in connection with any matter in Northern Ireland

Her brother, sister, and mother live in a terraced council house in West
Belfast. Her father, Richard, is serving a 10-year prison sentence in Long
Lartin gaol, Worcestershire, imposed in 1981 for possession of firearms and
conspiring to snatch a well-known republican from Brixton Prison.

Scotland Yard believes it can link Miss Glenholmes to the 1981 bombings,
including the one which killed two civilians outside Chelsea Barracks, in
London.

The others were the explosion at the Wimpey Bar in Oxford Street, London, in
which a bomb disposal expert died, the car bombing in which Sir Stuart Pringle
was badly hurt, the attack on Sir Michael Havers's Wimbledon, London, home, and
an attempted bombing of Debenham's in London.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 14, 1984

Faster terrorism arrests 'unrealistic' / Head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, Commander Crawshaw comments on hunt for Irish terrorists

BYLINE: By STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 363 words


The public often has unrealistic expectations about the speed of inquiries into
explosions like the Grand Hotel bombing in Brighton, the new head of Scotland
Yard's anti-terrorist branch, Commander Simon Crawshaw, said yesterday.

'In the investigation of most offences, the chance of success rapidly reduces as
time goes by,' he said. 'With a terrorist attack or a bomb incident this is not
so - there can be thousands of dustbins of rubble to examine, which can take
months.


'The linking of forensic information with intelligence which may not come to
light for two years is not unusual. There's an acceptance of this within the
branch, but members of the public might feel the police aren't doing their job
if there aren't quick arrests.'

The attempt to extradite Miss Evelyn Glenholmes from Ireland to be charged with
a crime committed three years ago illustrated this process, he said.

Mr Crawshaw said the Sunday Times had given him a written assurance that the
information leak about Miss Glenhomes did not come from Scotland Yard.

He speculated that the leak came from somebody in Britain or Ireland who wanted
to prevent her arrest.

Joe Joyce adds: Britain's Attorney-General, Sir Michael Havers, was yesterday
accused by the Irish Opposition leader, Mr Charles Haughey, of being the
probable source of the story in the Sunday Times which has caused a flurry of
recrimination on the eve of the first Anglo-Irish summit meeting for a year.

In an exchange in the Dail Mr Haughey suggested that the story had been planted
in the newspaper by a high British political source, possibly to create a
security atmosphere for the meeting between Dr Garret FitzGerald and Mrs
Thatcher.

But the Irish Justice Minister, Mr Michael Noonan, re fused to speculate about
the source of the story. He said that he was confident that the leak had not
come from Ireland. He understood, he added, that people attached to the Sunday
Times had said that it came from a senior police officer in London.

Mr Andrew Neil, editor of the Sunday Times, said last night that the story was
'pieced together from several sources on both sides of the Irish Sea.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 27, 1984

Thatcher raises terrorist spectre to attack miners / British Premier equates
trade unionists with IRA and Libyan terrorism

BYLINE: By IAN AITKEN, Political Editor

LENGTH: 913 words


The Government, led by the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, yesterday
relaunched its campaign to link international terrorism and the IRA with the
activities of the striking miners, Mr Arthur Scargill and what Mrs Thatcher
called 'the fascist left.'

The case was put by Mrs Thatcher and Mr Leon Brittan in separate speeches which
clearly mark a significant escalation in the Government's campaign to present
itself as the last bastion of law and order.


Mrs Thatcher launched her attack at a lecture to an invited audience at the home
of Conservatism, the Carlton Club, and Mr Brittan addressed a public meeting to
open the campaign for the Enfield/Southgate byelection caused by the death of
Sir Anthony Berry in the Brighton bombing.

It was Mr Brittan who most clearly identified terrorism with the NUM last night.

After pointing out that the byelection had been called by an act of criminal
violence, he went on to declare that crime and violence threatened the people of
this country in many other ways. It was the supreme duty of the Government to
ensure that the forces of law and order were equipped to meet and beat that
challenge, he said.

In the coal dispute, said Mr Brittan, concerted criminal violence had been used
on an unprecedented scale for political as much as industrial gains.

But the objectives of violence had not been attained, because the Government had
not been prepared to bow to it The current violence reflected the frustration of
failure rather than the arrogance of success.

Mr Brittan went on to argue that although remarkable courage had been shown by
working miners, it was the skill and courage of the police which had enabled
them to return to work in such numbers. 'Only the massive mobilisation of police
resources kept the coalfields from being forced to shut by mass pickets within
days of the start of the strike,' he said.

Mrs Thatcher made much the same point in rather more elegant words. She took
democracy as her theme and declared that Britain must never give in to the
coercion of the many by the ruthless manipulation of the few.

She insisted that respect for the rules of a democratic society must not be used
to allow the minority to overbear the tolerant majority.

'Yet these are the very dangers which we face in Britain today,' she added. 'At
one end of the spectrum are the terrorist gangs within our borders and the
terrorist states which finance and arm them. At the other are the hard left
operating inside our system, conspiring to use union power and the apparatus of
local government to break, defy and subvert the laws.'

Her basic message was that the Conservative Party had a unique responsibility to
protect democratic society now that Labour had been taken over by the left.

In Britain's long history the Conservative Party had sought successfully to
conserve the church, the monarchy, the House of Lords and the constitution. 'Now
the mantle has fallen on us to conserve the very principle of parliamentary
democracy and the rule of law itself - to conserve them for all the people of
all parties and of none,'she said.

Mr Brittan launched the most violent attack on Mr Scargill so far heard from any
minister. He said that as each day passed Mr Scargill's behaviour was plumbing
new depths. He accused him of refusing to stop his followers from using violence
against the police or against working miners and their families.

'This shameful silence is more than just inertia,' he said. 'It goes beyond a
craven washing of the hands. For it shows all the world with crystal clarity
where the moral responsibility for the violence lies.'

Recalling the beating-up of a working miner on Friday, and the burning of
another working miner's home, Mr Brittan claimed that Mr Scargill seemed ready
to condemn arson but remained unwilling to condemn 'an act of loathsome
savagery' against one of his own union members.

He concluded that 'Mr Scargill does not just hate our free and democratic system
and seek to do everything he can to discredit and damage it; he also feels equal
hatred and contempt for those miners whose servant he is meant to be but whose
tyrant he has become.'

He went on to claim that Mr Scargill had been rumbled by decent trade unionists,
by the general public, and by increasing numbers of his own members who were
sickened by the violence and the mob rule.

Mrs Thatcher sought to put the matter into historical terms. She declared
herself confident that Britons would never lack brave hearts or sound laws to
defend their freedom. 'When injustice threatens we can mobilise the commonsense
and common law of Britain, and look to our parliamentary democracy to signal the
dangers and shape he laws,' she said.

She acknowledged that she was delivering the second Carlton lecture, in
succession to the Earl of Stockton, who had delivered the first. It was Lord
Stockton who delivered a fairly successful maiden speech in the Lords this month
in which he appeared to distance himself from Mrs Thatcher's brand of
Conservatism.

Mrs Thatcher got her own back last night, however. She recalled that it was Mr
Macmillan who had given her her first ministerial job. 'Some 20 years later, as
Prime Minister, it gave me the greatest pleasure to recommend Mr Macmillan for
his highly deserved and widely acclaimed earldom on the occasion on his 90th
birthday,' she said. It was recognised as a most effective political put-down.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 28, 1984

Outrage expressed at Norris killing / Murder of British deputy high commissioner
in India

LENGTH: 370 words


British and other Common Market Government leaders reacted with shock and
outrage to the shooting yesterday of Mr Percy Norris, Britain's deputy high
commissioner in Bombay.

The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, who was in Brussels for an EEC Council
of Ministers meeting, said: 'This appalling crime tragically illustrates once
again the dangers faced by members of the diplomatic service, along with others
in public life, from acts of terrorism around the world.'


Mrs Thatcher was woken with the news of the shooting soon after it happened and
was reported to be deeply shocked.

The Irish Foreign Secretary, speaking on behalf of all EEC Governments,
expressed outrage at the shooting and spoke of his concern and sympathy for the
British Government and Mr Norris's family.

Mr Norris's brother-in-law, Mr Guy Pannell, said he was telephoned with the news
at his Devon home by Mr Norris's daughter, Madeleine, who is holidaying in
Bombay. 'Both Madeleine and her mother are shocked and disressed, but they have
taken it very bravely,' he said.

Mr Pannell, aged 38, a television news editor, said Mr Norris would have been
very excited about hosting the reception for the English cricketers on Monday.
'He adored the game of cricket and I know that last night would have meant a lot
to him. He would certainly have been going to the Test match. Nothing would have
kept him away.'

Mr Norris's first overseas posting was from 1956-1958 in the Solomon Islands. He
later served in Kuala Lumpur, Nigeria and in Brussels.

In 1972, he returned to Britain to work with the Department of Trade before
going overseas again in 1975, when he was appointed as HM Consul in
Philadelphia. Five years later he took up a similar position in Dubai.

He was awarded the OBE in the 1984 new year's honours list. His family is from
Teddington, Middlesex, and his son, Martin, aged 25, works for a conference and
exhibition company with Middle East interests.

Mr Norris said of himself that he was a geographer at heart and a keen
traveller. He described himself as a sportsman gone to seed - 'too slow now for
cricket and the more vigorous games.' He applied for membership of the MCC in
1979.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 28, 1984

Thatcher 'terror' argument ridiculed by Steel / Premier compares picket line
violence during miners' strike to IRA terrorism

BYLINE: By IAN AITKEN, Political Editor

LENGTH: 418 words


The Prime Minister and her Whitehall publicity machine yesterday moved into
action to back up Mrs Thatcher's claim that there was a comparison between the
terrorism of the IRA and the violence on the picket lines in the miners' strike.

Mrs Thatcher claimed in the Commons yesterday that untold damage had been done
to Britain's trading relationships abroad by the miners' strike and by the
scenes of violence portrayed on television. She appeared to concede that the
only comparison was with the violence of Oswald Mosley's fascists before the
war.


But this blanket comparison was bitterly condemned by two Opposition spokesmen
yesterday. Mr Gerald Kaufman, Labour's Shadow Home Secretary, described the
attempt to equate dissent with terrorism as contemptible and despicable. The
Liberal leader, Mr David Steel, described the identification as 'bare-faced
effrontery.'

But in spite of this criticism there was no evidence last night in Whitehall
that there had been any change of heart since Mrs Thatcher's grandilo-quent
denunciation of the strikers in her lecture to the Carlton Club. On the
contrary, officials produced further evidence to support Mrs Thatcher's belief
that defiance of the law is on a par with terrorism.

It was insisted that those thugs who had attacked working miners and had
destroyed their homes were on the same wavelength as the pre-war Mosleyite
raffians who intimidated the Jews in the East End of London. They insisted that
the Labour Party was in the same game, since it had endorsed support for anyone
who defied laws which it did not endorse.

The argument went a stage further, however. It was suggested that councillors
who engaged in illegal activities in defiance of the Government's latest
statutory efforts to cap municipal spending were also engaged in a defiance of
law and order, and were therefore comparable to terrorists and all their works.

It was this kind of argument which stimulated Mr Kaufman to bring out his
adjective book. He described it as not only contemptible but also despicable and
repulsive.

He went on: 'It is an evil libel to compare any deplorable acts during the coal
strike with the sustained campaign of mass murder conducted by the IRA More than
99 per cent of those involved in the coal strike have conducted their struggle
peaceably and in the best traditions of trade unionism. The Prime Minister and
her cronies should be ashamed of themselves for likening this dispute to
bloodthirsty terrorism.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 4, 1984

IRA bomb warning / Bombing campaign on British mainland feared

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 157 words


The IRA may be about to launch a bombing campaign in Britain, according to Mr
Eldon Griffiths, Tory MP for Bury St Edmunds and parliamentary adviser to the
Police Federation.

The warning is contained in an article on terrorism written for the current
issue of Security Gazette magazine, and should be taken as the opinion of
someone with access to many sources of police intelligence gathering.


Mr Griffiths's remark is made as police in London and other big cities have
intensified anti-terrorist precautions, including a considerable increase in the
number of patrols around main shopping centres as the Christmas rush gathers
momentum.

The IRA bombing of Harrods last December which killed five people and injured
91, came on the last shopping weekend before Christmas.

The Government Chief Whip, Mr John Wakeham, who was injured in the explosion at
the Grand Hotel, Brighton, in October, left hospital yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 1984

French police hold terrorist suspect / Abdelkader Saadi

BYLINE: From our Correspondent

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: PARIS


French Police are questioning a suspected terrorist who is believed to be
responsible for at least four members in France and who is said to be on the
wanted list of several countries, including Britain.

The man, Abdelkader Saadi, has been secretly held in a Lyons prison for two
months in a cell near that of the Nazi war criminal, Klaus Barbie. He is being
questioned in connection with the murder of a US military attache in Paris in
May, 1982, and a second secretary at the Israeli embassy later that year. Both
were shot by a lone gunman. He is also suspected of organising a bomb attack on
American embassy property in Paris which killed two bomb disposal men, also in
1982.


Reports here say that Saadi a Lebanese Greek Orthodox Christian, is the leader
of the Fractions Armees des Revolutionnaires Libanaises, a movement closely
connected to extremist Palestinian groups operating out of Damascus. The police
are said to be questioning him about possible connections with the international
terrorist, Carlos, who is believed to be in Syria.

As a result, secret services and police forces in Britain, Isreal, Germany and
other European countries are said to have been helping in the investigation.

According to reports which the French Interior Ministry does not confirm or
deny, the suspected terrorist was arrested in a train when crossing into France
from Italy.

In Rome, police said yesterday they had arrested a woman who they believe is
connected with the same movement as Saadi.

Josephine Abdo Sarkis, aged 28, a Lebanese who has been living at Ostia for the
last year, was arrested near Fiumicino airport on Wednesday

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 31, 1984

'Rebirth of responsibility brings hope and heart' / Extract from Premier
Thatcher's New Year message

LENGTH: 552 words


As we enter 1985, we look back on a year which put democracy in Britain to the
test and found it strong.

Murderers who struck at the very heart of our government and of our party only
strengthened still further the united resolve of the British people and
Parliament never to give in to acts of terrorism.


Democracy and the rule of law have also been tested elsewhere. In the coal
dispute, where miners have been denied a national ballot, force has been used to
drag out the strike. Despite the best ever deal for the industry, the NUM
leadership prefers to see their members suffering privation rather than back at
work.

But thousands and thousands of miners will not give in to force. They want to
provide for their families and stand up for freedom, freedom to go to their
place of work unhindered, freedom to live in their homes without fear.

In Britain everyone has a right to go about their lawful business. Law and
order, whether on the picket lines or on the streets, must be enforced and this
Conservative Government accepts its full responsibilities.

But individuals also have responsibilities. Governments should not interfere in
eve part of people's lives and should not dig their hands too deep into people's
pay packets.

Those who shout loudest for extra public spending seem to have no idea how much
income tax people on average and lower incomes already pay. If we are to reduce
the burden of income tax on those people, and I am determined that we shall,
then we must show equal determination in our control of public spending.

Conservatives want people to keep more of the money they earn. We want people to
own their home. And we also want them to have a share in British industry.

We don't think that politicians are the best people to run businesses. So in the
coming year we shall remove still more industries from state control and build
on the success of British Telecom where instead of one giant shareholder, there
are now millions of owners.

In 1985, when for so many people the main concern will be employment, let all of
us accept our responsibilities to help create more jobs.

Pay increases must be related to productivity, so that we price ourselves into,
and not out of, markets. And unions must finally rid themselves of any lingering
strike-happy attitudes, because strikes destroy jobs.

What fills me with hope for the new year is that there is today far more realism
and commonsense than there has been for years about how to achieve success. We
know that success depends on the efforts of individual men and women; that
decent social services and adequate defences depend on profitable and
flourishing businesses; and that maintaining our way of life depends on
adherence to the law and a respect for the freedom and rights of our fellow
citizens.

Over the past year, in the face of terrible adversity, we have learnt again that
the things which unite the vast majority of Britons are far greater than those
which divide us. What unites us is our unswerving belief in personal freedom. We
know that in democracy each and every person matters; and that without the
commitment and courage shown by individuals, law and liberty in our land would
not be sustained.

We are now seeing a rebirth of personal responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 31, 1984

Britons in Libya inquiry / Anthony Gill and Geoffrey Shiner questioned about
alleged involvement in Libyan assassination plot

BYLINE: By SARAH BOSELEY

LENGTH: 356 words


Two Britons may be extradited from Egypt after being interviewed by Scotland
Yard officers about their alleged involvement in a Libyan assassination plot.

Mr Anthony Gill, aged 48, from Colchester, Essex, and Mr Geoffrey Shiner, aged
47, from Napton, Warwickshire, were questioned by the anti-terrorist squad about
attacks on Libyans in Britain. The two British police officers spent several
days in Cairo before Christmas.


A file has been sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions, who will decide
whether to start extradition proceedings so that the men can go on trial in this
country.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said yesterday that Mr Gill and Mr Shiner had not been
questioned about events at the Libyan embassy in London last April in which WPC
Yvonne Fletcher was killed.

The Britons are being held by Egypt on suspicion of being part of a four-man
'hit squad' that plotted to assassinate the former Libyan prime minister, Mr
Abdel-Hamid Bakoush, who is living in exile in Egypt. Together with two Maltese,
they are alleged to have hired a group of Egyptians to carry out the killings.

The Egyptians were counterintelligence agents, and their government played an
elaborate trick on the Libyan leader, Colonel Gadafy, who is said to have
ordered the killing, by faking Mr Bakoush's assassination, and sending him a
faked photograph of the body. When the Libyans announced his death, the
Egyptians produced Mr Bakoush alive and well.

Scotland Yard said that the two Britons, both salesman, had been interviewed
about attacks on Libyans opposed to the Gadafy regime living in Britain.

A spate of bomb attacks began last March in London, when 23 people were injured
by a device left under a table in a club in Mayfair used by Libyans. The next
day a bomb was found under a table in a restaurant in Regent's Street, and four
others were planted at newsagents' shops or newsstands selling Arab papers. One
exploded and three were defused.

A Libyan businessman and another man were charged in connection with the bomb
offences. Three months later, while awaiting trial, the Libyan was shot dead.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 7, 1985

Terror act use criticised / Arrest of Dr Maire O'Shea under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act

BYLINE: By PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 545 words


A row was developing last night over the treatment of a retired consultant
psychiatrist detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act and held by police
in Liverpool.

Dr Maire O'Shea, aged 65, was arrested on Saturday evening at her home in
Birmingham and transferred to Merseyside under an order signed by the Home
Secretary, Mr Leon Brittan. Relatives were yesterday refused permission to see
her and she has not been in contact with a solicitor.


Dr O'Shea's home in Sparkhill, Birmingham, was searched by police last week
while she was in Ireland on holiday. She returned to Britain, through Holyhead,
on Friday.

Her medical condition is also causing concern. She has a leg ulcer which needs
attention and suffers from bronchitis and arthritis.

Last night, relatives, several Labour politicians, the National Council for
Civil Liberties and the Troops Out movement, of which she is a member, all
objected to the use of the PTA in the case of a person who returned quite openly
to Britain with the intention of complaining to police about the search of her
home.

Dr O'Shea's daughter, Deirdre, said that her mother, who works part time as a
psychiatrist after retiring last November after 30 years with the National
Health Service, was not involved with Sinn Fein, the IRA, or anything illegal.

She is a member of the Labour Party and on the National Executive of an
organisation called the Irish in Britain Representation Group (IBRG).

Ms O'Shea said she suspected that it was the connection with the IBRG, a
community welfare organisation working with Irish prisoners in British gaols,
that had led to the arrest.

'I am very angry,' she said. 'I'm not allowed to see my mother. I am worried
about her medical condition and yet cannot do anything. The whole thing is very
intimidating.'

Dr O'shea, an Irish citizen, had foreseen that she might be arrested upon
re-entering Britain. Last week, while staying with another daughter in Co,
Dublin, she spoke of those fears to Irish newspapers after hearing that police
had searched her home. There were claims that officers broke into a filing
cabinet and that confidential medical records were removed.

Also held in Liverpool under the PTA is one of Dr O'Shea's friends, Mr Peter
Lynch, another member of IBRG. He will have been held for one week today and a
decision will have to be taken on whether to charge him or release him.

Another man held in Liverpool was released last night without charge. He is a
member of the IBRG and Troops Out and comes from the Bristol area but did not
want his name to be made public.

Ms Clare Short, Labour MP for Ladywood, Birmingham, said that the detention of
Dr O'Shea showed that the PTA could be used by police 'on a fishing expedition.'

Ms Christine Crawley, Labour MEP for Birmingham East, is to take up the two
cases and has protested to the Home Office about the detensions.

Last night, a representative of the National Council for Civil Liberties said
the application of the PTA removed fundamental safeguards such as the right of
access to a solicitor. It was worried about the case of Dr O'Shea because she
had made no attempt to evade police and yet was being held under the PTA rather
than by normal procedures.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 8, 1985

Opponents of anti-terrorist act renew campaign / Recent detentions arouse
concern among civil rights and Irish groups on mainland

BYLINE: By PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 645 words


When the Prevention of Terrorism Act was introduced in 1974 as a direct response
to the horrendous Birmingham bombings the then Home Secretary Mr Roy Jenkins,
described it as 'draconian' and only a short-term measure.

A decade and almost 6,000 arrests later, the Act is still in place. Its
application on the mainland - rather than in Northern Ireland, where different
circumstances prevail - is still causing concern among civil rights groups and
Irish organisations in Britain.


The recent spate of arrests in Liverpool and the detention of Dr Maire O'Shea, a
retired consultant psychiatrist from Birmingham, has led to renewed claims that
fundamental civil liberties are being infringed in cases where the existing
criminal law and its built-in safeguards would be quite sufficient.

From 1974 until October this year 5,896 people were arrested and detained in
Britain under its provisions.

Of that number 17 have been charged with offences under the PTA and a further
311 with offences under other acts.

The relative smallness of the number charged - 2.5 per cent (even fewer were
actually found guilty by the courts) - has prompted allegations that the act is
being used to harass Irish people and groups in Britain which support a united
Ireland.

They claim that this aim, which they argue is a legitimate political ambition,
is being interpreted as a form of subversion, with themselves being regarded as
potential terrorists.

Dr O'Shea is on the national executive of an organisation called the Irish in
Britain Representation Group (IBRG). Mr Pat Reynolds, spokesman for the IBRG,
which has more than 30 branches in Britain devoted primarily to educational and
welfare work, said yesterday: 'The PTA is a political breathalyser. If an Irish
person expresses political views he is considered well above the limit.'

Mr Clive Soley, MP for Hammersmith and the Shadow Home Office spokesman, who has
long opposed the act, said yesterday that he would be approaching the Government
about the present cases.

He argues that existing laws are wide enough to deal with terrorist-type
offences. 'We are demeaning the normal criminal justice process by using the
PTA,' he said. 'I regard it as one of the most serious infringements of the
democratic rights of the British people.'

Mr Soley says that the Act has alienated much of the Irish community because of
its impact on those who have been detained unnecessarily.

One claim is that this discomfort and erosion of rights is a worthwhile price to
pay for even a handful of arrests which prevent killings and explosions. Mr
Soley replies that the security services could be used for surveillance and
arrest in these few cases, leaving the police to operate under normal
legislation.

The National Council for Civil Liberties is currently involved in an inquiry
into the workings of the PTA. Initial findings have, according to the NCCL,
revealed disquiet among many Irish people living in Britain, who know of
somebody or have had the experience of being treated as a terrorist suspect.

The NCCL is also worried that the definition of terrorism is being widened. In
October last year a group of SWAPO representatives on a cultural exchanges to
Britain were held after visiting Dublin, and last month a young woman member of
the Animal Liberation Movement was held under the Act.

'We have uncovered no evidence to suggest that these exceptional and extensive
powers of arrest and detention are even necessary or effective,' said and NCCL
representative yesterday.

The organisation is investigating detainees, access to legal advice and visits
from relatives. 'We have had many people detained under the PTA who have told us
that policemen have said to them, ' You have no legal rights, so forget your
solicitor and your relatives ',' said the NCCL representatives.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 19, 1985

Terror Act inquiry by Strasbourg / European Parliament to hold inquiry into
Prevention of Terrorism Act

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS


The European Parliament is to hold an official inquiry into the workings of the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, although a call by Labour MEPs that the act should
be annulled was narrowly defeated.

The motion condemning the act, tabled by a Labour MEP, Mrs Christine Crawley
(Birmingham East), and supported by most Labour members, was defeated by 79
votes to 75. But the inquiry call, contained in a motion from Irish Fine Gael
member, Mrs Mary Banotti, was overwhelmingly approved on a show of hands.


Mrs Crawley said that Irish people living in Britain were intimidated by the
legislation, under which 6,000 people had been arrested, but fewer than 3 per
cent of them had been charged.

Mrs Banotti also complained, in milder terms, that Irish people in Britain were
being harassed by the workings of the act.

Conservative MEP Lady Elles had her microphone switched off in the course of a
furious attack on Labour critics of the act.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 26, 1985

UK News in Brief: Terror Act charge / Belfast

LENGTH: 45 words


A Belfast seaman appeared yesterday before Liverpool magistrates, charged under
the Prevention of Terrorism Act. William Henry Gallagher, aged 37, of New Lodge
Road, Belfast, and five others are jointly charged with conspiring to cause an
explosion in Britain.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 7, 1985

Leading Article: Bumped in the night / Eviction of peace protestors from RAF
Molesworth

LENGTH: 581 words


You don't have to be part of the peace movement (though it does probably help)
to see yesterday's eviction at RAF Molesworth as a powerfully symbolic act of
Mrs Thatcher's Britain. At dead of night, a network of roads in the grain
producing heart of England is blocked off. A joint army-police operation,
involving 1,500 of our boys, reinforcements of police and 200 vehicles, descends
on the 'Rainbow Village' in which 150 protesters are encamped as a protest
against the deployment of cruise missiles. The village, with its counter
cultural paraphernalia of tents and windmills, its chapel, its school and its
five acres of winter wheat, is cleared under cover of darkness. To the
approbation of local ratepayers and politicians, a new seven mile long, six foot
high barrier of barbed wire is erected under the fenland arclights. All this
takes place within a few miles of the birthplace of Oliver Cromwell. The
parallel with the Protector's eviction of the Diggers from St George's Hill in
Surrey in 1649 is hard to resist.

In a Dave Spart view of things, the eviction is further proof, comrades, that
the Thatcher government is cynically exploiting the defeat of the miners to
extend its Northern Ireland police state tactics to crush opposition to its
military policies. To the Sir Herbert Gussets of the world, it is an act which
shows, thank God, that a Conservative government will have no truck with the
degenerate weirdos who litter our air bases in increasing numbers. But the
Molesworth eviction cannot be seen only as a symbolic or a representative act.
There was also a practical problem to be resolved, however much one dislikes it.
The fact is that the United Kingdom government has agreed to deploy cruise
missiles on its territory. Parliament has approved that decision. That doesn't
mean that everyone has to lie back and let the missiles roll without a whimper.
Far from it. But it does mean that the missiles will be at Molesworth by 1988
and that effective physical measures have to be taken to protect them. They are,
after all, extremely dangerous things.


Mr Michael Heseltine characteristically exaggerated the physical threat caused
by the peace campers when he spoke to MPs yesterday. As Labour's spokesman, Mr
Denzil Davies said, the people who were evicted are pacifist Quakers not
Baader-Meinhof terrorists. Nevertheless, terrorist attacks on Nato targets are
on the increase elsewhere in Europe and any government must protect its defence
installations. The argument about Tuesday night's operation should therefore be
about means and not ends. Was it really necessary to mount such a large,
unilateral clearance in such secrecy, or were there not ways of negotiating the
withdrawal of the protesters so that their peaceful anti-missile vigil could
continue even as the perimeter was secured?

We now know Mr Heseltine's answer. Just as in the miners' strike, ministers have
preferred to win their way by a show of force which is increasingly
characteristic of British policing. Rights of assembly have simply been ignored
in the process. According to Mr Heseltine, the Rainbow villagers were a small,
unrepresentative minority. In fact, the polls show majority public opposition to
cruise missiles. This Government, though, accords little legitimacy to dissent.
And a government which prefers to come secretly for its opponents in the night
risks provoking the confrontations that its actions are supposedly designed to
prevent.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 9, 1985

Libyan talks offered by Howe / Foreign Secretary announces government is
prepared to hold meeting between British and Libyan officials

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 567 words


The British Government yesterday took the first cautious step towards restoring
normal relations with Libya, after the return on Thursday of the four Britons
released from Tripoli after 10 months' captivity.

The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, announced that the Government was now
ready to hold a meeting with Libyan and British officials under Italian auspices
to discuss matters of mutual concern. It was made clear in the Foreign Office
that there was no question of restoring full diplomatic relations in the
foreseeable future, but that the thaw had began


Diplomatic relations were broken off last April when WPC Yvonne Fletcher died
after being shot outside the Libyan People's Bureau in St James's Square,
London.

Sir Geoffrey's statement, given to the Commons in a written parliamentary
answer, said that the welfare of the 5,000-strong British community in Libya was
still of critical concern. 'Their treatment will be an important measure of
Libyan intentions,' he said.

'I would remind those British citizens who travel or work abroad that there are
limits to the consular protection we can provide. Those who go to Libya do so on
their own responsibility and that of the Libyan authorities, to whom we look to
ensure their safety.'

As a humanitarian gesture the British interest section in Tripoli will now be
authorised to accept visa application in certain urgent medical and
compassionate cases.

Sir Geoffrey took the opportunity to stress the Government's praise for the
 Archbishop of Canterbury and his special representative, Mr Terry Waite, for
 their efforts in helping to negotiate the release of the four prisoners -
 Mr Robin Plummer, Mr Malcolm Anderson, Mr Michael Berdinner and Mr Alan
 Russell.

 Earlier this week the Prime Minister was criticised for allegedly trying to
take credit for having initiated the Archbishop's effort, which had been in
progress for four months before Mrs Thatcher became involved. Sir Geoffrey said:
'We have cooperated closely with Mr Waite in his efforts and are grateful to
those friendly governments who intervened at our request, particularly to the
Italian protecting power.'

Although Sir Geoffrey indicated the Government's desire to move towards a
resumption of normal relations with the Gadafy regime he made clear in a BBC
radio interview that the background against Which diplomatic relations had been
severed would inevitably make it a slow and difficult process.

Gareth Parry writes: Any rapprochement between Britain and Libya would, on
Colonel Gadafy's terms, depend on the release of the nine Libyans imprisoned or
being held here.

Four of the Libyans are serving life sentences at Wakefield and Hull high
security prisons for acts of terrorism, including assassination and bombing.
four of the other five in custody are students who came to trial at Manchester
Crown court this week on explosives charges.

Since the shooting of WPC Fletcher stringent restrictions have been placed on
Libyans entering Britain, as well as those already resident.

Visa applications, made through neighbouring states, have been carefully
examined for any possible terrorist link.

Libyans allowed into Britain for even the shortest of stays were required to
register with the police and asked to sign declarations renouncing any intention
of taking part in political activities.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 15, 1985

Undercover trail 'led police to IRA arms caches'

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 484 words


Anti-terrorist squad officers who launched an undercover operation against a
suspect found themselves on a trail which led to the discovery of two woodland
caches of IRA weapons and explosives, an Old Bailey jury heard yesterday.

Thomas Quigley, aged 29, of no fixed address, and Paul Kavanagh, also 29, of
Glenalena Road, Belfast, deny between them 10 charges, including three of
murder. They have been accused of being members of an IRA active service unit
whose offensives in 1981 on the mainland included the Oxford Street Wimpy bar
bomb which killed an explosives expert, the Chelsea barracks bomb which killed
two civilians, and the car bomb which nearly killed Sir Steuart Pringle, the
commandant-general of the Royal Marines.


Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, said yesterday that the police undercover operation
began in January last year, after Quigley had been arrested. It was mounted to
watch an Irishman called Natalino Vella, who had arrived in Britain from Dublin.

Mr Amlot said that Vella Has seen meeting Kavanagh in London and that later the
two, with others, were followed from Northampton railway station where they set
off in a white Rover car.

The police used different officers and different cars so that their operation
would not be suspected. But, said Mr Amlot, it soon became clear from the
Rover's changing and circuitous route that the people inside were adopting
anti-surveillance techniques.

The car was trailed first to Salcey Forest in Northamptonshire, where two of the
occupants disembarked and went into the woodland. Later, the Rover returned to
collect them and continued to Annesley Forest, about 15 miles from Nottingham.
There, Mr Amlot said, three of the men, including Vella and Kavanagh, went into
the woodland.

After the day's undercover operation the police went to search the woodlands. In
Annesley Forest they discovered two five-and-a-half gallon fermentation bins
buried beneath a foot of soil and containing between them 1131b of commercial
gelignite.

In Salcey Forest the police uncovered a plastic dustbin containing an assortment
of weapons and bomb-making equipment. The cache included two 9mm sub-machine
guns, an Armalite rifle, two Smith and Wesson hand guns, a Luger pistol, three
hand grenades, 61 detonators, and an assortment of devices including a mercury
tilt switch.

Kavanagh was arrested in Belfast two months later and brought to London. The
prosecution claimed that his thumb print was found on a black plastic bag
discovered in the boot of the Rover.

Referring to the wave of IRA attacks which took place during the last months of
1981, Mr Amlot told the jury: 'We are not here to incite your emotions, so we
are not going to call a string of victims. But you will hear statements from,
for example, Sir Steuart Pringle, being read because you have to understand what
happened.'

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 20, 1985

Laser technique used to 'link IRA man with bomb-making equipment'

LENGTH: 355 words


Scotland Yard forensic staff used a new laser technique to discover fingerprints
on items in an IRA cache of bomb-making materials, an Old Bailey jury heard
yesterday.

Mr David Tadd, a finger-print officer with 17 years' experience, said he found
the thumbprint of Thomas Quigley on a birth certificate, invisible to the naked
eye, it 'glowed' under the laser beam treatment.


The mark from Quigley's left thumb was on the document in the haul unearthed
inwoodland at Pangbourne, Berkshire, on October 26, 1983. It 'fluoresced' when
the paper was examined with a powerful light source through a fibre optic, Mr
Tadd said.

'We suspect this is caused by the fingers becoming contaminated by the ink on
the pre-printed form,' he told the court. 'It appeared to fluoresce at the same
wavelength as the ink on the form.'

Quigley, aged 29, of Glenalena Road, Belfast, and Paul Kavanagh, also 29, of no
fixed address, are accused of having been members of a provisional IRA unit in a
month-long bombing campaign in London in autumn 1981. Between them they have
denied 10 charges, including three murders.

They are alleged to have murdered Mrs Norah Field, a 59, year-old widow, and
18-year-old apprentice John Breslin, who both died in a nail bomb blast outside
Chelsea Barracks on October 10, 1981.

Their third alleged victim is explosive expert Mr Kenneth Howorth, blown up
while defusing a bomb in an Oxford Street Wimpey bar on October 26, 1981.

The men are also accused of attempting to murder Sir Steuart Pringle,
commandant-general of the Royal Marines, who lost a leg when a bomb went off
under his car on October 17,1981, and of causing a blast at the home of the
Attorney-General Sir Michael Havers, in Wimbledon on November 13, 1981.

Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, has said that the prints of both men were found on
the Pangbourne cache, described as 'the most significant hoard of terrorist
materials ever discovered in Britain.'

Mr Tadd said he also used the laser technique with chemical tests to discover
prints on a plastic bag from the Pangbourne haul.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1985

Chance arms find that lead to the Provo bombers / Police search for IRA men Paul
Kayanagh and Thomas Quigley

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 1103 words


From the day that two forest workers stumbled across an IRA arms dump in a
Oxfordshire woodland in the autumn of 1983, two of the Provisional's most
experienced and trusted operatives were marked men.

The cache of explosives, detonators and timing devices discovered in a
Pangbourne wood read like an open book to forensic experts on how an IRA active
service unit had staged a murderous bombing campaign in London two years
earlier.


Even more significantly, the discovery opened a line of inquiry for the
anti-terrorist squad that led to the unearthing of another IRA arms cache - the
biggest ever found on the mainland -- which almost certainly foiled a further
campaign of violence here by the Provisionals.

The sudden ending of the IRA's brief but deadly bombing campaign in London in
the autumn of 1981 appeared to indicate that another active service unit
responsible for a series of attacks had fled the mainland after carrying out its
instructions.

The campaign had begun days after the collapse of the hunger strike on October 3
at the Maze Prison in Northern Ireland in which 10 Republican prisoners had
fasted to death in an unsuccessful attempt to win political status from the
British Government.

On the morning of Saturday, October 10, a Commer van containing 30lb of
explosives and 1,000 six-inch nails and bolts was detonated as a coach carrying
members of the Irish Guards approached Chelsea Barracks.

The blast injured 23 of the soldiers and killed two civilian passers-by.

Six days later a car-bomb attempt was made on the life of Sir Steuart Pringle,
the Commander-General of the Royal Marines. Soon afterwards the active service
unit struck again.

On the afternoon of October 26, Mr Kenneth Howorth, an explosives expert, was
blown up while trying to defuse a booby-trapped bomb in an Oxford Street Wimpy
bar. A fortnight later a bomb went off at the Wimbledon home of Sir Michael
Havers, the Attorney-General.

One problem facing Scotland Yard's C13 branch - the anti-terrorist squad - was
that the IRA had made important structural changes in the active service units
deployed on the mainland.

They no longer sent over a group of 'sleepers' well in advance of a bombing
campaign, who would keep in close contact with each other but lie low until they
received their instructions from Belfast.

The IRA had begun organising its units on the cellular model adopted years
before in Northern Ireland in order to limit the amount of damage that could be
inflicted on themselves by the arrest of any one Provisional.

Just as in Ulster, where no single member of an active service unit would know
the identity of more fellow terrorists than it was necessary for him to operate
with, so the units now coming to the mainland were being divided along the line
of tasks.

C13 officers believe that the divisions occur between those responsible for
reconnoitring targets; supplying and keeping explosives; making the devices; and
those who carry out the attacks.

But after the 1981 campaign Paul Kavanagh, the head of the mainland unit and
also its 'quartermaster,' made a fatal error.

He hid the materials used in the bombings, two sets of keys belonging to the
Commer van and another vehicle used in the Chelsea Barracks attack and documents
used for establishing false identities in one dump at Pangbourne. Even more
incriminating, he left behind fingerprints.

Those prints were sent to the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Belfast whose Special
Branch matched two of the sets to two men whose remarkably similar backgrounds
and activities were known to them.

Thomas Quigley and Kavanagh were born within three weeks of each other in the
summer of 1955, both to staunchly Republican families in Belfast's Lower Falls.

Both joined the Provisional IRA's youth wing, Fianna Eireann, around 1972. Both
had elder brothers who had been shot dead by the security forces. Both became
members of the Provisional's 2nd Battalion, although their paths parted there
until the early 1980s. Kavanagh was sentenced to five year's imprisonment in
1973 for possession of a pistol.

After his release in 1976 he was known to have spent most of his time in the
Republic and on the Continent where RUC sources believe, he made contact with
other terrorist organisations and performed a number of propaganda exercises for
the IRA.

Quigley was also sentenced to five years in Northern Ireland for armed robbery
and possession of a firearm. An elder brother of his, Francis, was arrested in
the Republic, where he is now serving an eight year sentence for possessing
explosives.

In the late 1970s, Quigley became involved with the widow of an IRA man who had
blown himself up while making a bomb.

It was bomb-making that Quigley was suspected of and, the RUC believe, he was
something of an innovator in the field of anti-handling devices, such as the one
which took Kenneth Howorth's life in the Oxford Street bomb.

At Scotland Yard's request, Quigley was arrested in Belfast by the RUC in
December 1983 and handed over to London. Kavangah's arrest occurred three months
later, but before that took place he unsuspectingly led the anti-terrorist squad
to the IRA arms cache.

It was during an undercover operation mounted by C13 in January 1984 to watch
Natalino Vella, an Irishman who had arrived in Britain from Dublin, that
Kavanagh was spotted.

Vella had come to Britain to tell Kavanagh and another two members of the active
service unit to return to Belfast to explain why they had bombed Harrods.

Vella was also required to find out where the new mainland arms dumps - built up
after the Pangbourne find - were stored, as he was to be quartermaster in
Kavanagh's absence.

But Vella was under surveillance by C13 from the moment he entered Britain and
he and Kavanagh led their watchers to two woodland caches of weapons and
explosives.

One, in Salcey Forest, Northamptonshire, contained two 9mm sub-machine guns, an
Armalite rifle, two Smith and Wesson hand guns, a Luger pistol, ammunition,
three hand grenades and an assortment of bomb-making devices.

The two woodland caches, and the original one at Pangbourne, demonstrated the
IRA's determination to continue attacks on mainland targets.

But the expressions of satisfaction on the faces of the C13 and RUC officers at
the end of yesterday's trial were less than complete.

They were aware, as the jury must have been, of another three members of the
1981 IRA active service unit - referred to throughout the trial as 'suspects A,
B and C' - who are still at large.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1985

London bombers get five life sentences / IRA bombers get five life sentences /
IRA bombers Paul Kavanagh and Thomas Quigley

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 584 words


Two Belfast men who took part in an IRA bombing campaign in London were each
given five life sentences yesterday by an Old Bailey judge who recommended that
they should serve a minimum of 35 years each.

Sentencing Paul Kavanagh and Thomas Quigley, both 29, Mr Justice McCowan told
them that it was his duty to press in the sentences the horror that society felt
at the nature of their crimes.


The two had been found guilty of murdering two civilian passers-by in a
nail-bomb attack at Chelsea Barracks in October 1981 and a bomb disposal officer
in an explosion at an Oxford Street Wimpy bar in the same month.

They were also convicted of causing explosions at an Oxford Street store and at
the home of Sir Michael Havers, the Attorney-General.

Quigley and Kavanagh were also found guilty on two and four charges respectively
of possessing firearms and explosives. Quigley was given two 20-year sentences
on these charges, Kavanagh two of 20 years and two of 25 years.

Referring to the booby-trapped bomb which was placed at the Wimpy bar and the
carnage of the Chelsea Barracks attack, Mr Justice McCowan told the two, who
refused to stand up in the dock as they were sentenced: 'You showed not a spark
of compassion for these people, You cannot therefore be surprised if society
thinks you are not fit to be at liberty for a very long time to come.'

Also sentenced with them was Natalino Vella, aged 31, from Dublin, who had
pleaded guilty to two charges of possessing firearms and explosives.

Vella, the court was told by Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, was trailed by the
anti-terrorist squad when he visited Britain in January last year and together
with Kavanagh he led the police to two IRA arms caches.

Vella later told police that he had been sent to Britain by the Provisional
IRA's chief of staff to tell Kavanagh and two other members of an IRA active
service unit, which had been operating on the mainland in 1983, to return to
Ireland to explain why they had carried out the Harrods bombing in which six
people died and 91 others were injured.

Mr Amlot said that Vella told the police that the unit had been under
instructions to carry out six attacks on military targets in Britain. 'Harrods
was outside their instructions,' Vella told police. 'There was a lot of trouble
about it.'

Scotland Yard is still searching for three people in connection with the Harrods
bombing.

Vella, a fish and chip van owner who admitted joining the IRA in October, 1982,
said he had been under instructions to find the whereabouts of the two arms
caches so that he could become 'quartermaster' and guide the next active service
unit to them.

He had admitted to helping in the shipment of the arms and explosives from the
Irish Republic in November 1983 to replace another arms dump which had been
discovered by the police.

Sentencing Vella to two terms of 15 years, Mr Justice McCowan said he recognised
that he had played a lesser role than Kavanagh and Quigley.

But he reminded Vella that he had admitted to the police that he would have been
prepared to carry out whatever he was instructed to do by the IRA.

At the end of the trial yesterday the judge paid tribute to the police officers
who had trailed Vella and Kavanagh and to the bravery of Mr Kenneth Howarth, the
bomb disposal officer who was killed in the Wimpy explosion and his colleague,
Mr Peter Gurney, who went on to defuse another device after seeing what had
happened to Mr Howarth.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 9, 1985

Muslim extremists form world council

BYLINE: By PETER GRIMSDITCH

LENGTH: 592 words


A group of extremist Muslim leaders from throughout the Middle East have banded
together in Tehran to form an Islamic world revolution council, according to a
privately circulated newsletter released this weekend.

The council has received the approval of the Iranian leader, Ayatollah Khomeini,
and includes the man accused of masterminding the suicide attacks on the US
embassy and Marine headquarters in Beirut, an Egyptian fundamentalist leader
whose party produced the group that assassinated President Anwar Sadat in
October, 1981.


It also includes Lebanon's leading figure in Hezbollah (Party of God) and the
representative in Britain of a Shi'ite opposition party active in Iraq and
Bahrain that has claimed responsibility for bomb attacks in those two countries.

The Supreme Council of Islamic World Revolution was elected from a meeting of
more than 500 religious leaders of both Shia and Sunni Muslims that took place
in the first week in February. Also attending the meeting, described as a
conference of Islamic thought were several figures seen by Western sources are
responsible for the spread of terrorism in the Middle East.

The council members were invited to visit Ayatollah Khomeini at his home in
Jamran, near Shumeiran, a Tehran suburb. That meeting did not take place because
of a deterioration in the Ayatollah's health but was replaced by a meeting with
Said Mehdi Hashemi, former head of the National Resistance Movement in the
Iranian Foreign Ministry.

Mr Hashemi is now in charge of the Bureau of Ideological Education of Muslim
Youth, one of the main functions of which is to supervise the training of
suicide squads. The bureau operates from a special camp at Munzirieh Gardens,
near Ayatollah Khomeini's home.

The revolutionary council members toured the camp where 800 recruits from
various Gulf states, as well as Iraq and Lebanon, were being trained under the
supervision of Mohammed Shama'akhani, deputy commander of the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard (Pasadran).

The formation of the council is revealed in At-Taqrir ('The Report'), an Arabic
subscription-only newsletter circulating in Britain, the United States and the
Middle East. At-Taqrir is put out by Ali Ballout, a Lebanese journalist and
publisher now resident in London

He said: 'Although the creation of this council increases the possibility of
worldwide terrorist action by Islamic fundamentalists, violence is not the only
aim of the council.

'It also wants to spread Islamic influence by economic, political and diplomatic
means throughout the world, but especially in Indonesia, Nicaragua, and the
Philippines.'

The president of the council is Sayyed Mohammed Taqi alMadrasi, leader of the
Islamic Action Party (Hezbu al-Amal al-Islami), which opposes the policies of
Iraq's President Saddam Hussein, and also operates in Bahrain.

Sayyed Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah, a Lebanese Islamic scholar, was elected
vice-president.

The other members include Sayyed Hussein al-Mussawi, leader of the Islamic Amal
Movement in Lebanon and Muhsin al-Haq, a prominent member of the At-Takfir wa'l
Hijra group in Egypt which is a breakaway group from the Muslim Brotherhood.

At-Taqrir's source for the membership of the council also names a Salman Ali as
a leading member of the al-Jihad alIslami organisation that has been responsible
for a spate of kidnappings and bomb outrages in the Middle East. This is the
first time that a name has been put to an organisation which some commentators
do not believe exists.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 25, 1985

Leading Article: Whatever the moves, Haughey has the veto / Relations between
Britain and Ireland

LENGTH: 527 words


A proper caution is being encouraged on both sides of the Irish Sea about
reports of an imminent new departure in Northern Irish politics, Anglo-Irish
relations, or both. Dr Garret FitzGerald, speaking in London on Friday about the
need for 'a novel political structure,' was not saying anything novel himself.
He has long recognised (where his opponents in the republic have not) that a
unique problem needs a unique response. Whether we get one or not will initially
depend more on Mrs Thatcher than on him, for it is not obvious that her
radicalism extends to Ireland. Whether the resulting arrangement could be made
to work would thereafter depend largely on the attitude of the opposition party
in Dublin. Before the last Anglo-Irish summit a good deal of unwarranted
excitement was generated, in Irish rather than British speculation, which left
the Taoiseach sadly exposed when Mrs Thatcher flatly rejected all three of the
options in the New Ireland Forum report (unity, federation and joint
sovereignty). She may well have felt that there had been enough mincing of
words.

The Rev Ian Paisley in a characteristic over reaction to the latest crop of
hints, shouted yesterday that the 'destiny' (pregnant word) of Ulster would be
decided not in Dublin but 'here,' by which he meant Belfast. He is wrong on that
score. If Northern Ireland wishes to remain part of the union it will presumably
be decided where the union government sits and that is Westminster. That is more
than a quibble. The Unionists are rightly promised that no change in their
constitutional status will take place without the consent of the majority. That
veto, however, cannot apply to agreements which Britain may make with Dublin
about how Northern Ireland shall be governed without any change in status. If Mr
Paisley does not agree to that he is not a unionist but a separatist.


Yet the bigger hurdle to the sort of agreement which would put the IRA out of
business is still erected south of the border. Sinn Fein and Mr Charles
Haughey's Fianna Fail party have their most important aim in common, and that is
the unification of Ireland whether the Protestants in the North agree to it or
not. Fianna Fail must be believed when it condemns IRA atrocities, and indeed
Fianna Fail governments have treated the IRA with justice every bit as rough as
that meted out by the British. The fact remains that Sinn Fein derives political
respectability from the Irish constitution and from Fianna Fail's unwillingness
to examine the 'other views' to which a glancing reference is made in the Forum
report. Any far reaching agreement between Mrs Thatcher and Dr FitzGerald would
have cross-party support in Britain. It would be most unlikely to receive it in
the Dail, for then the chief reason for Fianna Fail's existence would disappear.
A leader other than Mr Haughey may one day allow the party to lower its sights
and modify the national claim so that Britain can meet it. In the meantime, the
veto to worry about is not so much the one held by the Protestants over Irish
unity as the one Mr Haughey holds over anything, however sensible, which stops
short of it.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 4, 1985

Gadafy 'planning terror raid in London' / Police warn of Libyan terrorism

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 324 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad is being put on full alert against an
attack in London by Libyan terrorists.

Intelligence reports indicate that the Libyan leader, Colonel Gadafy, is
planning a show of force around April 7, a martyrs' day in the Muslim calendar.


In April last year Policewoman Yvonne Fletcher, was shot by a gunman from within
the Libyan People's Bureau in St James's Square, London. An 11-day siege of the
bureau followed, and it ended with the expulsion of its occupants and the
severance of diplomatic relations between Britain and Libya.

The siege was preceded by a series of Libyan terrorist attacks, including
shooting and bombings in London and Manchester against opponents of the Gadafy
regime. In Libya itself political prisoners were hanged.

Since then Colonel Gadafy has been concerned about his loss of face in the eyes
of the world. In his view this was exacerbated by the release of three British
hostages in Libya, without any opportunity for the Libyans to extract a deal
from Britain.

Libyan sources say that Colonel Gadafy now believes himself outmaneouvred by the
British, and compelled to redress the situation.

Intelligence information reaching the section of the anti-terrorist squad which
concentrates on Libyan terrorists suggests that a number of Gadafy agents have
met in Brussels to plan a show of force. The Libyans have been recognised as
members of the Libyan Revolutionary Committee, the country's ruling body.

Those who met in Brussels are understood to have included at least five of the
people who were expelled from London.

Several hundred Libyan students remained in Britain after the breakdown of
diplomatic links between London and Tripoli. They were given permission to stay
under strict conditions, including their reporting regularly to police stations.
All other Libyans still in this country are kept under close surveillance by the
police.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 10, 1985

Yard alert as siege Libyan returns to Europe / Diplomat Sodani expelled from
Britain following 1984 Libyan embassy siege returns to Europe

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 675 words


Dr Omar Sodani, one of the Libyan diplomats expelled from Britain last year
after the police siege of the Libyan People's Bureau has arrived back in Europe
posing as a medical student.

Libyan exiles connect the arrival of Sodani and at least four other Libyans in
Brussels recently with a fresh outbreak of terror against Colonel Gadafy's
opponents in Europe. Last weekend an exiled Libyan, Gebril Denali, was shot dead
in a crowded square in Bonn. Scotland Yard's antiterrorist squad has been put on
full alert for a possible attack in London this week.


Sodani's presence in Brussels, under the alias Omar Ehmida, is revealed in a BBC
Panorama documentary to be screened tonight, which claims that police and
intelligence services mistook the role of Sodani and other key members of a
four-man Libyan revolutionary committee in Britain in organising bomb attacks
against Libyan dissidents.

The programme alleges that in February last year, at the Libyan student centre
in Ennismore Gardens, London, Sodani, the embassy's 'press officer' appealed for
volunteers for a bombing campaign. Subsequently, eight bombs exploded in
Manchester and London.

The programme also claims that in ten minutes after the shooting of WPC Yvonne
Fletcher on April 17, a number of Libyans escaped from a garage door behind the
bureau, in St James's Square before police marksmen sealed off the area.

During the ensuing siege police were unaware that they were at large in Britain
or that the two Libyans who were expelled at the end of that week were material
witnesses to the planning of violent action against the demonstration by Libyan
dissidents in St James's Square.

The Libyans, Abel Baghdadi and Saleh Mabruk, it is now known, were members of
the revolutionary committee and neither had diplomatic immunity, and yet neither
were questioned by police.

The programme names three Libyans who remained in the embassy and, it is said,
played a key role in the shooting: Mustafa Mghirbi in charge of the bureau's
security and its arsenal of weapons, Ayad Graten, also concerned with security,
and Abdulgader Tuhami, a non-diplomat in Britain to monitor dissidents.

Police investigating the shooting believe Tuhami is one of two Libyans who fired
a short burst from an automatic weapon at the demonstration, accidentally
killing WPC Fletcher.

The programme says that late in the afternoon on the day before the
demonstration, Sodani on the orders of Baghdadi, leader of the revolutionary
committee, urgently summoned pro-Gadafy students to protect the bureau.

At midnight the duty clerk at the Foreign Office was called on by two Libyan
diplomats, Mufatah Fituir and Hameda Zlitni, who said afterwards they made it
quite clear that if the demonstration went ahead there would be trouble

Subsequently a senior official responsible for North Africa at the Foreign
Office was telephoned, and the clerk was told to contact the Home Office to warn
that 'the Libyans are unpredictable and capable of anything.'

The F4 section of the Home Office acknowledged receipt of the message, which
they claim was passed on to A8 section of Scotland Yard. Police deny receiving
the information before the demonstration started.

At dawn, when students arrived at the embassy from Ennismore Gardens, Baghdadi
told them that the plan was to snatch the leaders of the demonstration and drag
them into the embassy as hostages.

However, the plan was frustrated when police erected barriers around the square.

It is alleged that then Baghdadi and Saleh Mabruck, rebriefed the students to
shout slogans but to stay clear of the front of the building.

Baghdadi and Mabruck left by the rear entrance at about 9.30 am. Yvonne Fletcher
and ten Libyan dissidents were shot at 10.18 am.

Interviewed in the programme, Mr Leon Brittan, the Home Secretary said: 'At the
time there was no suggestion at all that there was evidence to prosecute
Baghdadi.'

Scotland Yard said it had not seen the BBC documentary and was not able to
comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 12, 1985

Terror alert as Thatcher keeps date in Colombo / Security is tightened for
British Premier in Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By ERIC SILVER and DAVID MCKIE

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: COLOMBO


Security Forces were put on alert last night after two terrorist attacks on the
eve of Mrs Thatcher's two-day visit to Sri Lanka.

Armed police were posted along the 20-mile route from the airport to the
president's palace when the Prime Minister arrived from Jakarta.


Twenty Tamil guerrillas and four policemen were killed when insurgents attacked
Jaffna police station in the Tamil northern peninsula and a woman died and four
other people were injured in a bomb attack on a train near Colombo airport, both
incidents happened on Wednesday.

Before leaving Jakarta Mrs Thatcher refused to be drawn on the controversy after
Labour attacks on her as the enemy abroad. 'I did not come all the nay to
Indonesia to discuss comments about me by someone at home,' she said.

'My interest at the moment is not in the Labour Party and I don't think there is
anything constructive I can say about it.'

She was under fire again yesterday when the Liberal leader Mr David Steel
ridiculed her insistence that the Government's student grants fiasco occurred
while she was out of the country.

Speaking in his constituency, Mr Steel said: 'Mrs Thatcher has confided to us
from the safe distance of Jakarta that things only go wrong in this country when
she is away. In the House of Commons she used the same alibi over the Ponting
prosecution, claiming she had been in Switzerland at the time.

'When the cat is away the mice obviously get up to all sorts of mischief.
Perhaps the Prime Minister could check her diary and let us know where she was
on other occasions - when house building ground to a standstill; when the
teachers were converted from mild moderates to angry radicals; and, above all,
when unemployment trebled to 3 1/2 million.

'I wonder what is going wrong at this very moment as the victor of the picket
lines tells her personal story of triumph all over south-east Asia.

'I wonder if she told the Chancellor or the Employment Minister that she had
commanded inflation to come down to 3 per cent. I notice that she had no similar
instruction for a reduction in unemployment'

Mr Steel said Mrs Thatcher's 'one-woman government' had become ridiculous.
Britain had a cabinet, not a presidential system of government. The Prime
Minister might have become enamoured of doing things the American way but she
ought not to forget how the British constitution worked.

In Colombo, security sources suspect that the rail bombing was timed to coincide
with Mrs Thatcher's visit, Buses ferrying passengers in both directions between
Jaffna and Colombo for this weekend's Tamil new year were reported last night to
have been delayed by intensive security checks, but President Jayewardene issued
strict orders that there were to be no army reprisals against Tamil civilians,
who he believes are turning away from the guerrillas.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 3, 1985

Leading Articles: Bombs on the beach / Terrorism in Spanish holiday areas

LENGTH: 574 words


Commonsense says that when two small bombs go off in the middle of the night on
Spanish beaches there is no need for anyone to put their holiday plans into
reverse. In the soulless world of statistical risk calculation, the chances are
infinitesimal that any particular one of Spain's expected 43 million foreign
visitors this year will have things ruined by either an ETA bomber or a holiday
resort mugger. But the fear of risk and the chances of risk just do not always
fit together in that nice tidy way. Tell old ladies that they run relatively
little danger of being attacked on the street and they will tell you that you do
not live in the real world. Tell the average person in Britain that they have a
statistical chance of being assaulted once in 100 years (which is what the
British Crime Survey concluded) and they will dismiss you as a naive academic.
In all these situations, it is the scare factor that counts. Whether the Spanish
tourist industry now faces a run of cancelled bookings is hard to judge. Spain
is by no means the only place in the world, sadly, where terrorism has punctured
the easy rituals of everyday life. Britain, after all, has suffered regular
bombings in its public transport, in tourist attracting places like the Tower of
London, Regent's Park and the Oxford Street stores. But the foreign visitors
keep on coming in their millions. The lure of the exchange rate far outweighs
the risk of mutilation by the IRA. Last year, in the wake of the Harrods bomb
and the Libyan embassy siege, 11 per cent more tourists came here than in 1983.
If they are put off from coming, according to a new survey of German attitudes
to visiting Britain, it is overwhelmingly the weather, the prices and the food
that are the most potent deterrents. Political factors, the risk of crime, the
threat of terrorism count for nothing, the survey found. Nor is it only British
tourism that can take it. Athens (and even its airport) has had more than its
recent share of bombings and shootings. Yet Greece, thanks to the cheapness of
the drachma, is poised for a tourism bonanza in 1985.

Spanish tourism too is likely to survive. But the beach bombs this week in
Benidonn and Valencia will have disturbed more than just the sand. The
difference about what is happening in Spain is that it is aimed directly at the
tourist trade. Mass tourism has not merely transfonned the appearance of Spain.
It has lifted the country's economy out of poverty into prosperity. So any
terrorist group which wants to find a new lever to put pressure on the Madrid
government is making unpleasantly shrewd calculation in choosing tourism as a
target. All the more so when the price increases of up to 20 per cent on Spanish
holidays this year compare so unfavourably with the relative standstill in the
cost of going to Portugal, Yugoslavia or Greece. Spain's previous hold on as
much as 50 per cent of the British overseas holiday market was already under
threat from the price increases. The bombs will shake that grip still further.
So while the tourists can afford to go elsewhere, the Spanish economy cannot
afford to let them. That is why the Spalish authorities have quickly drafted in
extra police to the coastal resorts. The bomb threat to life on the Costa Blanca
may be relatively small. But the threat to Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez's
buoyant and bounding vision of an economically competitive Spain is real enough.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 16, 1985

US embassy readiness tested by mock terror: Senators call for 'moral' policy to
tackle guerrillas

BYLINE: From MICHAEL WHITE

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States is conducting a programme of mock hijackings, bombings, and
assaults on its own embassies around the world to test their readiness against
terrorist attack.

Mr Robert Oakley, director of the Office for Counter-terrorism, told congressmen
yesterday that during the year 'about two dozen' exercises would be held at
embassies in high-risk areas. these, his testimony suggested, would be the
Middle East, Latin America. and Western Europe, scene of most terrorist attacks
last year.


In one example he was prepared to cite, a simulated hijack and earthquake was
arranged for the US embassy in Santiago, Chile - three days before a real
earthquake occurred. As elsewhere, performance had been improved.

to be warned, was reshaped after the disastrous attack on America's Beirut
embassy in 1983. On the trend observable in the first quarter of this year' -
nearly 200 incidents - 1985 could produce a record number of terrorist
operations, 60 per cent up on 1983.

Mr Oakley's evidence on counter-terrorism before the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee came just three days after revelations that counter-terrorist units
which the CIA had helped to train in Lebanon may have sponsored a freelance
attack in Beirut in March in which, more than 80 people died. He and the
Pentagon's witness, an under-secretary, Mr Fred Ikle, were the targets of
oblique criticism from some Democrats.

Senator Thomas Eagleton of Missouri complained that the Beirut incident
highlighted the often contradictory postures of the Administration on the
response to terrorism. It called he said, for a public debate.

But the senators did not get it all their own way, and Mr Ikle pointedly stated
that since Congress had chosen to make itself 'co-responsible' for tactical
intelligence operations with the Administration, it had better cooperate 'to
restore a level of discipline in protecting sensitive information.'

Both witnesses protested at the record of some friendly governments in either
harbouring terrorists - France - or releasing them, on the grounds of political
opportunism - Italy. They said that the surge in international cooperation after
an outrage like the Libyan embassy shooting in London had soon been replaced by
'the normal bureaucratic reasons for inaction' in Britain and Western Europe.

The US is unusual in having little threat of domestic terror, unlike in the late
1960s, although a recurrence is predicted by some. But Americans and US
interests are the object of 30 to 35 per cent of the terrorist attacks in the
world.

With both officials describing the familiar pattern of the main terrorist
groups, their relationship with each other and the drugs trade, and predicting
that they would 'escalate the carnage in order to maintain the shock value of
their operations.' the principal interest yesterday was Mr Oakley's description
of the interdepartmental group on terrorism, established by President Reagan.
Chaired by the Secretary of State, Mr George Shultz, it embraces key
departments, including the National Security Council, the FBI, the CIA, and the
Pentagon.

Liaison with other governments and intelligence coordination-where the US had
been weak - was something the US was trying to improve, Mr Oakley said. &lcv;GBP
GBP N SOURCE The Guardian

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 18, 1985

Tamils fleeing terror may be sent back / Refugees fleeing violence in Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 567 words


The increase in the number of Tamils coming to Britain to escape the communal
violence in Sri Lanka in the past few days has prompted the Government to plan
new measures to turn some of them away.

Since April last year, the Home Office has had a policy of not returning Tamils
to the island, where terrorist attacks and reprisals against civilians have
continued since the anti-Tamil riots of 1983 and are now escalating.


But next week, the Home Office will announce that people who arrive without
advance entry clearance will be sent back to the island unless they can persuade
immigraton officers that they would face severe hardship.

Ministers believe that some of the Tamils who have arrived since last April have
been taking advantage of the no-return policy to try to better their economic
prospects by settling in Britain.

This view astonished refugee agencies. 'The people who are coming are nearly all
educated people with their own homes and jobs,' said Ms Maureen Connolly, of the
United Kingdom Immigrants Advisory Service.

'People like that don't get up and leave everything they have on the off-chance
of settling here. All the people I have interviewed have had a bad time -
harassed on buses, detained and interrogated, seen their neighbours disappear.'

There are no plans to send back people who have already been allowed to stay,
and all arrivals have the right to apply for asylum. But asylum applications can
be dismissed within days and applicants may then be sent back.

Ms Connolly said that of the 2,000 Tamils who had fled to Britain since 1983,
about 500 have only been given temporary admission and can be put on a plane at
any time.

'We urgently need a policy from the Government,' she said. 'What is needed is a
declaration, as in the cases of Iran, Afghanistan, Poland and Uganda, that
people can have exceptional leave to remain and live more normal lives.'

Mr Martin Barber, director of the British Refugee Council, said: ' Our position,
and that of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and Amnesty
International, is that Tamils should not at present be forced to return to Sri
Lanka. Any such deportations will mean an outcry.'

The Government and refugee organisations are having difficulty in finding
accommodation for refugees. Yesterday, 66 newly-arrived Tamils with nowhere to
live were in detention and remand centres.

Mr Barber appealed for offers of accommodation and said the Government might
eventually have to open hostels or camps.

The Tamil Information Centre in London said yesterday that British Airways has
started refusing to carry passengers from Sri Lanka if they do not have advance
entry clearance, which takes months to obtain from the British High Commission
in Colombo.

A British Airways spokeswoman said last night that after consultation with the
British High Commission in Colombo, it was only carrying passengers without
entry clearance for Britain if they agreed to purchase a return ticket.

A Home Office spokesman said that between July, 1983, and December last year,
700 applications for asylum had been received from Tamils. Four hundred and
fifty were outstanding, 200 had been decided, and the rest withdrawn.

Two had been granted refugee status, 28 had been given exceptional leave to
remain, and the remaining 170 had been refused but given temporary admission.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 22, 1985

Leading Article: A swap of some courage / Israeli-Palestinian prisoner exchange

LENGTH: 456 words


Israel has been taken aback by the sheer disparity in numbers between the Arab
and jewish prisoners exchanged in the intricate operation of Monday. To compare
Israel's position with Britain's is not to compare like with like, but in
emotional impact the swap is as though the Maze prison near Belfast had been
emptied of its 700 or so IRA and INLA prisoners in exchange for two or three
British Army hostages. It was a very daring act by Mr Shimon Peres's government.
Probably no government other than one of national unity could have brought it
off, and although it is said that all the coalition parties supported the deal
individual ministers have been quick to voice their opposition to it.

Mr Yitshak Shamir, who is due to rotate the premiership with Mr Peres when two
years have elapsed, has joined the call for the release of 27 members of the
Jewish underground accused of attacks on Arabs, including the car bombings of
three Arab Mayors. Mr Rabin, the Defence Minister, has sought to quieten the
alarm by promising to re-arrest prisoners released on the West Bank if more
Israeli soldiers are captured. After the Lebanese war itself and the heavy cost
of the withdrawal the exchange of prisoners and the trials of the 27 promise to
provide further divisive questions in Israel. Not only in Israel: the Japanese
ambassador has protested vigorously against the release of a Japanese terrorist
who took part in the Lod airport massacre of 1972 and was yesterday being
carried shoulder-high through the streets of Colonel Gadafy's capital.


Beyond the reunion of the three Jewish captives with their families Israel may
pear not to have anything to show for what it has done. The main beneficiaries
are the PFLP-General Command, which is among the most uncompromising factions
making up the PLO, and its Syrian host, President Assad. Mr Assad is busy
accumulating credits among the various communities of the Levant and doubtless
his first intention is to put them to good use in Lebanon. But he can rise in
popular esteem only at the expense of the other Arab leaders - notably Hussein
and Mubarak - who are trying for an accommodation with Israel. The Palestinians
released on Monday were not anxious yesterday to convey any sense of gratitude
for their deliverence. On the contrary they were shouting their reliable old
threats. But on reflection those Israelis who are today criticising their
government may realise that in honouring so lopsided but generous and humane an
agreement Israel has set an example which other countries must respect and which
even its enemies must acknowledge. When these sentiments translate themselves
into a peace settlement is not, after all, for Israel alone to decide.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 30, 1985

Futures: How the waste was dumped / Problem of disposing of high level nuclear
waste

BYLINE: By PETER J SMITH

LENGTH: 1703 words


In December, 1981, the Government abruptly cancelled an extensive programme of
test drilling, the aim of which has been to assess the suitability of various
geological formations throughout the country as repositories for high-level
nuclear waste (HLW). As a result, British geologists have since been able to
make little or no contribution to the solution of a major disposal problem that
not only won't go away but grows ever greater as new waste accumulates.

But while Britain has been standing still, studiously refusing to face up to an
issue that will have to be dealt with sooner or later, other nations have been
pressing ahead vigorously with research. The United States has even reached the
stage of building its first experimental repository, and plans for similar
facilities are well advanced in Canada, Sweden and Belgium. In 1977 the British
Government announced that it, too, wanted a 'pilot facility or facilities in
operation by the early 1990s': but not only is there no chance of that
happening, there are no plans to have a prototype repository by even the 2090s.


HLW is the particularly nasty material that must be isolated from the biosphere
for at least 100,000 years and, in some cases, for more than a million years. It
should not be confused with low-level waste (LLW), which becomes radioactively
innocuous after periods of up to a few thousand years. Nor is it the same as
intermediate-level waste (ILW), which is the catch-all name for anything with a
half-life between those of HLW and LLW.

An LLW repository already exists in Cumbria, where the waste is buried in
shallow trenches and covered with topsoil, although additional sites will be
required within a decade, if not sooner.

As for ILW, burial sites were proposed some time ago for Billingham (since
abandoned) and Bedfordshire (now seen as a potential LLW disposal site), and
studies are being made into the feasibility of using offshore boreholes. These
are the projects that have attracted most public attention in recent years,
whilst the geological aspects of HLW disposal have largely faded from view.

The Government decision of 1981 came as a surprise to everyone, although not
everyone reacted in quite the same way. The geologists at the Institute of
Geological Sciences (now the British Geological Survey) were bitterly
disappointed that a programme of basic research due to last a decade or more was
to be terminated in its early stages and with only one site investigated.
(Drilling of the Strath Halladale granite in Caithness had already been carried
out between November, 1978, and May, 1979.)

Evironmentalists, by contrast, were badly split. When, in 1976, the Flowers
Commission had proposed that there should be no major commitment to nuclear
power until a solution to the HLW disposal problem was in sight, some
environmentalists welcomed the recommendation. They also claimed to support
Flowers' castigation of the Government for giving the HLW issue too little
attention. These particular environmentalists were therefore presumably in
favour of the test-drilling programme announced soon, after.

But as the drilling came closer, others took a rather different line. That
planning permission had easily been gained in Cathiness was perhaps hardly
surprising, given that region's existing commitment to nuclear power. When it
came to the second proposed drill site, in Ayrshire, however, the Kyle and
Carrick District Council proved less amenable, refusing planning permission and
thus forcing a public inquiry.

In principle, the inquiry (1980) was simply to assess the merits or otherwise of
drilling holes in the ground for basic geological research; but the opponents
tried to turn it into a wide-ranging discussion of the Government's whole
nuclear policy, thereby giving it a length and public prominence it hardly
deserved.

There seems little doubt that the prospect of a dozen or more similar inquiries,
covering identical ground and achieving comparable visibility, strongly
influenced the surprise decision of 1981. Not that any such admission was made
of course. What the Government said was that henceforth it would limit HLW
disposal research 'to confirming the applicability to the UK of findings from
research in other countries' and that this would 'be done by means of desk
studies, laboratory work and the use of data already available and exploratory
drilling would not be needed for this purpose.'

This statement is not only an astonishing example of scientific ignorance, it is
also internally inconsistent. The only already-available data that can in fact
be transferred from one country to another are the very ones obtained from desk
studies and laboratory work, and not all of those. What cannot be transferred
under any circumstances are the all-important site-specific details, which can
only be obtained by drilling and other techniques.

It doesn't matter how many countries show that, say, granite is suitable for HLW
disposal; they will never be able to demonstrate that a particular granite
formation in Britain is suitable. That can only be done by a detailed
investigation of the proposed site itself.

The crucial importance of extensive on-site studies is well illustrated by the
American experience.

The first Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP), in the west at least, is currently
under construction about 40 kilometres east of Carlsbad in New Mexico. The
repository itself will lie at a depth of 655 metres in bedded salt of Permian
age. Present plans are that 170,000 cubic metres of lower-level waste will be
deposited there permanently along with a 4.25 cubic metres of HLW for
experimental observation.

Design work on the site began in 1975 and approval for construction was given by
the US Department of Energy in June 1983. By July 1984 two shafts had been
drilled to 655 metres, and 3000 metres of drift tunnels had been completed.
Excavations are now in progress to produce the underground rooms in which
thermal and rock-mechanics experiments will be conducted prior to the expected
arrival of radioactive material in 1989. What happens thereafter will depend on
how the site reacts to the waste and vice-versa.

The point about the New Mexico WIPP is not just that it will soon exist,
demonstrating America's lead, but that its existence will only have been made
possible by a large research programme specific to the site. Scientists can (and
did) carry out desk and laboratory studies galore on the general problem of
depositing HLW in geological formations and even on the properties of the
particular rocks found near Carlsbad, but such work could never by itself have
answered the most pertinent questions about the suitability of the site.

Britain continues with its desk-bould studies, but apparently with little
enthusiasm. Between 1977 and 1981, Institute of Geological Sciences staff
working on the HLW disposal problem rose from 13 to 32, new laboratories were
established, and financial support was more than adequate. Most of that has gone
now and a spirit of hopelessness prevails.

If the HLW programme had been one of purely academic interests, its abolition
would have hurt but would have been of little significance in the overall scheme
of things. The tragedy is that it was of great practical importance and will
have to be revived at some stage, albeit 10, 20, 30 years or more behind the
Americans.

Of course, it may be that in 1981 the Government concluded that the disposal of
HLW in Britain would never be politically acceptable and that the ultimate
destination of such waste must be on or under the deep ocean floor. If so, one
would have to attribute remarkable prescience to a government so conspicuously
lacking in scientific insight.

The Americans are pursuing the seabed idea with almost as much urgency as they
are examining land disposal, but even they would not yet presume to judge which
will ultimately prove the more feasible. Besides, this interpretation of
government thinking is belied by the fact that seabed disposal studies have also
been cut.

Alternatively, the Government may have decided that the only politically viable
option would be to store HLW at the surface for ever. Surface storage is indeed
possible, but it also has severe disadvantages. It requires a bigger and much
more complex management infrastructure, it is much more susceptible to
accidental damage or terrorist attack and, above all, it put far more people at
risk of exposure to harmful radiation.

No other government in the world believes that permanent surface storage is a
tenable policy, and no other government with an HLW disposal problem has been
prepared to sit back and do nothing about it. It is well understood that all
nuclear countries must store HLW at the surface for several decades, which is
what the Flowers Commission recommended that Britain should do. But the
Commission also stresses that this holding action should go hand in hand with
research on deep burial. The Government accepted both proposals at first but
then rejected the second, leaving it in a politically and scientifically
disreputable position.

Perhaps recognising this, the Commons Select Committee on the Environment has
now begun to re-examine the Government's non-policy on the HLW disposal issue.
It's not before time, for the evaluation of a political repository site and the
design and construction of the repository itself is likely to take at least 20
years and probably much longer.

At the Sizewell inquiry in March 1983, a Department of the Environment spokesman
freely admitted that the Government - and indeed all of us - are irresponsibly
passing the buck to future generations.

When some future government, no doubt with an equal lack of scientific insight,
finally wakes up to the urgency of the problems, it will almost certainly expect
the geological community to conjure up a fully-experienced research team from
nothing. In the meantime, we have dissipated the expertise gradually built up
during the 1970s and have fallen out of yet another scientific research
programme of international concern.

Peter J Smith is scientific editor of Geology Today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 30, 1985

Tamil mother flees wedge of terror / Case study of one refugee from Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 482 words


A young Tamil mother who fled from Sri Lanka with her two children described
yesterday the pressures which led her to seek refuge and her fears about being
sent back.

The young woman, one of the estimated 1,200 Tamils to have arrived since the
latest outbreak of violence, said she decided to leave her Trincomalee home in
the island's eastern province after threats from the army. She is staying with
friends in South London.


She claims that the army accused her of having harboured members of the Tigers,
the Tamil separatist guerrilla group, and that she could be forced to sign a
confession if she did not inform on the Tigers' movements in the neighbourhood.

The woman, who did not want to be identified, insisted yesterday that she had no
contact with the Tigers. She said involvement in terrorist activities was
unthinkable for her and for her husband, who is employed in the government
services.

She said that Tamils in parts of Sri Lanka where there was sympathy for the aims
of the separatists faced difficulties in trying to maintain a neutral attitude.

'You are accused by your neighbours of betraying the Tamil cause, and you are
suspected by the army of helping the Tigers simply because you are a Tamil,' she
said.

She and her friends had destroyed their family photograph albums. 'If you don't
the army remove all the pictures of the young men in your family and then say
they are terrorists,' she said.

Three of her cousins had been arrested by the security forces and one had been
tortured to death, she claimed.

Her flight from Sri Lanka earlier this month began with a bus journey from
Trincomalee to the capital, Colombo, which was interrupted twice for searches.

The first check was conducted by the army and the second a 'gang of thugs' who
took three Tamil youths off the bus and began beating them. She said the three
boys had been imprudent enough to admit they were trying to leave Sri Lanka. She
had merely said she was visiting friends in Colombo.

At the airport in Colombo, where her friends in Britain had arranged tickets,
she was able to board her flight without trouble. Other Tamils who did not have
such advance arrangements were left arguing and pleading with officials as they
tried to buy tickets for Western destinations.

At Heathrow, she was held for only a brief period as the reasons for her visit,
her circumstances at home and her accommodation arrangements in Britain were
questioned. Now she is awaiting a summons from immigration officials for a more
lengthy interview about her intentions.

Her wish is that she and her children will be granted refugee status. Her claim
will be based on the intolerable future, as she regards it, that would await her
in Sri Lanka where she would be caught between the security force's
counter-insurgency drive and the pressure to support Tamil separatism.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 25, 1985

Terrorist loophole closed / US and Britain agree to new extradition treaty

BYLINE: By our Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 378 words


An agreement to close the loophole exempting terrorist crimes from the
extradition treaty between Britain and the United States will be signed in
Washington today.

The move follows British concern that alleged Irish paramilitary members have
been using US law to escape the British courts.


The Home Secretary, Mr Leon Brittan, said yesterday that the governments had
agreed a supplementary extradition treaty denying a political defence for
'fugitives accused or convicted of certain serious offences of violence.'

The treaty is expected to be approved by the Commons under the Suppression of
Terrorism Act and by the US Senate. Sir Oliver Wright, the Washington
ambassador, will sign on behalf of Britain.

Mr Brittan said in a Commons written answer: 'Both governments believe that the
present political offence exception to extradition, as it applies to violent
offences, is not suitable to extradition arrangements between two democratic
countries sharing the same high regard for the fundamental principles of justice
and operating similar independent judicial systems.'

He regarded the change which has been discussed for some time as 'a most
significant contribution to the efforts now being made by Western democracies to
counter the threat posed by international terrorism.'

Several recent cases have angered Mrs Thatcher's government.

Last year, Mr Patrick Joseph Docherty, a member of the Provisional IRA, who
escaped from the Crumlin Road gaol in Belfast in 1981, three days before he was
sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of an undercover army operative
won his fight against extradition last year on the grounds that his crime was
political. An appeal is pending.

Other successful defences have been mounted against extradition by Desmond
Mackin, who was wanted for the alleged murder of a British soldier, and Peter
McMullen who faces bombing charges.

The deal with the US Government will encourage Conservative MPs to urge tighter
arrangements with the Irish Government but Whitehall regards present
arrangements as satisfactory.

The Home Office said last night that the new arrangements would cover all
serious extraditable offences of violence - including hijacking, taking hostages
and murder.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 25, 1985

Police thwart IRA bombings in Britain / Nine detained under prevention of
Terrorism Act

BYLINE: By DAVID ROSE and SEUMAS MILNE

LENGTH: 842 words


An IRA bombing campaign planned to include 12 seaside resorts and London has
been thwarted, Scotland Yard said last night. The claim follows the
investigations surrounding the detention of 12 suspects now being questioned.

Five of the suspects, including two women, were detained under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act in Glasgow on Saturday evening. They were questioned about the
bomb which exploded at the Conservative Party's annual conference in Brighton
last October.


As a result of information received from the Strathclyde police, Commander Simon
Crawshaw of the Scotland Yard anti-terrorist branch said last night, a bomb was
found on Sunday at the Rubens Hotel near Buckingham Palace and two further
suspects, one a woman, were detained in London.

Like the Brighton bomb, which cut a seven-storey swathe through the Grand Hotel
where most of the Government was staying and killed five people, the Rubens bomb
was rigged to a long delay timing device.

Mr Crawshaw said that the details of the 12 other targets gets - Blackpool,
Bournemouth, Brighton, Dover, Eastbourne, Folkestone, Margate, Ramsgate,
Southampton, Torquay, Southend and Great Yarmouth - had emerged from Police had
reason to believe that it was probably the only device so far placed, he added.

'From papers that have come into our possession it is apparent that the
Provisional IRA intended to place explosives set to detonate on the mainland in
mid-July.

'The preparations of the IRA have been interrupted at an early stage.'

'On the afternoon of the 23rd June, on the basis of information from those
detained, a room in the Rubens Hotel was searched and a bomb was found.'

He said that he had reason to believe that the public was not in further danger.
But there was still a slight possibility that one or more bombs had been placed
in one of the resorts, and the police would be investigating. He warned people
not to search for bombs themselves, but to co-operate with the police operation.

It is thought that the present investigations follow months of intelligence work
coordinated between Dublin, the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Belfast and police
forces in Britain.

Last year this cooperation led to the naming of Evelyn Glenholmes as a prime
suspect for the Brighton bomb, and what was claimed to be the premature
disclosure of her name by a Sunday newspaper. It is not known whether Glenholmes
is among the seven now being held. It is also not know whether another named
suspect, Roy Walsh, is among those detained.

Strathclyde police confirmed that they had originally detained six suspects in
two separate swoops. One, a youth aged 19, has been released. The other five
have had their extensions of detention under the act approved.

The RUC declined to comment last night but it thought that at least two of those
held in Glasgow were Ulstermen who were living in Belfast until recently.

Two RUC officers have flown to Glasgow to take part in the questioning, and an
other is thought to be involved at Scotland Yard, where a permanent RUC presence
is maintained to liaise with the anti-terrorist branch.

The liaison arrangement was instituted after the Brighton bomb, which exposed
severe deficiencies in intelligence sharing and preventive security. At that
time, the then commander of the anti-terrorist branch, Mr William Hucklesby,
described the long timing fuse as 'completely new,' although they had been used
in Northern Ireland since 1977.

The two arms caches found in the Midland after the arrest of Thomas Quigley and
Paul Cavanagh, sentenced to 35 years at the Old Bailey in January 1984 for
terrorist offences, included large numbers of these long delay fuses.

The planting of the seaside and Rubens bombs appears to mark a similarity with
the Harrods bomb at Christmas 1983 which killed three and injured 91, in that
they were destined for 'soft' non-military or non-political targets on the
mainland.

After the Harrods explosion the Belfast IRA council condemned it, claiming that
it had been the work of a dissident cell at odds with the policy of the
leadership. There was no comment from the IRA's political wing, Sinn Fein, last
night.

The Rubens Hotel bomb would have caused injury to civilians had it gone off, the
anti-terrorist branch said. Mr Crawshaw said it appeared to be a random target
designed to kill or maim tourists and other innocent people.

Many who use the hotel are Americans, and next month the descent on London of
21,000 members of the American Bar Association for their annual convention has
ensured that advance bookings at the Rubens, like other London hotels, is almost
entirely for American guests.

Had the bomb exploded then, the IRA might have alienated the traditional
American mainspring of its support.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, said last night that the
detention of the seven suspects was 'highly satisfactory.' He added that a bomb
in London was no less or more serious than a bomb in a Banbridge or Newry bar.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 1 1985, Monday

Search for IRA bombs continues / Hunt for delayed action devices in seaside
ports and resorts in Britain

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62178.

LENGTH: 184 words


The police search for possible Provisional IRA delayed-action bombs hidden in
the hotels of a dozen ports or resorts will continue today despite the discovery
of terrorist 'material' in a Glasgow flat at the weekend.

Scotland Yard, which is coordinating the hunt, said yesterday that the search
will go on although a review of its progress is likely later this week. Full
details of what was discovered in the flat in the Shawlands area of Glasgow have
not been released.


However, over the weekend reports indicated that the flat had yielded a haul of
explosives and arms found in a cellar. There was speculation that the find may
prove to be one of the most significant terrorist caches to be found in mainland
Britain.

As searches continued in towns as diverse as Blackpool and Torquay, police were
still holding nine people.

In Great Yarmouth police woke people early yesterday and evacuated an area of
the town after fears that they had discovered a device on the seafront. A half
mile round the pier was cordoned off but the device proved to be old telephone
equipment.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 3 1985, Wednesday

Unilateral blockade opposed / British Premier Thatcher resists unilateral
British ban on flights from Beirut to Heathrow Airport

BYLINE: ANTHONY BEVINS, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62180.

LENGTH: 207 words


The Prime Minister was yesterday resisting a unilateral British ban on flights
from Beirut into Heathrow Airport.

She told Mr Michael Latham, Conservative MP for Ruthland and Melton, in the
Commons: 'It is intolerable that Beirut airport should be used to launch
terrorist attacks outside Lebanon.


'Until the Lebanese Government can guarantee security at that airport, it may be
necessary for the international community to suspend all services to and from
Beirut'.

But senior Whitehall sources last night stressed the need for international
action, arguing that if the ban was restricted to unilateral actions by the
United States and Britain, then other countries would pick up the business and
the attempted blockade would be rendered ineffective.

President Reagan announced a United States termination of flights from Beirut on
Monday

There are four Middle East Airlines flights between Beirut and London each week,
but one senior source said last night that isolated action by Britain and the
United States would be an empty gesture.

It was also stated that Mrs Thatcher had taken the initiative on terrorism at
Milan over the weekend, but a British paper on the issue had not been reached in
formal talks.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 8, 1985

The Media: How to counter-attack when terrorists are hijacking the airwaves /
Implications for British media of the TWA hijack drama

BYLINE: By PETER FIDDICK

LENGTH: 730 words


Send in the A-Team: just as you thought there was no twist left in the affair of
the TWA hostages and the US media, there came the word that the Reagan
Administration, if it couldn't make international law stick in bringing the
killers of Robert Dean Stethem to book, was preparing to let slip the dogs of
war, Frederick Forsyth style, with federal greenbacks flashing to bring the
bounty hunters of the world into the chase.

Until that moment, Ronald Reagan had a point. The instant we had seen that
startling image of a camera crew on the tarmac besides the hijack aircraft,
interviewing its captain with his captor's approval this was clearly a different
sort of happening.


Television was allowing itself to be used in a familiar way but at a new level
of influence. Until now, it had always been a nation' political leaders who
grabbed the chance of going on to television live, to get their message to the
people, without the media gatekeepers' cynicism getting in the way. Now the
terrorists had hijacked the airways - to get their message instantaneously,
direct to Reagan and Peres.

No wonder the President was worried. No wonder a murmur could be heard last
week, in the vicinity of Downing Street, indicating that the sinister
development had not gone unmarked, and that the activities of the British media
in similar circumstances might receive rather earlier attention.

But before we ever get to the point where a British jumbo is wheeled from the
skies to some unscheduled hell-hole, it is worth noting that a whole bundle of
issues are wrapped up in the American experience and that some of them are
heading out of any nation state's control.

The main ethical comparison is presumably disposed of already, the idea that
money might change hands to get special access to hostages.

The key to the new situation is, first, television's ability to give live and
continuing coverage, and second, that the action is taking place on the patch of
some other probably unsympathetic, regime.

It is easy enough for the authorities to set the rules for the media on home
ground. Recent American experience in the matter of the Philadelphia siege, and
its incendiary finale, might lead one to suspect that their difficulty might be
in restraining the civil power rather than the media, but in Britain we have
seen the Libyan embassy siege and before that the Iranian stake-out and commando
raid covered in orderly fashion, somewhat to the dismay of teams from countries
with a more free-booting tradition.

But abroad, it is different. And it is increasingly different as we go deeper
into the age of the new media, with satellite transmission between continents
and cable systems able to offer a multiplicty of outlets far beyond the
traditional national system - urged into being by governments, indeed, for that
very purpose. One effect of that is to make more space available for
programming, a void filled as easily by news as by anything else, and almost as
cheaply if you can serve up hours of material from the same place.

Some parts of the world can already taste the dislocating effects of this
development. In Tokyo, in the small hours of the morning, I recently found
myself watching into trial of Claus von Bulow, live from the East Coast of the
USA, with breaks for local announcements punched in regardless of the loss of
whatever sense any viewer may have made of it, thousands of miles and several
time-zones away. This is real life as global wallpaper, but if someone will
invite the cameras in, there is no stopping it. Mr Ted Turner, of Atlanta,
Georgia, on whose CNN channel this case happened to be, is not his oriental
brother's keeper, he just pumps out the pictures. His service hits Europe in
September.

But I use CNN as an example only. There will be others, And where does the
avowed policy of 'light touch' regulation on cable systems leave a national
government once such systems are part of people's lives?

And the final conundrum: even if a government does retain the power to pull the
curtain down at home, how much does that ameliorate the political problem? Would
it have greatly helped President Reagan to have had his citizenry less disturbed
by that constant, close-up reportage from Beirut, if it was being seen in
London, Paris, Jerusalem, Damascus even? If you shut your eyes, does it go away?

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 16, 1985

Thatcher urges media to adopt code on terrorism / British Premier calls for
voluntary ban on reporting jet hijacks

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 855 words


The Prime Minister yesterday accused the media of providing terrorists with 'the
oxygen of publicity' and gave her strongest commitment yet to a voluntary ban on
the reporting of jetliner hijacks.

Mrs Thatcher told the American Bar Association at its opening session in London
that she hoped agreement could be reached with journalists and broadcasters on a
voluntary code about the reporting of terrorist incidents.


She said she wanted a code under which nothing would be said or shown on
television which could assist either the morale or cause of terrorists.

The Home Secretary, Mr Leon Brittan, is arranging a series of informal meetings
with broadcasters and Fleet Street representatives as part of his consideration
of a code of conduct.

Mrs Thatcher told the lawyers: 'We must have the will power never to give in to
the terrorist. Your government and ours are at one on this.'

Although she did not believe in constraining the media or introducing censorship
'we must try to find ways to starve the terrorist and the hijacker of the oxygen
of publicity on which they depend.'

Her remarks came in a strong speech at the Albert Hall in which she concentrated
on what she said was a threat to international order and the rule of law. 'How
thin is the crust of order over the fires of human appetite and the lust for
naked power,' she said.

In her denunciation of international terrorism she held the US as an ally and
repeated her commitment to new codes of conduct at international airports and to
her refusal to allow any hijacked aircraft to take off if it landed in Britain.

She linked her attack on international terrorism and her appeal for a new
international approach to security measures with comments on observance of the
law at home and such problems as drug abuse.

She accused some groups in Britain of obeying the law selectively. 'Those groups
who would pick and choose among our laws, obeying some and breaking others,
imperil liberty itself,' she said. Linked with her pledges about legal reform
she denounced what she called the heresy that large numbers could stop the law
being enforced.

'No matter whether those numbers are mobilised by football hooligans, political
agitators or industrial pickets, crime is no less crime just because it is
committed en masse,' she said.

Mrs Thatcher used the speech to appeal for international action to combat drug
abuse among the young.

She also praised those who attended last weekend's Live Aid concerts in London
and Philadelphia and those who made contributions to the African famine appeal.

'That was humanity in action, that was the young people of Britain and America
moved by the plight of others thousands of miles away, using the magic of
technology to restate in the language of pop, the age-old brotherhood of man,'
she said. 'We thank and congratulate them for the marvellous lead they gave.'

MALCOLM DEANS

Sir Kenneth Newman, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said yesterday that
terrorism could no longer be regarded as a temporary phenomenon.

He told a seminar on terrorism at the convention: 'Not many years ago we liked
to think of terrorism as only a temporary affair.' He pointed out that the 1974
Prevention of Terrorism Act included 'temporary provisions' in its title.

'As the years have passed, terrorist acts have steadily increased,' he said. 'We
must recognise that terrorism is a problem that requires an evermore organised
response.'

Sir Kenneth said the 1974 Act had been one of the most effective mechanisms for
fighting terrorists. He said there were sufficient safeguards to ensure the
police did not abuse the Act.

Mr Brittan, in a speech which some observers thought was a mild rebuke to
President Reagan, told the convention: 'It is not for us to hit back blindly -
that is the terrorists' way.'

Mr Abraham Sofaeur, the former New York judge who is now legal adviser at the US
State Department, said that international law reorganised the right to use force
in self-defence against armed attack.

'The groups that are responsible for attacking us in Lebanon, El Salvador and
elsewhere have openly announced their intention to keep on trying to kill
Americans,' he said.

'To the extent that they art state supported or beyond the capacity of their
government to control, we are entitled now to use necessary and proportionate
force to end such attacks.

'This administrations' willingness to use appropriate force in itself has a
deterrent and moderating effect on our enemies.'

Mr Sofaeur said the president had 'flatly rejected any improper use of force.'
While legitimate force would play its part, the president had challenged the
association to develop a domestic and international legal framework for dealing
with terrorism 'to deal legally with lawlessness.'

Mr Brittan referred to the amended extradition treaty between the US and the UK
which if ratified by the US Senate, would prevent people accused of murder or
malicious wounding from claiming political immunity. There was a need to extend
this treaty on a multi-lateral basis.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 16 1985, Tuesday

Thatcher unfolds strategy to beat hijack terror / British Premier addresses
American Bar Association meeting in London

BYLINE: PETER EVANS, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62191.

LENGTH: 491 words


A voluntary limitation on publicity during terrorist hijackings was suggested by
Mrs Margaret Thatcher, Prime Minister, in a battery of tough measures she
announced at the American Bar Association meeting in London.

They include: Sustained security measures for aircraft and airports; constant
checking of people and luggage, however irksome; combined action to penalize
countries which harbour and assist terrorists; and above all, the closest
possible co-operation on pre-emptive intelligence.


She told the association amid applause: 'We try to find ways to starve the
terrorist and the hijacker of the oxygen of publicity on which they depend.

'In our societies we donot believe in constraining the media, still less in
censorship. But ought we not to ask the media to agree among themselves a
voluntary code of conduct, a code under which they would not say or show
anything which could assist the terrorists' morale or their cause while the
hijack lasted?'

For newspapers and television she said, acts of terrorism inevitably made good
copy and compelling viewing. The hijacker and the terrorist 'thrive' on
publicity. Without it, their activities and their influence were sharply
curtailed.

'There is a fearful progression, which the terrorists exploit to the full. They
see how acts of violence and horror dominate the newspaper columns and
television screens of the world.

'They see that coverage creates a natural wave so sympathy for the victims and
pressure to end their plight, no matter what the consequence. And the terrorists
exploit it. Violence and atrocity command attention. And we must not play into
their hands.

The threat from terrorism was growing constantly, Mrs Thatcher said. The
terrorists had access to ever more money. Modern technology made the terrorists
job easier and that of the security forces more difficult.

She said prisoners would not be release. Statements in support of the
terrorists' cause would not be made. If hijacked aircraft landed in Britain,
they would not be allowed to take off.

'We would like to see a determination on the part of all countries not to give
in to terrorist demands. Once would-be hijackers knew in advance their
purposewould not be served, some of their barbarous trade would disappear'.

Increasingly, evidence of links was seen between the terrorist groups of
different countries. 'They share funds, training. intelligence and weapons, and
total ruthlessness. Could anything more clearly point up the need for the
governments and security services of all civilized nations to work together
against such people?'

Mrs Thatcher said: 'Order we need, but nor arbitrary order. This year Britain
and the United States celebrate together the fortieth anniversary of the defeat
of the Third Reith. It called itself the new order: order there certainly was, a
despotic order with no system of justice independent of the ruling party.'

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 17 1985, Wednesday

Airport security to be tightened / New measures announced by Secretary of State
for Transport Ridley

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS, Lobby Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62192.

LENGTH: 356 words


Security at Britain's airports is being tightened as part of international
efforts to reduce skyjacking and terrorism. The new measures, announced
yesterday by Mr Nicholas Ridley, Secretary of State for Transport, include close
scrutiny of baggage and cargo, using the latest sniffer and scanning devices,
and stringent checks on airport staff and passengers.

Air travellers will probably have to allow more time between arriving at
airports and reaching departure lounges because of increased security between
public and passenger areas.


'Off-airport' check-in facilities, including airlines offering direct luggage
check-in from London offices, will cease unless they can improve security. And
unless tour companies can show that their security is adequate they will no
longer be able to save time by checking luggage through in bulk from hotel to
aircraft.

The tightening of security comes after the recent spate of worldwide terrorist
incidents involving airlines and airports, including the Americans held for 18
days in Beirut after a Trans World Airlines jet was hijacked and the bomb on a
Canadian Pacific plane which exploded at Tokyo's Narita Airport.

Mr Ridley gave details of the air-security package in a Commons written answer
less than 24 hours after Mrs Margaret Thatcher announced a strategy to beat
hijackings.

He said: 'At a meeting I held on June 27 with some of the major airlines and
airports represented on the National Aviation Security Committee it was agreed
that, although a high standard of security was achieved at British airports,
there was scope for some enhancement of present arrangements.'

While security would not be served by giving full details, Mr Ridley said: 'We
are revising our existing measures for the security of hold baggage. Among other
things we intend to recommend to airlines the need to end off-airport checkins
except where security is adequately safeguarded. These measures will be given
statutory backing if necessary.

'We are reviewing access control at airports, other aspects of the security of
airport terminals and the security of cargo.'

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 19, 1985

Anti-terrorism chief spearheads drug fight / Colin Hewett to head National Drugs
Intelligence Unit

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 552 words


A new offensive in the war against drug traffickers was launched by the
Government yesterday with the setting up of a National Drugs Intelligence Unit
to be headed by the senior police officer who has led the fight against the IRA
in Britain.

Mr Leon Brittan, the Home Secretary, said the organisation, which will hold its
first working meeting next week, would be staffed by both police and customs
officers. It will combine the intelligence-gathering resources of the two
services.


'In drugs, as with terrorism, the need for good intelligence is paramount,' Mr
Brittan said. 'The new NDIU will give us the intelligence capacity needed to
counter today's sophisticated drug trafficking groups.'

The Government is determined to take on the threat of a glut of South American
cocaine poised to be shipped to Britain by organised crime syndicates and to
deal with the country's growing drug abuse problem.

It has chosen Mr Colin Hewett, aged 55, until now Scotland Yard's Deputy
Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Special Branch and the Anti-Terrorist
Squad, to lead the attack.

Mr Brittan said that in recent years Mr Hewett had been in the forefront of the
battle against the IRA's terror campaigns in Britain and that his appointment
demonstrated the seriousness with which the Government viewed the threat of drug
trafficking.

As coordinator he will link the work of the unit with the operations of regional
crime squads in England and Wales. Each squad has its own drugs section.

In addition, Mr Brittan said, the regional crime squads would get another 200
officers to work on drug-related investigations.

'The addition of dedicated drugs wings to regional crime squads will increase
very substantially the capacity of the police to take out these major
trafficking groups,' said Mr Brittan.

The measures are those urged by the Association of Chief Police Officers in a
report on drug trafficking last week. They also represent a response to the
wider alarm that has been aroused in Britain.

Earlier this year the all-party Commons home affairs committee returned from a
visit to the United States with the warning that Britain was the target for a
South American cocaine glut.

Last year, Customs and Excise officers seized drugs in Britain with a 'street'
value of more than pounds 100 million - including almost 300 kilogrammes of
heroin, 35 kilogrammes of cocaine and about 25 tonnes of cannibis. Provisional
seizure figures for the same drugs up to May this year amounted to an estimated
street value of pounds 38 million.

The number of registered drug addicts in Britain in 1983 rose by 42 per cent
over the previous year. The figures for 1984 are expected to show a further
increase of some 25 per cent. And like the figures for drugs seizures, the
authorities know such statistics represent only the tip of the iceberg in terms
of the real size of the problem.

Referring to other measures to fight the traffickers, Mr Brittan said yesterday
that the maximum penalty for the production, supply and possession with intent
to supply heroin, other opioid drugs and cocaine had been increased from 14
years to life imprisonment. He also promised tough new provisions in the next
session of Parliament to deprive drug traffickers of their assets.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 22 1985, Monday

Spectrum: After Spain, where can the underworld run? / Implications for
criminals after extradition agreement with Britain

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 62196.

LENGTH: 1238 words


At 11 today the gates to the Costa del Crime will close with a neat legal
'click' of the lock. In the dignified surroundings of Lancaster House, ministers
will put their signatures to a new extradition treaty between Britain and Spain.

Perhaps an arm tattooed with 'I Love Mum' or the Union Jack will raise a glass
in ironic salute somewhere in the back-street bars of Fuengirola. For the
scratch of pen on paper in London will be the end of southern Spain's reputation
as a sunny bolt-hole for Britain's decamping criminals.


In future fugitives from British justice will be unable to join those untouched
by the new treaty - suspected criminals, including businessmen whose enterprises
sank curiously and dramatically; a man alleged to have murdered a woman in a
bomb attack; and a clutch of men linked to the pounds 6 million Security Express
robbery.

Gone is the situation where, as one barrister specializing in criminal and
extradition cases said: 'If you make money legitimately you go to the South of
France. If you make it illegitimately you go to the South of Spain'.

In 1978 Spain ended its 100-year-old treaty with Britain complaining that few of
her extradition requests succeeded because of the requirement for prima-facie
evidence of an offence. Today the disagreement is over.

Not surprisingly, the underworld has been researching future havens. Mr Clive
Stanbrook, a barrister and co-author of Stanbrook on Extradition, the standard
work on the subject, has received briefs for advice on extradition. The
solicitors usually want to know what countries do not have treaties with
Britain. The funny thing about the briefs is that they never give any name for
the solicitor's client.

Where the would-be fugitive can go may well depend on his crime. If he is a
hijacker, terrorist, or takes potshots at passing heads of state, the world is
ringed with international conventions.

Many countries which have not signed extradition treaties with Britain, such as
the Soviet Union and Middle Eastern states, are signatories to some, if not all,
the conventions.

Extradition treaties do not normally recognize conspiracy offences - so beloved
by Scotland Yard's flying squad for example - apart from those involving drugs.
The only exception is the British treaty with the United States which does allow
for a charge involving conspiracy.

For the rest - piracy, kidnapping, robbery, rape, criminal bankruptcy, murder
and abduction - Mr Stanbrook's advice in the first instance would be to consult
the schedules of the Extradition Act 1870.

They reveal that Britain currently has bilateral treaties with 43 countries plus
arrangements with the Commonwealth or dependencies. In all there are 105
countries where the long arm of British law can reach.

However, there are another 75 states where the writ of Bow Street magistrates
court does not extend. There are few continents of the world where sanctuary is
not available providing the criminal is rich enough.

But it would have to be a desperate British bank robber who fled to the great
swathes of central Africa and the Sahara where no extradition applies.

Israel, Iraq and Cyprus are the only countries in the Middle East with treaties
linked to Britain but the regimes in many other states would be uninviting.

For the criminal who did not wish to stray far, Europe is almost completely
closed. And East Germany or Bulgaria are very unlikely to be welcoming.

Despite South America's reputation as the home of refugees ranging from ageing
Nazis to international swindlers, extradition seems to be one law even banana
republics ratify. The majority of countries have treaties with Britain.

Yet South and Central America has been the subject of anxious scrutiny by
fugitives in Spain for the past year. The search has concentrated on the tiny
state of Costa Rica.

In the centre of the current cockpit of Latin American warfare, Costa Rica would
seem to be an odd choice. But it has a history of offering sanctuary to
fugitives in the Caribbean including Robert Vesco, former head of Investors
Overseas Services (IOS).

Unlike most surrounding countries the population of 2.2 million is European in
origin and the climate pleasant. The country has the highest literacy rate in
Latin America, free education state health schemes, a long history of democracy
and no standing army.

A would-be resident would need to prove an income from abroad which would
sustain him for five years. That achieved, he could get a permit to stay, bring
his family and buy property. There is supposed to be a check with Interpol.

Unfortunately for those seeking refuge, news of the Costa del Crime interest in
Costa Rica reached London earlier this year while the country's director of
immigration was on a visit. A spokesman for the embassy told The Times that the
country's congress is now reviewing immigration rules.

But if that door shuts - Costa Rica eventually threw Vesco out - there is always
Brazil, where Ronnie Biggs, the Great Train Robber, still lives. Residency is
available if the applicant has dollars 300,000 (pounds 150,000) to invest.

Neighbouring Venezuela is cheaper. There is no financial requirement, but
residency is only given after the applicant has stayed in the country for two
years.

But the ideal for a British criminal on the run would be somewhere where he
could mingle easily, feel reasonably at home. Some lawyers believe the answer is
South Africa.

According to South Africa House, an applicant can get residency if he can show
he has independent means of about pounds 100,000. There are no problems about
dependents or buying property.

If South Africa seems like paradise, there is a word of warning from Mr Frank
Cater, who retired earlier this year as commander of the Flying Squad. In his
experience the South African police are not adverse to deporting undersirables
with little discussion.

But there is a crumb of comfort from Mr Cater, who personally sees Brazil as the
criminals' haven of the future, as wanted men can go to a country with
extradition agreements and try to brazen it out if discovered since extradition
is not always guaranteed.

Stay long enough in most countries, with or without treaties, take citizenship
and there seems little the British authorities can do. We may be prepared to
extradite our citizens but few other countries do the same.

It remains to be seen whether the fugitives of the Costa del Crime will stay in
Spain long enough. The new extradition treaty is not backdated and cannot be
applied to them. Should they leave Spain and try to re-enter it does become
active against them.

Even if they stay safely in their villas, life may still get difficult. Last
week Ley Organica sobe Derechos y libertades de los Extranjeros en Espana came
into force. Translated into English as the 'Law of Foreigners' it opens the way
for deportation.

The key clauses say deportations can be carried out where someone has a criminal
record carrying a penalty of longer than a year in prison or whether they
'engage in any activity which is contrary to Spanish interests or which might
adversely affect Spain's relationship with other countries'.

It is no accident that the Director of Public Prosecution's office a mile from
today's signing ceremony is collating details of all outstanding warrants for
fugitives in Spain.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 31, 1985

Ulster Unionists see duplicity in row with BBC / Controversial 'Real Lives'
Ulster documentary film banned

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 829 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The moralising tone adopted by the Government in the row over the BBC's film
featuring the Sinn Fein's leader, Martin McGuinness, is seen by many inside
Ulster as a classic example of how a two-faced policy is pursued in the name of
pragmatism.

In a letter to an Official Unionist councillor on 10 Downing Street writing
paper, Mrs Thatcher's private secretary, writing in the Prime Minister's name,
said last month that it would not help democracy or the fight against terrorism
for the Sinn Fein to be declared illegal.


Sinn Fein 'as a organisation, is not primarily and actively established for and
engaged in terrorist acts.'

The reply has puzzled Unionists who want to now what 'primarily' means. Either
Sinn Fein is engaged in or linked to acts of terrorism or it is not.

The Official Unionist Party says the Government is again having it both ways
with Cabinet Ministers happy to damn the Sinn Fein's leaders as members of the
IRA but doing nothing about it.

The Government is obviously mindful of the harm that any ban on the Sinn Fein
would do to Britain's reputation. In the United States, it would be seen by many
as an attempt to strangle the political aspirations of a sizeable proportion of
the minority.

Proscription might also drive a significant number of people underground to
swell the ranks of the IRA or give the police and the army the task of rounding
up thousands who openly admitted membership and then the courts the task of
trying them.

So the government chooses to allow the Republicans to take part in elections and
to sit on local councils. It then tries to ignore them. Ministers will not meet
delegations with Sinn Fein members and try to keep their hands clean by refusing
to deal with Sinn Fein's representatives.

Unionists who now find themselves sitting down in 17 of Northern Ireland's 26
local authorities to discuss street lighting and refuse collecting with Sinn
Fein members, have been driven almost apoplectic by the government's approach.

Another source of anger and allegations of duplicity is the way prominent
Republicans, such as Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness, can be the subject of
exclusion orders and kept out of Great Britain.

If, in the name of the public good, they are not allowed to walk the streets of
London or Manchester, why are they able to operate openly in Belfast or
Londonderry, the Loyalists ask.

The Home Secretary, Mr Leon Brittan, said the BBC programme would give succour
to terrorism. Published every week and freely available in Northern Ireland is
An Phoblacht (Republican News).

In the issue of October 18 last year, after the Brighton bombing, the front page
was covered with a picture of a the devastated Grand Hotel. Superimposed was a
photograph of a hooded and armed man with the headline 'IRA Blitz Brits.'

Inside, there was a long interview with an IRA spokesman, who explained the
theory behind the bombing, and how the aim was to kill the entire Cabinet and
other prominent Conservatives.

Last week's issue had a front-page item labelled 'Exclusive IRA Photos' showing
two hooded and armed men posing in daylight in what was said to be a residential
part of west Belfast.

The link between those who recognise the Sinn Fein as a legitimate political
party and would not want to see Republican News banned and the Unionists, who
believed that Mrs Thatcher's strident rhetoric is not pursued to its own logical
coclusion is the recognition that there are differences between what the
Government sometimes say and what it does.

Mr Frank Millar, general secretary of the Official Unionist Party, argues there
is no difference between the succour Mr Brittan says is given to the Sinn Fein
by a television interview with Martin McGuinness and the succour he says the IRA
gets through the 59 Sinn Fein representatives sitting in Ulster's councils.

'It is all very well for Mrs Thatcher to talk about how firmly she would deal
with a hijacked airliner that ends up on the tarmac at Heathrow,' he said.
'There is too much talk of terrorism as some sort of foreign disease. Mrs
Thatcher should show her determination by acting in her own backyard.'

Meanwhile Sinn Fein continues to gain. In is now once more in the spotlight, its
inherent support of the 'armed struggle' of the IRA provoking divisions between
what it sees as different parts of the British establishment.

Under Gerry Adams's leadership the Sinn Fein has gone out of its way to exploit
the Republican movement's so-called Armalite-and-ballot box philosophy.

A graphic example of that came earlier this year with the election to the
Londonderry City Council of Gerald Doherty. In 1972 Mr Doherty had been
convicted of planting explosives contained in dustbins outside the very building
where he now sits as a councillor.

After being carried shoulder high round the Guildhall after his election Mr
Doherty was presented by Martin McGuinness with a dustbin.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 31 1985, Wednesday

Libya agrees to pay for Norwegian sailor's death

BYLINE: From Our Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62204.

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: OSLO


Libya will pay dollars 500,000 (pounds 357,000) compensation for the death of a
Norwegian sailor and the ill-treatment of several of his fellow crew members in
Tripoli last year. Several people will also be prosecuted, the Foreign Ministry
here announced.

After negotiations in Tripoli, Libya now admits that the treatment of the cargo
ship, Germa Lionel, was illegal.


The ship's treatment was considered an act of terrorism by Norway.

Norway's Ambassador to Libya, Mr Kjell Rasmussen, assisted by the chief of
criminal police in Oslo, Mr Arne Husse, met the Libyan Foreign Minister, Dr Ali
Treike, and completed the negotiations with Libyan officials.

Armed guards had watched every move the crew made on board. Crew members were
brought ashore for interrogation in a customs building. Several suffered
beatings and one sailor died.

The German Lionel came to Tripoli from Britain and the first accusations against
the crew claimed that the ship carried documents from anti-government Libyans
living in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1985

Leading Article: Peace perches at the top of a volcano / Anglo-Irish peace
negotiations

LENGTH: 647 words


At the very start of the current (and somewhat long-drawn-out) Anglo-Irish
negotiating process Mr James Prior, then Secretary of State, gave warning of the
prospects. Any sign of an approach to agreement, he told the Commons, would lead
not to a diminution of violence but to an increase. That needed to be said,
although any observer of Northern Ireland will regard it as a truism. There are
very powerful ifluences on both sides of the divide, and especially on the
Republican side, for whom a durable Anglo-Irish agreement would be a
catastrophe. If adequately and sensitively drawn it could command the attention
of large numbers who are disaffected from the perceived inferiority of their
status in Northern Ireland and at the same time continue the attachment of the
majority of Unionists to their British connection. That is about as far removed
from the Sinn Fein and IRA programme for Ireland as anything could be.

Nobody outside the talks yet knows, and probably nobody inside, whether the
adequate and sensitive formula is within reach. But it may be, and that is
enough. It thus needed a strange lapse of judgment by the present Secretary, Mr
Douglas Hurd, to forget Mr Prior's words of wisdom announce on Tuesday that the
IRA were on the run. The answer came immediately at Ballynalinch in Co. Down in
one of the most devastating car bomb attacks the IRA has mounted. And, but for a
belated act of vigilance by the security forces on Saturday night, that response
would have been rubbed home by yet another scene of carnage in Newry. The IRA
may indeed be desperate to prevent an agreement, but it is not desperate for the
means to try.


It is, of course, a totally familiar and predictable situation that the Unionist
leadership and the IRA find common cause in seeking to prevent an Anglo-Irish
agreement. What makes that situation also palpably absurd is that the Unionists
are acting not as 'unionists' at all, but as separatists. If they are what they
claim to be, they will support the UK Government, which in this instance can
speak for a virtually united Westminster, in any arrangement it makes for the
better governance of the United Kingdom, even if that means giving the Irish
Republic a say in the administration of part of it. And administration is all
that is at stake here. No great problems of ideology, no transcendent issues of
political principle, are involved in the pettifogging matter of governing six
Irish counties with a total population slightly less than that of Hampshire.
Agreed that the Unionists are entitled to their union, but let them not behave
as though they were trying to rewrite, within their important but less than
majestic confines, the history of the Roman Empire.

This question has got to be brought to the crunch, and quite possibly Mrs
Thatcher is the person to do that. There is only one government for the United
Kingdom. It is the one over which she presides. Narrow-minded provincialism of
the kind now made manifest by Mr Molyneaux and Mr Paisley cannot be allowed to
determine the strategy of the entire United Kingdom or even the course of
Anglo-Irish relations. There are very strong bonds of solidarity between the
majority in Britain and the majority in Northern Ireland, especially so when the
Ulstermen have stood for so many years at the sharp end of terrorism. But Mr
Molyneaux and Mr Paisley show signs of testing those bonds to the limit. The
choice may come to lie between cooperating with the Irish Republic to undercut
the IRA and harkening to yet more unctuous statements of constitutional
propriety which mean nothing to the British electorate and certainly nothing to
a British soldier blown up by a landmine. The Unionists cannot have it both
ways. They cannot insist on being members of the United Kingdom and resist
everything the United Kindgom tries to do to help them.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11 1985, Sunday

Democrats attack treaty to send back IRA men / US-British terrorist extradition
treaty

BYLINE: JON CONNELL

GUESTS: WASHINGTON

SECTION: Issue 8401.

LENGTH: 872 words


AN AWKWARD battle is developing in the US Senate over a treaty that would make
it easier to extradite IRA men from America to Britain. A group of important
Democrats is embrassing both the British and American governments by putting up
a strong fight against the treaty.

The Democrats believe that IRA men sent back to Northern Ireland cannot get a
fair trial in the special courts trying alleged terrorists there, which have no
jury. They also argue that the treaty is unnecessary and that it would establish
a troubling precedent.


The aim of the new extradition treaty is to close a loophole in the existing
one. In the past, IRA men in America have sought to avoid extradition by
protesting that their crimes were 'political', a plea which US courts have
accepted on several occasions under an old tradition of giving asylum to
fugitives from authoritarian countries.

The latest and most controversial case arose last December. It involved Joseph
Doherty, an IRA gunman convicted of murdering a British soldier in Belfast and
sentenced to life imprisonment. Before his sentence could begin, Doherty escaped
from Belfast's Crumlin Road jail, got across the border into the Irish Republic
and fled to America.

Subsequently, he was arrested while working as a bartender at a New York pub
owned by a leading American supporter of Irish republican causes. A request from
the British government for his extradition was turned down by a New York federal
judge on the grounds that Doherty had been taking part in an armed struggle and
that his offence was 'political'.

The decision infuriated the British government - and the Reagan administration,
as part of its own effort to defeat international terrorism, was anxious to
help. In March, representatives of both governments met in Washington and, over
two days, drafted a new treaty. This was finally signed in June. Its principal
provision identifies specific crimes, such as hijacking, kidnapping and murder,
as non-political.

But before a new extradition treaty can pass into law in the US, it has to be
ratified by the Senate; and when it was presented to the Senate's powerful
foreign relations committee 10 days ago, it ran into trouble.

Abraham Sofaer, the State Department's legal adviser, argued that, under the
present extradition treaty, people who had committed 'barbarous crimes' against
citizens of other countries were often able to avoid extradition. 'Do we, the
American people, want our county to serve as a sanctuary for for terrorists who
attack democratic governments?' he asked.

Sofaer also pointed out that the US could hardly demand the surrender of
terrorists abroad if it refused to extradite terrorists to other nations. 'How
would we regard the argument that the murders of Robert Stethem on TWA 847 or of
the marine guards in El Salvador were political?'

He stressed that the proportion of defendants acquitted in Northern Ireland's
judge-only courts is almost the same as that in courts with juries and that the
New York judge who accepted Joseph Doherty's 'political exception' plea made it
clear that his decision had nothing to do with doubts over trial procedures in
Northern Ireland.

Democrats on the committee, however, raised all sorts of questions about the
treaty. Some of these concerned its language and its scope (for example, a
number of arms and property offences deemed by the treaty as non-political would
not even be considered crimes under American law).

But the main concerns were broader. Senators worry about the implications of
letting the US government, rather than the courts, decide what constitutes a
political offence. As one member of the committee put it: 'Should we be
deciding, by treaty, who is a freedom fighter and who is a terrorist? What
happens when you start doing this with other countries, too?'

The administration rejects this argument. At the Senate hearing, Sofaer said
that the US was negotiating similar new treaties with three other Western allies
(Italy and West Germany are believed to be two of them), but stressed that there
was no question of doing so with countries which had values and legal systems
radically different from America's.

In the forefront of the treaty's opponents is Senator Joseph Biden, a possible
contender for the Democratic party's presidential nomination in 1988 and a
leading critic of the British government's policy on Northern Ireland. There is
only a small Irish constituency in the state of Delaware, which Biden
represents, but he is of Irish descent (he lists as one of his heroes the 18th
century Irish rebel Wolfe Tone) and he is a passionate libertarian.

The foreign relations committee is due to discuss the treaty again in the middle
of next month and Biden says: 'I'm going to do all I can to hold this up as long
as I can.'

The powerful Irish lobby is also working hard to kill the treaty. For example,
Father Sean McManus, head of a political group called the Irish National Caucus,
has even cancelled his annual summer holiday to Ireland. McManus, who has
supported the IRA's use of violence but now claims to be a moderate working for
peace, plans to spend the next month campaigning against the treaty.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 22 1985, Thursday

Britain's defence 'vulnerable to nuclear attack by terrorists' / Warning by
Captain Moore, editor of 'Jane's Fighting Ships'

BYLINE: RODNEY COWTON, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62223.

LENGTH: 619 words


A warning that Britain's defences are inadequate against unconventional forms of
nuclear attack, possibly by terrorists, is given today by the Editor of Jane's
Fighting Ships.

In his foreword to the 1985-86 edition, Captain John Moore says that, because of
their size and range, nuclear ballistic missiles are rightly considered to
present the greatest danger.


'But there are numerous other devices which present a grave threat to mankind.
Nuclear-headed torpedoes, mines, nuclear-tipped shells, depth bombs and cruise
missiles all come within this category,' he says.

'A number of intelligent students have shown how a simple nuclear device can be
cobbled together at little expense once the fissle material has been brought or
stolen.'

Captain Moore says that in this situation the problems of protection against all
forms of nuclear assault must be addressed. Mines can be laid by merchant ships
and submarines in peacetime, torpedoes can be launched into harbours, submarines
carrying cruise missiles, which can be aimed at any area within some 2,000 miles
of a coastline, can remain on patrol for months.

'These methods are in addition to the placement of devices by surrogates,
terrorists of Soviet Spetsnaz forces which could lie dormant for long periods
during a crisis. The security of any State depends on its ability to detect and
neutralize such methods of attack.'

He says: 'From the naval point of view nuclear deterrence rests on the ballistic
missile submarines, but security against nuclear attack requires continual
surveillance of intruders and vigilance in all waterways and ports. This
includes all forms of anti-submarine and mine detection as well as inspection of
any unscheduled aircraft. The task is immense, the forces available inadequate.'

Captain Moore also challenges Britain's decision to buy the Trident strategic
nuclear missile system instead of placing nuclear cruise missiles on submarines.
He comments on the estimated pounds 9,285 millions cost of Trident, and says:
'Whatever juggling takes place there can be no doubt about two things - the
price will rise and this will have a considerable impact on naval equipment
expenditure'.

He criticizes two arguments used by the Ministry of Defence against employing
cruise missiles for the deterrent. Those are that they would require more
submarines than does Trident, and that, because of the shorter range of cruise
missiles, the submarines would have less searoom in which to avoid detection.

Cruise missiles could be carried in non-nuclear submarines, Captain Moore
argues, which could be built at far less cost than the Royal Navy's new
diesel-powered class, the Type 2400.

The 1,500-mile range credited to cruise missiles would allow a submarine whose
target was Moscow to operate around the Outer Hebrides, in the waters of the
southern Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. 'Anybody who has carried out
operations either in or in pursuit of a submarine in the confused waters that
can be in all these places might suggest that detection and destruction is by no
means easy.'

Captain Moore also gives a warning of the possibly serious consequences of the
continuing run-down of the British merchant fleet. Between 1970 and 1982
Britain's share of the world merchant fleet fell by 50 per cent. From 1982 to
1984 her tanker fleet was reduced by 18 per cent and breakbulk/general cargo
ships by 26 per cent.

'Unless this trend is arrested the British-registered Merchant Navy will be
dissipated completely by 1993 and reliance will have to be placed on foreign or
flag-of-convenience ships.'

Jane's Fighting Ships 1985/86 (published by Jane's Publishing Company: pounds
62.50).

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 28, 1985

MPs in uproar at 'British silence' / Government refuses to comment on Rainbow
Warrior sinking in New Zealand

BYLINE: By MARTIN LINTON

LENGTH: 399 words


The Foreign Office steadfastly refused to make any kind of statement about the
Rainbow Warrior affair last night, despite a clamour from MPs of all parties.

The sharpest criticism came from the Conservative MP for Southend East, Mr Teddy
Taylor, who said that the Government was insulting one of its closest
Commonwealth allies by its 'deafening silence' on the affair.


He described the Foreign Office attitude as 'a conspiracy of silence' on what
was obviously an international act of piracy, and demanded that Britain protest
to France about the bombing of the Greenpeace ship and call for an apology.

The Labour frontbencher, Mr John Prescott, - called for a British inquiry into
the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior because it was a British-registered ship.

Labour's environment spokesman, Dr David Clark, who first raised the issue with
the Prime Minister in Parliament, said yesterday that he remained suspicious
that Britain was in some way involved in the sinking.

Labour's foreign affairs spokesman, Mr George Foulkes, said in a letter to Sir
Geoffrey Howe yesterday that the rumours of British involvement could be a
diversionary tactic by French intelligence.

But he added that 'in view of the known co-operation between Western countries
on intelligence matters, and the record of involvement of British intelligence
in some unfortunate escapades in the past, it does regrettably-have a ring of
truth.'

The Foreign Office insists, however, that the allegations of MI5 involvement are
based on a misunderstanding.

The Minister of State at the Foreign Office, Mr Malcolm Rifkind, has no plans to
make a statement about the affair, although the Foreign Office is ready to give
diplomatic support if Greenpeace International, the owners of the Rainbow
Warrior, ask for it. Greenpeace International was very critical yesterday about
the British Government's inactivity on the issue, which it contrasted with the
outspokenness of New Zealand's Prime Minister. Mr David Lange.

A director of Greenpeace International, Mr Pete Wilkinson, said: 'The United
Kingdom Government's concern over international terrorism has been evidenced by
a resounding silence from Whitehall. It is as though nothing had happened at
all, when in fact a British-registered vessel was sunk by an act of terrorism in
foreign waters, taking the life of a Greenpeace crewman.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 2, 1985

MI5 and army help put shield round conferences / Security at British political
meetings

BYLINE: By STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 691 words


Tighter security will surround the main political conferences which get under
way later this month as the Government and police, advised by the army and MI5,
make a determined effort to prevent a repetition of the IRA bomb attack which
killed five people at the Conservative conference in Brighton last year.

Four provincial police forces have been working all year on their plans in
cooperation with the political parties and the management of hotels and
conference centres. The risk at each conference is being assessed by Scotland
Yard's Special Branch, which has national responsibility for countering Irish
terrorism.


Since January, the Chief Inspector of Constabulary, Sir Lawrence Byford, has
chaired a committee to gather advice for police forces. It has drawn on army
experience of search techniques in Northern Ireland and studied pass systems and
control of access to buildings.

The Byford committee's task was to study counter-measures for this year's
conferences, and it will shortly hand over to a new committee which will gather
security advice for police forces.

Chaired by a Home Office civil servant, it will have representatives from MI5,
the army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary and will bring more of the techniques
developed in Northern Ireland to mainland Britain.

Mr John Hoddinott, deputy chief constable of Hampshire, who reported on the
shortcomings in the preparations by Sussex Police for last year's Conservative
Party conference, is on the Byford committee. He found there had been inadequate
hotel searches, unclear security codes and instructions to officers, and poor
liaison between police and hotel management.

Delegates, visitors and journalists have had to apply for passes well in advance
this year, partly so that security checks can be made on them. People without
passes will not be able to enter the Imperial Hotel in Blackpool, which has been
booked by the Conservative Party for the week of October 6.

Mr John Herdman, general manager of the Imperial said the main effect of this
would be to exclude holidaymakers who in the past might have dropped into the
hotel in the hope of meeting politicians.

Staff, including chambermaids, had been trained for some time to check rooms and
alert management if anything seemed to have been disturbed - a precaution
against the type of 'sleeper' bomb used by the terrorists in Brighton. There
have been meetings to ensure that communications between hotel and police work
efficiently.

'Nearer the time, I expect there'll be checks inside and outside, and there are
discreet checks on people coming into the hotel. At first I was a bit nervous
about that, because English people don't like being checked on, but in fact
everyone's been very cooperative.'

The Trades Union Congress in Blackpool this week will be much less affected,
with most security concentrated on any visiting Labour ex-ministers,
particularly former Northern Ireland secretaries like Mr Roy Mason and Mr Merlyn
Rees. Access to the Winter Gardens conference hall, however, is likely to be as
tightly controlled as for the Tory conference.

The Labour Party conference is being held in Bournemouth, away from the usual
venues of Brighton and Blackpool. It presents a new headache for Dorset police,
one of the country's smaller forces, which tested new security procedures at the
Young Conservatives conference in Bournemouth earlier this year.

Mr Antony Pointer, assistant chief constable, said the police were assuming that
the Opposition party were just as much in danger as the party in power. But the
wishes of the party over security measures and the 'perceived threat' at any one
time must be taken into account.

A substantial number of officers was involved in the operation, with a visible
increase in manning in Bournemouth at the time of the conference, he said. But
no help would be needed from other forces, except in lending explosives sniffer
dogs.

Devon and Cornwall police are taking care of the Social Democratic Party
conference in Torquay from September 9, and Tayside Police the Liberals in
Dundee from September 15.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 5, 1985

Britons cut short holiday after Athens bombing

BYLINE: From GEORGE COATS

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: ATHENS


After the grenade attack at an hotel near Athens on Tuesday, in which 18 British
tourists were injured, British diplomats were discussing the security
implications with Greek officials in Athens yesterday.

The grenade attack was claimed as the work of the Palestinian Black September
group. Police said that the incident was not necessarily linked with a bomb
attack on another hotel in the same area on August 8, in which 13 people, six of
them British, were injured.


A revolutionary Muslim organisation claimed responsibility for that attack.

Some of the British tourists staying at the Glyfada Hotel where the grenade
attack took place decided yesterday to cut short their visit and return home.
They included 11 members of a social club, the Birmingham Centre for the Deaf.

Others accepted an offer by their tour operator, Intasun, of new accommodation
in an hotel down the coast as Sounion.

But many decided to stay in he Glyfada Hotel for the rest of their holiday. Some
of these could be seen exhibiting a 'Britain can take it' stiff upper lip
yesterday morning, sunbathing around the hotel pool area into which two grenades
were thrown.

One injured member of the deaf party, Mr Reginald Severn, was expected to be
discharged yesterday, embassy sources in Athens said. Another, Jane Cunningham,
aged 40, is expected to be discharged today.

Mr and Mrs William Hunter from Scunthorpe, their daughter Sandra and their
son-inlaw, Philip Smith, are expected to be detained for another four or five
days. Sandra had a small wound in the arm but is three months pregnant, although
doctors say she is in no danger.

Mary Harding, from Horsham, Sussex, will be in hospital longer although she is
said to be recovering well from surgery to extract shrapnel splinters.

The British ambassador to Athens, Mr Jeremy Thomas, called on the
secretary-general of the Public Order Ministry yesterday to discuss the
terrorist incidents.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1985

Monday People: Man of war / Seumas Kerr, Ulster Sinn Fein council chairman

BYLINE: By PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 975 words


In Market Street, Omagh, workmen were busy hammering up boards, clearing glass
splinters and shovelling away the rubble which remained after an IRA car bombing
last week which tore the guts out of 50 shops in the centre of the Co Tyrone
town.

Women queued amid the hastily erected scaffolding, waiting to get into premises
advertising sales of bomb damaged goods, while some miserable shop owners loaded
what remained of their stock into Transit vans.


Less than half a mile away, at the headquarters of Omagh District Council, a
modern building set among trees and neat lawns, the local public representative
of the IRA sat in his tastefully furnished office and explained that the
paramilitaries were right.

Seamus Kerr at 23 years of age, one of two Sinn Fein council chairman in
Northern Ireland, does not apologise for the IRA. What people have to
understand, he says, is that the campaign is aimed not at the hapless shop
keepers or their inconvenienced customers but at the people who have to pick up
the bill for compensation - the British Government.

It is not an attitude usually voiced by a prominent citizen holding public
office. Earlier this year Mr Kerr infuriated Loyalists when he said he could
understand why the IRA would see any of his council workers who were also
part-time members of the security forces as legitimate targets. Last week, a
police report on those comments came back from the Director of Public
Prosecutions marked 'No Further Action.'

Although Seamus Kerr had been described as 'Mr Armalite without the mask,' Omagh
does not go through the outrageous antics and disruptions racking many of
Northern Ireland's local authorities now that Sinn Fein has seats in substantial
numbers.

In Magherafelt, Unionists have stood on their chairs and sung 'God Save The
Queen' to drown out republicans, and in Belfast Loyalists have used toy horns
whistles and stamped their feet to get the same effect. Craigavon and Cookstown
have tried to exclude Sinn Fein members altogether while two authorities have
suspended proceedings so as not to allow the Republicans a forum.

In Fermanagh a plan by Sinn Fein to remove portraits of King William of Orange
from the town hall turned Unionists into a rage. In Londonderry a Sinn Fein move
on Derry City Council to sell off historic possessions, including a mayoral
chain and medallion presented in 1691 by King William, and give the proceeds to
the starving in Ethiopia, turned the Unionists apoplectic. But in Omagh, council
business has carried on.

Articulate and affable, Seamus Kerr became interested in Republicanism at an
early age, joined Sinn Fein at 16 and got involved in the hunger strikes. He
works part-time in the family business but most days are spent involved with
Sinn Fein and the council. Although he is only 23, Kerr is Sinn Fein's longest
serving councillor. When he took his seat in April 1953 after winning a
byelection for the fiercely Republican Carrickmore - where a Tricolour flies in
the local park and where the kerbstones and telegraph poles are painted green,
white, and orange, he was the party's first representative to take office in an
Ulster forum for more than half a century.

His elevation to chairman in June this year through the support of other
nationalists was greeted with cries from the public gallery of 'You want your
throat cut, Kerr,' and 'No Pope here.' Since then all has been relatively quiet.
'l have been here for two and a half years now and they know me. They also know
Sinn Fein is here to stay. There is a bit of playing to the public during open
meetings but in the committees hardly any difficulty at all. Most of them call
me 'Mr Chairman'.'

The work, like most of that done by local councils, can appear mundane, and is'
hardly the stuff of revolution. Responsibilities include running the local
refuse collections and a skip service, building controls, the roads, and an
advisory role on planning matters. It has not gone unnoticed that the authority
is also responsible for the two local cemeteries.

The paradox of Northern Ireland politics with members who openly support the use
of violence while going about the sort of business known only too well by
councillors anywhere is evident when Kerr talks of a problem he recently sorted
out for a local farmer, a Protestant who supports the official Unionist party -
whose slogan is 'Smash Sinn Fein'.

The farmer approached him because his hedges were not being trimmed. Mr Chairman
fixed it.

And it cannot be too many council chairmen who talk of Britain being forced out
at the point of a gun and then, as he did recently, entertain a local women's
institute group, who had visitors from Holland, for a tea and cakes reception.

Perhaps they would have choked on their sponge slices if they had heard him talk
about the Brighton bombing.

'Mrs Thatcher probably has the last word on much of the conflict and suffering
in the North of Ireland. Her attitude to the hunger strikers was sadistic. I
don't think there is an Irishman who did not have a certain degree of
satisfaction in the wake of the Brighton bombing. And if she remains in power
long enough, there is no doubt the IRA could strike again.'

He argues that the emergence of Sinn Fein as an electoral force has exposed the
lie he claims Britain wants to propagate about republicanism being an excess of
criminality. He insists that what is going on in the North is not inspired by
sectarianism but by imperialism.

'I am here to try and ensure this sort of government does not survive. What you
must understand is that this is a war situation, Irish Republicanism versus the
British government.'

And with that Mr Kerr had to go. There was a committee meeting to attend,
problems about hospitals to be sorted out, road schemes to be studied.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 24, 1985

Israel condemns British Middle East moves / Sale of weapons to Jordan and Saudi
Arabia criticised

BYLINE: From IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israel yesterday issued an angry formal protest to Britain over the sale of
weapons to Saudi Arabia and Jordan, and the invitation to two senior PLO
officials to London for talks with the Foreign Secretary.

The Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, told a parliamentary committee later that
he would soon be issuing a 'clear response' to the two British moves. But he
rejected suggestions by rightwing MPs that Mrs Thatcher should not be allowed to
visit Israel, or that he should not go to Britain.


The British ambassador to Tel-Aviv, Mr Clifford Squires, was summoned to the
Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem to be told by the acting Foreign Minister, Mr
Moshe Arens, of Israel's 'deep displeasure' at what was described as 'Britain's
deviation from its policy in the Middle East.'

The Foreign Minister, Mr Yitzhak Shamir, is away in New York, where he is
expected to see Sir Geoffrey Howe today.

Mr Arens told the British envoy that the pounds 3.3 billion sale of fighter
aircraft to Saudi Arabia, and pounds 270 million worth of military equipment to
Jordan, were to two countries which regarded themselves as in a state of war
with Israel.

The Saudi deal includes 48 Tornado fighter-bombers, some of which are expected
to be deployed at an air base just over 100 miles south of the Israeli Red Sea
port of Eilat.

'The planned arms sales violate the strategic balance in the area and increase
the danger of military conflict,' the Foreign Ministry statement said.

It added: 'The meeting with members of the PLO cannot be interpreted in Israel
other than as an encouragement to an organisation whose aim is the destruction
of the state of Israel and which perpetrates acts of terror against its
citizens.'

The row began last Friday, when Mrs Thatcher announced at the end of a two-day
visit to Jordan that she was inviting two members of the PLO's powerful
executive committee to London in the framework of a joint Jordanian-Palestinian
delegation. She said that the purpose of the invitation was to help the United
States make up its mind about meeting a similar delegation.

Israeli officials said that they took issue with Mrs Thatcher's description of
the two Palestinians - Bishop Ilya Khouri and Mr Mohammed Milhem - as 'men of
peace' who accepted United Nations' resolutions guaranteeing Israel's security
and rejected terrorism.

One senior official said: 'There is real, deep concern not only about the
developments which may be triggered off by these two decisions but also about
the evolution of British-Israeli relations. The concern should not be
underestimated.'

Officials confirmed that a planned sale of Israeli airborne warning aircraft to
Argentina had been blocked by the US because the planes contained American
parts. But they contended that the Arab-Israeli conflict and the
British-Argentine conflict were 'assymetrical.'

Israel has looked on in satisfaction in recent months as the star of the PLO has
waned in regional and international politics. One senior official said here
yesterday that Mrs Thatcher's invitation to the two Palestinian leaders had
given the organisation exactly the kind of 'artificial respiration' without
which it would wither and die.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 28 1985, Saturday

All the news - for just a few / Analysis of Conservative Government's response
to TV without frontiers

BYLINE: BRENDA MADDOX

SECTION: Issue 62255.

LENGTH: 789 words


In the debates between governments and broadcasters over the ethics of covering
terrorist activity, a novel problem has been overlooked.

The dilemma was dramatized at the Royal Television Society's conference in
Cambridge last weekend. In a session staged by Brian Lapping of Granada
Television, television news editors had ethical problems thrown at them for
quick decision. The difference between American and British practice was
striking. Would you, the editors were asked, send a camera crew to photograph
the public execution of a British nurse convicted of smuggling heroin in some
distant dictatorship? The BBC and ITN editors hesitated. There were important
considerations to be weighed - giving a despot the publicity he sought,
protecting the public's sensibilities and allow a doomed woman the right to die
in privacy. Paul Friedman of ABC News did not hesitate. 'We'd be there,' he
said.


'But what are we going to do?' asked an anxious voice from the hall, 'when Irish
satellites or American satellites bring into this country news programmes which
do not conform to our agreed code of ethics on terrorists?'

The answer is clear, or should be. Nothing at all. Neither technically nor
morally can Britain stop television news programmes in English coming in from
foreign sources. The Thatcher government has already made legal the individual
ownership of satellite dishes which can pick up the programmes. Moreover, it is
considering leaving Unesco precisely, in large part, because the Third World
governments which dominate it do not respect western principles of the free flow
of information.

The invasion of foreign television news is no remote prospect. It begins on
Monday, when the American Cable News Network will begin beaming its programmes
into Britain by satellite. The programmes of CNN, owned by Ted Turner, are
edited in Atlanta and shipped over on an Intelsat satellite. The start of the
service to Britain will mark the first time (apart from the American television
news funnelled into American military bases in Britain) that a foreign source of
television news in English is available here nationally.

In terms of sensationalism, there is nothing to worry British authorities. CNN
is in no way as flamboyant as its owner. It has a reputation for impartiality, a
worldwide network of bureaux (CNN brought into Europe the first live pictures
from the Mexico earthquake) and no wish to offend. It is an associate member of
the European Broadcasting Union, EBU. But its standards are different.

In December, for example, CNN carried the hideous screams of a hostage whose
finger was being amputated by terrorists on a hijacked plane in the Middle East
- a kind of audio nasty not usually inflicted on British ears. It is quite
possible that a CNN reporter might interview an IRA man in an 'unBritish' way.

In its search to restrain the media, the British government would do nothing so
blatantly hypocritical as to try to keep the Turner network out. It has no need:
subtler techniques are available and have already been applied. The EBU, most of
whose members represent national broadcasting monopolies which see transborder
and international television as the plague, has granted the Turner network
entrance into countries, such as Britain, where the national telecommunications
authority has accepted it, but under a very odd restriction: for at least a year
CNN may come in only to hotels and not into cable television systems. The
difference is that the hotel audience is composed of transients and tourists but
cable television is viewed by the general population.

The broadcasting organizations of the EBU are aiming not at censorship but at
self-protection. Some of their own news service, such as ITN, are carried on the
Turner channel and do not want to compete with themselves. But the effect is the
same.

Under the rules by which this new 24-hour source of news will come into Britain,
therefore, CNN will be available only in The Dorchester and a few other luxury
hotels. It can also be picked up by those who own their own satellite dishes;
they can receive it as it falls from the sky. But Britain's much-vaunted new
cable systems in Swindon, Aberdeen, Croydon, Westminister and elsewhere,
desperate to fill their spare channels, will have to do without.

The free flow of information is a fine principle to preach to the Third World
and the Soviet Union, it seems. But translate it into that potent and lucrative
force known as television news and it becomes an unwelcome foreign influence
from which the British public is to be shielded for some time yet.

The author is editor of Connections, the communications newsletter of The
Economist.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 4, 1985

Terror attack feared as two face charges / Jordanian and Iraqi men charged with
conspiracy to cause explosions in London

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 368 words


A Jordanian and an Iraqi are to appear at a south London court on Monday,
charged with conspiracy to cause explosions. One of the men has lived in Britain
for some time. The other arrived recently from Spain.

Their arrest by Scotland Yard anti-terrorist branch detectives at the weekend,
and the seizure of hand grenades, follows information that Arab terrorists
intend to mount a bombing campaign in London.


One opportunity for such an attack would be the visit to London soon of two
leading members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. An Anglican bishop,
the Right Reverend Elia Khoury and Mr Mohammed Milhein, a former mayor of
Halhoul, both regarded as moderates and 'peace people,' are part of a PLO
delegation which will meet the Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe.

Details of the visit are being kept secret and the police guard for it has been
increased.

The anti-terrorist branch, C13, has been particularly interested in sympathisers
in Britain of the extremist Arab Revolutionary Socialist Group (ARSG), which is
dedicated to overthrowing the LPO.

The ARSG has attacked British targets in Rome, Bombay, Athens and Madrid. It
first came to notice when it assassinated a British Council representative in
Athens, Mr Kenneth Whitty. It was suspected of murdering Mr Percy Norris, the
British Deputy High Commissioner, in Bombay.

An Arab terrorist attack in Britain during the visit of the two officials would
clearly embarrass Mrs Thatcher, who is seen by the PLO's rivals to be giving it
her tacit support.

Counter - terrorist specialists have monitored an increase in Arab terrorism,
including a hand grenade attack at a crowded Rome restaurant and the
assassination of the crew of a yacht at Larnaca, Cyprus.

This bout of terrorist activity is intended to reap maximum publicity but,
although the Rome and Cyprus attacks were organised by the PLO, the two facing
charges in London have not yet been connected with any group.

Information has been received by the anti-terrorist branch that an attack in
London could also be an ambition of the fanatical Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine, which opposes the PLO for its 'moderate' stance.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             October 6 1985, Sunday

Britain on terror alert for Libyan arms push

BYLINE: CHRIS RYDER

SECTION: Issue 8409.

LENGTH: 495 words


SECURITY officials in London and Belfast are becoming alarmed that Libya is
intent on supplying weapons and explosives to terrorist groups in Britain and
Ireland. They believe that Irish republican organisations have been seeking arms
from Libya for the first time in a dozen years and that Colonel Gadaffi's regime
may have supplied grenades to a Palestinian group in London.

The British and Irish authorities have now mounted a big surveillance operation
on suspects who have Libyan connections in an attempt to prevent arms or money
reaching the Provisional IRA or the Irish National Liberation Army.


The last time Irish extremists were known to have obtained Libyan weapons was in
1973 when the Irish navy intercepted the motor vessel Claudia. On board was Joe
Cahill, the former Belfast Provisional IRA leader, and large amounts of weapons
and explosives, including 250 sub-machine guns. Gadaffi later switched
allegiance to Protestant extremists, believing they were more revolutionary. But
special branch detectives now fear that he is once again willing to sponsor
terrorism in Britain in retaliation for the expulsion of Libyan diplomats from
London and the British decision to break diplomatic relations.

The Provisionals and INLA have been trying to obtain aid from Libya and the
Middle East because of successful cooperation between the United States and
Europe, and between British and Irish authorities in stemming supplies of arms.

Intelligence analysts especially fear that republican extremists are looking for
heavy automatic weapons and rocket launchers to attack helicopters and disrupt
patrols in the border areas, where land mines have made patrolling by vehicle
particularly dangerous. 'The information we have received so far is very
worrying,' a senior security source in Ulster said. 'If the terrorists here were
to obtain assistance from Libya it could cost many lives. We have to take what
steps we can to stop them.'

Those concerns have been heightened by the discovery in London of hand-grenades
that are thought to have been smuggled into Britain from Libya on board a flight
from Tripoli. Police are still uncertain who or what was going to be the target
for a terrorist attack. But they suspect the grenades are linked to a Palestine
extremist group led by Abu Nidal, who was recently in Tripoli visiting Gadaffi.
Abu Nidal, a nom de guerre for Sabri el-Banna, has two reasons to start attacks
in London.

It was his men who were responsible for the shooting of the Israeli ambassador
to London in 1982 and he has constantly sought to get them released from British
jails.

But another potential target could be two moderate representatives of the
Palestine Liberation Organization, who are due in London soon for talks with Sir
Geoffrey Howe, the foreign secretary. Abu Nidal, whose organisation has already
murdered PLO men in Lisbon, Athens and Beirut, has vowed to kill the delegates
for 'treason'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 7, 1985

Major security guards Tories from terrorists / Protection of Conservative Party
conference at Blackpool

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 443 words


The police, intelligence services and the army are staging one of the biggest
security operations in peacetime Britain to protect the Conservative Party
Conference in Blackpool against a terrorist attack.

The planning which began almost immediately after the IRA bombing at the Tory
conference in Brighton last year, has produced the most comprehensive, and
probably expensive operation. It will reach its most intense stage on Friday,
when an estimated 5,000 representatives pack the Winter Gardens for Mrs
Thatcher's final rallying speech.


All the security groundwork, evolved by consultation between the four provincial
police forces involved in the major conferences this year, the army and MI5,
will have been completed when the Blackpool conference opens tomorrow. Special
Branch, which counters Irish terrorism nationwide. has been in charge.

The Chief Inspector of Constabulary, Sir Lawrence Byford, has chaired a
committee to collate advice from security agencies and the police. The Royal
Ulster Constabulary gave its expertise on search, pass systems and control of
access to buildings.

The headquarters hotel, the Imperial, will be as closely guarded as the Winter
Gardens. Several security experts, including members of the SAS, have spent
weeks at the Imperial and other hotels, assessing risk factors.

All the sewers around the conference centre and other principal venues have been
regularly examined for delay-timed explosives.

The police inquiry into security at Brighton by the Sussex police found there
had been inadequate hotel searches, unclear security codes and instructions to
officers, as well as poor liaison between police and hotel management.

This year police have regularly visited all the hotels in Blackpool. Staff,
including chambermaids, have been trained for some time to check rooms and alert
management if anything seemed to be unusual.

Conference representatives, visitors and the hundreds of journalists covering
the conference have had to apply for security passes well in advance, partly to
enable security vetting to be conducted on some of them. The hotels where Mrs
Thatcher and her ministers will stay will remain secret, and it is likely that
politicians considered at extra risk may be moved from one hotel to another
during the week.

Lancashire police have issued security guidelines to conference visitors which
include advice about not parking their cars in secluded places (which would
enable a bomb to be planted) not leaving luggage unattended, and not travelling
alone in railway carriages (because they could be easily robbed of their
conference entry passes).

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 1985

Howe happy, and PLO visit still on / British reaction to US interception of
Achille Lauro hijackers

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK

LENGTH: 352 words


The British Government has expressed great satisfaction that the four hijackers
'can now be brought to face justice.'

The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, yesterday praised the United States
for intervening, saying that'' it is most important that effective action has
been taken, and is being taken against this wanton act of terrorism.'


There was a glimmer of relief in Whitehall that Britain had not been involved in
the action to intercept the Palestinians and it was disclosed that Britain had
not been given any advance warning of the plan.

By maintaining a certain distance from the events connected with the Achille
Lauro, Sir Geoffrey was able to justify the Government's decision to go ahead
and receive two members of the PLO council on Monday. He insisted that the two,
who would be coming as members of a joint Jordanian-Palestinian delegation, had
'repudiated violence and terrorism.'

He recognised that this might upset Israel and even the Americans, but, 'in the
Middle East, it is not possible to move anywhere unless some risk is involved.'

By PATRICK KEATLEY

A reception for the Palestinians has been cancelled on the advice for the
anti-terrorist squad at Scotland Yard.

Arab extremists, who have already said that the Palestinians coming to London
are traitors, might be provoked into some kind of physical attack by the seizure
of the hijackers. For this reason, even heavier security will now be provided
and the Foreign Office has refused all inquiries about a visit.

The delegation will be led by the deputy Prime Minister of Jordan, Mr Abdul
Wahab al Majali. He will be accompanied by the Foreign Minister, Mr Taher al
MesriThe two Palestinians are the former Mayor of Jerusalem, Mr Mohammed Milhem,
and the leader of the Arab Anglican community in Amman, Bishop Elia Khoury.

Both of them now live in exile in Jordan but have had lifelong connections with
the Palestinian national movement. The visit was worked out between King Hussein
and Mrs Thatcher when she visited Amman last month and is going ahead despite
objections from Israel.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 16, 1985

'British game' attacked by PLO / Palestinian officials comment on British
cancellation of London talks

BYLINE: From DAVID HIRST

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: TUNIS


Top PLO officials yesterday put forward their own version of events leading up
to the cancellation of the London talks, which differs sharply from the British
account.

While regretting the breakdown, the PLO says that the text which Sir Geoffrey
Howe expected the two PLO representatives to sign was at odds with Mrs
Thatcher's original invitation and with the Jordanian-PLO agreement of February
11.


PLO officials in Tunis also criticised Jordan, arguing that it fell in with a
British game that could not but halt the talks. 'There were no negotiations
between Jordan and the PLO on the text of the proposed declaration,' Mr Khalid
Hassan, principal architect of Mr Yasser Arafat's peace diplomacy, said.

'Late last week, the Jordanians simply handed over the text which the British
had prepared to Bishop Elia Khoury. Since he was about to take off for the
talks, he had no time to consult anyone on the matter. The Jordanians had no
part in formulating the text. It was purely British.'

In London, Mr Mohammed Milhem, one of the two PLO representatives, said that he
had called the PLO chairman to discuss amendments to the text. These were then
put to the Foreign Office, but the British insisted on the original version.

Mr Milhem told the BBC that the Jordanians went to the Foreign Office to seek
more consultations but Britain issued its statement cancelling the meeting.

As for the text itself, Mr Hassan said the PLO objected to three main points: in
expressing support for a peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli dispute, the
PLO - through its two representatives - wanted to stress the validity of all UN
resolutions since 1948 on Palestine, rather than just Security Council
Resolutions 242 and 338, with their built-in bias towards Israel.

Rather than recognising Israel's right to a secure existence within its 1967
borders, it also wanted the 1982 Fez formulation, which left Israel's precise
boundaries undefined, instead of 'opposition to all forms of terrorism and
violence from whatever sources,' the PLO wanted a distinction made between
terrorism and forms of 'armed struggle' which the UN recognises as legitimate.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 16 1985, Wednesday

Britain and India join forces to curb international crime and terror

BYLINE: HENRY STANHOPE, Foreign Policy Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62270.

LENGTH: 348 words


Britain and India are to try to co-ordinate their policies in respect of violent
crime and international terrorism, it was disclosed last night.

Agreement in principle was reached after nearly three hours of talks between Mrs
Margaret Thatcher and Mr Rajiv Gandhi during the Indian Prime Minister's two-day
visit to London.


It is likely to go down as the biggest single achievement of the visit, which
came after a difficult 12 months for Anglo-Indian relations after the
assassination of Indira Gandhi and the subsequent jubilation among members of
Britain's Sikh population of 350,000.

About 200 Sikhs demonstrated in Hyde Park in favour of a separate Sikh state of
Khalistan as the two Prime Ministers sat down at 10 Downing Street for the final
tete-a-tete of their summit. But the demonstrators faced tight security
exemplified by the arrest of 12 Sikh and the Kashmiri extremists before Mr
Gandhi even arrived.

Mrs Thatcher revealed at a Downing Street banquet that she had told Mr Gandhi
that Britain was ready to see the Suppression of Terrorism Act of 1978 extended
to cover India. This should make it easier to extradite fugitive terrorists from
either country, or ensure that they be brought to trial in the country where
they are caught.

Sources went further yesterday, however, in announcing that teams of experts
were to be established in London and Delhi to study what arrangements should be
made to ensure that violent crimes committed in one country would also be
regarded as offences in the other.

Those arrested for terrorism in Britain or India would no longer be able to
avoid extradition by claiming that their offences were political in nature.

The two heads of government also agreed yesterday that India's seventh five-year
plan provided scope for British participation through industrial collaboration
and the supply of advanced technology. Progress on a number of contracts was
satisfactory, sources added, a clear reference to, among other things, the
projected purchase by India of Sea King helicopters and Harrier aircraft.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 17 1985, Thursday

Leading Article: Friends in Need / Focus on Indian Premier Rajiv Gandhi's
British visit

SECTION: Issue 62271.

LENGTH: 600 words


Rajiv Gandhi's first visit to Britain as Prime Minister of India has ended in
apparent success, for both countries. Relations, which had deteriorated sharply
following Mrs Gandhi's assassination last October, can now be said to have been
restored by the agreement to give mutual protection by way of extradition
ortrial of terrorists.

At the core of the problem was Britain's Sikh community. Ever since the scenes
of undignified jubilation in Southall following Mrs Gandhi's death, the Indians
have been sceptical of the role of this expatriate community. Their concern was
that some British Sikhs were connected with the persisting threat of terrorism
in the Punjab. They did not accept that the British Government had done all it
could to tackle this possibility. In the past the Indians had complained about
the prominence given by the British media to Sikhs advocating the secession of
the Punjab and to the general tolerance shown to demonstrations or rallies in
London.


But of late, the Indians believed they were complaining about a far more ominous
matter. Their claim was that extremist Sikh organizations based in this country
were funding some of the terrorist groups in the Punjab. They argued that in a
series of similar cases, militant Sikh factions had organized often violent
takeovers of Sikh Gurudwaras in Britain, siphoned off the temples' potentially
large collections and proceeded to arrange for the money to be sent to
terrorists in India, often via another country, usually alleged to be Pakistan.
Although such charges had never been made publicly, the Indians nonetheless
maintained they had evidence to substantiate them.

What apparently dismayed the Indian government was the response it had
originally received from Mrs Thatcher's administration. Whilst the Foreign
Office had offered to do all it could, it had simultaneously, with some
justification, argued that Britain could not take action against the Sikhs until
and unless they transgressed British laws. It was this argument Mr Gandhi
refused to accept. When he arrived this week, his position was that as long as
actions originating in Britain had a deleterious effect on conditions in India,
it was the responsibility of the British government to take measures to stop
them. He added that just how Mrs Thatcher's government did this was not
something India could interfere in, but equally for the British to retreat
behind the technicalities of the law would be unconvincing.

On Tuesday, Mrs Thatcher accepted Mr Gandhi's case. The practical details are
still unclear but the move would appear to have several implications. To begin
with, it suggests that the involvement in India's security affairs of some
British Sikhs, albeit a tiny minority, is perhaps deeper and more worrying than
originally believed. This is why the British government has been prepared to
extend itself to accommodate India's fears. More importantly, it also points
towards greater inter-governmental co-operation against terrorism, which is a
principle all democracies must ultimately respect.

But perhaps the most significant consequence of this agreement affects the
future of Indo-British relations. For some time the Thatcher government has been
aware of the cost of its political disagreement with India. Mr Gandhi is an
unsentimental prime minister. It was only in April that valuable British
contracts appeared to have fallen victim to Indian pique. India and Britain are
friends in need - a fact which may lack the grand sentiments of previous special
relationships, but could prove more solid.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 18, 1985

Agenda: Out of Court / Regulating the police use of firearms

BYLINE: By TONY JENNINGS

LENGTH: 702 words


The shooting of Mrs Cherry Groce by the police serves to emphasise the evident
lack of controls over the police force's use of firearms. Not only are the
internal guidelines inadequate and their breach rarely regarded as important by
the courts but the judiciary have done little to restrict the police's reckless
use of dangerous weapons.

In September 1983 two police officers were acquitted of charges of attempting to
murder and of causing grievous bodily harm to Steven Waldorf. The officers
believed that Waldorf's car was being driven by David Martin whom they had
reason to believe was armed.


One officer drew his weapon in breach of force instructions. Believing that the
driver was reaching for a gun the officer fired, again in breach of force
instructions. The other officer fired several shots into the front of the car in
order to kill or seriously wound the driver. As Waldorf lay on the ground
outside his ear, shot and bleeding, he was pistol whipped by the policemen.

At the Old Bailey trial Mr Justice Croom-Johnstone directed the jury that they
must consider the case from the point of view of what the defendants believed
the facts to be at the time.

He also pointed out that a breach of the police instructions did not make the
officers, guilty of an offence. The jury were further directed that the attack
on Steven Waldorf after the shooting could be justified if the officers still
believed themselves to be in danger.

The rules governing the use of lethal force by officers of justice are contained
in both the common law and statute. At common law a person may use reasonable
force to protect himself or another person. By section 3 of the Criminal Law Act
1967 a person may use reasonable force in affecting an arrest or preventing
crime.

In Britain, where the forces of law and order are not permanently armed, this
area of law has received little attention. In Northern Ireland, however, the law
has been closely scrutinised. There is no doubt that the British police force's
increased use of firearms will be the subject of further judicial consideration
and the precedents set in Northern Ireland will be of particular significance.

In 1974 farmhand Patrick McElhone was shot dead on his own farm in County Tyrone
by a British soldier. The defendant had approached McElhone in order to
interrogate him. He called on McElhone to halt, the deceased looked over his
shoulder to see the soldier pointing his rifle at him and he ran.

The soldier then shot McElhone as he ran away. It was later conceded that the
deceased was an innocent party who was no way involved in terrorist activity.

Mr Justice MacDermott acquitted the defendant of murder on the basis that he
believed he was dealing with a terrorist who was seeking to run away. It was
accepted that the soldier had no belief that McElhone had been or would become
involved in immediate acts of terrorism.

The precedent was thus set that all a member of the security forces need believe
is that he is dealing with a suspected terrorist, even where no resistence is
offered, and the suspect can be shot and killed if he fails to stop when
requested to do so.

The case reached the House of Lords but their Lordships refused to interfere
with the trial judge's decision and they declined the opportunity of providing
clear guidelines on the circumstances in which a member of the security forces
may open fire.

Lord Diplock, after whom Northern Ireland's juryless courts were affectionately
named, said that there were grounds for the accused having a fear of an
immediate threat. He said that if the suspect were allowed to escape then at
some future unspecified time he may get

The approach adopted by the Northern Irish judiciary no doubt influenced the
judges' summing up in the Waldorf case. It is the British and Northern Irish
courts attempt to create a privileged position for the forces of law and order,
that has given them, in the words of Lord Justice McGonigall, 'a virtually
unlimited licence.'

If regrettable incidents such as the Groce case are not to be repeated, then
there is an urgent need for reforms to be introduced.

Tony Jennings is a barrister.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 30, 1985

'Jobs bonanza' in CTG Channel link proposal / Channel Tunnel consortium claims
project will generate 35,000 jobs

BYLINE: By ANDREW CORNELIUS

LENGTH: 500 words


The bidding to build a fixed cross-Channel link between England and France was
yesterday stepped up by Channel Tunnel Group, which has a pounds 2.3 billion
twin rail-tunnel scheme. CTG, whose members include Wimpey, Tarmac and National
Westminster Bank, said its scheme would create 5,000 permanent jobs in Kent and
a further 30,000 jobs in the rest of Britain during the five-year construction
period.

Final details of the CTG scheme are contained in a 12-volume submission which
will reach the government before the Thursday deadline set for applications to
build the link. A firm recommendation on which of the rival schemes should go
ahead will go to the Cabinet by mid-December The government has promised to make
a final decision in January .


Sir Nicholas Henderson, the former British Ambasador to Washington who chairs
CTG, ridiculed suggestions that Mrs Thatcher has already set her mind on
building the pounds 4.6 billion road bridge and tunnel project proposed by the
EuroRoute consortium which includes Trafalgar House, British Steel and British
Telecom. He said that the government 'couldn't decide' before seeing each of the
submissions.

Sir Nicholas said that the CTG scheme was 'the only practicable scheme on
offer.' CTG said that it had received commitments for pounds 3.5 billion of
loans from 22 international banks 'which is more money than we need,' said Mr
Quentin Morris, CTG's financial director.

A further pounds 1 billion will be raised from a British Telecom-style share
issue in 1987.

CTG is also adamant that its proposed drive-on, drive-off rail shuttle service
for taking cats through the tunnel in 30 minutes is quicker and safer than the
bridge schemes on offer. A through rail service run in conjunction with the
shuttle would cut the London-Paris journey time to three hours.

The CTG case was further bolstered yesterday by the news that Mobil Oil and a
Japanese finance house, Normura Securities, had joined the consortium.

Sir Nicholas said that the CTG scheme would be open by 1993 and be able to carry
some 30 million passengers and more than 30 million tonnes of freight a year.
The scheme would generate revenue of pounds 430 million in the first year
against costs of pounds 82 million. The figures are based on average revenue of
pounds 50 per car or pounds 19.50 per person for each crossing.

CTG estimates that pounds 700 million of orders for tunnelling machines,
construction plant, railway rolling stock and electronic systems would be up for
grabs for British industry. A 40-page document to be sent to pressure groups in
Kent will also argue that there will be a net addition of 1,700 jobs to he
region once job losses from ferries are taken into account.

The CTG submission to the government includes confidential arrangements to
prevent terrorist attacks, strikes, and the spread of rabies by using
heat-sensitive testing equipment.

Full details of the EuroRoute scheme will be unveiled this morning.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 1985

EuroRoute promises 30,000 Chunnel jobs / Britain-France fixed link consortium
promises construction jobs

BYLINE: By ANDREW CORNELIUS

LENGTH: 393 words


EuroRoute, one of the favourites to build a fixed link between England and
France yesterday strengthened its hand by promising more than 30,000 jobs a year
would be created while its road and bridge scheme was being built. The EuroRoute
consortium, which includes Trafalgar House and British Telecom, also announced
that both GEC and Trust House Forte are to back its project.

Sir Nigel Broackes, EuroRoute's chairman, said that he was 'confident' that up
to pounds 7.2 billion of funds would be made available for the project if it won
the go ahead from the Government. EuroRoute is the second group to announce
plans for a Channel link.


Sea Containers, the Sealink ferries group, and Eurobridge Studies, a loose
grouping of construction interests, are also expected to lodge applications to
build the link before the 3 pm deadline, today, (Thurs) set by the Government.

The Government has promised a decision on the rival schemes in January.

EuroRoute is hoping its scheme will be chosen because it offers the only
feasible road crossing and because of its enormous job creation potential
throughout the UK. Sir Nigel promised that up to 8,000 jobs could be created in
Scotland, 8,000 in the North East and Humberside, 6,000 in Kent and 3,000 in
Northern Ireland during the 1987-1992 construction period.

The work would spread to offshore and shipyards in Scotland and the North East,
and to several steelworks, from Hunterston in Ayrshire, through to steelworks
in, Scunthorpe and Sheerness Steel, in Kent.

EuroRoute said that a further 11,000 permanent jobs could be created by the
project in Kent, ranging from customs and service area staff to new employment
generated by office and warehouse developments attracted to the county by the
scheme.

EuroRoute said that it will cost about pounds 66 for each car to drive one way
across the Channel. Drivers will be able to stop off en-route at two manmade
islands in the middle of the Channel, where drivers will spiral down from the
two bridge sections close to the coast down to the 12-mile tunnel between the
bridges.

EuroRoute said that it would employ the latest state-of-the art technology to
prevent terrorists attacking the link, in response to warnings from Conservative
MP, Teddy Taylor, that a Channel link would provide 'an open invitation' to
terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 1985

UK News in Brief: Fears over IRA bomb case / Irish government expresses concern
over Brimingham pub bombing convictions

LENGTH: 64 words


The Irish Government has expressed serious concern to Britain about the
conviction of the six Irish men gaoled for the Birmingham pub bombings 11 years
ago.

Dublin's foreign minister, Mr Peter Barr, instructed the Irish embassy in London
to convey his views after watching Granada TV's World in Action programme, which
cast doubt on the forensic evidence against the men.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 1, 1985

Sherwood disorients rivals with late bid / US businessman offers to build fixed
channel link between Britain and France

BYLINE: By ANDREW CORNELIUS

LENGTH: 825 words


James Sherwood, the 51-year-old Kentucky-born American who is becoming an
increasingly important force in the British business world yesterday popped up
as a late contender to build a fixed Channel link.

Details of the pounds 2.1 billion Channel Expressway scheme were deliberately
kept secret until yesterday's deadline for submissions to build a link to throw
rival bidders off balance.


Sea Containers, the Bermudan-based shipping business which he heads has more to
lose than most if a Channel link is built since last year's pounds 66 million
takeover of the Sealink ferries business.

But in typically brash style the man who wanted to buy the Sunday Times, who has
bought the Illustrated London News and relaunched the Orient Express, has
decided that if the Government wants a Channel link then he is the man to build
it.

Sherwoods Expressway theoretically offers the best of all worlds: a road and
rail tunnel scheme incorporating the latest technology which is cheaper to
finance than any rival scheme.

Sea Containers would be happiest if plans to build a link were abandoned. But Mr
Sherwood claims to be a realist who can see that pressure for the project to go
ahead is snowballing. If it does, he said: 'We must win.'

Sea Containers is adamant that if any of the rival Channel schemes are chosen it
will mean the death of the Sealink ferry business, '2,500 people would be made
redundant and we would face capital write-downs of pounds 50 million on our
seven ferries and two port facilities which operate on cross-Channel routes,' Mr
Sherwood warned.

He said that the alternative tactic adopted by European Ferries, which is to
face a price war with a fixed link by cutting ferry fares, will not work. Sea
Containers has forecast that the only service which would survive on the Dover
and Folkestone to Calais route would be a high-speed launch for day trippers
wishing to buy duty-free goods.

There was also some fierce criticism of rival schemes proposed by Channel Tunnel
Group and EuroRoute. Mr Sherwood said that only he has the true figures for the
number of people using existing Channel services.

He ridiculed claims by rivals that the number of passengers using the new fixed
links would double by the end of the century. Sea Containers is basing its
forecast on a more realistic 10 per cent increase in traffic in year one and
then more modest 4 per cent growth each year from then on.

'This is only a pounds 500 million per annum pie for anybody,' Mr Sherwood said.
He also maintains that a drive-on, drive-off rail shuttle is little different
from existing ferry operations and that there are untold risks from the weather
and terrorist attack facing the EuroRoute's bridge and tunnel scheme.

The Channel Expressway scheme is remarkably simple. Taking note of recent
opinion polls which suggest that the public want to be able to drive direct to
France Mr Sherwood is proposing a twin-bore tunnel which can carry road and rail
traffic. The idea is that cars can be prevented from entering the tunnel say
once an hour to allow a train to pass through on a track which is set flush with
the two-lane road carriageway.

Mr Sherwood said that by adopting technology ignored by rival groups in
submitting their schemes there will be no problem in ventilating the 30-mile
roadways. In fact, said Mr Sherwood, when new EEC exhaust emission regulations
come into force the capacity of the tunnel will increase dramatically.

The problems of driver fatigue and disorientation which have led rival groups to
claim that it is not safe to drive for 30 miles in a tunnel are described as
'nonsense' by Mr Sherwood.

A team of psychologists hired by Sea Containers concluded that there is no such
problem in existing long tunnels such as the Mont Blanc and St Gothard tunnels.

The latest devices for keeping drivers alert have been incorporated into the
Channel Expressway. These range from changes in lighting, changes in road
surface, painted stripes on the tunnel walls, creating false horizons and
signalling information systems. There will also be a closed circuit radio
channel to talk to drivers en route.

Channel Expressway is also offering the bait of an pounds 8 each-way crossing
for all passengers using either rail or road. This compares with the pounds 66
per car with passengers to be charged by EuroRoute and the average of pounds
19.50 per person for those using the Channel Tunnel Group's rail shuttle scheme.

Cynics claim that the Sherwood scheme, which has cost pounds 2 million to put
together, is merely a public relations effort to point out the flaws in rival
schemes. He denies this and says that the bid is for real. Whatever the truth we
shall be hearing a lot more from Mr Sherwood, who has hired brokers Hoare Govett
to help point up the flaws of rivals to the City and will use the threat of
2,500 redundancies on the ferries to maximum effect.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 6 1985, Wednesday

Moscow protests to US over 'immoral kidnap' of Yurchenko / Riddle of the double
KGB defector

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER WALKER

SECTION: Issue 62288.

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


Further obstacles appeared on the run-up to the Geneva summit yesterday when the
Soviet Union issued an angry formal protest to the US over what it claimed was
the kidnapping of a Soviet diplomat, Mr Vitaly Yurchenko.

The protest was disclosed by Tass, which reported that the Soviet Embassy to
Washington had demanded that Mr Yurchenko be allowed to leave the US without
hindrance and that the American authorities issue an apology over his treatment.


Mr Yurchenko, aged 50, is alleged by the US to be the fifth highest-ranking
official in the KGB, but at a bizarre press conference in Washington on Monday,
he claimed to have been kidnapped by US agents in Rome, drugged and later
interrogated in America by the CIA.

First news of the protest was released just as Mr George Shultz, the US
Secretary of State was holding vital pre-summit negotiations in the Kremlin with
the Soviet leader, Mr Mikhail Gorbachov. There were fears that the acrimonious
exchange could further damage prospects for the summit.

The language of the Tass announcement was unusually strong. It claimed that the
treatment of Mr Yurchenko 'was not only an act of terrorism, it was a flagrant
violation of the human rights of the Soviet diplomat whom they (the Americans)
wanted, with the help of drugs and threats, to make an unthinking, senseless
thing, a dumb beast obediently doing the will of those who sanctioned this
outrageous violence'.

Western officials admitted privately that the incident could not have come at a
worse time as far as superpower relations were concerned.

It followed another awkward incident over the weekend in which a Soviet soldier
in Afghanistan briefly sought sanctuary in the US Embassy in Kabul.

According to Tass, the US account of Mr Yurchenko's mysterious disappearance was
a lie. It added: 'This is an outrage which cannot be reconciled in any way with
the generally accepted standards of human morals, justice or international law.'

The report was the first time that the Soviet media have referred to the
Yurchenko case. Tass said that the incident was an act of 'state terrorism'.

Although Mr Yurchenko was claimed by the Americans as a high-level defector, it
was observed here that his account closely resembled that of Mr Oleg Bitov, a
Soviet journalist who returned from the West a year ago told a press conference
that he had been kidnapped by British agents in Italy, drugged and held hostage
in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 14 1985, Thursday

Four held in INLA bomb police raids / Investigation into explosive devices found
outside London's Chelsea Barracks

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62295.

LENGTH: 262 words


Four men were still being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act early today
after a series of raids across London by detectives from Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch investigating bombs left at Chelsea barracks. Two women,
also arrested yesterday, were released late last night without being charged.

The bombs, two devices totalling 40lbs of explosive, were left in holdalls
outside the barracks on Monday night. They were defused and are thought to have
been aimed at accommodation close to the perimeter of the barracks.


The bombs were timed to explode early on Tuesday and the devices, described as
crude, contained iron bolts or nails.

The Irish National Liberation Army claimed responsibility in Dublin after the
bombs were discovered and the six held yesterday are said to be from the Irish
Republic. Detectives say fresh arrests could follow.

The six were arrested in raids which included a number of addresses in north
London. They are being held in Paddington Green police station which has
specially secure areas for terrorist suspects.

Scotland Yard believes that the planting of the bombs may have been a single
attack by the INLA rather than an attempt at a sustained campaign which it is
thought they would find difficult to mount. The group has not been active for
some time in mainland Britain and has tended to mount single attacks.

In 1979 INLA took responsibility for the attack on Mr Airey Neave, the
Conservative Front Bench spokesman on Ulster, who was killed by a car bomb in
the House of Commons car park.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 15 1985, Friday

Deceptive style of a leader / Profile of Garret FitzGerald, Irish Premier

SECTION: Issue 62296.

LENGTH: 487 words


When earlier this year Dr Garret FitzGerald poured salt rather than sugar into a
cup of tea while out campaigning for local elections, it brought guffaws of
laughter from his opponents.

Coming so soon after his confession that while picking holly last Christmas he
lost not one but two pairs of spectacles, it confirmed once again the image of
an absent-minded professor.


The mop of frequently untidy, wiry grey hair, the scholarly glasses, rapid-fire
speech and the love of the statistics that cascade from his lips almost as soon
as he opens his mouth, reinforce the image. But that intellectual aura has also
been coupled with the portrayal of a decent, honest and caring man with a
refreshing lack of pomposity.

It is a picture British people have become accustomed to through his frequent
television appearances. Often they have been after Provisional IRA terrorist
attacks in Britain and Dr FitzGerald has been quick to respond. His appearances
have had two aims; to prevent any anti-Irish backlash in English cities and to
dispel the myth that Irish governments offer tacit support to the Provisionals.
He has had success on both counts.

Dr FitzGerald's personality and moderate image is much feared by unionists who
find it difficult to counter. But his nationalist credentials are impeccable.
His father, a southern revolutionary Roman Catholic poet, and mother, a
middle-class nothern Presbyterian were both in the GPO in Dublin on the morning
of the 1916 rising. He had a comfortable middle-class upbringing and his father
was a minister in the first Free State government. FitzGerald took a first in
history and French at University College, Dublin, before embarking on separate
careers as an Aer Lingus executive, a college lecturer and a freelance
journalist, he was Dublin correspondent for the Financial Times, Economist and
the BBC.

He did not enter politics until 1965 when he was aged 39 and did so to aid
social reform and to do something about the North. He wanted to 'change the
attitude of all parties on Northern Ireland - irredentist, unthinking and
governed by myth'.

His rise was swift. Elected a Fine Gael deputy in 1969, Dr FitzGerald was drawn
to the party's liberal wing and by 1973 was minister for foreign affairs in a
coalition government.

He earned himself an international reputation, seeing the advantages of European
and United States support for any Irish initiative on the North, and was
immersed in the negotiations leading to the Sunningdle agreement which set up
the ill-fated power-sharing executive.

By 1977 he was the party leader and reorganized it with some ruthlessness to
challenge the dominance of Fianna Fail, giving it a distinctive
social-democratic tinge. By the 1982 election, the party had its highest number
of seats in both houses of parliament, although it still relied on the Labour
Party to form a coalition government.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 1985

Bombs 'used as excuse for political grilling' / Police accused of exploiting
Chelsea Barracks bomb as pretext to arrest Irish campaigners

BYLINE: By ANDREW RAWNSLEY

LENGTH: 274 words


Police anti-terrorist squad officers used the attempted bombing of the Chelsea
Barracks last week as a pretext to arrest innocent political campaigners and
question them about their beliefs and activities, it was alleged yesterday.

Mr Conor Foley, who was freed without charge after being held under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act following the discovery of the bombs last Monday,
said he had been asked extensive questions about politics, but very little about
the bombs.


Mr Foley, aged 20, a student at Manchester University and a member of the Labour
Committee on Ireland, was arrested with Mr Brendan O'Rourke, aged 26, a student
at the South London Polytechnic and a member of the Irish in Britain
Representatives Group. Armed police raided Mr O'Rourke's flat in Brixton, South
London, early on Wednesday and they were held for more than 36 hours at
Paddington Green police station before being released without charge.

Mr Foley said they were refused access to solicitors

He said he was interviewed by two officers, on Wednesday for about 40 minutes
and on Thursday for about 20 minutes. The officers began to question him about
his movements on Monday at the second interview, and then only in a perfunctory
way.

He was questioned about his family background, his involvement in student
politics and the Labour Party, and his involvement in demonstrations

After he had agreed to allow the officers to search his flat in Vauxhall, they
returned with documents relating to his work for the Labour Committee on Ireland

Scotland Yard denied the allegations and said the men had early access to a
solicitor.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 28 1985, Thursday

Parliament: Unionists asked to accept House decision / Anglo-Irish agreement
debate on Ulster

SECTION: Issue 62307.

LENGTH: 4104 words


ULSTER

The Government had a majority of 426 at the end of the two-day debate in the
Commons on the Anglo-Irish agreement.


The Government motion 'That this House approves the Anglo-Irish Agreement signed
on November 15 by the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach Dr Garret FitzGerald' was
carried by 473 to 47.

Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Nothern Ireland, accepted with regret that
it was the right of Unionists to withdraw co-operation from the Government and
opt for the constitutional path of opposition when the debate on the Anglo-Irish
agreement was resumed in the Commons.

He appealed to all in the Province to spurn violence and unconstitutional
methods and said he hoped that if Parliament approved the agreement, which gives
the Irish government a consultative role in Ulster, that decision would be
respected.

Among those strongly supporting the agreement was Mr Edward Heath, the former
Prime Minister.

Mr. King said Unionists had seriously exaggerated the effect and scale of the
agreement, but he did accept there were serious worries and fears among their
constituents.

Negotiations between sovereign governments needed confidentiality. In
consequence they were not able to take people in Northern Ireland into full
consultation before the agreement was reached in a way they would normally wish.

He sympathized with the frustration that caused. It had undoubtedly caused
resentment and that had not helped the consideration of the agreement which,
could offer benefits to the Unionist as well as nationalist communities. The
Irish Government had recognized that the present wish of the majority was for no
change in its British status.

Fear of a united Ireland has bedevilled life in the Province for far too long.
Everybody knew in their hearts it would never happen without consent. This
agreement provided the bulwark the Unionists had always sought.

Many misleading stories had been put about the inter-governmental conference.
The effect of the conference was to formalize, strengthen, and improve the
government of Northern Ireland by giving consultation a wider dimension.

There was no secret agenda, no hidden purpose. The conference would not be an
executive body.

There had been rumours that the secretariat would be some large independent
body. It would be a small secretariat whose only existence was to service the
conference. The conference would have no decision-making powers. These would
remain firmly where they were at present - with British Ministers, responsible
to Parliament.

The purpose of the conference was to assure the minority that its views would be
heard more effectively. But in no sense was it intended to stifle or supercede
the views of the majority which obviously must be respected.

The conference proceedings would in no way be secret or hidden from the
Unionists. The Government fully recognized the need for people in the Province
to be informed about meetings of the intergovernmental conference.

The Government also recognised the need to devise means to keep the House
informed of the proceedings. They would welcome discussions between the
political parties in the House as to how this could best be achieved. Nor did
the Government believe the agreement would hinder devolution. The Irish
government has specifically committed itself in the agreement to support that
policy.

Mr John Hume (Foyle, SDLP) has said he was now prepared to sit down to determine
how the affairs of Northern Ireland could be administered in a manner acceptable
to both traditions.

I believe (Mr King said) there is a clear responsibility now on Mr Hume and his
colleagues to honour that pledge. Likewise, I hope the Unionists will recognise
that this agreement can offer real prospects for devolution. I will certainly
try and do all in my power to get it on the road again.

Mr Enoch Powell (South Down, OUP) asked Mr King reconciled his announcement that
the Government would be considering methods of keeping the House and others
informed of the workings of the conference with the statement that the two
governments envisaged that the meetings and agenda of the conference would not
normally be announced.

If the meeting and the agenda were not announced, what could be.

Mr King: The proceedings. It is a question of announcements after the meetings.

It was important that there should be as much disclosure as possible.

It was the Government's objective that the agreement would help in time to
isolate the men of violence. In the meantime, it would certainly help them to
pursue the attack against terrorism more vigorously.

I understand (he said) the Chief Constable of the RUC and the Commissioner of
the Garda are making arrangements to meet in the near future. It is our
determination that we shall improve and enhance in every way we can cross-border
cooperation in the defeat of terrorism.

The agreement offered the prospect of better security and a return to greater
stability and prosperity for the Unionists and their children.

I firmly believe (he said) that it butteresses rather than undermines their
constitutional position. It is therefore with regret that I hear pledges by
Unionist MPs and other Unionists to withdraw cooperation from the Government.

I regret the loss of that cooperation. I regret that I shall not, as I
understand it, have the benefit of their views and advice on all the
wide-ranging problems involving Northern Ireland.

But, of course, I respect that is their right and I respect their decision to
opt for the constitutional path of opposition. I hope that all people in the
coming months will spurn violence or unconstitutional methods and that if this
agreement is approved tonight by Parliament, that that decision will be
respected.

Northern Ireland is a part of the UK and it is right that this matter should be
determined by the Parliament of the UK. If this House decides tonight to endorse
this agreement then the Government will implement its decision.

When we do we shall listen carefully to what all the parties in the Province
tell us - the assembly, local councillors, constitutional nationalists and now
to what the intergovernmental conference tells us as well.

And we will endeavour to act in the light of all their advice in a constructive
way that will benefit all the people of Northern Ireland.

Those who say 'never', those who will allow no change are saying that the
Province can never break out of its cycle of division and despair.

Mr Peter Archer, chief Opposition spokesman on Northern Ireland, said Labour
believed the future of Ireland should be as one country. They did not delude
themselves that the unionist people agreed with them but disagreeing was better
than misleading.

They could not survive in the present atmosphere of perpetual frustration,
insecurity and uncertainty. The agreement was about talking and listening. It
committed nobody to renounce a view they believed in. It asked nobody to resile
from any aspiration they cherished.

If the people in both traditions are to have a chance of considering options
open to them (he said) and if we are over to embark on the discussions aimed at
persuading one another, we must get away from the sloganizing and posturing and
caricaturing of those from whom we differ, and the rejection of offers before
they are made. If we are to perceive the visions of the future we have to clear
away the fog.

I do not believe (he added) that the men of violence want this agreement to
succeed.

There was no guarantee of success of the conference. It would depend on how it
was used and the good faith and common sense of both Governments.

The British Government must show it was prepared to listen without giving the
impression that the views of everyone else were excluded. The Irish Government
must not use it as an opportunity to try to settle old scores.

He hoped it would mean early discussion on supergrass trials, on the delays in
bringing cases to court, and on the strip searching of women in prisons.

If we are not given a full and frank report (he said) then suspicions will breed
and multiply. We say that these proposals should be given a chance. It does not
entail a promise to endorse eveything that goes out of them.

Mr Edward Heath (Old Bexley and Sidcup, C) said he begged the Government not to
underplay the agreement; it could play a most useful purpose.

Most people had long recognised there could be no purely police or military
solution. If they did not realise that after 16 years, he did not know when they
would. It had to be a combination of political action and police and military
action. This agreement would allow that much closer co-operation to come about.

He had been trying to understand the different points of view for many years,
but the English just could not understand any of the Irish and he thought one
hust had to accept that. (Laughter).

The agreement could lead to much closer action by the two governments in dealing
with violence.

Before the troubles began so many things had been done corporately by north and
south in Ireland without anybody questioning it. Now one only had to mention
co-operation in one sphere and the shrieks were simply enormous.

From the depths of my heart (he concluded) I wish this agreement well.

Dr David Owen, leader of the SDP, said he profoundly hoped the agreement
succeeded. Those MPs thinking of resigning their seats need not do so to
convience others that they genuinely spoke for the majority in Northern Ireland.

He hoped they would not feel it necessary to conduct their own form of
referendum on an issue where there was no dispute - that they genuinely did
speak for the people they represented.

He hoped the Northern Ireland Assembly would debate the intergovernmental
conference and he urged the SDLP to take part.

The fundamental issue on which this delicate hinge between the UK and Republic
Governments would stand or fall was how they jointly grappled with the problem
of terrorism. As long as terrorists did not have a wall against their back, and
could escape for a few weeks or move back across the border, it would be almost
impossible to defeat terrorism and violence.

For political and economic reasons, everybody was agreed that it was impossible
to seal the border. There was no reason why there should not be joint patrolling
and joint helicopter patrols. Cross-border cooperation should be stepped up in a
major way.

He regretted that there had not been an immediate decision to set up an
Anglo-Irish parliamentary council.

The supremacy of the Westminister Parliament was basic for all citizens and he
hoped that Ulster MPs would accept tonight's vote and its consequences. They
could resign their seats to demonstrate that they remained true to their
convictions but could not try to overturn the decision by unconstitutional
means.

The Rev Ian Paisley (North Antrim, DUP) said that this would be the last time he
addressed the House for some time and if the IRA threat conveyed to him by the
police came to fruition, it would be the last time he would address the House.

Little had they expected the Prime Minister was going to do a complete
turn-around. She had made a change. It was amazing that the majority who had got
to walk this road and felt that it would be an uphill hard path to travel, and
were not consulted at all, but the minority who were going to use this road for
their own ends, were consulted at every turn.

It would be a conference three ways: the Republic, the SDLP and Northern Ireland
Ministers. They would have a closed shop.

The Republicans were worried because there had not been rioting among Loyalists.
The Protestant people accepted the leadership he and Mr Molyneaux were trying to
give them and would not be falling into that trap. There was going to be no
rioting on the streets. There was going to be no civil commotion.

They were going to use the democratic principle. He hoped the House of Commons
would respect that and see that fair play was given to those that used the
democratic principle.

If he and his colleagues did not return to the Commons and the Government had
other people to deal with, then he could not dare to prophesy what would happen
in Northern Ireland. It was going into unchartered waters.

The MPs who would go through the lobbies overwhelmingly to defeat the Unionists
- and the Unionists knew they were headed for defeat - were not living on the
border; they were not mothers or wives of policemen or UDR men. These were the
people the House ought to pay attention to.

Security was a matter for the Commons and not for any conference. He did not
trust any information given to a conference. It would go immediately by various
ways into the hands of those who would give it to the terrorists.

He was proud to be British, he was born British and he would remain British. He
has no time for UDI.

The agreement confirmed that any change in the status of Northern Ireland would
only come about with the consent of the majority. But nowhere did it define what
the status of Northern Ireland is.

The status of Northern Ireland to him and Parliament was that it was the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. But that was not the status of
the Republic, which in articles two and three, claimed jurisdiction over this
part of the United Kingdom.

It would have been far better for the House to say 'Yes, all right, there has
been a change in the status, let us have a referendum'. The reason Unionist MPs
had to resign and go to the country was to give their people an opportunity to
vote.

I warn this House (he said) that if anyone in this House tries to keep Ulster
from being represented in this House then they can reap the consequences.

I trust this House, no matter how MPs feel against me and the people I
represent, will not put their hands to hinder people who resign from having
their writs moved and their by-elections held at a proper and honest tie.

It was an appalling thing that instead of the Government concentrating its
efforts to get the SDLP into the assembly that was set up by Parliament they
were prepared to go down this road of folly.

He was not prepared to talk on the terms of this agreement, for this agreement
was treachery. It had destroyed the power of the majority to be able to
negotiate properly for their people, their power had effectively been taken from
them.

Mr Harold McCusker (Upper Bann, OUP) said this agreement dealt with the most
cherished ideals and aspirations he had ever held. Never in his most pessimistic
moments had he ever believed that the agreement would deliver him into the hands
of those who for 15 years had murdered his personal friends, political
associates and hundreds of his constitutents.

He had had to wait outside Hillsborough Castle in the rain to get a copy of the
agreement. And he had to go home and tell his wife that he regretted that he had
brought his children up to believe what he had brought them up to believe
because they would have to live with this legacy.

Better they had never looked at the Union Jack (he said) and believed they were
British and put their trust in the House of Commons, knowing that they would
have to spend their lives as some sort of semi-British citizens.

Sovereignty was what the Government decided it was. Mr King could not deny that
the way Northern Ireland was now governed had changed fundamentally.

I have listened (he continued) to Secretary of State after Secretary of State
saying 'There is nothing more we can do; cooperation is so good that it cannot
be improved.' But now things get done if you pay the right price; they are
prepared to stop killing people who put their trust in this House of Commons
which just could not protect them.

The test would come when a man who shot a serviceman, escaped across the border
and said in Dublin High Court that, as a soldier in the IRA, he had killed an
invading British soldier in pursuit of his political objectives. The Government
had no assurance that the court would find that to be a criminal offence rather
than a political offence.

I wish (he said) I could trust them more on this one than on the declaration of
my constitutional position.

In essence there would be a coalition governing Northern Ireland, with the
British Government on one side and the Irish Government on the other.

The agreement rendered him redundant as an MP. He had suffered the systematic
humiliation of being excluded from the government of Northern Ireland because he
thought that was a price worth paying to be a British citizen. But he was not
going to suffer this humiliation.

The people he represented would prefer to be governed by a catholic nationalist
in Northern Ireland than a minister from the Irish Republic who lived in Cork
and did not know where Northern Ireland was until about five years ago.

I will never accept this agreement (he said) as the means whereby I will be
governed in Northern Ireland and I think tens of thousands in Northern Ireland
share that view. If that is construed as me flying in the face of the
sovereignty of this Government, so be it.

Sir Humphrey Atkins (Spelthorne, C), a former Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, said most people were pleased with the agreement and he was one of
them. Sooner or later it was essential that the power of government in Northern
Ireland was excercised in Northern Ireland and not in this House.

Neither he nor any of the other Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland had
been able to devise such a system. Only the representatives of the people of
Northern Ireland could do it. Since the unionists represented the majority in
Northern Ireland, it was they alone who could determine its destiny.

Mr Patrick Duffy (Sheffield, Attercliffe, Lab) said that he hoped the Government
would work unremittingly to win the supporters of Sinn Fein from the bullet in
favour of the ballot but that meant bringing to Northern Ireland the normality
which was taken for granted elsewhere in the United Kingdom.

The conference and secretariat would have to work hard on many difficult
problems, like the perception of the UDR as the armed wing of the unionists.

Either the Republic had to have a say on behalf of the nationalist minority or
there was no basis on which it could redirect the allegiance of the minorities
away from the revolutionary goals of the IRA and INLA.

Mr William Cash (Stafford, C) said that things would never be the same if Ulster
voted against the agreement in by-elections. Ulster MPs should think carefully
where that would lead. Far from bolstring confidence they would induce greater
unease and deepen the profound sense of insecurity which had dominated Ulster
politics for 60 years.

To repudiate the agreement in Northern Ireland could not invalidate it.

Mr Alfred Dubs (Battersea, Lab) said that he could only despair of Unionist
leaders who said they must change nothing, that violence must go on and they
must have more security.

The agreement had faults, but offered a prospect.

He had long believed in a united Ireland. He hoped this agreement would enable a
Labour Government committed to a united Ireland to make progress, but that was
for the future. It was a short-sigted policy for the Ulster Unionists to resign.
If they were returned, so what? If any lost their seats they would lose out.

Sir Frederick Bennett (Torbay, C) said when he voted tonight to support the
Government it would not be because he regarded what had been achieved as a step
on the way to a united Ireland, it would be because he believed it was a
legislative, constitutional and practical step to cement the obligations they
had to ensure permanently self determination of the majority in Ulster to make
their own choice. The advantages in the new agreement at least justified giving
it a fair chance.

The Rev Martin Smyth (Belfast South, OUP) said he could understand why the
Opposition joined the Government in accepting these proposals because, contrary
to the views coming from the Government benches, for the first time a Government
of the UK had declared in solemn agreement between two governments that they
were prepared to disengage from a part of the UK.

The union had been damaged tonight. The Unionist MPs had got to go to the
country this time.

Mr Ivor Stanbrook (Orpington, C) said one day a wiser government than this one
would integrate Northern Ireland fully into the UK, with generous arrangements
for those who chose to be outside it. Then there would be justice and equality
for all in Northern Ireland. He profoundly disagreed with the Government's
judgement on this issue and he had no choice but to vote against the motion. He
did not believe the Government had acted at all dishonourably.

Mr Enoch Powell (South Down, OUP) said it was unacceptable and offensive to the
UK as represented in the House that there should be any dilution whatsoever in
the responsibility of Parliament for the governance of the UK. They were
proposing to see made a unique and unprecedented breach in that position was
allocated to another country in respect of the conduct of affairs in the UK.
That was an affront to the House and the people of this country.

That affront was sharpened because the agreement related to only one part of the
UK. Fifteen MPs were sent by constituents not only to sit in the House as an
integral part of that assembley but to express their will that they, like the
rest of the UK, should live under law exclusively made by the Parliament of the
UK.

To impose on part of the kingdom what it has not asked for or assented to was to
undermine the authority of the House and of Parliament. By what they were
proposing, contrary to the wishes of part of the UK, was contrary to the essence
of the compact between the electorate and Parliament upon which parliamentary
sovereignty depended.

It was not true that if the resolution was carried the law of the UK would have
been altered. No one could say after the division that the people of Northern
Ireland were under an obligation to accept an agreement between two Prime
Ministers. This was an unprecedented undertaking, an infraction of the moral
basis of parliamentary government.

There were said to be two prizes - reconciliation and the more effective
combating of terrorism. Did any rational person seriously suppose when there was
deep division within a community that reconciliation was to be procured by
installing an external authority? The natural consequence must be to inflame
whatever implicit antogonisms there might be in such a situation.

He considered that the Prime Minister, a rational person, did not believe
reconciliation was to be procured by what was proposed. The hollowness of the
claims for this agreement was known to Mrs Thatcher. They only had to watch the
Prime Minister signing the Hillsbourgh agreement to know it was someone who knew
that what she was doing was wrong. (Conservative shouts of 'Rubbish')

What power is it that turned the Government and the Prime Minister? What power
could be brought to bear on the Government to compel them to the capitulation
embodied in this drafy agreement? The Government was under external pressure
which it could not resist.

This has been done (he said) because the United States insisted it should be
done. (Renewed shouts of 'Rubbish') The US wished to extend facilities it had in
the Irish Republic which were regarded as vital by the strategists of Nato.

It meant the Irish Republic could exact the price it had always held out before
it could collaborate with Nato. The Government should not comply, yield or bow
to pressure. As the Prime Minister watched the terrorism, murder and death in
Northern Ireland which this agreement would not prevent but maintain and
forment, let her not be seen to ask: 'For whom the bell tolls?' It tolls for
her.

The Rev William McCrea (Mid Ulster, DUP) said tonight the House would consign
the people of Ulster to more problems, more deaths, more destruction and much
would lie upon the members of the Government front bench, the Conservative and
Unionist Party which unfortunately had decided that as far as Unionists in
Northern Ireland were concerned they were a liability, instead of desiring them
to be in the family.

British Ulster was not dead, because from the ashes this House hoped to leave it
in, it would rise again to greater victory.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 10 1985, Tuesday

Parliament: Lengthy public inquiry would kill Channel link - minister /
Transport

SECTION: Issue 62317.

LENGTH: 2231 words


A lengthy public inquiry would sound the death knell for a Channel fixed link,
Mr Nicholas Ridley, Secretary of State for Transport, told the Commons in a
debate on the project.

For the Labour Party now to demand a public inquiry was for them to demand that
a fixed link should not be built, the Secretary of State said.


Mr Ridley said in opening that on this occasion the Government wanted to listen
to views on the Channel fixed link. They had not decided whether there should be
a fixed link, nor which of the four schemes was preferable.

The timetable set out last spring was still on course. The responses by the
promoters had been, if anything, better than expected. Four valid proposals were
received by October 31. These were Channel Expressway, The Channel Tunnel Group,
Eurobridge and Euroroute.

These proposals were now being thoroughly assessed by the joint Anglo-French
group of officials. Numerous outside expert consultants were looking closely at
the financial, environmental, engineering and hydrological aspects of each
scheme. The risks of plant and animal diseases using the link were being
carefully assessed, so was any vulnerability to terrorist attack.

The aim was that the group should report to him and the French minister of
transport by Christmas. The Prime Minister had planned to meet the President of
France before the end of January to announce a decision on which scheme, if any,
should in due course be brought before Parliament for approval.

The Government intended, as soon as possible after this decision, to make a full
statement to Parliament explaining the reasons behind its choice, backed up by a
White Paper giving as much information as possible.

Negotiations were also taking place with the French on the necessary treaty. The
Government intended that, if the decision in January was positive, it would be
signed before the end of February. This would be subject to subsequent
endorsement by Parliament through the Hybrid Bill procedure. The Hybrid Bill
would be introduced during March.

It seemed that it was going to be the thrust of the Opposition case that there
should be a full public inquiry into any chosen link. A public local inquiry
would bring any chance of a link coming into effect to a full stop.

Opposition MPs all knew there were massive numbers of jobs involved in this
project - many of which could go to heavy industry in the north. How could they
constantly demand more jobs and then make conditions that would frustrate them?

The contracts (he added) had to be placed without national discrimination. I
would be extremely surprised if British industry cannot win a sizeable chunk of
the contracts available. I am certain French industry will get its share.

It would be impossible for private promoters to proceed with this project if
they were subject to the risks and delay of the public inquiry system.

I make (he said) no apology for saying that we must proceed at reasonable speed.
We take an inordinately long time in this country to take albeit important,
planning decisions - 17 years for the Okehampton bypass and 22 years for
Stansted.

Our competitors abroad, the French for instance, seem always to be able to do
things much faster than we can. Of course, careful and proper consideration of
the environmental and economic impacts of a project on a locality is vital. I
yield to no one in my belief that we must consult and consider these things.

But that should not be synonymous with delay, delay of year upon year. Delay as
become a weapon used under our planning procedures in order to frustrate
development. A lengthy public inquiry would sound the death knell for the link.

The principle of whether there should be a fixed link and if so which scheme,
must be determined by Parliament in response to a proposal of the Government. It
was a project of national importance, befitting of national decision.

The project was unique in that it was one that had to be facilitated by two
soverign states, Britain and France. The two national systems for considering
and implementing investment projects were different and the French had a much
more abbreviated system.

It was difficult enough to proceed in tandem on the basis of Britain's Hybrid
Bill procedure. In France, authorization for the construction of a fixed link
could be given in six months. In the UK, 18 months was required, even without a
public local inquiry.

To try to combine the French timetable with a British public inquiry and Hybrid
Bill would kill the project stone dead.

The project was unusual in scale and in that it was to be financed by the
private sector. The investment institutions would not be willing to give the
necessary commitments if they were faced with a long timetable and the
uncertainty of a favourable decision from the public inquiry procedure.

The link would be perhaps the biggest communications artery in Europe. It would
act as a magnet for growth in Kent.

He would visit the area himself next week. The Government was not consulting
about a chosen scheme but about four possibilities. There was no precedent for
this. After the decision there would be more consultations.

If the House gave the Hybrid Bill a second reading it would go to a select
committee to hear and consider petitions. He would expect those eligible to
petition to include individuals whose private interests were affected; those
representing amenity, ecology, educational and recreational interests who
believed those interest were adversely affected materially; local authorities
concerned; those representing local trades, businesses and other local interests
which might be harmed.

The Bill would then go on to standing committee and third reading in the normal
way and be considered in the House of Lords and the same select committee
procedure, with petitions, would apply.

He would ensure that a high quality route was provided along the M20 between the
M25 and the link entrance. He hoped that work on the Maidstone-Ashford section
of the M20 would start in 1987. Improvements were in hand on the A2.

There were already plans to improve the A20 between Folkestone and Dover and
once a decision in principle had been taken on a link he would pres ahead.

Local roads might also come understrain and he would give special consideration
to certain Kent schemes necessary as a direct result of the link.

British Rail has no proposals for new high speed railway lines in Kent. Many
Kent people would want that assurance. Br's main investment proposal in Kent was
an international passenger interchange as Ashford and freight sidings near the
portal.

The Government wanted a fixed link. It offered great opportunities for
individuals, business and jobs; prospects for lower transport costs. Exporters
would have quicker and more reliable communications with their main markets.
Holidaymakers and the tourist industry would benefit.

Such a vast project (he said) offers a boost to the construction industry and to
all those companies up and down the country which supply them with the expertise
of British enterprise. But, in a way, more significant than any of these things,
the construction of a fixed link will demonstrate the remarkable change that is
taking place in the confidence of British industry.

Mr Robert Hughes, chief Opposition spokesman on Transport, said the impression
given right up until and including today was that the Government was determined
and hell-bent to have a link.

It was going to proceed without a thorough investigation of a whole range of
issues, including the impact on transport policy, the impact on the environment,
the effects on regional employment policy and the importance of infrastructure
development.

It was essential to have a public inquiry. It would be wrong to ride rough-shod
over people's views.

Mr Ridley did not seem to have taken any account of the tremendous investment in
ferries and ports over the last decade. It was argued that Dover traffic would
collapse in its entirety and that collapse would ripple out and affect other
ports as far as Hull, Southampton and inbetween. Allowing for some exageration,
all these things needed to be clarified.

There was a measure of agreement that a fixed link should have a rail component.
Heavy investment would be required in British Rail. There needed to be a
commitment on investment in rail and a commitment that investment would be
delivered on time.

Once the link was in place it would be a magnetic pull for manufacturing jobs
down the south east.

It could not be guaranteed Britain would get the construction jobs.

They would have to go to open tender. The French Government would take steps to
make sure not many jobs went outside France.

Mr Peter Rees (Dover, C) said he recognized this was not just a local issue. It
must be right, for example, to help British exporters.

The crossing of the Channel should not become the monopoly of any one means of
transport and the operators of it should not be allowed to drive ferries away
from Dover.

There must be no devastation of the white cliffs or neighhouring areas, he
added. An assurance was needed that the A2/M2 would be extended to Dover
Harbour.

Justice demanded that all with a legitimate interest which might be affected by
the project should be permitted to give evidence to a body independent of the
executive. If there were a hybrid Bill, there would be select committees of both
Houses and there should be the most generous interpretation of the status of
those permitted to give evidence.

There could be no body more independent of the executive than a select
committee.

Mr John Silkin (Lewisham, Deptford, Lab) said he had some dealings with the
French who had contributed much to civilization and culture.

Silkin's laws 11 and 12 of politics were: If something was of economic advantage
to the French it was most unlikely to be of the slightest economic advantage to
Britain: and if the French found that anything turned out not to be of economic
advantage to them, they would cut it out whereas Britain would go on to the end.

Sir David Price (Eastleigh, C) said he was agnostic on the Bill. One did not get
a Channel bridge or tunnel for free, even if the Treasury refused to back it the
nation still paid (Labour cheers). He therefore asked what was wrong with
current services.

Mr Stephen Ross (Isle of Wight, L) said a fixed road and rail link would help
the nation's economy.

Mr Keith Speed (Ashford, C) said he hoped the debate was not a waste of time
because he was worried at some press reports and some of the Prime Minister's
bullish remarks which seemed to give the impression that it was all over bar the
shouting and that a decision had been made.

Some of the promoters had made significant changes in their proposals since
October 31 when they put out information. There was a feeling of being bulldozed
to meet an international date, fixed irrespective of the merits or otherwise of
the scheme.

There should be some kind of bond to guarantee that if the promoters abandon a
scheme there would be enough money to do it safely and properly.

He would be supporting the Government tonight but it must not take his vote in
future for granted because he wanted to see what the assessors had to say and
what the scheme was.

Mr Bruce Millan (Glasgow, Govan, Lab) said he was not persuaded by any of the
schemes. A fixed link was not needed. There was no suggestion the present
services were not able to cope at the moment nor that they would not be able to
cope in the forseeable future.

If the link went ahead it would widen the north-south divide, it would not be
welcomed in Scotland or the north but would increase the economic disparities
between the different parts of the country.

Mr David Crouch (Canterbury, C) said he was in favour, but 80 per cent of his
constituents opposed the idea of a fixed link.

From the country's total view there was an advantage in having a fixed link. A
better line of communication with Europe was needed. The present boat-train
journey via Dover was a thoroughly uncomfortable way of travelling.

Mr Johnathan Aitken (South Thanet, C) said he would sound sombre warnings and
the Government should slow down its headlong rush to pick a winner.

He would vote against the Government tonight. The Government, by its decision
not to have even a shortened inquiry but to have 100 days of secret political
decision-making, followed by a hybrid Bill, would stain its reputation for fair
and open planning procedures.

In his constituency was Britain's second biggest and fastest growing Channel
port, Ramsgate. Promise of temporary construction jobs and new roads were no
substitute for a going concern. Ramsgate would fight and Ramsgate would be
right.

Mr David Mitchell, Under Secretary of State for Transport, said the long
distances involved would result in a substantial shift of traffic from road to
rail. British Rail would be able to invest, subject to the proposals being
viable for British Rail.

The select committee dealing with a hybrid Bill would be able to hear the views
of local people by sitting in Dover and Folkestone.

The technical motion for the adjournment was rejected by 277 votes to 181 -
Government majority, 96.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 17, 1985

Channel Tunnel: Playing for high stakes / Contenders for the fixed-link project

BYLINE: By ANDREW CORNELIUS

LENGTH: 1566 words


The idea that a tunnel should link England and France was first suggested by
Napoleon nearly two hundred years ago. The proposal was turned down by Britain
mainly for security reasons. It was feared that Napoleon would send French
troops through the tunnel to invade Britain.

In 1974 tunnelling work actually began at sites near Dover and Calais, only to
be abandoned on environmental grounds after a fierce campaign by Kent villagers.
Now, several false starts and mountains of research effort later a Channel link
looks certain to be constructed.


This week the Channel link project moves a step closer to reality when the Anglo
French assessment team appointed to vet rival projects delivers its report to
ministers in both countries. At first it will be considered by Mr Nicholas
Ridley, the Transport Secretary and his French counterpart, Mr Jean Auroux. Mrs
Thatcher and President Mitterrand have arranged to meet in France early in
January to make a final decision. A public announcement will come shortly
afterwards.

The sudden enthusiasm for a project which has been on the shelf for so long is
easily explained. Britain and France are wracked by unemployment which will be a
key issue in forthcoming elections in both countries. President Mitterrand has
his eye on the French parliamentary elections next March. Mrs Thatcher is
already planning for 1987, when she has to go to the polls again.

The Channel link would be a dream come true for both of them. Each of the four
projects being considered would create more than 30,000 jobs on either sides of
the Channel during the five or six year construction period planned by the rival
groups. There is also the added bonus that the project can be funded privately.
International banks are awash with funds at the moment, but reluctant to lend to
risky Third World countries. Mr James Sherwood, chairman of Sea Containers,
which is bidding with its Channel Expressway scheme says: 'The banks are falling
over themselves to back this project. For once they have a project in two stable
economies where they are guaranteed a decent revenue return.'

Big business is also champing at the bit to win a slice of the Channel action.
The three main contenders to build a link - Channel Expressway, Channel Tunnel
Group, and EuroRoute - have already invested tens of millions of pounds in the
battle to build the link. The fourth contender, Lord Layton's Eurobridge
Studies, with its space-age idea of a motorway bridge has already been
effectively driven out of the contest by a lack of resources.

The stakes are high. Mr Sherwood, whose Sea Containers group owns the Sealink
ferry business, says that the ferry business will be forced to close down if a
fixed link is built. 'I've got to win he said. 'Otherwise I will be out of
business.'

Sir Nigel Broackes, chairman of the EuroRoute group, is also desperate to
succeed. Trafalgar House, the construction and shipping company he also chairs,
stands to win between pounds 500 million and pounds 700 million of work if the
project goes ahead. Balfour Beatty, Costain, Tarmac and Wimpey, which are
backing the Channel Tunnel Group project, can also barely contain their
excitement about the potential contract windfall if they win.

Despite the fierce pounds 1 million anti-fixed link protest campaign by ferry
companies and Dover Harbour Board it seems that nothing can stop the project
this time. The protesters warnings that Dover will become a ghost town and that
40,000 jobs will be lost at ports and ferries if the link goes ahead have fallen
on deaf ears. Kent County Council has given provisional backing for a tunnel
scheme and the council at Ashford is eager to attract the new jobs which would
come from new rail facilities planned by British Rail if the link is built.

The main debate has centred not on whether there should be link, but whether
there should be a public inquiry. Even the Labour Party, which is calling for a
public inquiry, is finding it difficult to oppose a huge job creation project,
unions, to, are divided depending on whether they represent seaTmen, whose jobs
are at risk, or railway and construction workers whose jobs prospects should
improve.

The Transport Secretary, Nicholas Ridley, is adamant that there should not be a
public inquiry and another embarrassing cancellation of the Chanel link project.
He said that the long-runing debates over building a third London airport at
Stansted. and a bypass at Okehampton had created a belief that delay was
inevitable when such projects are suggested.

With one Commons vote on the Chanel project already carried in its favour the
Government will pres-ahead with the hybrid bill procedure proposed for the
Chanel link legislation. Under this procedure a select committee of between six
and eight MPs is chosen to take evidence on the project and the produce a report
for Parliament to consider. The committee will start taking evidence from those
affected by the project in March shortly after the Channel link legislation is
introduced to Parliament and report before March 1987, so that legislation can
be completed and an Anglo-French treaty signed which will allow construction to
begin later that year.

All this assumes that nothing happens to scupper the project between now and
1987. Mr Ridley accepts that either government could walk away from the project
before the treaty is signed. The queue of eager banks wanting to fund the
project could also disappear and the hybrid bill procedure may yet work against
the Government. There could also be disaster during construction if strikes
delay the project, the cost races out of control, or faulty materials and safety
flaws are exposed.

Nevertheless most observers close to the action believe this time that a Channel
link will be built. The odds-on favourite, already backed by the House of
Commons transport committee, and, tentatively, by French experts vetting the
rival schemes is Channel Tunnel Group's twin-track rail tunnel which includes
drive-on/drive-off rail shuttle service. The scheme is not as exciting as the
drive-through schemes proposed by Channel Expressway and EuroRoute, but its
low-risk proved tunnelling technology, coupled with robust financing which has
been welcomed in the City, make it the lowest risk scheme.

Against this are Channel Expressway's drive-through tunnel with separate rail
tunnels and EuroRoute's drivethrough bridge and tunnel project, also with
separate rail tunnel. Both schemes benefit from opinion polls which show that
the British public would prefer a drive-through tunnel. However, there are
serious doubts about Channel Expressway's cost estimates and its failure to win
widespread support in France. This makes EuroRoute second favourite, although
the scheme's higher costs and more ambitious technology make it a bigger gamble
than CTG.

Whatever the outcome the Channel link project will dramatically change existing
travel patterns. Some say it will also sharpen the North/South divide in Britain
by pumping yet more money into the prosperous Southeast. The most obvious
changes will come in the Dover and Folkestone areas. A huge tract of land close
to Cheriton in South-east Kent, most of which is owned by the Department of the
Environment, has been chosen as the entrance to each of the link schemes.

CTG would take virtually the entire site, plus some surrounding land, EuroRoute
would take less land at Cheriton, but some additional land at nearby Farthingloe
Valley. Channel Expressway's road and rail tunnel entrances will also be at the
tunnel site. Motorways will then be built to provide access between the site and
the M20 motorway between London and Kent. This will also provide direct access
from the link to the M25 Londons orbital motorway.

There will also be dramatic changes in the existing rail services between
London, Paris, and other European capitals. British Rail and SNCF, the French
state railway. hope to cut journey times between London and Paris from more than
five hours (using ferries) today to about 3 hours 30 minutes largely by
extending the French highspeed TGV service from Paris all the way to the French
coast. In Britain BR plans to invest pounds 350 million in new rolling stock and
new Channel link stations at Ashford and Waterloo. BR also hopes to provide a
direct link with northern rail services by opening cross-London services using
the west London link line through Kensington Olympia and through a new tunnel to
link Farringdon station and Holborn viaduct.

Ironically, the one question which has yet to be answered is whether the link
will make it cheaper to cross the Channel. Journeys will certainly be quicker -
30 minutes by rail shuttle or driving, against 50 minutes by ferry - with
speedier customs facilities. But the rival groups have merely indicated that
they will be competitive with ferry fares when a link opens in 1992-3.

The Office of Fair Trading is already examining the competitive implications of
building a link and may press for a new prices watchdog.

The threat of terrorist attack on a link, the risk of rabies spreading from the
Continent, and a welter of other considerations have figured prominently in the
debate. But not once has the risk of invasion by French troops been mentioned as
a serious option. That, perhaps, is what they call progress.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 20 1985, Friday

Sense of accomplishment for UN in anniversary year / 40th anniversary of General
Assembly marked

BYLINE: From ZORIANA PYSARIWSKI

SECTION: Issue 62326.

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Haunted by the spectre of terrorism, the United Nations General Assembly set
aside 10 years of conflicting passions and ideological arguments to condemn all
acts of terrorism in what became the highlight of the fortieth session.

In October, in her address to the special session commemorating the UN's
fortieth anniversary, Mrs Thatcher struck on the theme of terrorism. British
diplomats were instrumental in finding an acceptable definition, and the
consensus resolution means that countries, at least on paper, now are obligated
to fight terrorism absolutely.


The measures against terrorism gave the session, which opened in September and
adjourned on Wednesday, a more relevant flavour than in previous years. This
sense of accomplishment was also felt after difficult deliberations on the
1986-87 UN budget. It appeared the Assembly had taken the first steps towards
avoiding drastic and paralyzing cuts in the American contribution through
several key reforms.

Dealing with the most emotive issues on the way the UN spends its money, the
Assembly froze salaries and limited future salaries to between 110 and 120 per
cent of comparable salaries in the American civil service which is the highest
paid in the world.

It also adopted a Japanese proposal setting up a panel of experts to produce
concrete suggestions for budgetary reform.

On the last day of the session Senor Javier Perez de Cuellar, the UN Secretary
General, took a rare strong stand against the Congressional amendment which
ordered a cut of 25 per cent of the American contribution unless weighted voting
was introduced in the UN on budgetary matters. He said unilateral withholding of
assessed contributions were unconstitutional, but although many delegates
resented Washington's heavy handedness most agreed that the American threat
sparked a serious look at reform.

A procession of world leaders marked the special commemorative session which was
dominated by East-West stagecraft before the Geneva Summit.

Many ideas for strengthening its effectiveness are also mooted, ranging from the
adoption of fewer resolutions to less selective censuring of Israel and South
Africa.

The Assembly also had before it a report by the Joint Inspection Unit, a
watchdog group, appointed by member governments, which questioned the basic
concept of the UN as peace-maker and peace keeper, saying this was based on
quixotic notions.

In condemning human rights violations in Afghanistan and Iran, the Assembly went
beyond right-wing regimes in Latin America in spotlighting human rights targets
and responded to long-standing criticism of selective outrage.

But there was growing concern that the UN investigations into allegations of
human rights abuse had become diffident.

Britain had two embarrassing diplomatic defeats over the Falkland Islands, and
France, usually immune to criticism, was chastened for nuclear testing in the
South Pacific.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 30, 1985

Europe tightens security / Airport safety

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Security at European airports was stepped up at the weekend after the terrorist
attacks at Rome and Vienna on Friday.

The British Minister for Civil Aviation, Mr Michael Spicer, said that Britain
was reviewing security at its airports. 'We're going to have to consider what
extra security measures or precautions one can take within terminals without
making air travel practically impossible,' he said.


British authorities were reviewing a range of issues including access to planes
at airports by people other than passengers, Mr Spicer said.

In Madrid, airport officials said security had been stepped up in the capital's
Barajas airport and in Barcelona after reports from Italy that the guerrillas
had been planning attacks in Spain, Greece and Cyprus.

The officials said that special measures had been adopted for baggage and cargo
handling and stringent passenger checks were being carried out on Middle
East-bound flights.

Athens international airport, starting point of two hijackings this year, is
being heavily guarded after the latest Palestinian guerrilla attacks, airport
authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1985, Monday

The Times review of 1985 .. a year of calamity and hope

BYLINE: SUZANNE GREAVES and GEORGE HILL

SECTION: Issue 62332.

LENGTH: 8507 words


January

Weather


1: Britain shivers as temperatures drop to minus 4 degrees C 8: Snow covers
France; Metro stations open to homeless; pigeons desert rooftops, skiers glide
down Promenade des Anglais, Nice. 15: The Shetlands bask in sunshine 41 degrees
F). 16: The Costa Brava becomes the Costa Blanca as rare snow falls in Madrid.

Royalty

5: Princess Margaret is admitted to hospital with suspected lung cancer;
operation on her left lung reveals 'innocent tissue'. 6: Prince William builds
his first snowman at Sandringham.

Money

1: Pound begins 1985 with record low dollars 1.1587, days later plunging to
dollars 1.1395, and 85,000 Americans fly to London for New Year sales. 28:
Financial markets in turmoil, base rates go from 12 to 14 per cent, third rise
since Jan 11.

Abroad

2: Soviet cruise missile crashes in Finland after flying over Norway; the
Russians apologize. 3: About 25,000 black Ethiopian Jews, the Falashas, are
airlifted to Israel and three days later Bob Geldof arrives with pounds 6m
raised from Band Aid record. 11: Three American soldiers are killed when a
Pershing nuclear missile catches fire at US Army base. 21: 'Gamblers special'
plane crashes in Nevada, 65 killed.

The Miners

1: Arthur Scargill tells German trade unionists, 'We are more convinced and
confident of winning the strike than we were'. Neil Kinnock stands symbolically
on picket line. 7: About 1,200 miners abandon 44-week strike as three striking
colleagues, charged with murdering taxi driver David Wilkie, await trial. 8:
Power stations break records for electricity supply.

Sport

1: Footballer George Best transfers from Pentonville prison to Ford open prison
to complete his drink-driving sentence. 15: Fowler and Gatting score double
centuries as England break records against India in fourth Test and go on to
take 2-1 series lead.

Anniversaries

1: The Times commemorates its bicentenary year and publishes fascimile of The
Daily Universal Register. 31: Duchess of Kent and Prince Naruhito of Japan at
Festival Hall Times concert.

At home

3: Three men are held under Prevention of Terrorism Act by detectives
investigating Libyan bombings in London. 9: Social trends document says most
people believe Britain is a racially prejudiced country. 10: Norman Tebbit
resumes his seat in House of Commons from which IRA bomb removed him three
months previously. 15: Government turnabout as Prime Minister announces there
will be a national celebration to mark 40th anniversary of VE Day. 29: Snub for
Mrs Thatcher as Oxford dons vote not to award her an honorary degree.

Entertainment

16: Secret pounds 55,000 purchase by Thames Television from BBC of soap opera
Dallas, but incensed independent companies are expected to refuse autumn
transmission. 23: First televising of House of Lords proceedings, 300 of
potential 1,177 cast appearing.

People

4: Mrs Kim Cotton, Britain's first commercial surrogate mother, gives birth to
daughter for which she is said to have received pounds 6,500. Baby Cotton made
ward of court but later allowed to join her parents, as MPs call for ban on
commercial births. 10: Sir Clive Sinclair launches his pounds 399 electrically
powered 'beetle', the C5 which can be driven by 14-year-olds. 25: President
Botha promises new voting and property rights to blacks.

FEBRUARY

Crime

7: Polish secret police agent is sentenced to 25 years jail for his part in
killing of Solidarity priest, Father Jerzy Popieluszko. 11: Clive Ponting is
acquitted of Secrets Act breach of document leak relating to sinking of General
Belgrano. Letters between Mrs Thatcher and Mr Kinnock escalate. The Opposition
leader is compelled to accept Prime Minister had no part in Ponting prosecution
decision. 26: Michael Fairley, known as the Fox, given six life sentences for
series of rapes and burglaries in Bucks/Beds area.

Money

6: Acorn, the Cambridge home computer company, calls for temporary suspension of
its share trading on stock market. 11: pound falls below dollars 1.10 as
inflation rises and pressure increases on home loans. 22: After slight surge,
pound falls again; President Reagan fails to intervene; five days later panic
hits Bank of England and European central banks as dollar rises.

Abroad

5: Spain unbolts the gate dividing Spain and Gibraltar, 16 years after shutting
it. 11: Eighteen bandsmen burnt to death in German autobahn crash. 19: Spanish
Boeing 727 crashes on internal flight; 145 die.

The miners

11: Mass picketing is banned at five South Wales pits by High Court. 20: NUM
rejects latest formula for return to work, later votes to continue 50-week
strike indefinitely although 3,807 pitmen go back.

Sport

5: England draw in fifth Test against India.

Anniversaries

28: The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh visit The Times, second time a reigning
monarch crosses the threshold. Queen presses button to roll the Royal Edition.

At home

7: Four Britons arrive back home from Libya with Terry Waite, Archbishop of
Canterbury's special envoy, who had negotiated their release. 12: NUT warns of
threeday strikes after pay talks break down. 17: Prison officer shot dead by two
provincial IRA gunmen as he leaves church in Armagh. 28: IRA bomb kills nine,
injures 30, in police station raid at Newry, Co Down.

Entertainment

7: National Theatre director, Sir Peter Hall, announces closure of one stage,
job cuts and departure from South Bank complex in wake of financial crisis. 14:
Getty Museum's dollars 7m painting 'The Annunciation' by Dieric Bouts is
challenged as a fake. 27: BBC1's time traveller, Dr Who, is latest victim of
programme cuts; 'Save the Doctor' campaign gathers planet support.

MARCH

Royalty

1: To alleviate Aids blood transfusion scare, Prince Charles becomes first royal
donor. 5: Princess Anne tints her hair pink. 7: Queen Mother makes private visit
to The Times, 12: Queen to get pounds 7.5m armoured train. 17: Princess
Margaret's first public appearance since operation.

Money

17: Egyptian Al-Fayed brothers' pounds 615m bid for House of Fraser, including
Harrods, is formally recommended by stores group. 19: Nigel Lawson's second
budget increases road licenses from pounds 90 to pounds 100, cigarettes up 6p
for 20. Mortgage rates rise by one per cent.

Abroad

8: Beirut car bomb kills 60, injures 200. 11: Thirty-four killed in Israeli raid
on Lebanese village. 13: Mrs Thatcher attends funeral of President Chernenko and
President Reagan proposes summit talks with Mr Gorbachov. 21: Seventeen blacks
killed by police in South Africa.

Sport

4: Footballer attacked, seats ripped out, as Chelsea supporters riot during Milk
Cup defeat by Sunderland. 14: Mrs Thatcher backs jail sentences for football
hooligans as Millwall fans rampage through Luton, 47 injured.

The miners

4: Miners strike ends with narrow 98-91 card vote almost a year after it had
begun. 5: Carrying banners, 85 per cent of miners return to work. Flying pickets
from Kent, demand amnesty for dismissed colleagues; slow return in Wales and
Yorkshire. Mr Scargill refuses to cross picket lines.

At home

4: GLC loses crucial vote against rate capping campaign. 10: Mrs Thatcher's bath
stolen from her front garden during house renovations. 22: Bradford councillors
pass no-confidence vote in headmaster Ray Honeyford for his published views on
multiethnic education. 31: Britain's worst hovercraft accident to the Princess
Margaret in which two die, two missing feared dead.

People

8: Injured British explorer Lt. Com. Clive Waghorn is snatched from
blizzard-swept Antarctic island by Royal Marine helicopter. 25: 'VC Sahib'
Captain Rambahadur Limbu, Queen's Gurkha Officer and last serving holder of
Victoria Cross, retires.

Science

3: Siamese twin girls are separated in London hospital operation. 8: Britain's
first frozen embryo baby, a boy, born in Manchester while Brooke Matthews,
world's youngest heart lung transplant patient, goes out to play at Harefield
Hospital. Her father holds up Australian hamburger bar to raise money for her
operation.

APRIL

Royalty

3: Princess Michael, who once said she would go anywhere for a hot meal, opens
Happy Eater roadside cafe. 15: Buckingham Palace statement that Princess
Michael's father was a member of Hitler's SS; she admits the revelations are a
'considerable shock'. 23: Princess Anne makes her flat race debut at Epsom and
comes fourth. 29: Controversy after plan for Prince and Princess of Wales to
attend Pope's private mass is abandoned on advice from the Palace.

Business

22: Nissan, manufacturers of Datsun cars, sign a single-union agreement for its
proposed assembly plant in north-east. 30: The pound gains strength against the
dollar as CBI survey highlights job losses and halt to export rise.

Abroad

6: President Nimeiry of Sudan overthrown by military coup. 19: South Africa
offers blacks new rights of independence in tribal homelands and urban blacks
freehold property rights. 22: British diplomats in Moscow pack their bags; their
counterparts do the same in London in new wave of expulsions. 26: US expels
Soviet military attache in retaliation for the shooting of Major Arthur
Nicholson by Soviet sentry in East Germany.

The miners

2: NUM ends ban on overtime. 8: NCB begins closure of Ackton Hall colliery,
Pontefract, which before the strike employed 1,300. 11: Pay rise package of 10
per cent accepted by NUM.

Sport

1: New law announced to ban sale of alcohol at football grounds. 8: Steve Ovett
wins first serious race since collapsing during Los Angeles Olympic Games. 9:
John Francome, National Hunt jockey, retires. 10: Cricketers' Association
members agree to drug tests in coming season. 14: Robin Knox-Johnson sets new
British record for sailing the Atlantic: 3,200 miles in 10 days, 14 hours, 18
mins, 40 secs. 19: Chelsea unveil plan for electric fence at football ground.
21: Chris Bonington, aged 50, scales Everest on his fourth attempt. Reduced
entry for London Marathon because of cool weather and flu outbreak. 28: Dennis
Taylor becomes new Embassy World Snooker champion, beating title-holder Steve
Davis 18-17.

Anniversaries

7: Two steam locomotives puff out of Bristol Temple Meads station at start of
100-mile journey to commemorate 150th anniversary of Great Western Railway.

At home

1: Postal workers walk out at Mount Pleasant sorting office, London, in dispute
over use of new coding machine, temporarily defying a High Court ruling. 8:
CND's 20,000 Easter marchers converge in torrential rain on cruise missile base,
Molesworth, Cambridgeshire. 17: Union report claims a quarter of all hospital
kitchens would be closed if they were not exempt from prosecution. 24: Neil
Kinnock warns Labour Party national executive that schoolchildren told to strike
against YT 'conscription' scheme were 'being exploited by a bunch of dafties'.
Gallup Poll reveals Labour lead over Conservatives reduced from 6 1/2 per cent
to 3 1/2 per cent. 30: Opposition MPs attack proposed abolition of Serps (state
earnings related pension scheme).

The arts

2: Members of the Sainsbury family to make a gift to the nation of a new
extension to the National Gallery, following scrapping of original extension
plan, described by Prince Charles as a 'monstrous carbuncle'. 18: World record
of pounds 7.5m paid for Mantegna's 'Adoration of the Magi' by Getty Museum at
Christie's, London.

People

2: Mr Gorbachov accepts US invitation to summit talks. Bishop of Durham, Rt Rev
David Jenkins, again voices his doubts about the proof of the Resurrection:
later emphasizes the 'policy of confrontation' which he says is dividing
Britain. 26: John Wakeham, Government Chief Whip, is back in the hustings, six
months after he was almost crippled in the Brighton bomb blast which killed his
wife Roberta.

MAY

Royalty

2: Duchess of Kent is among Lloyd's names on syndicates facing net underwriting
losses of at least pounds 60m. 12: Prince Andrew opens Falkland Islands new
airport. 30: Duke of Edinburgh drives a carriage and four across one of
Britain's most dangerous stretches of sands in Morecambe Bay.

Business

7: Government announces that British Gas is to be sold intact within two years.
13: Lloyd's investors face losses of pounds 130 million. 22: London Docklands
new mini-airport gets government approval. 24: Sir Clive Sinclair's computer
company is in financial difficulties; given two months' extension to its credit
by one of its main manufacturers, Thorn EMI.

Abroad

20: At Geneva's Cointrin airport, 394 mainly Palestinian prisoners exchanged for
three Israelis. 22: Beirut car bomb kills 60. 25: Five thousand feared drowned
in Bangladesh as tidal wave hits islands; death toll rises to 15,000. 26:
Thirty-four killed and more than 40 injured as explosion destroys two tankers
near Gibraltar. 27: Hopes of proving a Bulgarian connection in 1981 attempt to
kill Pope suffer setback when Mehmet Ali Agca, main prosecution witness,
announces he is Jesus Christ.

Anniversaries

8: The 40th anniversary of Victory in Europe allows Reagan and Gorbachov to make
a pledge for peace, although the Soviet leader later says the West colluded with
Hitler. The Queen leads service in Westminster Abbey attended by Mrs Thatcher,
who had wished for no formal commemoration at all; Channel Islanders remember
their five years of German occupation. 20: At Chelsea Flower Show a new variety
of rose is officially named 'The Times' to commemorate bicentenary year.

At home

2: Unemployment rises to record 3,177,000. 3: Tories lose control of nine
councils in county council elections. 6: Four schoolboys swept into sea off
rocks at Land's End, one girl rescued; headmaster of Stoke Poges Middle School,
Buckinghamshire, later denies parental criticisms of negligence. 15: Police
spotter plane crashes during trial operations, two policemen killed. 16: In
overhaul of public order laws, police given greater powers over crowd control.
20: Four RUC men killed in 1,000lb bomb blast while patrolling the border. 23:
Teachers reject five per cent pay offer and a reference to arbitration. 27:
TriStar overshoots runway at Leeds-Bradford airport, 416 escape.

People

5: President Reagan visits Bergen-Belsen concentration camps after his
controversial wreath-laying at Bitberg, German military cemetery containing the
graves of 2,000 German soldiers. 12: The Pope is greeted with missiles on his
visit to Utrecht; anti-Pope demonstrations follow and Pope castigates sexual
morals of young Dutch Catholics at end of stormy visit to the Netherlands.

Sport

6: Manchester City fans go on rampage at Notts County football ground. 11:
Fifty-six killed, 211 injured and 70 badly burnt in fire at Bradford City
football club. 15: Boy, 15, dies after football riots between Birmingham City
and Leeds United when boundary wall collapses. 16: Bradford City chairman
finally acknowledges existence of fire-risk warning letters; third and fourth
division clubs required to make safety improvements. 19: Manchester United win
Cup Final 1-0 against Everton, playing with only 10 men after their player,
Kevin Moran, becomes first footballer ever to be sent off in a final. Chinese
soccer fans go on rampage in Peking as national side knocked out of World Cup by
Hong Kong. 22: Seventy English football supporters arrested in Helsinki at game
with Finland. 29: Football riot at Heysel Stadium, Brussels, before the European
Cup final between Liverpool and Juventus of Turin leaves 38 dead and 150
injured; match starts 83 minutes late as authorities fear cancellation would
escalate violence. 31: FA bans English clubs from European competition next
season.

JUNE

Weather

21: The longest day without sunshine in what becomes the wettest June since
1971, the coolest since 1977 and the dullest since 1979. Pagans for Peace shiver
at Stonehenge as they chant 'I am one with the infinite sun'.

Money

6: Pay award of 7.3 per cent for armed forces but nurses get 5.6 per cent staged
rise instead of the nine per cent recommended by independent inquiry. 14:
Rumours that President Reagan suffered a heart attack - later denied - send
dollar plunging; the pound rises to dollars 1.2795.

Business

5: Government backing for limited growth at Stansted Airport from two million
passengers a year to eight million. 16: Mirror publisher Robert Maxwell
announces his pounds 12m rescue deal for Sir Clive Sinclair's ailing home
computer company. 20: Chancellor of Exchequer censures Bank of England's failure
to act promptly to avert pounds 248m collapse of Johnson Matthey Bankers.

Miners

5: Pit deputies union, Nacods, call off overtime ban, bringing to an end 15
months of industrial action in the coal industry. 7: Cortonwood colliery, whose
threatened closure started the strike, is to shut, bringing job losses in
Yorkshire to 10,000.

Sport 3: Ban on possession of alcohol at football grounds and on football fan
transportation to become law by next season. 4: Attempt by 16-member British
team on Mt Everest's unconquered north-east ridge fails. 5: Steve Cauthen wins
Derby on Slip Anchor. 6: Fifa punishes English football with new world ban on
allowing its affiliated associations any sporting contact with England at club
level. 8: Barry McGuigan (24) becomes new featherweight champion of the world.
18: England's Test victory against Australia marred by pitch invasion.

At home

3: Social welfare review outlined in Commons includes 15-year phase-out of
Serps; cutbacks on housing benefits and death grants to be abolished. 7:
Four-day rescue attempt down collapsed 50ft well at Ventnor, Isle of Wight, ends
as body is found of Ramunas Girenas (22). Opponents talk out Enoch Powell's bill
to prevent the use of human embryos for research or experiment. 17: London taxi
driver fined pounds 75 for ejecting a passenger whom he suspected of being a
socialist. 18: Government acts to enforce cuts in social security by making a
pounds 57m cut in rate rebates. 23: Police defuse suspected IRA bomb in tourist
hotel near Buckingham Palace and next day find hotel target hit list.

Abroad

7: Twenty-two Finnish UN troops kidnapped in Lebanon. 11: Twenty-three people
jailed in Eastern bloc exchanged in Berlin for four Eastern Europeans convicted
of spying in US. 12: Spain's signing of treaty of its accession to EEC marred by
Basque terrorist killings. 15: TWA flight from Athens to Rome hijacked by to
Shi'ites demanding release of 766 Shi'ite internes in Israel; two American
passengers are badly beaten and one shot dead. The 30 hostages are concealed in
Beirut and finally released after tense negotiations on June 30. 23: Indian
airliner on flight from Canada to Heathrow blows up over Atlantic off Cork; all
329 passengers killed.

People

6: Accountant Michael Checkland is BBC's new deputy director general. Mr Dikko,
former Nigerian transport minister who was found kidnapped in an airline crate,
is refused political asylum. 10: Syrian diplomat, Ahmed Walid Rajab, bows to
Foreign Office ultimatum and agrees to leave the pounds 85,000 London home of
the Chaffey family, which he had continued to occupy in defiance of a court
order. The Queen took a personal interest in the case after Mrs Chaffey wrote to
her in desperation. 21: Experts agree the exhumed body of a man drowned in
Brazil in 1979 is that of Dr Josef Mengele, known in German concentration camp
as the 'Angel of Death'.

JULY

Crime

8: Two men responsible for forging and selling 'Hitler diaries' to German
magazine jailed. 17: Johnson Matthey bankers call in City fraud squad. 25:
Andrew Neil jailed for life for battering to death his young daughter Tyra
Henry.

Money

18: Decision to give top civil servants 46 per cent pay rise angers some
back-bench Tory MPs and House of Lords. 26: Two building societies cut mortgage
interest rate for new borrowers.

Business

9: Huge demand for M&S charge cards leads to operational mistakes and complaints
from customers. 10: Bowing to consumer pressure Coca-Cola agrees to bring back
old-style Coke. 17: BR announces pounds 408m loss, some pounds 250m directly
attributable to miners' strike, BBC cutbacks will mean the loss of 4,000 jobs.
25: Electricians' Union agrees to no-strike single union deal with Eddy Shah the
newspaper publisher.

Abroad

1: Twelve airport workers injured when bomb explodes at Rome international
airport; in Madrid a woman is killed when another bomb wrecks BA ticket office.
8: Zimbabwean general election landslide victory for Robert Mugabe. 10: Formal
closure of Union Carbide plant at Bhopal, India, where 1,745 people died after
inhaling methyl isocyanate. Crewman dies when explosion wrecks Greenpeace
environmental group's flagship, Rainbow Warrior in a New Zealand harbour. 19:
Dam bursts in Italian Dolomites, washing away chalets and three hotels in just
20 seconds; some 200 feared dead. 21: State of emergency declared in South
Africa, unrest follows and later President Botha threatens reprisals against
black-ruled states persisting with economic sanctions. 31: Remaining EEC
ambassadors in Pretoria summoned home.

Sport

1: Virginia Wade loses her last Wimbledon match. 3: John McEnroe is humbled by
Kevin Curren in worst defeat of a Wimbledon champion since war. 7: Boris Becker,
aged 17, becomes first German, first unseeded player and youngest competitor to
win Wimbledon's men's singles championship. 12: British Olympic Association
proposes Birmingham as a contender for staging 1992 Games. 15: All Blacks tour
of South Africa cancelled. 21: Sandy Lyle gives Britain first Open victory for
16 years. 26: Ian Botham becomes only second player in history to hit more than
50 sixes in first-class cricket during one summer.

Anniversaries

11: Prince and Princess of Wales attend a dinner at Hampton Court Palace and
view a medieval rout, climaxed with fireworks, as part of The Times bi centenary
celebrations.

At home

3: School strikes as NUT pay talks founder. 5: Conservatives lose Brecon and
Radnor, their worst by-election defeat since war. 7: Nottinghamshire miners
threaten to leave NUM. 10: Gallup Poll survey reveals Britain's favourite
Saturday night pastime is watching video while eating a take-away meal. 18:
Austrian white wine removed from sale after discovery in South Yorkshire of
samples contaminated with anti-freeze additives.

Entertainment

13: Band Aid charity concert staged simultaneously in London and Philadelphia
raised pounds 50 million for Ethiopian famine victims. Organizer Bob Geldorf
also known as 'Saint Bob' later receives honorary degree from Kent University
and is proposed for Nobel Peace Prize. 30: BBC cancel programme on political
extremism in Northern Ireland after pressure from Home Secretary.

People

4: Arthur Scargill wins right to remain life president of NUM. Maths prodigy
Ruth Lawrence, aged 13, awarded a first at Oxford after only two years' study.
13: President Reagan undergoes surgery for cancer, briefly transfers his office
of Vice-President Bush and later makes rapid recovery.

AUGUST

At home

5: Teachers offered new conditional pay deal. 22: Fifty-four passengers on
holiday flight to Corfu killed when aircraft engine explodes while taking off
from Manchester Airport; grounding of British jets with engines of similar type.
28: Defeat for NUR as guards vote against strike action over driver-only trains,
but BR refuses to reinstate 245 guards until union agrees to negotiate
productivity proposals. 30: Ten-day crisis at Mirror Group newspapers culminates
with publisher Robert Maxwell announcing papers would no longer be printed in
Fleet Street.

Crime

13: Four young Asians convicted of affray after racial battle in Newham
sentenced to 100 hours' community service. 19: Eight men fined after being
arrested fleeing from a cock fight. 21: Woman arrested in Auckland in connection
with the sinking of Greenpeace ship Rainbow Warrior is named as a captain in the
French Secret Service.

Royalty

4: Queen Mother is 85 and spends a very wet day at Sandringham; later flies
round Britain on Concorde, her birthday treat from British Airways. 27: Princess
of Wales visits the bedside of young girl who lost her family in Manchester air
crash and persuades her to open her eyes.

Entertainment

7. BBC journalists supported by ITV collegues stage protest strike at BBC
governors' decision to ban a programme about extremists in Northern Ireland.

People

5: Pimple removed from President Reagan's nose found to be cancerous. 8: Pope
begins 12-day seven-nation African tour. 9: Martin Galvin, the Noraid leader,
defies expulsion order banning him from UK and carries the coffin of a
Provisional IRA 'volunteer'. 11: Uncompromising letter from imprisoned African
National Congress leader, Nelson Mandela, is read out at funeral of murdered
black civil rights lawyer. 21: Sir Freddie Laker accepts pounds 5.6m from BA and
other airlines, thus removing biggest obstacle to privatization of BA.

Abroad

1: Black South African mineworkers give notice of strike in gold and coal mines;
more than 60 people die in black riots. 15: President Botha offers blacks
citizenship, dashes hopes of significant reform and later closes Stock Exchange
in effort to avert collapse of economy. 11: Toxic gas escapes from Union Carbide
plant in US, injuring 135 people. 12: All but four of the 525 passengers killed
as JAL Boeing 747 crashes on internal Japanese flight.

Sport

4: Steve Cram breaks a third world athletic record in 20 days. 15: Crew of
Virgin Atlantic Challenger airlifted to safety after boat sinks two hours from
the finishing line of their Atlantic Blue Riband recordbreaking attempt.

Anniversaries

6: Hiroshima marks 40th anniversary of the bombing with a service and the
release of doves.

Business

9: Robert Maxwell pulls out of proposed pounds 12m rescue bid for Sinclair
Research and Sir Clive announces pounds 10m deal with Dixons the high street
retailers. 12: Debts halt production of Sinclair C5 vehicle at Hoover factory,
owed pounds 1.5m by Sinclair Vehicles. 14: Barclays Bank to reduce its
controlling shareholding in South Africa's largest bank. 16: Takeover battle for
Debenham ends with House of Fraser selling its stake to Burton Group for around
pounds 144m.

SEPTEMBER

Crime

1: Forty prisoners surrender to police after prison riot at Spike Island, Cork,
Ireland's 'Alcatraz'. 9: Police in riot gear fight pitched battles with gangs of
youths in Handsworth, Birmingham. 10: Home Secretary Douglas Hurd pelted and
jeered at on visit to area; 43 arrests made as murder inquiry begins. 17: German
spy scandal continues as long-serving secretary of Chancellor Kohl defects to
East Germany. 28: Orgy of violence in Brixton following accidental shooting by
police of Mrs Cherry Groce while searching her home for son Michael.

Abroad

3: Seven British tourists injured in Greece in the second anti-Britain bomb
attack in a month. 5: Vigilante whites open fire on Cape Town mob. 11: Trains
collide head-on in Portugal, 120 people killed. 17: Lebanese militia destroy 12
Christian villages east of Sidon. 19: Earthquake in Mexico: 50,000 rescue
workers search for survivors among quake toll estimated at 20-30,000 dead. 24:
Baby boy born on day of earthquake pulled out alive from rubble. 22: After
resignations and denials of responsibility, the French admit they sank the
Rainbow Warrior.

Sport

2: England regain Ashes from Australia. 15: European victory in Ryder Cup as US
lose for first time in 28 years.

Royalty

3: Asked about her childhood games on a radio phone-in, Princess Anne says she
never played at being a princess. 24: Carrying a home-made paper mouse, Prince
William ends his first day at kindergarten.

At home

2: Extensive Government re-shuffle as Mr Norman Tebbit becomes party chairman;
Mr Leon Brittan moves from Home Office to Department of Trade and Industry; Mr
Hurd from Northern Ireland to Home Office; Mr King from Employment to Northern
Ireland and Lord Young to Employment. Best-selling author Mr Jeffrey Archer
becomes deputy chairman. 12: Mr Oleg Gordievsky, Russian KGB leader in London,
defects having worked secretly for West for 19 years. Leads to expulsion of 25
Soviet officials from Britain and tit for tat retaliation by Moscow, until Mrs
Thatcher calls a halt. 24: A proposed all-out public service strike in Liverpool
is called off. 25: Nicholas Price is jailed for life for murder of his starved
step-daughter Heidi Koseda, aged 3.

People

1: Graham Coveyduck, the businessman held for nearly a year without trial in
Nigeria arrives home a week after Nigeria's bloodless coup. 5: Mr Ray Honeyford,
Bradford headmaster suspended in race row, wins High Court claim for his
reinstatement. 9. Laura Ashley is critically ill after accident at her
daughter's home; her pounds 200m company is about to go public.

Business

5: Lloyd's of London announce worst underwriting loss in its history of pounds
188m. 18: State-owned car group BL announce first half-year operating losses of
pounds 11m.

OCTOBER

At home

3: Monthly jobless figures (September) rise to record 3,346, 198 or 13.9 per
cent of work-force but end of month sees biggest fall in October unemployed for
14 years. 14: India's Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, arrives in London for
two-day visit. NUT rejects new local authority pay offer as inadequate. 20:
Liverpool city council leaders agree to withdraw 31,000 staff redundancy notices
and to work with a joint Labour Party and national trade union initiative, aimed
at bridging city's pounds 25m budget gap, just three weeks before going
bankrupt. 21: Thirteen die, 36 injured, in M6 coach and car accident: worst
single motorway accident in Britain.

Royalty

1: Lord Linley opens furniture design shop in central London. 8: Princess of
Wales reveals her fears for children exposed to television programmes featuring
drugs and violence. 23: Prince of Wales was said by Mr Rod Hackney, community
architect from Macclesfield, to have expressed concern at becoming King of a
land divided between the have and have-nots.

Business

14: Sir Clive Sinclair's C5 company calls in receiver; 110 creditors owed about
pounds 700,000. 18: Thomson Holidays lower package deal prices signalling the
start of a holiday price war. 28: Opinion poll for The Times reveals most people
approve of tax evasion but cheating on employers and social security is out. 31:
Deadline day for fixed Channel link bids, rising to 10 by expiry limit.

Crime

6: PC Keith Blakelock stabbed to death in Tottenham riots, which began after the
death of Mrs Cynthia Jarrett whose home was searched by police. Rioters fired
shots, the first time in a British city riot, as hundreds of youths hurled
pellets, bricks and bottles at 500 police in full riot gear; 254 police and
civilians injured. The Home Secretary supports police contingency plans to use
plastic bullets; black Labour leader of Haringey council, Mr Bernie Grant, says
that the police, wo were to blame for the riots, 'got a bloody good hiding',
remarks condemned by Mr Kinnock. 28: Britain's lengthiest, largest and most
costly spy trial ends with seven servicemen accused of espionage in Cyprus being
acquitted at the Old Bailey.

Abroad

4: Mr Gorbachov has talks in Paris but his wife's fashionable clothes grab the
headlines. 8: Palestinian guerrillas hijack 454 passengers on Italian cruise
ship, the Achille Lauro, off Egypt. The pirates demand release of Palestinian
prisoners held by Israel and later kill an elderly American passenger confined
to a wheelchair, before surrendering to Egyptian authorities. Four hijackers fly
off in Egyptian plane but American military aircraft force it to land in Sicily.
15: King Husain of Jordan clears Sir Geoffrey Howe of any blame for fiasco of
collapsed talks with PLO delegation in London.

The miners

2: Mr Scargill persuades Labour Party conference to underwrite NUM's demand for
full reimbursement of losses from coal strike, but fails to make his proposals
part of the party's manifesto. Miners in Nottinghamshire and south Derbyshire
vote to leave the NUM for new Union of Democratic Mineworkers.

Sport

6: Nigel Mansell wins his first grand prix victory and Alain Prost his first
world championship. 29: Lester Piggott wins his last race, his 4,349th winner,
after a 38-year career.

Entertainment

2: Small grey puppet called Roland Rat joins BBC which is believed to have paid
a six-figure sum for Roland's three-year contract. His antics helped save the
once-troubled commercial station TV-am.

The arts

21: Royal Opera House given pounds 1m by opera and ballet lover Mrs Jean
Sainsbury. 27: Nine Impressionist paintings, said to be very conservatively
valued at pounds 8.3m, stripped from walls of Marmottan Museum, Paris, by armed
gunmen. 30: Britain formally rejects Greece's claim for return of Elgin Marbles.
31: Booker Prize for Fiction awarded to New Zealander Keri Hulme for novel The
Bone People.

Science

11: Survey of churchyards by WI members reveals bats do not live in belfries,
they prefer church porches away from the noise of bells. 14: All Britain's blood
donations now to be checked for Aids virus contamination. 17: Law Lords rule by
three to two in favour of allowing doctors to prescribe contraceptive pill to
girls under 16 without parental consent.

NOVEMBER

Crime

1: Greater Manchester Police Committee order chief constable Mr James Anderton
to return pounds 3,500-worth of plastic bullets to suppliers. 9: Armed raid on
Belgian supermarket in which armed gunmen shot eight people dead. 21: Two French
secret agents jailed in Auckland for their part in blowing up Rainbow Warrior.

Abroad

3: Press curbs introduced on reporting South African unrest. 14: Colombia
volcano disaster; some 23,000 people killed as lava and mud engulfs town of
Armero. 21: After two-day summit talks in Geneva between the two super-powers,
Mr Gorbachov says he believes 'the world has become a safer place', and
President Reagan hails talks as a 'fresh start' to US-Soviet relations, despite
disagreements over Star Wars. 24: Egyptian commandos storm Egyptian airliner at
Malta's Luqa airport, killing 59 people.

Sport

9: Gary Kasparov, 22, becomes youngest-ever world chess champion.

People

5: Mr Vitaly Yurchenko, Soviet KGB official and alleged defector, emerges after
State Department questioning in Washington to say he is going home. 6: Mr
Charles Wilson succeeds the late Mr Charles Douglas-Home as editor of The Times.
8: Anthony Heard, editor of Cape Times, formerly charged with breach of internal
security after publishing interview with 'banned' ANC exiled president.

Business 24: Robert Maxwell dismisses NGA men for refusing to print Mirror, but
a deal with Sogat '82 later resumes publication. 25: BHS and Mothercare plan
merger; Sir Terence Conran to be chairman of unnamed group.

Royalty

3: Queen arrives back from 10-nation Caribbean tour. 9: Princess of Wales on
royal tour of US dances with John Travolta and gets called Princess 'David' by
President Reagan. 26: Prince Charles warns Britain might become a fourth-rate
nation unless we copy American business enterprise.

At home

1: Sir Keith Joseph angers NUT by cutting its majority on the teachers' side of
Burnham Committee. 12: Chancellor of Exchequer makes optimistic autumn statement
to Commons, promising extra public and social security spending. 13: As Bradford
city council wins right to re-open disciplinary proceedings against headmaster
Ray Honeyford, NUT announces it is to petition House of Lords; later Mr
Honeyford offers to leave his post. 15: Mrs Thatcher and Dr Garret FitzGerald
sign Hillsborough agreement giving Irish Republic a role in Ulster. One minister
resigns, Ulster Unionists threaten to follow suit, but Commons vote in favour.
22: Stormy confrontations as Liverpool city council agrees to set a legal rate.
25: Memorial service for Mr Charles Douglas-Home, editor of The Times, at St
Paul's Cathedral. The congregation includes Prince Charles and the Prime
Minister.

DECEMBER

Crime

5: Anthony Mycock, the man who a BBC TV programme claimed had been wrongly
convicted, is freed by Court of Appeal after serving half a five-year prison
term for robbery. 10: Two rape victims win unprecedented claim against their
attacker but total award of pounds 17,560 is dubbed 'paltry'. 12: Kenneth Noye,
property dealer, cleared of murder of C11 branch undercover detective John
Fordham, who was knifed to death during a Scotland Yard investigation into
pounds 26m Brinks Mat robbery at Heathrow.

Royalty

4: Queen and Duke of Edinburgh join Mrs Thatcher and five former Prime Ministers
at 10 Downing Street to celebrate its 250 years as official residence. 9: Much
publicized attendance by Prince and Princess Michael of Kent at Pope's early
morning mass, seven years after their civil marriage in Vienna.

Business

11: Control of Daily Telegraph passes to Canadian businessman Mr Conrad Black
after nearly 60 years' ownership by the Berry family. Johnson Matthey bankers
admit members of its staff had been involved in fraud with Nigeria before bank's
near-collapse last year with losses of pounds 248m. 13: Lord Hartwell, Daily
Telegraph chairman, reveals losses of over pounds 16m in last six months and
appoints Mr Andrew Knight, editor of the Economist, as chief executive.

27: Defence Secretary Mr Helestine moves closer to clinching a European solution
in the international struggle for Westland helicopter company, already the
subject of a United States-Italian bid.

Abroad

9: General Galtieri acquitted in Argentina of human rights offences, but will
now be tried for country's defeat in Falklands War. 12: No survivors as 250
American soldiers and eight air crew killed when plane crashes on take-off from
Gander airport, Newfoundland. Worst year for aviation crashes with about 2,000
people killed.

Sport

2: Somerset cricketer Ian Botham completes his 880-mile charity walk. South
African Rugby Board decides to withold its invitation to British Lions for 1986
tour. 8: Wales's former Rugby Union captain Terry Holmes makes his debut as a
Rugby League player and is led off injured after 14 minutes. 12: Britain's first
gold bobsleigh medal in 20 years with two-man World Cup win at Cortina by Nick
Phipps and Alan Cearns. 15: England's World Cup team drawn to be based in
Monterrey with Poland, Portugal and Morocco.

People

2: Mrs Yelena Bonner, wife of Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, arrives in Italy
for family reunion and medical treatment. 8: Mr Bob Astles, Idi Amin's former
aide, arrives in Britain after renouncing Ugandan citizenship and says, 'There
is no blood on my hands'.

At home

1: Government criticism over the Church of England's 400-page report on
deprivation in the inner cities. 3: Report on Jasmine Beckford (battered to
death by her stepfather) says death was predictable and preventable and
criticizes those concerned in her welfare; Brent council dismisses two social
workers involved. 5: Labour win Tyne Bridge with increased share of vote. Dismay
as Government says it will pull out of UNESCO on Dec 31. Commons approval for
building of 'fixed link' across Channel without public inquiry. 16: Social
Services secretary decides not to abolish Serps but to modify it. 17: Mass
resignation of remaining 13 Ulster Unionist MPs over Anglo-Irish agreement. 19:
Mr Leon Brittan publishes Financial Services Bill to block further City
scandals; Home Secretary orders a 10 Downing Street security review following
discovery of intruder on the roof. 20: Parents advised to stop using Oster
infant milk products after reports of salmonella infection in babies. 26: Police
shoot siege man and girl (four) rescued, after storming a London council flat;
the Thames barrier is raised to protect London from tidal surges.

It was not a vintage year for wine, nor sunshine, nor for peace and harmony;
rather, a year for earthquakes and droughts and planes falling out of the sky
and men with guns knocking at the door. A definite undertaste perceptible as one
rolls the flavour of the year around one's tongue - the bracing, evocative,
meretricous taste of antifreeze.

The consumers of Austrian plonk are said to have been developing quite a taste
for antifreeze before the ingenious adulterator overreached himself and tried
claiming it as a tax expense. How many years like this one before we begin to
get a taste for it too?

But it must be said that without that dash of antifreeze the year would possibly
have seized up solid in its first weeks and never got started again. It was
portentously cold right across the northern hemisphere. London had its coldest
night for 22 years, the holy water froze in Cologne Cathedral, and pink
flamingoes died in their hundreds in the Carmargue. In Washington, USA,
frostbiting blizzards forced Ronald Reagan's second inaugural indoors and
launched a vogue phrase, the 'wind-chill factor', which made it much more
exciting to be out in bracing weather.

In Moscow, General Winter laid low that most provisional of world potentates,
Konstantin Chernenko, of whom less evil could be said than of any Soviet leader,
though also less good. Was he married? No one in the West was sure, until his
widow appeared at the funeral. Mikhail Gorbachov, suave and confident, stepped
into his shoes in short order, and his wife stepped out of obscurity into the
elegant shoes, never occupied before, of First Lady of All the Russians.

The rivalry of the superpowers roused itself from years of stale routine. For
the first time, the Soviet Union made a serious attempt to seize the public
relations initiative, with a leader visibly younger and sharper than his
opposite number, who was twice in hospital for minor surgery. The rivals met
across a fireside, with 3,000 journalists listening at the keyhole, and the
world sighed with relief if only to find that they could bear each other's
company.

At least in terms of hopes attached to it, this was the principal political
event of the year - more important than Israel's painful disengagement from
Lebanon, or South Africa's discovery that it had to take account of the
sanctions that could really bite, applied by the international financial
community. We may suppose that the summit was the event that Halley's comet came
to portend. The comet remained virtually invisible, thus also warning us not to
expect too much.

It was noted that Mr Gorbachov's affability did not extend to the subject of
human rights, while Mr Reagan's growing faith in Star Wars disturbed allies who
would be unprotected by the missile umbrella even if it proved effective. The
year's great growth industry of espionage expanded, with so many arrests,
expulsions, defections and re-defections that it seemed ready to leave the black
economy and become a fully fledged multinational.

Mr Reagan's self-declared 'greatest fan' showed no misgivings about Star Wars or
anything else, although she did announce a date for her retirement, many years
hence, and even invested in a retirement home. It was not clear whether anyone
would be in a position to cause her to advance those plans. A certain
post-crisis fatigue was in the air in Britain, uncomfortable for governments but
not easily exploitable by their opponents. The most significant initiative in
home politics this year, the Anglo-Irish accord was, by definition, the kind of
thing which evokes apathy among the uninvolved and furious hostility among the
involved.

The undaunted remnants of the coal strikers marched off into the sunset, doomed
before the year began but still singing 'Here we go ..' The miners of East
Europe continued to the end to send gifts and messages of support to the
strikers and coal to the bosses. Arthur Scargill, life president of a union that
was a third smaller after the dispute than it had been before, declared that it
had all been 'a brilliant success'. Meanwhile, Liverpool council cheerfully
threatened to save the jobs of their 31,000 employees by sacking them and had to
be bailed out by the Gnomes of Zurich. The hard left had overreached itself so
grossly that it gave the 'cuddly left' the best chance in years of remoulding
the party to a form that might be acceptable to the voters.

The Tories earned few dividends of popularity from the slow diminuendo of the
coal strike, and fewer still from a teachers' action as lengthy and perhaps
greater in the real harm it caused. The Government began to show that affinity
for banana skins common among long-entrenched administrations, and appointed
Jeffrey Archer as vice-chairman of the Conservative Party, with special
responsibility for banana skins.

Although scrupulously vetted, a jury freed Clive Ponting, refreshingly affirming
the supremacy of heart over head. This, with the fiasco of the Cyprus trial,
where it proved impossible to show that the accused had taken any secrets at
all, instilled in some Tories a festering sense of grievance against juries in
general. The Home Secretary tried to lean on the BBC, since everybody else
seemed to be doing so, and leant right out of the Home Secretaryship. The
Commons were about to follow the Lords in allowing television to spy on their
wranglings when they observed Mr Botha saving himself much uncomfortable
publicity by banning it, and judged it prudent to follow suit.

Opinion polls showed the three main forces in British politics in close and
fluctuating rivalry. Early in the year, when Labour was a whisker ahead, the
polls also showed fears that current economic policies would lead to riots and
civil disturbances - an endemic underlying fear since 1981. Paradoxically, when
the riots came, in Handsworth, Brixton and Tottenham, it was the Government that
forged ahead in the polls. Regardless of cause, the need for a firm hand was
felt, and what could be firmer than a government which started the year by
announcing plans to build 16 new prisons?

British society got a glimpse of its own undercurrents and was shocked by what
it saw. For football hooliganism, we were champions of Europe if not the world.
The torturing of small children seemed to be another national speciality, though
in this case it is possible that headlines belied statistics. But it seemed that
every week brought to light a case more harrowing than the last, with secret
ferocity (often by parents) going unsuspected by public servants incapacitated
by faith in human nature.

But to look on the bright side: this year, in case you did not notice, was the
year we never had it so good. Our national bonanza, North Sea oil, reached its
point of greatest yield and began its inexorable long decline.

Our real living standards rose while our competitiveness declined - the usual
pattern - but the rhetoric of austerity had gained such conviction that two out
of three of us were convinced we were worse off. We were still almost as well
off as the Italians. If oil revenues did not run to the tax cuts necessary to
cheer us up before the next election, it was doubtful whether hocking the family
silver would. The Government's growing habit of boasting about the failures in
its cost-cutting activities in the public services only added to the confusion,
while the pound giddly floated down and down, and up and up.

There was no summer this year (governments have to take the blame for such
things), though we did get an Indian summer (the poll ratings revived). Between
the showers, Boris Becker won Wimbledon at 17 and threw into despair all those
who still daydreamed of being champion and now rudely discovered that they were
old enough to be a champion's father or mother. However, Chris Bonington climbed
Everest at 50. England won the Ashes, Oxford their tenth successive Boat Race,
and Sandy Lyle became the first Briton for 16 years to win the British Open.

Belts were tightened in the world of the arts, most notably that of Lord Gowrie,
reduced to noble penury (pounds 33,266 per annum) in the service of the muses.
The Victoria and Albert Museum bust the Algardi bust (pounds 1m) and introduced
admission charges for the timid among those hastening to see the residue of the
collection before the museum broke that, too. It was an exceptional year in the
theatre - with the completion of the National's sublime Mysteries cycle, and
bravura performances from Messrs Sher, Hopkins and McKellen in Richard III,
Pravda and Coriolanus.

It was a momentous year for Fleet Street, which seemed on the point of uprooting
itself and decamping to the Isle of Dogs in the hope that perhaps dog might not
eat dog there, and particularly for us, as we were led into our third century of
publication by an editor who died in harness, playing his role with unexampled
gusto though latterly on crutches and then in a wheelchair, ranging the office
corridors in Brand's Hatch style.

Air travellers set out with faint hearts this year, debating whether it would be
more unpleasant to crash or to be hijacked. But it sometimes seemed hardly safer
to stay on the ground, where earthquakes, typhoons, volcanoes and bursting dams
could obliterate thousands in a night. Four disasters alone accounted for some
50,000 deaths. The recurrent microcosm of these disasters on our screens was the
image of the trapped individual waiting while rescuers laboured tantalizingly
close. Calamity brings out goodwill as well as horror: this was also the year of
the Live Aid concert, said to have been the largest charitable event in human
history and unquestionably the noisiest.

There was another recurrent screen image this year: of those tidy, well-spoken
composed teenagers, whom we saw for the first and last time in video recordings
made for release after they had accomplished suicide missions against the
retreating Israelis.

It was the year of the first great Aids panic, the year Poland put four secret
policemen on public trial, and Argentina did the same with its former junta. It
was the year the Titanic was found, and the Rainbow Warrior was lost, the year
the mayor of Philadelphia set a suburb on fire, the year Mr Rajendra Sethia went
bankrupt for pounds 107m, the year of the Sinclair tricycle. The Inland Revenue
failed to extract tax from a dog with holdings on the Stock Exchange, with the
court upholding the venerable principle of no taxation without representation
(but if the dog dies intestate, the state will have the last laugh). Some
Vauxhall workers had it written into their contracts that they must not wear
beards, and employees of a computer company in Telford were forbidden to laugh
at work. It was the kind of year when it was reassuring to learn that there was
still any laughter around to bar.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 9, 1986

Heathrow gets machine gun guard by police / New anti-terrorist measures at
London Airport

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 622 words


Police officers armed with SAS-issue sub-machine guns capable of firing 15
rounds a second will begin patrolling Heathrow airport, London from today as
part of its new security strategy against terrorism, Scotland Yard said last
night.

The weapons will, however, be restricted to firing single shots from a magazine
holding 30 rounds. Police chiefs stressed that their men will be under orders
not to use the guns as automatic weapons.


They say the Heckler and Koch MPS A2 9mm carbine, used in single shot mode and
fired from the shoulder, will provide more firepower and greater accuracy up to
more than 100 yards than other weapons available.

The weapon is being introduced to match weapons now being used by terrorists.

The Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner, Mr Geoffrey McLean, said:
'Security measures at Heathrow have been under constant review and following
recent events in Rome and Vienna, and in consultation with Special Branch, it is
felt we need to further enhance our ability to protect the travelling public
from a terrorist attack.'

This show of force has been decided in preference to the more draconian
restrictions employed at other European airports since the terrorist atrocities
at Rome and Vienna airports on December 27, when 19 people were killed and 112
injured.

Passengers using German and French airports are now subject to several body and
luggage checks, causing considerable delay.

The police, carrying the Heckler and Koch carbines by shoulder straps, will move
in exercise mounted after the Christmas week attacks ends today. The officers
are members of the Yard's D11 branch of weapons experts, the so called Blue
Berets who attend armed sieges.

They will eventually be replaced when Heathrow-based policemen have been trained
to use the fast-firing weapons.

The police marksmen will be uniformed but will wear protective body armour under
their tunics. The carrying of the sub-machine guns will be subject to constant
review.

West German-made Heckler and Koch machine guns were brought by Scotland Yard in
1984, for protection duty at the World Economic Summit in London. They have
never before been used overtly by police on mainland Britain but are on issue to
the Royal Ulster Constabulary.

Guns of this type were used by the SAS during the Iranian Embassy siege, and are
a familiar sight at continental airports.

Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, said that he was saddened by the decision,
which would be kept under review, but did not oppose it. He had agreed that
overtly armed policemen should be on duty after attacks on international
airports.

Mr Tony Judge, the Police Federation spokesman, said that the machine guns would
be a blow to the international image of the British bobby. He questioned whether
officers' subject to Home Office guidelines on the use of firearms will stand a
cat in hell's chance when dealing with terrorists who are subject to no one's
rules.'

Mr Clive Soley, a shadow home affairs minister, said that he would raise the
issue in the Commons with Mr Hurd and demand an inquiry into issuing arms to the
police. 'We are well on the way to having an almost permanently armed police
force. They have been told to fire single rounds, which raises the question of
why they are then issued with machine guns,' he said.

John Ardill adds: The planned Channel tunnel would be a prime target for
terrorists, says Dr Richard Clutterbuck, lecturer in politics at Exeter
University and expert on urban guerrillas, in a report for the Green Party,
published yesterday.

The party says that security restrictions, including meticulous searches of
vehicles and passengers, would be 'unacceptably tight.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 10, 1986

Heathrow armed police patrols spread / Airport security tightened in response to
terrorist threat

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 511 words


More British airports are likely to follow Heathrow in London in arming its
police with SAS-style sub-machine guns to combat any threat from terrorists.

Shortly after the first officer carried his Heckler and Koch carbine into
Heathrow's crowded inter-continental terminal yesterday, it was announced that
police at Manchester airport would be similarly armed from next Monday.


Birmingham police said that, although they already had weapons similar to the
submachine gun, its police authority was now considering purchasing the Heckler
and Koch.

Sussex police, who guard Gatwick, said that they would again be looking at their
security arrangements at the airport, which were reviewed only last year.

The moves, prompted by the terrorist attacks at Vienna and Rome airports last
month, follow a security debate involving police, Home Office and airport
authorities.

The Home Office said yesterday that arming police at airports was a matter for
individual chief constables to decide.

Manchester's assistant chief constable, Mr Paul Whitehouse, said that the
decision to issue the force's two Heckler and Koch carbines to airport officers
was made 'in view of the continuing threat' by terrorists. The two officers
armed with sub-machine guns will patrol with two other firearms officers. They
will begin duty on the only day of the week when El Al, the Israeli airline, has
flights in and out.

The Heckler and Koch carbine is capable of firing 15 rounds a second. But the
Metropolitan and Manchester police forces both pointed out yesterday that their
weapons had been converted to single shot modes. Even so, they are capable of
firing 400 rounds a minute.

The issue for the first time of sub-machine guns to police on a routine basis in
mainland Britain is proving controversial.

The Police Federation has called it a 'major blow' to the international image of
the unarmed British bobby. Mr Clive Soley, a shadow home affairs minister,
suspected the move would pave the way towards an almost permanently armed police
force.

But Heathrow's police chief, Commander Patrick Carson, said that guns had been
carried covertly for years at the airport, and added: 'The guns will be carried
overtly by experts. My men are well accustomed to carrying arms anyway and those
trained to use this particular weapon are my best men.'

The Scotland Yard Tactical Firearms Unit (D11) officers on duty at Heathrow, who
will eventually be replaced by trained Heathrow-based men, have chosen the
Heckler and Koch because it is more accurate and powerful than other weapons
when fired from the shoulder in single shot mode.

It is believed that this overt display of police power will dissuade terrorists
from attacking British airports.

'If a terrorist comes here and starts indiscriminate shooting at passengers, we
need to get a hit quickly and effectively because to get in and take him out is
going to save lives,' said Mr Carson.

He emphasised the use of single-shot mode: 'We will not stand there and spray
bullets around.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 10, 1986, Friday

Machine-gun patrols protect Heathrow (199) /SCT

BYLINE: RUPERT MORRIS

LENGTH: 206 words


Uniformed police carrying sub-machine-guns appeared for the first time in public
in Britain yesterday patrolling terminal three departure lounge at Heathrow
Airport alongside Mr Michael Spicer, Minister for Aviation.

Mr Spicer said: 'We hope this will not be a permanent feature of the British
landscape, but both Government and police are determined that we shall respond
in kind to the new tactics being adopted by terrorists.'

Intensified security at Heathrow, where for the past eight days armed soldiers
as well as police have been mingling with passengers in terminal three, came
after terrorist attacks on Israeli check-in desks at Vienna and Rome airports
two weeks ago.

Yesterday members of Scotland Yard's D11 firearm specialists' unit were on guard
both in the departure lounge, and for certain flights, on the runway tarmac.
They carried Heckler and Koch MP5A2 sub-machine-guns.

Airport police commander Patrick Carson said the guns were set for single-shot
firing, and his men would not be 'spraying bullets around'. He conceded,
however, that there was a danger that passengers could be caught in crossfire.

Machine pistols are to be carried by police at Ringway airport, Manchester, from
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 10, 1986, Friday

Commentary / The Atlantic Alliance (663) /SCT

BYLINE: GEOFFREY SMITH

LENGTH: 724 words


President Reagan's call for sanctions against Libya illustrates one of the
fundamental problems of the Atlantic Alliance; that its cohesion is always most
likely to be threatened by transatlantic difference over third countries.

Within the Atlantic region itself, there may be disagreements from time to time
over tactics towards the Soviet Union or over particular weapon systems, but not
over the basic consideration; that the West needs to be united in providing
adequate military protection for all members of Nato against Soviet military
power. It was, after all, to prevent the expansion of that power across Europe
that Nato was established in the first place.

This concept of West European security is challenged by minority sections of
opinion in a number of countries. But it has been accepted up to now by every
Nato government.

There is not, however, always the same identity of attitude or of interest
outside the Atlantic region. In the case of Libya, there is not much difference
between European and American assessments of the Gadaffi regime. But the British
Government, in particular, is sceptical about the effectiveness of economic
sanctions.

That is why Britain was so reluctant to impose them against Iran at President
Carter's behest in 1980 and against South Africa last year. The doubt relates to
the instrument rather than the adversary.

There are also considerations of commercial self-interest. It would be much more
damaging for Britain to break its links with South Africa or for Italy to do so
with Libya than it is for the United States to take its stand against Colonel
Gadaffi.

In fact, Mr Reagan has acted with more sensitivity towards the European position
than may be readily appreciated on this side of the Atlantic. At his press
conference on Tuesday evening he was remarkably understanding.

While making it clear that he would like European support, he recognized that
some European countries 'may have problems of their own in their own economies'
that would render it nearly impossible for them to take similar measures. He
issued a tough warning only against 'other nations moving into Libya to take
commercial advantage of our departure'.

It was no that point alone that the American Ambassador, Mr Charles Price,
pressed Sir Geoffrey Howe at their meeting on Wednesday. There was a ready
response. The British Government will not take any steps which would undercut
the American measures. No feathers have been ruffled at the Foreign Office by
that meeting, in sharp contrast to previous occasions when the United States has
been seeking to bludgeon its allies into economic boycotts.

Nor is President Reagan's action as draconian an many Americans would have
liked. An ABC News poll taken immediately after his press conference showed a
majority of 53 per cent favouring military action against Colonel Gadaffi if the
United States believed he had aided the terrorist attacks on Americans - and
more than 80 per cent believed he had in fact played either a major or a minor
role.

So Governments on both sides of the Atlantic are taking delibrate care to avoid
another Alliance crisis over this boycott. It is recognized here that Mr Reagan
has to take some firm action to satisfy a large and important section of his own
public opinion, and he has acknowledged the limitations on European action.

Unfortunately, this statesmanship on the part of governments does not dispose of
the problem. There remains the danger that European public opinion may once
again believe that Mr Reagan has been impulsive and that many Americans may
conclude that the Europeans have been as feeble as ever.

It is, moreover, the kind of danger that is likely to recur more frequently
these days because Europe is no longer such a focus of strategic anxiety as it
was when Nato was established. It is in parts of the world not covered by the
Soviet-American strategic balance, such as Central America, Africa and the
Middle East, that incidents are now more liable to occur.

There is no possibility of Nato operating as a worldwide alliance. What is
needed is respect on each side of the Atlantic for the particular concerns of
the other. That should be remembered when other episodes arise which provoke
sharper conflicts of interest and emotion than Libya does today.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 13, 1986, Monday

Howe insists on Libyan hand in airport attacks (195) /SCT

BYLINE: From DENIS TAYLOR, MUSCAT

LENGTH: 196 words


Sir Geoffrey Howe, the British Foreign Secretary, said here yesterday that it
was becoming clearer there was Libyan involvement in the recent terrorist
attacks at Rome and Vienna airports.

He made the remark during talks with Mr Yussef al-Alawi, the Omani Foreign
Minister. It is understood that he did not elaborate on this statement.

The Arab-Israeli problem, including terrorism, and the Gulf war, took up the
bulk of discussions lasting 90 minutes at the start of Sir Geoffrey's tour of
Oman, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

he said that terrorism diminished the credibility of moderate Palestinians.
Britain had backed the peace initiative of King Husain of Jordon. When Mr Shimon
Peres, the Israeli Prime minister, visits London next week, the Britain would
make an effort to revive the peace process.

He said he was glad that King Husain was now talking to President Assad of
Syria.

The Omani minister also expressed support for the Jordanian-Syrian rapprochement
which he hoped would help to create a united Arab negotiating front.

Sultan Qaboos bin-Said, the head of state, made clear to Sir Geoffrey his
pessimism on prospects for Gulf peace.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 13, 1986, Monday

Rome finds 70 spies in six months / Italian security report (303) /SCT

BYLINE: From JOHN EARLE, ROME

LENGTH: 330 words


The Italian security services have unmasked 70 secret agents of foreign
countries in the six months between last May and November, Signor Bettino Craxi,
the Italian Prime Minister, disclosed in a report to Parliament at the weekend.

Though the spies were from a wider area than the Middle East, the Prime Minister
expressed particular anxiety at the 'high risk' of Italy being contaminated by
the violence and terrorism sweeping that region.

Evidence of this had been seen in incidents such as the Palestinian hijacking in
November of the liner Achille Lauro and the terrorist attack at Rome airport
after Christmas.

The six-monthly security report said that, while domestic terrorism had
generally decreased, there were signs of a revival of activity by right-wing
extremists, who had links both with extremists abroad and with the Mafia.

In the international context, Signor Oscar Scalfaro, the Interior Minister, has
recently discussed closer collaboration with his opposite numbers in Britain,
France, Austria and Spain.

Secondly, Segnor Craxi said there must be political action to remove the causes
of terrorism by searching for a peaceful settlement which respects the rights of
both peoples and sovereign states in the area - an allusion to the Palestinians
and Israel.

In the wake of the Achille Lauro hijacking, the captain, Gerardo de Rosa,
announced last week that he was writing a script for a proposed film about the
event. But the Genoa magistrate conducting the judicial inquiry has halted the
project for the time being by warning that the matter is still sub judice.

Vatican view: The Pope has intimated that the United Nations should act against
member countries that connive at international terrorism. In a speech on
Saturday to diplomats accredited to the Holy See, he said the United Nations
'should not tolerate' members that disregarded the principles onshrined in its
Charter by compromising themselves with terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 17, 1986

Fleet exercise 'routine' / US official insists Mediterranean manoeuvres not part
of build-up against Libya

BYLINE: By SEUMAS MILNE

LENGTH: 244 words


The US Deputy Secretary of State, Mr John Whitehead, last night: insisted that
US fleet manoeuvres in the Mediterranean were routine and not part of the
military build-up against Libya.

He discounted Soviet suggestions that the manoeuvres were similar to those that
preceded the US invasion of Grenada in 1983, and said armed intervention against
Libya was not at present under consideration. However, President Reagan had
reserved the option of military action in the future.


Mr Whitehead was speaking in London after a Meeting with the British Foreign
Minister, Sir Geoffrey Howe, and the Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, on the
second leg of a tour of Western European capitals aimed at increasing Nato
sanctions against Libya.

Mr Whitehead welcomed Britain's pledge to press fellow EEC members to follow its
lead in imposing control on the entry of Libyan nationals and shutting down
diplomatic relations,

He claimed that Colonel Gadafy was 'behind most of the terrorist acts' around
the world

In Bonn, a senior West German official said investigators lacked proof that
Libya was involved in the attacks at the Rome and Vienna airports, according to
a press report.

Mr Juergen Moellemann, an undersecretary of state at the Bonn Foreign Ministry,
was quoted as saying that the Italian and Austrian governments reported that
there is 'until now no suficient evidence' that Libya took part in the attacks,
in which 19 people died.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 17, 1986

'Make life for murder discretionary' / Parliamentary report by all-party penal
affairs group

BYLINE: By ANDREW RAWNSLEY

LENGTH: 276 words


Mandatory life sentences for murder should be scrapped to check the rapid
build-up of lifers in Britain's prisons and to make the life sentence a more
effective deterrent, argues a parliamentary report published today.

The number of lifers, says a report from the all-party penal affairs group, has
increased fourteenfold from 140 in 1957 to more than 2,000 today. A life
sentence for murder became mandatory with abolition of the death penalty in
1965. Of the long-term prison population - prisoners serving four or more years
in gaol - lifers now represent 29 per cent of the male prison population, and 51
per cent of the female.


The group, which has a membership of over 60 drawn from both Houses of
Parliament and the four main political parties, argues that making life a
maximum, rather than a mandatory, sentence for murder would give judges the
latitude to proportion sentences more appropriately to the gravity of the
offence.

The trend toward more lifers is expected to become greater as a result of the
pledge by Mr Leon Brittan, then Home Secretary, to the Conservative conference
in 1983 that those convicted of murders involving policemen or prison officers,
acts of terrorism, armed robbery, or cruel and sadistic attacks on children,
could not expect to be released on licence before they had spent 20 years in
gaol.

The effective average length of a life sentence is 10 1/2 years, though at the
end of January 1985 90 prisoners had been in gaol for over 15 years, and 15 for
over 20 years.

Life Sentence Prisoners, price pounds 5, from Barry Rose (Publishers) Ltd,
Little London, Chichester, Sussex P019 9PG.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 22, 1986

UK News in Brief: Security tightened / Manchester airport

LENGTH: 92 words


Security arrangements at Manchester airport for passengers on EI Al, Israel's
airline, are being brought into line with those at Heathrow, it was announced
yesterday. Passengers will now take their luggage to passport control and it
will be checked before they board the aircraft.

The aviation minister, Mr Michael Spicer, also said that measures were to be
adopted to tighten security for airport cleaning staff at Britain's airports.
The moves follow recent terrorist attacks on El Al check in desks at Rome and
Vienna airports.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          January 22, 1986, Wednesday

America keeps its cool in face of the growing threat / Second of two articles on
terrorism and America (738) /SCT

BYLINE: From MICHAEL BINYON, WASHINGTON

LENGTH: 829 words


Surprisingly for a country so large, diverse, and wracked by socia and criminal
violence, the United States is one of the Western democracies least plagued by
'terrorism'.

While Britain, West Germany, Spain and Italy all struggle with underground
indigenous terrorist groupings, there is no organized American terrorist network
here, nor has international terrorism made any headway within the United States
itself. Americans may be prime targets abroad - at home they have little to
fear.

The recent threats by Colonel Gadaffi to unleash suicide squads have shaken any
complacency, however. Talk of plots to blow up the US Capitol and the
Administration's revelation that of the 126 terrorist attacks foiled by the US
in the past year 23 were in the US itself have also caused widespread public
alarm.

But of the 23 aborted plots, nine at most were planned by foreign terrorists.
Only one was an Arab - a Libyan diplomat expelled last June for allegedly trying
to kill Libyan dissidents - who accounted for three of the cases. In 1985
terrorists managed to carry out only seven actual attacks inside the US,
compared with 112 in 1977.

Mr Robert Oakley, head of the State Department's counter-terrorism unit, said
domestic terrorism was still 'a serious problem', with the principal threats
coming from Puerto Rican terrorists, inchoate neo-Nazi and white supremacist
groups and other individuals with no clear political goals. But since the defeat
of the ultra-leftist terrorists of the 1960s, the Weathermen, the Black Panthers
and the Symbionese Liberation Army which kidnapped Patty Hearst, no significant
sections of American society have resorted to terrorism to pursue their aims.

Even the pursuit of foreign feuds on US soil has been controlled, though with
large communities of Iranians, Libyans, Palestinians, Sikhs and Armenians, the
potential danger is there: last year the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
arrested Sikh extremists, Libyans, and Puerto Ricans backed by Cuba who were
planning attacks. But in Colonel Gadaffi's campaign to kill exiled Libyan
dissidents, only one in 30 of the attacks he sponsored between 1980 and June
last year took place in the US, where some 1,200 Libyans are studying.

One reason for the comparative calm is that there are no terrorist groups in the
US able to play on the sympathies of a section of the community, such as the IRA
or ETA in Spain, or able to thrive in an atmosphere of disaffected youth, such
as the Red Army Faction in West Germany.

Secondly, the United States is geographically far away from trouble spots such
as the Middle East, and much harder to enter than Europe, where border controls
are often lax. Almost every foreigner needs a visa - the Immigration Service
keeps a strict watch - and the FBI is particularly vigilant at times of
heightened threat. Last week US border patrols were tightened on the Canadian
border after 19 Libyan students arrived in Toronto.

Thirdly, public anger at terrorism world-wide makes it a daunting challenge for
any home or foreign terrorist group to risk an operation in the US. Known
extremists such as the Ku Klux Klan are kept under close surveillance. And the
conviction last month of 10 leading members of the neo-Nazi The Order sent a
clear message to other hate-groups, heard also by black extremists such as Louis
Farrakhan.

Nevertheless, Middle East terrorism still remains a threat taken seriously here,
as President Reagan himself said last week. So far the only visible precautions
taken have been a stricter check on people entering government buildings, and
the erection of 2ft-high concrete barriers outside the White House and the State
Department to keep out suicide bombers.

Ironically, those most associated in American minds with terrorism - Arabs and
Communists - have been the principal victims here. Soviet organizations such as
airline offices and the United Nations mission have received regular bomb
threats and have suffered several actual attacks, mostly by the militant Jewish
Defence League.

Arab-American organizations have also reported a surge in threats and assaults.
The large Arab community in Dearborn, Michigan - where members of the family of
Mr Nabih Berri of Lebanon live - has grown accustomed to hate-mail,
death-threats and vandalism. The Los Angeles office of the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee was fire bombed during the Achille Lauro crisis in
October, and Mr Alex Odeh, its director was killed. A suspicious fire also
devastated the committee's Washington office.

Mr William Webster, director of the FBI, suggested last summer that Muslim
fundamentalists had already set up a sufficient apparatus in the US to take
reprisals here should America launch a strike in the Middle East. So far there
has been little sign of this. But with the heightened concern over the safety of
Americans abroad, the Reagan Administration is taking no chances at home either.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 24, 1986

Doctor denies giving safe house for plot / Manchester bomb plot trial

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MORRIS

LENGTH: 412 words


The 66-year-old woman accused of taking part in a bomb plot, yesterday denied
providing safe houses for conspirators.

Dr Maire O'Shea, a retired psychiatrist, told Manchester Crown Court yesterday
that she had not taken part in any terrorist activities.


O'Shea is accused of taking part in a plot to cause an explosion at the home of
an SAS officer at his home in Hertfordshire.

Yesterday, she gave her opinion of the man alleged to have masterminded the plot
from Dublin, Daniel Ryan.

O'Shea, who was born in Dublin, was asked by her defence counsel, Mr Michael
Mansfield, if she would have agreed to lend her house to anyone who was going to
blow up anything in Britain. She replied: 'I certainly would not.'

She also told the jury: 'If I had known anybody was going to use my house for
that purpose I would not have given them any ground at all.'

'I would have broken off all communication with them. I am very angry about it.
They have got me into this without consulting me about whether I wanted to be
involved.'

O'Shea, from Sparkhill, Birmingham, denies conspiring to cause an explosion and
failing to provide information about an act of terrorism.

She said that between 1974 and December, 1984 she had met Ryan four times at the
most, three times in the first two years and twice by accident. 'I thought he
was reasonably intelligent, but I thought he was a bit of a fantasiser.'

He always wanted people to think he was in control and taking a leading part in
events she said and for that reason she always felt that things he said could be
taken sometimes with a grain of salt. O'Shea remarked: 'He was prone to
exaggerate quite a lot.'

Earlier, she told the court that she had belonged to the Labour Party in
Ireland, but left in 1951. She was in the Communist Party from 1953 to 1978;
joined the Connolly Association in 1953 and stayed up to about 1972/73.

For four or five years, she had been involved in the Irish in Britain
Representation Group and attended conferences of the Troops Out Movement.

Also appearing in the dock with O'Shea is Patrick Brazil, aged 34, of Dublin,
who denies the conspiracy charge. Yesterday, William Grimes, aged 34, also of
Dublin, changed his plea to the conspiracy charge to guilty. He also admitted
possessing 2.45 kilogrammes of gelignite and detonators.

A retired Bristol schoolteacher, Peter Jordan, has admitted the conspiracy
charge.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 25, 1986

Doctor says 'terror trip' was for house hunting / Manchester bomb plot trial

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MORRIS

LENGTH: 464 words


Dr Maire O'Shea, the 66-year-old retired Irish psychiatrist accused of taking
part in a bomb plot, claimed yesterday that during two car journeys, alleged to
have been reconnaisance trips for prospective terrorist targets, she was in fact
looking for a prospective retirement home.

She told Manchester Crown Court that she wanted to realise an early ambition to
become a writer or open a unit for mentally ill patients in the countryside.


O'Shea denies conspiring to cause of an explosion at the home of a retired SAS
colonel in the Herefordshire village of King's Pyon, and failing to provide
information about acts of terrorism.

Patrick Brazil, a seaman of Dublin, also denies conspiracy. William Grimes, also
of Dublin, has changed his plea to guilty of conspiracy and admits possessing
gelignite and a detonator; Peter Jordan, a Bristol man, admits conspiracy.

O'Shea told the court that She had never heard of King's Pyon until Special
Branch officers mentioned it during interrogation.

She said that in the first of her house-hunting trips, she had picked up Jordan
at Gloucester railway station in October, 1984. She wanted to discuss the
problem of removing the president of the Irish In Britain group, to which they
both belonged, because the president was a miner who had worked during the pit
strike.

'I wanted to look at houses,' she said, 'because one of the options when I
retired was going to live in that area.'

Cross-examined by Mr R Davies, QC, for the prosection, O'Shea said she did try
to find out from Jordan what he was doing when he left the car for an hour.

Mr Davies suggested that she had displayed a remarkable lack of curiosity or she
knew exactly what she was doing.

O'Shea said that later, Grimes, whom she knew as Johns, phoned her at horne in
Birmingham, asking for medical advice, and he stayed at her house for a night.
He told her he had business in Hereford, and asked for a lift, she said, when
she wanted a further look at properties in the Leominster and Hereford areas.

Grimes asked to be let out of the car but she did not discover where he had
been.

She denied lending Grimes her car over Christmas. She drove to her daughter in
St-Albans on Christmas Eve and spent New Year's Day with another daughter in
Dublin, she said.

The court heard of a letter in which Daniel Ryan allege by the prosecution to be
the mastermind behind the plan suggested a meeting between Jordan and Grimes.

Mr Davies asked O'Shea: 'Are you saying that you, entirely innocently and
unknown to yourself, have been used by other people for the purpose of their
carrying out their plans about which you were in total ignorance?

She replied: 'It certainly looks like that, yes.'

The trial continues on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 28, 1986

Oppressed 'have right to defence' / Maire O'Shea backs Ulster Nationalist
violence in Manchester bomb plot trial

BYLINE: By TOM SHARRATT

LENGTH: 358 words


Dr Maire O'Shea, accused of conspiring to bomb the home of a retired SAS
officer, told Manchester Crown Court yesterday, that the use of violence by
others in Northern Ireland she was not prepared to condemn because there was no
other way for nationalists to defend themselves.

'The SAS mount a number of under-cover operations and are involved in the murder
of innocent civilians,' she added.


But, the retired psychiatrist told her counsel, Mr Michael Mansfield, she had
never initiated or advocated any acts of violence anywhere. If she were to
become involved in military activity, she would lose all the support she had won
in her trade union, ASTMS, and her credibility in the Irish in Britain
Representation Group of which she is president.

O'Shea told the jury that she supported the right of 'oppressed people' to
defend themselves, but said she was totally against any military action in
Britain by Irish paramilitary forces.

Nationalists had tried a peaceful civil rights movement, she said. 'It got them
15 people shot dead by the British Army, a full group of students on their way
to Derry attacked by Unionist thugs supported by the British security forces,
who cheered them on; the recent shoot-to-kill policy of the British forces;
women strip searched hundreds of times a year in Armagh not for security reasons
but to degrade them - it's tantamount to regular rape.'

O'Shea, aged 66, of Sparkhill, Birmingham, denies conspiracy to cause an
explosion and withholding information about acts of terrorism. Patrick Brazil,
aged 44, a seaman, of Dublin, also denied conspiracy.

Peter Jordan, aged 60, of Bristol, had admitted conspiracy. William Grimes, aged
43, of Dublin, has changed his plea and now admits conspiracy and possessing
explosives.

Cross-examined by Mr Rhys Davies, QC, prosecuting, O'Shea said she supported the
right of an oppressed people to defend themselves as in South Africa and in
Europe under Nazi occupation.

Character witnesses said that, despite her kindness, intelligence and academic
achievement, O'Shea was a naive, even gullible, woman.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 5, 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Province reputation damaged by strike / Ulster (1368) /SCT

LENGTH: 1549 words


The whole country could now see how tragic and totally counterproductive the
previous day's action in Northern Ireland had been, Mr Tom King, Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland, said in a statement to the Commons.

Television pictures of some disgraceful incidents had been shown all over the
world and would do great damage to the reputation of the province. The House
would also have seen MPs making common cause with people in paramilitary dress.
He recalled that the leaders of the two main Unionist parties, Mr James
Molyneaux and the Rev Ian Paisley, had stated it was to be a passive and
voluntary demonstration and that there should be no road blocks or intimidation
of those going to work.

In the event there was widespread obstruction, intimidation and some violence
during the day culminating in serious disorder in Belfast at night. A
considerable number of people succeeded in getting to work but many factories
were seriously affected.

After paying tribute to the security forces and RUC, Mr King said there had been
a number of allegations that the police did not take action when required. The
Chief Constable was preparing a full report on policing. To indicate the scale
of the workload the RUC faced, there were some 655 roadblocks in the province of
which 441 were cleared.

There were in addition some 80 cavalcades and demonstrations which caused
considerable disruption in a number of towns. There were 57 arrests and the
names of 184 people noted to proceed by way of summons. Sixty-five plastic
baston rounds were fired; 47 policemen were injured.

At night a number of petrol bombs were thrown; over 20 shots were fired in three
firearms attacks on the police during disturbances in Loyalist areas.
(Conservative shouts of 'Disgraceful')

Mr Peter Archer, chief Opposition spokesman on Northern Ireland, said they
shared the minister's abhorrence of violence and intimidation which further
alienated the sympathy of people in Great Britain from the cause it was
apparently designed to promote.

If the protest was arranged to demonstrate the strength of feeling in Northern
Ireland against the agreement it failed as an indication since they did not know
how many people participated voluntarily and how many were responding to
intimidation. If it transpired that the violence and road blocks were planned,
would proceedings be initiated against those responsible?

The minister had referred to allegations that police officers had failed to
intervene. When the Chief Constable had reported, would Mr King report again to
the House? Would an inquiry take place into reports that off-duty members of the
UDR were at barriers?

Would Mr King invite party leaders of Ulster to meet under his chairmanship and
seek a concensus which would isolate the men of violence on both sides?

Mr King said this was manifestly not a dignified and voluntary protest. It
indicated considerable planning and the Chief Constable would want to
investigate all aspects.

Any evidence of indifferent policing should be brought to the attention of the
Chief Constable and it would be investigated.

He went on: I hope we can get discussions going. The Prime Minister put some
sensible proposals to the leaders of the Unionist parties. These could have
provided a way forward but were repudiated although we have not yet received any
official indication to that effect. I will do what I can to seek ways in which
discussions can now start. It is the only way. Violence will not succeed.

Sir John Biggs-Davison (Epping Forest, C) asked how the Government now proposed
to govern the province -- by force, or would they seek a constructive way out
and get in touch with the Taoiseach (Dr Garret Fitzgerald) and adjust this
damnable agreement?

Mr King said the problem was to get a true understanding of the agreement. The
sort of literature being passed on Monday, in which Sir John had played his part
-- talking about partial Dublin rule and the bringing about of the all-Ireland
the agreement was seeking -- showed how great were the distortions being
perpetrated on the Unionist majority in Northern Ireland.

Mr Stephen Ross (Isle of Wight, L) said it was time the Unionist leaders
recognized that the supply of funding from the rest of the United Kingdom was
not inexhaustible. (Cheers). What about the workers at Harland and Wolff and
Shorts? Why were they staying away from work on Monday?

Mr King said it was the Government's strong hope and desire that Northern
Ireland should remain part of the United Kingdom. One of the most offensive
things about the protest was the implication that somehow they were seeking to
undermine the position of Northern Ireland. The purpose of the Anglo-Irish
agreement was to reassure Unionists about the validity of the position of the
majority and to get the agreement of the Republic firm in international law that
there could be no change in that position without majority consent. Even in the
face of that, there were those who refused to accept it, although it was article
one of the agreement.

Mr King said he was not sure Mr Powell's views were shared by his parliamentary
colleagues. The Government was anxious to see a basis of administration in
Northern Ireland which was widely acceptable to both communities. The
Anglo-Irish agreement was designed to encourage that.

Sir Eldon Griffiths (Bury St Edmunds, C) said it was one thing to make splendid
statements about not yielding to intimidation. But at the end of the day, it
depended upon the courage and resolution of the security forces, particularly
the RUC. Would Mr King show just a little more understanding of the human
position of police officers who were shot in the back by the violent minority
and who no longer had the consent of the majority yet were gagged by their chief
constable and did not get from his office the support to which they were
entitled in the grave circumstances the country now faced?

Mr King said he deeply resented the last sentence of Sir Eldon's remarks. The
RUC was aware that he (Mr King) had the greatest admiration for them as a
professional police force.

I am well aware (he said) of the concern Sir Eldon has about the particular
matter of consultation and the rights of the Police Federation in Northern
Ireland. That is under discussion.

Mr Merlyn Rees (Leeds South and Morley, Lab) a former Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, said Monday's day of protest, and in some cases near
insurrection, together with the plans projected for the weeks and months ahead
to culminate in July, could only seriously weaken the link between Northern
Ireland and Britain. (Cheers).

It was no good ignoring the situation. The Government should now talk with the
Government in Dublin as to what would happen if the link really was to be
stretched to breaking point.

Mr King said it was precisely because of the British Government's concern that
Mrs Thatcher and he met Unionist leaders Tuesday. The Unionists had attended
expecting a door to be slammed in their face. When they came out they said the
deadlock had been broken. It was clear that a door had been opened. The tragedy
was that when they got back to Belfast, somebody else decided to slam the door
in their face.

Mr John Hume (Foyle, SDLP): Although the Anglo-Irish agreement has now been in
place for three months, it has not done a single bit of harm to a single citizen
in Northern Ireland and the only damage done has been self-inflicted such as the
damage done yesterday to wide sections of the community.

Mr King: So far from not suffering any damage or harm, there are already signs
of the benefits that can come from this agreement. I think any independent
Unionist must take comfort from the switch of votes away from the party
supporting violence to the constitutional nationalist party.

Mr Ivor Stanbrook (Orpington, C): If we go on like this, with the majority
feeling themselves threatened and some taking desperate measures and Mr King
condemning them in the strongest terms as he has, we are going to get into a
situation where even the minority feels threatened and the situation will get
far worse than now.

Does that not point to the fact that what was done in the name of the agreement
was a blunder of the first magnitude?

Mr King: I pay tribute to the number of people who, often with considerable
inconvenience and courage, made sure they were not going to be intimidated. The
vast majority in so many areas got to work in spite of the difficulties.

Mr Ian Gow (Eastbourne, C), who resigned as a Government minister over the
Anglo-Irish agreement, asked: If he should receive a request from the Government
of the Irish Republic that the inter-governmental conference should not meet,
say for the next three months, would he consider such a suggestion very
carefully? Mr King: We have entered into an agreement in good faith which we
believe will bring benefits to all the people of Northern Ireland. If he is
saying, for example, that we should suspend discussions on improving
cross-border security and the many steps taken at the moment to make a more
effective counter-attack against terrorism, I think that would be a very
difficult proposition to make, but I note his comments.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 12, 1986

IRA men fight UK extradition / Brendan Joseph McFarlane and Gerard Kelly appear
in Amsterdam court

BYLINE: From MARTIN CLEAVER

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM


Two IRA men, Brendan Joseph McFarlane, aged 34, and Gerard Kelly, 30, appeared
in court in Amsterdam yesterday to fight extradition proceedings brought by
Britain.

The only sign of extra court security was a body search of observers, who
included Mr Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein MP for West Belfast.


The men's terrorism sentences were interrupted when they escaped from the Maze
prison in Belfast in 1983. They are also charged with murdering a prison guard,

The defence lawyer, Willem van Bennekom, claims that all the acts the men
allegedly committed were politically motivated, and that they were leading IRA
figures.

Van Bennekom called as an expert witness Mr Sean MacBride, aged 82, the former
IRA chief of staff, who traced the Republican's movements' history, emphasising
that the 1937 Irish constitution did not recognise Ireland's partition.

He said IRA violence was 'a result of the insurretionary situation based on
political discrimination against the nationalists.' It had proved impossible to
win concessions from the British Government without violence.

Evidence was given to suggest that conditions in the Maze resembled a PoW camp,
and the defence clearly hopes that the two men's 'political' status in prison
will weaken the British case.

The Home Office lawyer, Mr David Bentley, told the court that the conviction
certificates were valid under the 1899 Anglo - Dutch extradition tresty,

The verdict will be announced on March 25.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 13, 1986

IRA bomb suspect woman held in Dublin / Evelyn Glenholmes

BYLINE: By ANNE MCHARDY

LENGTH: 398 words


Evelyn Glenholmes, the 29-year-old Belfast woman named as a suspect a month
after the Brighton bomb attack on the Conservative Party conference in October,
1984, was arrested last night in Dublin.

Miss Holmes, who is believed to have been living in the Irish Republic, in
Dundalk, just across the Irish border, was arrested in the Dublin suburb of
Tallaght.


Miss Holmes appeared briefly at a special sitting of the Dublin district court
at 1 am today when she admitted her identity and was remanded. She is expected
back in court later today and Irish police sources said that they held nine
warrant from Britain seeking her arrest and extradition to London to face
charges of murder, attempted murder and bomb attacks.

A warrant for her arrest was issued shortly after the Brighton attack, which
killed five people, but it was technically inaccurate and fresh warrants had to
be issued.

Early this morning Scotland Yard said that they had not yet had time to consider
what action they would be taking but that the anti-terrorist squad was expected
to be in contact with the Irish police.

Miss Holmes is believed to be wanted for questioning in connection with the nail
bomb explosion at Chelsea Barracks in 1981, which killed-two civilians and
injured 37 other people, 27 of them soldiers.

She is also wanted in connection with four other attacks in London in 1981: the
bomb in a Wimpy bar in Oxford Street which killed a bomb disposal expert, Mr
Kenneth Howard; the attempted murder of Sir Steuart Pringle, the Royal Marines
commandant-general, who lost a leg in a car bomb explosion outside his Dulwich
home; the attack on the home of Sir Michael Havers, the attorney general, and a
bomb that was defused at Debenhams store in Oxford Street.

Extradition of terrorist suspects from the Irish Republic to both Britain and
Northern Ireland has long been a bone of contention in Anglo-Irish relations.
Repeated attempts have been made by both governments to circumnavigate the
problem of the Irish constitutional objection to the extradiction of people
charged with political crimes.

But two years ago the Irish Supreme Court re-interpreted the constitution to
exclude some violent crimes and permitted two extraditions - the first of
Dominic McGlinchey, who was later returned to the Republic after the Belfast
appeal court acquitted him of murder.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 20, 1986

Kinnock talks to PLO leader / Labour leader meets with visiting 'foreign
minister' Kaddoumi

BYLINE: By SIMON TISDALL

LENGTH: 335 words


The PLO's 'foreign minister,' Mr Farouk Kaddoumi, held talks in London last
night with the Labour Party leader, Mr Neil Kinnock, in an apparent attempt to
win support for the organisation after last month's collapse of the
PLO-Jordanian Middle East peace initiative.

Mr Kaddoumi, the head of the PLO's political department and a member of the
executive committee, earlier criticised Britain and the US for refusing to deal
directly with the PLO over the Palestinian problem.


'We know the attitude of the United Kingdom Government. There has been no
progress in their position,' Mr Kaddoumi said. He added that, while the United
States ' claim they are searching for peace, they are searching for the
destruction of the PLO.'

Mr Kinnock and the Labour Party's spokesman on foreign affairs, Mr Denis Healey,
are reportedly seeking to clarify the attitude of Mr Yasser Arafat and his
colleagues to recent acts of terrorism which have been blamed on the PLO. These
include the hijacking of the Italian cruise liner, the Achille Lauro, and
attacks on Rome and Vienna airports last December.

The PLO leadership has condemned such attacks and blamed breakaway groups,
principally that led by Abu Nidal.

A spokeswoman for Mr Kinnock said the Labour leader would also seek Mr
Kaddoumi's views on the way forward in the Middle East peace process, in the
light of King Hussein of Jordan's criticism of the PLO for allegedly reneging at
the last minute on terms for the convening of an international peace conference
involving the US.

Mr Kaddoumi indicated yesterday that the PLO leadership was still seeking such a
conference and a summit meeting of the Arab League. The Palestinian problem will
be raised at a league council meeting in Tunis next week.

King Hussein is meanwhile due in Egypt today for talks with President Mubarak.
This first direct meeting since Mr Mubarak went to Amman last October, was
expected to focus on moves to revive the stalled Middle East peace process.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 20, 1986

UK News in Brief: Glenholmes hearing opens / Extradition of alleged IRA bomber
to Britain

LENGTH: 70 words


Extradition proceedings began in Dublin yesterday against Evelyn Glenholmes,
wanted in Britain to face nine terrorist charges, including three of murder.

An application to have Glenholmes, 29, returned to British police custody will
continue at a Dublin district court today. If extradition is ordered, Glenholmes
will have 15 days to appeal against the ruling and take her case to the Irish
High Court.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 22, 1986, Saturday

Athens rejects Howe pressure to end rows with Ankara / Foreign Secretary fails
to make progress on Cyprus settlement (451) /SCT

BYLINE: From MARIO MODIANO, ATHENS

LENGTH: 477 words


Greece yesterday firmly rejected British pressure for a Greek-Turkish dialogue
aimed at eliminating disputes which disrupt Nato plans in the region, and at
facilitating a Cyprus settlement.

However, Mr Andreas Papandreou, the Greek Prime Minister, did promise Sir
Geoffrey Howe, the British Foreign Secretary, when they met that he would not
interfere with the UN Secretary-General's current initiative on Cyprus.

Sir Geoffrey, who is here on the first official visit to Greece by a British
Foreign Secretary in more than 40 years, said he had had a 'very constructive,
very friendly, and useful' talk with the Greek Prime Minister.

It was, perhaps, significant that Mr Papandreou did not, as is his custom,
accompany his visitor to the television cameras waiting outside his villa for
the usual statements. Sources said he had been held up by an important telephone
call.

An official of the British delegation later said that although Britain felt very
strongly in favour of the Secretary-General's Cyprus initiative, there had been
no arm-twisting.

'Mr Papandreou told the Foreign Secretary that it was not for Greece to
interfere in the Cyprus question, but he did stress the importance that his
Government attached to the withdrawal of Turkish troops from the island,' he
added.

The same source indicated that the Greek Prime Minister agreed that talks with
Turkey might be welcome in some areas, but he had invoked Turkey's 'expansionism
in the Aegean' to declare that he saw no scope at the moment for a bilateral
dialogue.

The Foreign Secretary later had formal discussions with his Greek opposite
number, Mr Karolos Papoulias. He had begune his day with a call on Mr
Constantine Mitsotakis, the opposition leader.

Sir Geoffrey seized the occasion of a luncheon offered in his honour by the
British-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce to urge Greece in no uncertain terms to
face up to its responsibilities in Nato, not only for the sake of collective
security but also for the protection of Greece itself.

This meant, he said, that those who enjoyed Nato's protection from the Soviet
threat should pay the price. And the price was not only concessions for the sake
of consensus, but also 'guiding our public to accept the hard decisions involved
in this partnership'. It was a clear allusion to the anti-Nato campaign
encouraged by the ruling Greek Socialists.

The British Foreign Secretary who is visiting Crete privately with Lady Howe
before flying to Belgrade for a day of talks tomorrow, went to the British
Council building yesterday and paid tribute to Kenneth Whitty, the council's
deputy representative, and the Greek librarian, both of whom died in a terrorist
attack in Athens two years ago.

In his lunchtime speech he expressed satisfaction that Greek-British
co-operation on counter-terrorism was growing.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 24, 1986

Injured tourists take plea to Europe / British couples injured in Greece
terrorist attack petition European Parliament

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS


Two British couples who were wounded in a terrorist grenade attack on a Greek
hotel last year will petition the European Parliament this week for
compensation.

All they have been offered so far is a free fortnight's holiday in Greece. The
offer was rejected.


The plight of the Scunthorpe couples, William and Joyce Hunter and Philip and
Sandra Smith, has focused attention on the lack of criminal injury compensation
schemes in Greece and most other EEC countries.

The hunters and the Smiths were wounded in a grenade attack on the Glyfada
hotel, near Athens, last September. The culprits have not been identified.

As a result of the injuries they suffered in the explosion the Hunters spent 10
days in a Greek hospital. Mr and Mrs Smith - the latter was pregnant at the time
- had nine days in hospital. Only Mr Hunter has been able to return to work, as
a painter and decorator.

Mrs Smith gave birth to a son a few days ago, but her husband has not been able
to work since his return from Greece. 'I still have nightmares about it,' he
said yesterday. 'It was supposed to be the holiday of a lifetime, but I'd never
go back there.'

The petition by the two couples will be presented to the European Parliament by
their MP, Mr Edward McMillan-Scott. All EEC citizens have the right to petition
the Parliament, but there is no obligation on the assembly to take up the
complaint. In this case, the Parliament may well decide to press the British
couple's cause.

'At present, holiday insurance is full of holes,' said Mr McMillan-Scott
Conservative MEP for York.

Only Britain, Ireland, France and Germany had a system of criminal injuries
compensation, said Mr McMillan-Scott. 'Countries accepting high numbers of
tourists have an obligation to provide proper security,' he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 24, 1986, Monday

Peer to sue on 'monopoly' air fares / Lord Bethell's Freedom of the Skies
campaign (340) /SCT

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAILY, Transport Editor

LENGTH: 345 words


British Airways is facing legal action by Lord Bethell's Freedom of the Skies
campaign over 'monopolistic' air fares to Amsterdam.

He alleges that an illegal pooling arrangement between BA and KLM, the Dutch
airline, prevented him from having the cheap pounds 49 'early saver'
London-Amsterdam return.

Lord Bethell says that when he tried to buy a pounds 49 ticket at Heathrow last
year he was told none was available. Instead, he was sold an open-ended
Eurobudget return (current price pounds 138). When he came to return from
Amsterdam no Eurobudget seat was available and he had to buy the higher priced
Club class ticket.

Lord Bethell claims that the BA-KLM agreement restricting early-saver fares to a
small proportion of total seats on the route is contrary to EEC competition laws
and to consumer interests.

BA is seeking to have Lord Bethell's claim struck off, and the airline declined
to comment yesterday.

New safety rules planned in the US may push up the operating costs of British
Airways.

The airline said yesterday that it could not work out the possible cost of the
regular inspections of early Boeing 747 jumbos which may be demanded by the
Federal Aviation Administration in the US.

Virgin Atlantic, the low-cost British airline, is set to start a new
transatlantic air war by passing on to passengers the benefits of the drop in
the price of aviation fuel.

Mr Richard Branson, the company's founder and chairman, will today announce
reductions on flights to New York and Miami, instead of putting fares up as he
believes other airlines are planning.

Britain's airports will be more open to terrorist attack if they are privatized,
airport staff said yesterday.

The 10 trade unions representing British Airports Authority employees claimed
private owners would be tempted to cut corners on both safety and security.

British Airways said yesterday it had inquiries from more than 400 people,
terrified of flying, who wanted details of a pounds 44 course at Manchester
airport to help them conquer their fear.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 25, 1986

British bungles become butt of Irish / Background to the failed extradition
attempt on alleged IRA terrorist Glenholmes

BYLINE: By PAUL BROWN

LENGTH: 611 words


A significant change in Irish law in December 1982, coupled with an increasing
political will, gave British authorities the ability to extradite any alleged
terrorist against whom they could put a prima facie case.

But since then two failed trials and two bungled attempts at extradition have
put a question mark over British officials' competence.


Judging by the rhetoric north of the border before 1982, the streets of Dublin
were thronged with IRA terrorists who would be tried and put away if proper
extradition proceedings were possible.

The IRA had successfully avoided extradition until then by relying on the 1965
Extradition Act which led courts to refuse to hand over people for an alleged
offence which had a political motive.

In 1982 the Supreme Court redefined the law so that anyone claiming immunity had
to show that they were engaged in what 'reasonable and civilised people would
regard as political activity. '

This opened the path to extradition for Dominic McGlinchey, wanted for what the
trial judge in Belfast described as the 'savage and ruthless murder of an
elderly and defenceless woman. '

In the event, McGlinchey was acquitted last year and he had to be re-extradited
back to Dublin, where he was gaoled for offences south of the border which were
outstanding at the time of his original removal.

The next problem was the extradition of Seamus Shannon, who again was ruled to
have gone beyond the political crime status into 'violence and terrorism. '
Again he was acquitted, of the murder of Sir Norman Stronge, a former speaker at
Stormont, and his son James because of doubtful evidence.

Despite these setbacks the political will was there to continue co-operation
between the two countries.

The Anglo-Irish Agreement added new impetus, and the Irish Government signed the
European Convention on Terrorism as further evidence of goodwill.

But elementary administrative errors in preparing warrants and documents for the
Irish courts and police have made the British authorities the butt of mockery on
the other side of the Irish Sea.

In December Brendan Burn was released on 16 warrants alleging murder of members
of the security forces. An RUC inspector had not been on oath at the time the
warrants were issued and they were declared invalid.

Unbelievably, it was the same error which led to the release of Evelyn
Glenholmes on Saturday. What made it doubly irritating for the Irish was that it
was the first time that a major terrorist suspect was to be extradited to the
British mainland.

A long legal battle was anticipated but the Supreme Court rulings, the changing
political climate in Ireland and the signing of the convention on Terrorism were
all expected to count against the IRA case.

One extradition rule is that the suspect can be charged in Britain only with the
offences on which they were extradited. Thus Miss Glenholmes faced nine
warrants, which include allegations of three murders in two bomb attacks in
London.

The defence knew that if Miss Glenholmes were returned to Britain the police
wanted to question her about further offences not covered by the warrants. This
breach of the extradition rules was a main plank of the defence.

But because of another simple and avoidable administrative error this defence
did not have to be tested.

Irish voters, with their deep suspicion of English justice, had taken a long
time to be persuaded that international terrorism could not hide behind claims
of political motives.

Next autumn the Irish Government intends to introduce legislation to bring the
European Convention on Terrorism into Irish law.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 25, 1986

Glenholmes is in hiding as Hurd parries attack / Home Secretary criticised over
failed extradition attempt on alleged IRA terrorist

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, PETER MURTAGH, JOE JOYCE, DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN and BELFAST


Evelyn and Glenholmes, the Irish woman sought by Scotland Yard for her alleged
involvement in a series of terrorist attacks in Britain, was in hiding last
night as Dublin police admitted that they had no clues which might lead to her
arrest on a new extradition warrant which arrived in Dublin yesterday.

In the Commons, the Government avoided parliamentary scrutiny of who was to
blame for the weekend fiasco in Dublin by fielding the wrong minister to make a
statement to MPs. The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, was able to argue that he
had no responsibility for any mistakes which may have been made in the office of
the Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir Thomas Hetherington.


The minister who has this responsibility, the Attorney-General, Sir Michael
Havers, sat beside him but was not required to say anything.

Mr Hurd described the legal blunder which led to the release of the woman
described as Scotland Yard's most wanted terrorist suspect, as a 'technical
difficulty'. He was at pains to exonerate the Irish authorities for any blame
for their failure to spot the errors in the extradition warrants which allowed
Miss Glenholmes to go free in Dublin on Saturday.

The Home Secretary did, however, come close to accepting criticism of the Irish
court's decision voiced by the Tory MP, Mr Ivor Stanbrook. Mr Hurd said: 'It
would have been possible for the court to have taken a different view. '

A senior Irish police source said last night that they did not know where Miss
Glenholmes was, or if she was still in the country. He said: 'There is now a
legal warrant for her but where are we going to find her? It's pure guesswork.
All she has to do is go over the border to Northern Ireland and she is into no
man's land. '

The new warrant, which alleges murder, was issued by Bow Street magistrates on
Saturday. Several others are expected to be sent to Dublin later this week.

The Irish opposition leader, Mr Charles Haughey, joined in the controversy with
a blistering attack on the Irish government and its extradition policies, and a
scathing dismissal of the defective British warrant.

Mr Haughey made it clear that he did not approve of what he termed the
'catastrophic change' that has occurred in Ireland's extradition practices. He
added that he did not think Miss Glenholmes should be sent to London if she was
rearrested.

He said: 'In view of the serious doubts I have about the fairness of the trial
they would get in British courts, anybody accused of these crimes should be
dealt with before our courts so that we know at least they would get a
scrupulously fair trial. '

In the past, however, Mr Haughey has opposed the procedure, the criminal Law
Jurisdiction Act, which gives Irish courts the power to try people for
terrorist-type offences committed in Britain or Northern Ireland.

The Official Unionist Party said the Department of Justice in Dublin must accept
part of the blame for the fiasco. Mr Harold McCusker, the party's deputy leader,
said that even those in the Unionist community who said there might be something
coming from the Anglo-Irish Agreement had had their faith shaken by the debacle.

Mr Hurd said the failure to secure Miss Glenholmes' extradition was 'deeply
disappointing. '

He said: 'We are considering urgently the need for a review of procedures and
the handling of this sort of case. ' The Directors of Public Prosecutions for
England and Wales and for Northern Ireland have been instructed by the
Attorney-General 'to ensure personally that all outstanding warrants in respect
of terrorist offences are checked at once for accuracy and sufficiency. '
Lessons would be studied under the auspices of the Anglo-Irish
inter-governmental conference on a range of legal matters relating to
extradition, he said.

Mr Gerald Kaufman, the Shadow Home Secretary, said last night that further
attempts would be made to call the Attorney-General to account. 'It was an
evasive performance which didn't satisfy most people in the House. We will make
efforts to get a statement out of the Attorney-General, who seems to be dodging
responsibility,' he said.

The Irish Justice Minister, Mr Alan Dukes, has called for a police report on the
affair but Mr Haughey said yesterday that Mr Dukes himself should be the subject
of an inquiry.

The opposition leader said that Britain's carelessness with the extradition
warrant was typical of her off-hand and casual treatment of Ireland and
indicative of the belief that Ireland still came under British jurisdiction.

Criticising the move towards freer extradition of suspects from Ireland, Mr
Haughey said that Ireland was unique in being prepared to extradite its own
citizens. 'Most self-respecting countries are not prepared to extradite their
own citizens under any circumstances,' he added.

Dublin was entitled to be scrupulous and careful that citizens extradited got a
fair trial. But, he says there was no guarantee that Irish citizens extradited
to Britain would get a fair trial.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 26, 1986

Dutch reject move to extradite IRA man / Brendan McFarlane

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH, JOE JOYCE, and MARTIN CLEAVER

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Britain suffered another embarrassing extradition setback yesterday when a Dutch
court refused to extradite a convicted IRA bomber and escaped prisoner because
his offences were held to be political. The president of the court also
criticised the Home Office for not providing enough evidence to counter the
claim that the offences were politically motivated.

In London, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir Thomas Hetherington, has
ordered a disciplinary inquiry into the errors which caused a Dublin court to
refuse the extradition of Miss Evelyn Glenholmes. Labour immediately accused Sir
Thomas of looking for a scapegoat when he himself was possibly culpable.


Eight more extradition warrants for Miss Glenholmes arrived in Dublin yesterday,
bringing to nine the number of warrants in existence for her in Ireland. The
warrants accuse her of three murders, attempted murder, and bomb explosions in
London in 1981.

Evidence given by Scotland Yard detectives in Dublin last week alleges that her
fingerprints were discovered on empty plastic bags found in an Oxfordshire arms
dump in 1983. Forensic evidence linked explosives found there with the London
bombings two years earlier.

Members of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA, confirmed that there had
been an increase in police surveillance since Miss Glenholmes disappeared after
her release on Saturday. But reports that she had already left the country.

Yesterday's Dutch decision is bound to bring further pressure on the authorities
in London to tighten up their procedures for seeking the return of alleged IRA
terrorists. Although the court agreed to the extradition of Brendan McFarlane,
aged 34, the Home Office was criticised for providing too little evidence that
Gerard Kelly, aged 32, who escaped from the Maze Prison in Northern Ireland with
McFarlane and 38 others in 1983, had committed murder and attempted murder in
the course of the escape.

After the court announced its decision Kelly said: 'Obviously, I'm pleased that
the Dutch government and in this case the Dutch court has recognised that the
struggle in Ireland is a political struggle. '

McFarlane and Kelly were arrested in Amsterdam earlier this year when police
seized a cache of arms and bomb-making equipment in a suburban flat. At the time
of his escape McFarlane was serving five life sentences for murder for his part
in the bombing of a Loyalist pub in Belfast. Kelly was convicted in 1973 for
bombing the Old Bailey, and Scotland Yard. He was serving two life sentences.

Britain applied for their extradition arising from their escape from the Maze
and their previous convictions. The president of the court, Judge Jaap
Sturhooft, said that the 'special category' status which both men had in prison
confirmed the political nature of their offences.

He said: 'The fact that one warder was severely wounded and another died as a
result of the escape does not mean that the force used was unacceptable. The
illegal detention alleged by the British is not severe enough to warrant
extradition. In addition, the escape clearly served the political aims of the
men, freeing as it did a significant number of men to continue the struggle
against the British and against Loyalist attack on the nationalist population. '

He agreed to the request for McFarlane but only because of his convictions for
the pub bombing. Kelly's extradition for the Old Bailey bombing was refused
because, at the time of the offence in 1973, causing an explosion was not an
offence for which extradition was allowed under British law.

The judges were obviously not impressed with the British case and even refused
to return to Britain any of the goods seized when the two were arrested on
January 16, except for guns and forged documents. Judge Sturhooft noted
McFarlane's fears that he would be ill-treated if returned to a Northern Ireland
gaol. He took the extraordinary step of asking the Dutch ministry of justice to
pass on this concern if and when McFarlane is returned.

The Home Office provided no material for the prosecution to counter claims that
the offences were political. The British consular representative, Mr Tom Sharpe,
said he was disappointed at the decision and a prosecution spokesman, Mr Cees
Woldrik, said he thought the case was 'well prepared, otherwise we wouldn't have
supported it. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 27, 1986

Terrorist warrant fiasco played down / Failure of British attempts to extradite
Evelyn Glenholmes from the Irish Republic

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 416 words


The Government tried last night to play down the extent of the fiasco over the
Evelyn Glenholmes extradition case when it released details of the 'technical
changes' to the faulty warrants requested by the Irish courts.

Miss Glenholmes, the Irish woman sought by Scotland Yard for her alleged
involvement in a series of terrorist attacks in Britain, was allowed to go free
in Dublin after the Irish authorities discovered errors in the extradition
warrants.


Lord Glenarthur, a Home Office minister, said in a House of Lords written reply
last night that Sir Thomas Hetherington, the Director of Public Prosecutions,
had informed him that the Irish authorities had advised that the addresses on
the original warrants at which the alleged offences took place were not given in
full.

For example, the number at which the Debenhams store in Oxford Street had its
premises was not given, nor was a precise address given in respect of the arms
cache found at Pangbourne, Oxfordshire. The Central Criminal Court was not
identified as that for England and Wales.

Lord Glenholmes said that the Irish authorities raised no objections over Miss
Glenhomes' name. She was described in the original warrants as 'Evelyn
Glenholmes' of 'no fixed abode. ' Lord Glenarthur said those were the only
details which could be supplied when the warrants were applied for in November
1984.

At the request of the Irish authorities the warrants were amended to describe
the accused as 'Mary Elizabeth Evelyn Glenholmes'; and gave her former Belfast
address.

'I understand, however, that in the course of the district court hearing in
Dublin last week, Miss Glenholmes said that her full name was simply 'Evelyn
Glenholmes,' and the warrants obtained on March 22 and 24 reflect that,' said
Lord Glenarthur, indicating that the original mistake was repeated despite the
advice from the Irish authorities.

Miss Glenholmes is still in hiding.

In Amsterdam, Brendan McFarlane, the Maze prison escaper and convicted IRA
bomber, yesterday lodged a appeal against an order for his extradition, granted
on Tuesday by a Dutch court.

A lower court granted the order because it did not accept that the bombing in
1976 of a Loyalist pub in Belfast, for which he received five life sentences for
murder, was political.

Gerard Kelly, whose extradition was refused by the court on the grounds that his
escape from prison with McFarlane was also political, remains in custody pending
in appeal.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 31, 1986

Libyans under scrutiny after terrorist threat / 'Suicide squad' role claimed for
trainee pilots in Britain

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 519 words


The Home Office is expected to review the position of several Libyan student
pilots in Oxfordshire who, in an apparent fit of patriotic fervour following
last week's clashed in the Gulf of Sidra, are claimed to have expressed a
willingness to carry out terrorist attacks in the United States against targets
of the Reagan administration.

The Libyans can be deported if the Home Secretary decides that their continued
presence represents a threat to national security or is damaging to
international relations.


Police in Oxford and members of the Special Branch are carrying out an
investigation and a report will be sent to the Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd.

The Libyan students, most of whom are sponsored by Libyan Arab Airlines for a
52week course at a cost of pounds 40,000 each, are among some 300 foreign
students training as pilots and aircraft engineers at the Oxford air training
school, near Kidlington.

On Thursday, Tripoli Radio broadcast a telephone call purporting to be from one
of the Libyans saying that he and his classmates - 'the revolutionary force' -
were prepared to take action against President Reagan on behalf of Colonel
Gadafy.

The caller said: 'We .. are prepared to become suicide squads against America
and its arrogance. We will hit with an iron fist anyone like dirty Reagan who
contemplates aggression. ' The students added later that they would not attack
any US targets in Britain.

Mr Ken Meehan, chief instructor at the flying school, said yesterday that one of
the students who allegedly made the threat had completed his course 18 months
ago and left the school. He said there were now five Libyans at the school, two
of whom had been cleared by the police of any involvement with the telephone
call.

The broadcast was picked up by the BBC's monitoring service at Caversham and
Thames Valley police were alerted. A police spokesman said yesterday that
inquiries were continuing but it was unlikely there would be any developments
before tomorrow.

He added: 'No offence springs to mind. Most (of the Libyans) are here on a visa
to learn a trade and the vast majority are genuine. '

A Home Office spokesman said: 'Nothing has happened, nobody has done anything.
All there is at the moment is a tape recording. If there are any allegations of
a criminal nature, that's entirely a matter for the police. '

The State Department in Washington said that all threats of terrorist activity
against Americans were taken seriously and raised with the relevant governments.
It had 'noted with concern' a recent Libyan radio broadcast which called for the
assassination of US citizens throughout the Arab world but said there was no
knowledge of any particular threat from Libyan students in Oxfordshire.

All Libyans entering Britain have been subjected to increased Special Branch and
MI5 surveillance since the murder in 1984 of WPC Yvonne Fletcher and the
consequent breaking of diplomatic relations with Colonel Gadafy's regime.
Libyans entering Britain are required to sign an undertaking to behave
themselves and observe British laws.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 2, 1986

Leading Article: Justice and extradition / Anglo-Indian relations strained over
the issue of Sikh militants in Britain

LENGTH: 652 words


A fortnight ago, the British were pontificating about the pettifogging and
unhelpful attitude or the Irish courts towards extradition. This week, to
considerable governmental embarrassment, the gamekeeper is being charged with
poaching. Britain is accused - this time by India - of a pernickety and less
than urgent attitude towards demands for the extradition of Sikh militants in
this country to the sub-continent. When he arrived in Delhi on Monday, Sir
Geoffrey Howe was told by the Indian foreign minister, Mr Bhagat, that his
softness on the troublesome Sikns overshadowed all Anglo-Indian relations. The
claim was, of course, no surprise to Sir Geoffrey, who had arrived armed with a
series of concessions. These included a previously announced watering down of
the Fugitive Offenders Act (which covers extradition between the UK and
Commonwealth countries) and the extension of the European Suppression of
Terrorism Act to cover India. But they fell short of India's more draconian
demands and it is no surprise that the Foreign Secretary leaves Delhi with the
issue still unresolved.

It is on occasion satisfying to see the biter bit. In reality, though, the
British government's attitude towards extradition is considerably more
consistent than these episodes suggest - and it is a consistency which does it
little credit. The common theme is a willingness, which under this government is
developing into an unseemly eagerness, to reduce long-established legal
safeguards against extradition. This theme originates - as do so many recent
reductions of civil liberty - with the Northern Ireland crisis. Britain wishes
to deprive IRA suspects of sanctuary in friendly jurisdictions, notably in
America, but also in Europe. In an attempt to persuade states to close these
havens, Britain has been and is prepared to make sweeping changes to its own
refugee and extradition laws. Labour governments were just as prepared in
principle (if that's the right word) as the Conservatives are today. Remember
the deportations of Caprino, Agee and Hosenball and Dr David Owen's super-rapid
alteration of the law to ensure the expulsion of Astrid Proll? But the
Conservatives are going much, much further.


Until now, fugitives from criminal justice can be returned under two laws - the
Fugitive Offenders Act, which covers Commonwealth cases, and the Extradition Act
which covers the rest. In all cases, however, a prima facie case of guilt has to
be made out in the British courts before a person can be extradited. This
autumn, in its Criminal Justice Bill, the government will try to abolish this
requirement for all non-Commonwealth cases (though leaving it untouched in
Commonwealth cases). That will remove an important and reasonable legal
safeguard because governments, no matter how friendly or how democratic, will
always allow reasons of state to prevail over considerations of individual
justice. This is invariably a more sensitive problem where nationalist or
secessionist minorities are involved (like the Sikhs, the IRA, the Basques and
the Croats) and there is an obvious common interest for friendly states, all of
them determined to maintain their territorial integrity, to agree to chuck out
one another's troublemakers. This does not mean there should be no extradition.
But it does mean that extradition should only be possible with safeguards which
are exercisable in front of a proper court. Of course we want bank robbers back
from Spain, City fraudsters from America and killers from Ireland. And of course
Italy wants its bombers, Nigeria its profiteers and Belgium its football
hooligans from us. But let it all be done on the basis of well-tried courtroom
tests of evidence, not on the mutual say so of governments which, however
well-intentioned, frequently delude themselves about the standards of justice in
their own countries. And that goes for Britain, too.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 4, 1986, Friday

Airport security on alert since US Navy clash with Libyans / Police and airline
officials on alert in Britain (568) /SCT

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

LENGTH: 617 words


Police and airline security officials in Britain have been on alert for possible
terrorist attacks such as the TWA blast over Greece since the first hint last
week of fresh trouble in the Mediterranean, a senior police commander said
yesterday.

Commander Pat Carson, head of the Scotland Yard security operation at Heathrow
airport, said security alerts primed by a special police intelligence unit at
the airport were designed to react swiftly to the development of events abroad.

News of the US Navy action in the Gulf of Sirte immediately prompted new
security round potential targets in London, such as American flights.

Yesterday senior officers at the airport considered the bombing in one of their
regular meetings on security problems and today the TWA incident is likely to be
high on the agenda of a meeting of airline and airport security managers at
Heathrow.

The heightening of security, especially concerning potential targets such as
American flights, is the latest exercise in a British airport security
organization which is said to be highly valued internationally.

In the past decade, the only big incident involved a bomb in a suitcase two
years ago, which is attributed to a failed attempt to destroy a flight from
Athens to London.

But an international conference of air and sea port police officers in
California last month was told that terrorist attacks could double by the 1990s,
and the emphasis will move from aircraft to airports.

Protection of British airports and passengers operates at three levels. The
International Civil Aviation Organization provides generally accepted security
measures which will stop the transit of terrorists and weapons between
countries.

The Department of Transport is instrumental in this area and also oversees the
second level of security provided by airport authorities: aircraft passing
through this country and screening the people who board or leave them. A
national committee of airline, airport and police officials pulls together
policy.

Police, sometimes armed, provide the third level of overt security, and collate
intelligence for airlines and airports.

At the international level the Department of Transport believes there has been
considerable progress in the past year, especially since the hijacking of the
TWA flight to Beirut in the summer. Last December the ICAO, with 150 members,
agreed new safety standards which include better measures for checking
passengers in transit.

Mr Michael Spicer, Minister for Aviation, said yesterday that 'good progress'
was being made after work by a committee including Britain, the United States
and the Soviet Union.

Speaking on BBC Radio's World at One programme, he also pointed to work being
done in domestic security. Heathrow's new Terminal Four includes additional
security measures. For example, passengers coming off a flight cannot mix with
those boarding an aircraft.

Since last summer no passenger boarding a flight at a British airport can check
in his baggage and then fail to take his flight, leaving the baggage to go
without him.

Restrictions have been placed on baggage being checked in by a tour operator or
another airline.

Passengers and their hand luggage are checked using X-ray equipment now now
installed at airports. But baggage in the hold is not checked as the Department
of Transport says it would be too expensive and difficult to organize.

However, baggage is checked on El Al and Irish flights. Mr Carson said his staff
included an intelligence unit which constantly monitors events abroad and keeps
a calendar of significant and dangerous dates in the calendars of countries and
their airlines.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 11, 1986

US prepares to strike Libyan targets as allies plead for peace

BYLINE: From MICHAEL WHITE and HELLA PICK

LENGTH: 1056 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON and LONDON


The Reagan Administration is preparing to hit Libyan military or economic
targets such as oil pipelines in a calculated escalation of its anti-terrorism
retaliation policy as soon as it can convince world opinion that Colonel Muammar
Gadafy had a hand in either of last week's bombings in Europe which claimed six
lives.

Such actions 'might constitute an act of war' just as terrorist acts were acts
of war, and 'we may be on the threshold of recognising it. ' Senator Richard
Lugar, chairman of the influential Foreign Relations Committee warned in an
atmosphere on Capitol Hill notably free of any profound sense of crisis.


But America's European allies, deeply apprehensive about the escalating
confrontation, yesterday quietly but insistantly, sought to discourage the US
from launching fresh military strikes against Libya. Bonn and other West
European governments were reliably reported to have warned Washington against
counting on allied diplomatic support, and said that Colonel Gadafy might react
with terrorist raids against US Mediterranean naval bases in Italy, Greece and
Spain.

After President Reagan's overnight description of the Libyan leader as 'this mad
dog of the Middle East', the White House imposed a virtual news blackout
yesterday, as the Pentagon ordered the aircraft carrier, Coral Sea, to leave the
Spanish Port of Malaga for a possible rendezvouz with its sister ship, the USS
America, and its battle group - only a day's sailing from the Gulf of Sidra.
Vice-Admiral Frank Kelso, the Sixth Fleet commander, left Palma de Majorca on
his flagship Coronado.

Officials from the President down insisted that no final decision to strike had
been taken, but it was widely expected. Some officials felt that he recent US
action, which destroyed two Libyan patrol boats and temporarily knocked out a
Sam-5 missile base, was inadequate.

Next time, known terrorist training camps, tank parks or relatively obvious
economic targets like pipelines or oil storage depots are likely to be hit. Few
civilians would be put at risk, and Libya's finances, already strained by
falling oil prices, would be further depleted.

The US assumes that the Soviet Union would not move to support Tripoli if US
attacks were made against military targets only. The Defence Secretary, Mr
Caspar Weinberger, and the chiefs of staff, are believed to favour this more
cautious stance.

The hawks are the national security adviser, Admiral John Poindexter, the White
House chief of staff, Mr Donald Regan, and the CIA director, Mr William Casey.
It is argued, that at the very least, tough talk may inhibit Colonel Gadafy and
win West European support for greater political and economic sanctions.

While Britain and France yesterday agreed with the US in the Western Allied
Control Commission in Berlin to restrict entry of Libyan diplomats from East
Berlin to West Berlin, they rejected a US proposal to use a military patrol in
East Berlin to try to arrest members of the Libyan People's Bureau there.

Even Britain which, alone of the Nato allies. applauded the US action in the
Gulf of Sidra last month, appeared concerned yesterday. It said that standing
government policy was that any response to terrorism must conform to
international law.

President Reagan's decision to maintain the two naval battle groups in the
Mediterranean, led to a flurry of diplomatic exchanges between Washington and
European capitals, but it remained unclear whether the US was willing to take
its allies into its full confidence.

Spain yesterday recalled its ambassador to Libya for consultations, among
contradictory reports about whether Spain was on Colonel Gadafy's 'hit-list. '
Madrid is worried about possible Libyan reprisals against the big US naval base
at Rota.

In Lisbon, a bomb exploded yesterday at the Air France offices, causing damage
but no injuries. The French urban guerrilla group, Action Directe, which said it
backed Libya, claimed responsibility for the blast and threatened further
action.

In his televised press conference, President Reagan was cautious in directly
accusing Colonel Gadafy, saying that the US was still gathering evidence on
these most recent attacks. 'We are not yet ready to speak on that and any action
we might take would be dependent on what we learn. '

The Administration commands the necessary political support for a tough stance
at home, if not overseas. Only the voice of Senator Patrick Leahy, democratic
vice-chairman of the Intelligence Committee, could be heard yesterday warning
against 'fighting terrorism with terrorism. ' Mainstream republicans like
Senator Lugar spoke of the need to keep Congress and public fully informed and
called the issue a test of US determination to defend itself.

Mr Leahy urged 'precise surgical strikes', against training camps as the least
likely tactic to provoke Arab solidarity and a deepening spiral of violence.

Having chosen to confront the President over Nicaragua, many democrats appear
relucant to challenge him on the proper response to Colonel Gadafy.

Meanwhile the Nato general secretary, Lord Carrington, told US TV viewers: 'I
don't think the US can sit back and allow this sort of terrorism .. without
taking some form of retaliatory action. ' Predicting 'a very great deal of
sympathy' for retaliation from Europe, he dismissed Libya's forecast of Soviet
support.

Militarily, the US could risk going into the Gulf of Sidra with only two carrier
groups this time. That would still create a force of 21 ships with huge fire
power and defence capability against Libyan attack But the pentagon cannot rule
out a suicide attack which, with luck and daring, might inflict on US forces the
kind of damage which might dampen US ardour - as President Reagan seems only too
aware.

Among the carriers which could go towards Libya is the USS Enterprise, now in
the Gulf, or those stationed in the Atlantic.

The Soviet Union yesterday described President Reagan's verbal onslaught against
Colonel Gadafy as preparation for another aggressive foray' against Libya.
However, Moscow carefully refrained from promising Libya military assistance in
the event of a US attack.

Pentagon officials said the Soviet Union had 30 navy ships in the Mediterranean,
but that only seven were warships.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 12, 1986

Europe warns US not to attack Libya

BYLINE: From HELLA PICK and ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 839 words

DATELINE: LONDON and BONN


America's European allies were last night urgently attempting to head off a
military strike by the United States against the Libyan regime of Colonel
Muammar Gadafy.

Chancellor Helmut Kohl, of West Germany, the Italian Prime Minister. Mr Bettino
Craxi, and the Nato Secretary-General. Lord Carrington, all publicly warned
against military reprisals against Libya for its suspected involvement with last
Sunday's explosion in a Berlin discotheque which killed two people and injured
200 more, including many US servicemen.


The EEC said it was arranging an emergency meeting next week of foreign
ministers, after requests from France and Italy, while Dr Kohl, expressing broad
Allied anxiety. said: 'You must know what you are beginning (by taking
reprisals) .. and what might result. '

Italy's Defence Minister, Mr Giovanni Spadolini, linked his call for concerted
European action with the warning that 'only a political response by Europe can
diminish and avoid the risk of unilateral American military action. ' Mr Craxi
warned: 'We are facing a tangle of problems that certainly cannot be resolved by
a military blitz. '

In Tripoli yesterday Colonel Gadafy warned again that Libya had included
southern counter-attack in the event of a 'Nato strike' on targets in his
country.

'As the threat this time comes from Nato and aims at striking against our homes
and sons, then all south European cities are contained in the Libyan
counter-attack plan without discrimination,' the Jana news agency quoted Colonel
Gadafy as saying.

Britain, while expressing sympathy and understanding for American anger with
Colonel Gadafy, has expressed concern in Washington that military action against
Libya might backfire, bringing an escalation of terrorism. But it is Britain,
however, which is supplying the Americans with intelligence information
monitored by British facilities in Cyprus and at GCHQ in Cheltenham. Messages
intercepted by the British are believed to be the main source of evidence,
linking Libyan diplomats in East Berlin to the Berlin bomb blast.

The official British line remains that any response to terrorism must be in
accordance with international law. It is not disputed that international law
permits resort to self-defence. And since Whitehall shares the view expressed by
General Bernard Rogers, Commander-in-chief of Nato forces, that evidence of
Libyan implication in the Berlin blast is irrefutable it would be able to accept
the logic of US intervention against Libya as an act of self-defence.

But the British are apparently warning that such a move would be politically
unwise.

The West European allies are all very conscious that America and not only
President Reagan, is looking to them for solidarity against Colonel Gadafy, and
treating their response as a test of alliance loyalty. But they remain resolute
in opposing the imposition of economic sanctions.

While, France, and West Germany have expelled a number of Libyan diplomats and
Italy has undertaken to check on its Libyan diplomats, none of the European's
volunteering to close the Libyan Peoples' Bureaux (London closed its bureau
after the killing of WPC Fletcher in 1984).

In West Berlin last night, Western allied security chiefs agreed on new security
measures designed to prevent infiltration of suspected terrorists from East
Berlin. They gave no details of new regulations adopted after lengthy talks
between France, Britain, and the US. Sources said that an announcement would be
made today.

The three allies have already enforced stricter security for allied institutions
and installations and a closer watch on access routes to the city, as well as
observation of restaurants and clubs frequented by American soldiers.

The chief of West Berlin's anti-terrorist police, Mr Manfred Ganschow said that
he could not confirm reports from Washington that US military officials received
notice of an impending terrorist action which failed to head off the discotheque
blast at the last minute.

Dr Kohl, cautiously linking Libya to the bomb attack, firmly warned the United
States against taking military action against Tripoli.

'There are a whole number of indications that there is also a Libyan background
to the Berlin attack' the Chancellor told a news conference. 'You heard that I
said 'Also' and not 'only',' he added.

'I believe that the Americans will react sensibly, and this includes the
discussion in advance of the possible consequences of any action. '

Dr Kohl said that Bonn was prepared to show the necessary strength and
determination in combating international terrorism, but he also made it clear
that his government would continue to reject sanctions against Libya.

The Foreign Minister, Mr Hans-Dietrich Genscher, is due in Washington on Monday
for talks with the US Secretary of State, Mr George Shultz, and President
Reagan, during which he will discuss the aftermath of the Berlin bombing and
Bonn's opposition to economic sanctions against Libya.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 12, 1986, Saturday

Air terminal security doubt / Anti-terrorist measures at Heathrow Airport (312)
/SCT

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAILY, Transport Editor

LENGTH: 321 words


Doubts were raised about anti-terrorist measures at Heathrow Airport's new
terminal four on the eve of its public opening yesterday.

In a last-minute visit to the pounds 200 million terminal, Mr Michael Spicer,
Under Secretary of State for Transport responsible for aviation, said there
would be no automatic X-ray checks on passengers' heavy baggage, although that
is thought to have been a key to past airport terrorist attacks.

Mr Spicer said mobile X-ray equipment in the terminal building would be used to
handle particular threats when they arose. Passengers and hand-baggage would be
screened automatically on entering the huge departure hall.

He said security at Heathrow generally was 'superb'. While it was not possible
to provide full protection, 'every single device one can think of has been
employed here to ensure that the terminal is secure'.

The terminal was due to open at 5.40am today with the arrival of a British
Airways flight from Dakar.

The airport's south runway was closed for more than seven hours last night as a
1,000-vehicle convoy transferred aircraft, staff and equipment half a mile from
terminals one and three.

British Airways, which will use about 90 per cent of the terminal's capacity,
will employ 2,000 staff to service 80 flights daily and about 6.5 million
passengers a year.

The terminal, Britain's biggest single airport development, was opened last week
by the Prince and Princess of Wales. It will raise passenger capacity at
Heathrow from 30 million to 38 million a year.

Other airlines using the terminal are KLM and NLM, of The Netherlands, and Air
Malta. All British Airways intercontinental flights, including Concorde and
flights to Paris and Amsterdam, will operate from the terminal.

Customs workers, who claim the terminal is understaffed, yesterday threatened to
boycott the building in a dispute over earlier shift starting times.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 14, 1986

Leading Article: What the US must learn about terror / Washington's response to
international terrorism

LENGTH: 584 words


The bombs which demolished a Berlin night-club and damaged a TWA airliner were
as small and as easily detonated as any that the IRA have used in their
countless attacks in Ireland and Britain. Their placement needed the operational
collusion of perhaps half a dozen people. Whatever the answer to these attacks
may be - and no one has yet found anything more effective than piecemeal
precautions - it does not consist of two aircraft carriers, 25 combat and
support ships, and 150 strike aircraft massed off the Libyan coast. Still less
does it consist of F-111 aircraft based in Britain for use in a Nato emergency.
If every settlement marked on American maps as a terrorist training camp were
wiped out (at what cost in innocent life would have to be guesswork) would
terrorism from Middle Eastern sources cease? Obviously it would not. It might
even intensify. The anger which rises in the American gorge is fully
understandable. Europeans understand it, having absorbed their share of blast
over the years. They further understand, though, that they are impotent to stop
it by cannon fire and that this very impotence, as demonstrated when the Sixth
Fleet prowled the Gulf of Sidra, is a source of gratification to the
perpetrators.

The European foreign ministers are due to meet in hasty session today, trying to
define something which looks like a credible deterrent policy to terrorism,
which does not leave them exposed to American charges of chickening out, and
which keeps within the bounds of lawful retaliation. The approach by way of the
United Nations should not be dismissed. That is not because the UN can do
anything but because the Security Council is where the countries involved can
best bring about the only sanction which is likely to hurt Colonel Gadafy, and
that is his isolation from his Arab brethren. As long as he is seen to be in
conflict with the American armada, the armada of Israel's principal ally, no
Arab leader can forbear to offer at least verbal support. But when the Americans
have, as they say they have, evidence of Libyan involvement in acts of
terrorism, and when they can call on their allies to deliver more of the same,
they have a strong diplomatic hand. It would be foolish to throw that away by
actions of doubtful legality under the UN charter, which would put the US
instead of Libya in the international dock.


None of this goes down well in Washington, which has no time for the UN anyway
and is disposed to show that whereas other countries might pussy-foot with
terrorism there are Americans made of sterner stuff. Sadly Americans do not
distinguish those occasions when the UN, as a talking shop, is useless in that
role and those when it might best serve American purposes. Before General
Walters (who is ambassador to the UN as well as roving envoy) reports back to
the President there is time for Europeans to point out to him the self-destruct
mechanism at the heart of an American policy which relies on power first and
diplomacy a long way second.

The Administration did not think through beforehand the effects of its previous
show of force off Libya from which Colonel Gadafy was able to emerge the
apparent victor. It has not thought through the effects in a wider context of
the present threatening exercise. And there is no sign that if it proceeds with
military action, and yet the bombs against American targets continue to go off,
it will know where to stop before Damascus and Tehran come into the reckoning.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 14, 1986

Legal poser for Thatcher / Government ponders question of US using bases in
Britain to launch attack on Libya

BYLINE: By a Correspondent

LENGTH: 389 words


The British Government over the next few days may have to decide whether or not
to allow the United States to use its bases in Britain to send F111s against
Libya. Over the weekend Mrs Thatcher and Sir Geoffrey Howe, both barristers,
will have taken advice from Foreign Office lawyers.

Britain does not appear to be bound by the terms of the Nato agreement, which
determines the presence of those bases in Britain, to give President Reagan the
go-ahead. The Government has already indicated that its response will be shaped
by its grasp of its duties and options under international law.


If Mrs Thatcher says Yes, it will be because, as a friendly power, her
government wishes to cooperate with what is, on the strongest reading, a
unilateral reprisal for terrorist acts. The basic problem is that international
law has not yet come to terms with state-sponsored terrorism.

The US's planned action would have to be justified as reprisals, not as acts of
self-defence, because US territory has not been attacked or menaced. As
reprisals they would logically be a response to recent events in Berlin, and
arguably the Gulf of Sidra.

The United Nations Charter does not deal with unilateral acts of punishment by
one nation in response to acts of international delinquency. Peacekeeping
machinery indicates that the victim of delinquency should exhaust non-violent
means of redress, including a demand for compensation from the guilty party,
punishment of offending individuals, as agents of that state, through local
courts, and, ultimately, economic sanctions.

Reprisals, to be justified, according to most international lawyers, should be a
response to proven acts of delinquency, and the evidence should not be merely
circumstantial or consistent with two interpretations; and they must be
accompanied by a request for redress from the offender which has been
unsuccessful.

The response itself, ought to be in proportion to the victim's injury. This may
imply that likely fatalities from the reprisal do not outweigh the loss of life
from the incident which the retaliating state cites in its own defence.

Finally, the form of reprisal should be likely to deter a repetition of the kind
of conduct which led to it. There should be a relationship between the act of
injury and the act of punishment.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 14, 1986

Ministers called to agree EEC response to crisis / US-Libyan conflict

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN and ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 794 words


European Foreign Ministers were summoned to the Hague yesterday to discuss the
crisis in the Mediterranean as West Berlin police stepped up security measures
at crossing points in the divided city.

The security move, initiated by the three Western allies responsible for West
Berlin, is seen largely as being symbolic.


The Hague meeting, to be held today, will focus on the latest US-Libya
confrontation. Ministers are not expected to stay a second day.

There may be some absentees among the 12 ministers, but all the EEC countries on
the Mediterranean - Spain, France, Italy, and Greece - are certain to send
ministerial teams. Britain's Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, is expected.

The meeting has been convened by the Dutch Government, which holds the
chairmanship of the EEC Council of Ministers. With that role comes
responsibility for political cooperation - the official name for the Community's
continuous effort to establish a joint position on external affairs.

There is no separate EEC apparatus for political cooperation and therefore no
Community policy, distinct from those of the national Governments.

The Dutch are firmly opposed to military action in the Mediterranean.

Italy and Greece have also strongly indicated their disapproval of US strong-arm
tactics. Not one of the EEC countries has even hinted at support for a military
solution.

The Foreign Ministers last struggled to establish a consensus on Libya on
January 27, five weeks after the allegedly Libyan-inspired bomb attacks on
Vienna and Rome airports.

The ministers issued a long communique condemning terrorism, and resolving to
ban aims sales to those countries which supported violence.

But the declaration conspicuously failed to mention Libya by name. References to
the country were excised on the insistence of the EEC Mediterranean countries.

The ministers did agree to increase security precautions at ports, airports and
rail stations, to review policy on issuing visas, and movements of travellers in
and out of the Community.

In West Berlin, controls on urban railway and underground trains from East
Berlin were stepped up with police making random passport checks on travellers.

Under the order agreed by Britain, France and the US on Friday night, police
will be empowered to expel anyone they believe is a threat to the security of
West Berlin, or bar them from entering the city.

But the allies, in line with post-war policy that guarantees free access to the
divided city, steered clear of imposing permanent passport controls on the
western side of the border. They also refrained from ordering an entry ban for
diplomats and staff employed at Libya's mission in East Berlin, as the Americans
had initially demanded.

In East Germany the police presence outside Tripoli's mission was stepped up.
The Communist authorities, which last week condemned the West Berlin attack,
said they were prepared to cooperate in the fight against terrorism.

At Checkpoint Charlie, the city's crossing point for foreigners and diplomats,
police made random checks on cars. But they still have to obtain permission from
diplomatic representatives in the eastern half of the city to open 'diplomatic
luggage. '

'The measures are aimed at international terrorism and I am not going to give
details of any particular group of people or nation that might be affected,' a
US spokesman said.

But allied officials said privately that the checks were aimed primarily at
controlling the movements of Libyan diplomats based in East Berlin.

Meanwhile, the head of West Berlin's anti-terrorist police, Mr Manfred Ganschow,
stressed that police still had no concrete evidence of Libyan involvement in the
discotheque bombing.

The Libyan Peoples' Bureau in Bonn, in a statement issued yesterday, denied any
Libyan involvement and called on Chancellor Helmut Kohl and other politicians to
provide evidence to back up their claim that there was 'an element' of Libyan
participation.

Bonn expelled two diplomats from the Libyan mission here last Wednesday,
stressing however that the move was not directly connected with the bombing.

The West German Interior Minister, Mr Friedrich Zimmermann, has announced after
talks with Egyptian officials in Cairo that Bonn would supply Egypt with 10 new
X-ray scanners for use at Cairo and Alexandria airports.

Four Egyptian officers would be trained by West Germany's special anti-terrorist
police unit, the GSG 9, and a number of officers would undergo training against
drug trafficking.

Bonn has consistently called for greater international cooperation in the fight
against terrorism and urged increased collaboration between moderate Arab
countries and the EEC.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 15, 1986

Thatcher agrees to back attack / British Premier will support pre-emptive US
military strike against Libyan terrorism

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 292 words


Mrs Thatcher has told the Reagan administration that Britain could support a
pre-emptive American strike against Libyan terrorism in the belief that it can
be justified as self-defence according to a strict reading of international law.

As intense diplomatic activity continued yesterday, ministers had not yet ruled
out the use of American bases in Britain as the launch pad for an F1-11 strike
on specific terrorist targets.


It was argued that the sophisticated computer equipment on the F1-11 would allow
for much finer precision targeting against small terrorist bases than is
available on carrier-borne aircraft in the Mediterranean.

The mood in Downing Street was that an American military strike could be
justified, although not that it was necessarily wise. The main thrust of British
diplomatic activity through the day was to try to persuade other European
rountries to follow the British lead in closing Libyan People's Bureaux,
refusing visas and withdrawing export credits.

Behind this activity, however, lay a clear judgment by the Prime Minister that
she could not withhold British support for an American military strike if
President Reagan chose to order it and to carry it out within Britain's
interpretation of international law.

The issue concentrated on the meaning of the term 'self defence' in the United
Nations charter. It also relied on British and American intelligence reports
which produced what Mrs Thatcher believes is compelling evidence of a further
series of Libyan terrorist attacks about to be made on American personnel.

It is not clear how the rest of the international community would ever be
persuaded of this if the matter were subsequently reported to the UN Security
Council.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 15, 1986

Europe refuses to support action / EEC foreign ministers meet on US-Libyan
clashes

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE


EEC foreign ministers finally came off the fence last night When they denounced
Libya's involvement in terrorism. The 12-member countries are to restrict
freedom of movement by Colonel Gadafy's diplomats attached to the so-called
People's Bureaux in European capitals.

But the declaration, issued after more than five hours of detailed textual
wrangling, fell far short of the tough counter-terrorist action hoped for by
Washington. There was no enthusiasm among ministers for economic sanctions
against Libya on the lines of the US trade boycott.


Trade between Libya and the EEC is worth more than pounds 9 billion annually,
with the oil-laden balance heavily in favour of Libya, by around pounds 6.8
billion to pounds 2.3 billion.

Nor did the ministers condone or condemn US preparations for military action in
the Mediterranean. Instead, the two-page statement ended with a mild call for
'restraint on all sides. '

Sir Geoffrey Howe's suggestion that all the nine People's Bureaux should be
closed forthwith was rejected by the other 11 ministers.

Nevertheless, he said that the meeting had been useful and constructive. It had
been essential for the EEC to respond to recent terrorist acts 'credibly,
coherently, and with a sense of urgency. That they have done. '

The proposals are: restrictions on the freedom of movement of diplomatic and
consular personnel; reduction of the staff of diplomatic and consular missions;
and stricter visa requirements and procedures.

The ministries also reaffirmed their decision of January 27 that no arms or
other military equipment will be exported to Libya.

Every effort would be made to ensure that their nationals and industries did not
take advantage of other countries' trading restrictions.

Sir Geoffrey said of the declaration: 'It is a very plain statement of our
recognition of the responsibility of his (Colonel Gadafy's) regime for the
terrorist outrages of the kind that have very recently taken place .. It is
further a statement that any attempt by him to carry out threats recently stated
towards certain European countries will meet with a vigorous and appropriate
response on the part of the twelve. '

The other EEC countries, said Sir Geoffrey, had gone some way to matching the
British measures of 1984, in the wake of the shooting of WPC Yvonne Fletcher
outside the Libyan People's Bureau in London.

Britain, for its part, had no doubt that the Libyan authorities were directly
involved in recent terrorist acts, including the West Berlin nightclub bombing.

Sir Geoffrey sidestepped questions on Washington's likely response. But he
insisted that any nation under terrorist attack was entitled by the terms of
article 51 of the UN Charter to defend itself.

This was far from the position of the Greek delegation, which argued in vain
that any statement deploring rising tension in the Mediterranean should include
a specific reference to the US and the manoeuvres of the US Sixth Fleet.

This position drew some sympathy from the Italians, the majority, including
Britain. The Foreign Secretary, according to British sources, strongly rejected
the suggestion that US actions could be morally equated with those of
Libyan-based terrorists.

The argument occupied much of the extended meeting, and threatened at one time
to leave the EEC nations in embarrassing disarray. As it is, their joint
declaration is unlikely to win any friends on either side of the Atlantic, or to
convince the world in general of Community resolve.

The final text spoke of the Twelve's grave concern at increased tension in the
Mediterranean.

It went on: 'They consider that states clearly implicated in supporting
terrorism should be induced to renounce such support and to respect the rules of
international law. They call upon Libya to act accordingly. '

Terrorist attacks, like the Berlin and TWA jet blasts, could never be justified,
and were condemned by the EEC.

'They also reject the unacceptable threats made by Libyan leaders against member
states which deliberately encourage recourse to acts of violence and directly
threaten Europe. Any action of this sort will meet with a vigorous and
appropriate response on the part of the Twelve,' said the statement.

The ministers then listed their concrete proposals for action against Libya, and
'where necessary' other states implicated in supporting terrorism.

A high-level committee of national experts set up at the January meeting will
report on further possible security measures when the foreign ministers meet
again in Luxembourg next Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 15, 1986, Tuesday

Findings: Terrorism watch (111) /SCT

BYLINE: ROBERT M. WORCESTER

LENGTH: 114 words


Following December's terrorist attack at Rome airport, the New York Times
commissioned MORI to co-ordinate a survey in Britain, France and Germany
measuring the views of citizens towards the problem of terrorism and how it
should be dealth with. While four in 10 Britons believed that the British
Government was doing all it could to protect its people against international
terrorism, only three in 10 Frenchmen and a quarter of Germans felt their
governments were.

Libya and the Palestine Liberation Organization were named as the main
perpetrators of terrorist attacks. Nearly as many people in Britain thought that
the Irish Republican Army was the main culprit.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1986

Thatcher explains, but support by Tories is muted / British Premier's House of
Commons statement on the US attack on Libya

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 1774 words


The Prime Minister told a hostile House of Commons yesterday that it was
'inconceivable' that she should refuse President Reagan's request for F1-11
aircraft to take off from British air bases to attack Libya.

Mrs Thatcher said she replied to President Reagan's request by saying that
Britain would support action directed against specific Libyan targets
demonstrably involved in the conduct and support of terrorist activities and
agree to the deployment of the F1-11s.


She had received assurances from President Reagan that the operation would be
limited to clearly defined targets related to terrorism and that the risk of
collatoral damage would be minimised. Mrs Thatcher said she had reserved the
position of the United Kingdom on any question of further action which might be
more general or less clearly directed against terrorism.

Military establishments have been placed on a high level of alert and protection
of air bases, in particular, stepped up in the face of the threat of Libyan
revenge attacks.

She also disclosed that President Reagan told her last week that he intended
military action against Libya and that she had agreed to support him and let him
use British bases. The United States 'has tried by peaceful means to deter
Colonel Gadafy and his regime from their promotion of terrorism - - but to no
effect. '

She insisted that the US attack complied with the United Nations charter. 'How
long were we to remain passive and not exercise the right of self-defence
inherent in the UN charter? '

She said the British Government had 'evidence beyond dispute that the Libyan
government has been and is directly involved in promoting terrorist attacks
against the United States and other Western countries and that it had made plans
for a wide range of further terrorist attacks. '

She told MPs that if nations did not take action against State-sponsored
terrorism the terrorists would always win and the victims could only cringe
before them.

Before Mrs Thatcher made a statement to the Commons yesterday afternoon on the
Libyan affair she faced a critical reception form some Conservative MPs during
Prime Minister's question time. Her statement was received with only muted
cheers and most Conservative MPs sat silent and worried not be able to get her
case across to the public.

Mr Henry Bellingham (C, Norfolk NW) said there was considerable anger in East
Anglia about the use to which the USAF bases had been put. 'This considerable
anxiety could be allayed if it is proved beyond doubt that the US raids were not
contrary to Article 51 of the UN Charter and were strictly necessary to meet the
terrorist threat,' he said.

Mrs Thatcher said she believed that American action taken against
terrorist-related targets in the light of evidence that further terrorist acts
were planned was within the inherent right of self-defence under article 51.

Mr Cyril Townsend (C. Bexley Heath) was her sharpest backbench critic. He said
that many Conservatives were deeply troubled by her 'uncritical support' for the
United States. He said 'President Reagan had grossly over-reacted. 'Do you not
agree that by your own reactions you only fuel the bitterness and the bloodshed?
'

Mrs Thatcher did not agree. Europe had consistently failed to take sufficient
action against international terrorism and the US had a duty to invoke United
States. He said Presi she said.

She found support from Mr Jonathan Aitken (C. Thanet S), who asked her to agree
that she was influenced in her decision by the need to make the most precise
equipment available to limit casualties among Libyan civilians and US personnel.

Mrs Thatcher said it was a factor that those particular aircraft, the F1-11's,
were right for the particular action which was undertaken. She said the
Americans had over 300,000 forces in Europe to defend its liberty. 'It was
inconceivable to me that we should refuse American aircraft and pilots the right
to defend their own people. '

The Labour leader, Mr Neil Kinnock, said that even if the evidence were proved
against Colonel Gadafy the bombing attack on Tripoli could not be justified as
an act of self-defence under international law.

In her prepared statement Mrs Thatcher announced that today would be given over
to a full Commons debate on Libya.

Mr Kinnock asked if Mrs Thatcher had spoken directly to President Reagan before
she decided that the attack could be launched from British bases.

'Is it true that the decision not to veto the use of bases in Britain for action
against Gadafy was made by you alone? Is it true that the Foreign Secretary was
not told of the American action until yesterday morning? Is it true that the
Cabinet overseas and defence policy committee was not consulted at all until
very late last night? '

Mr Kinnock said to loud Labour cheers that if that were the case she had treated
her Cabinet and her Government with the 'same contempt as that shown to her by
the President of the United States. '

He asked whether she had seen the American evidence and demanded that she give
the maximum possible amount of publicity.

'Even if there is such evidence against Gadafy, last night's bombing cannot be
justified as an act of selfdefence under international law. '

Mr Kinnock said that the Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, 'has to answer
the serious charge of duplicity in dealing with our European allies yesterday. '

Far from bringing down a curtain on Gadafy's reign of terror, President Reagan's
adventure had caused bloodshed to innocents and would result in a loss of
American and British influence even with moderate Arab states and had fractured
relationships within Nato.

These were all reasons to condemn the US action and as a true friend of America
and a true enemy of terrorism Mrs Thatcher should join that condemnation, he
said.

Mrs Thatcher said she totally disagreed. She said that the Foreign Secretary and
Defence Secretary had been at No. 10 when Mr Reagan's initial message had been
received and they had acted together in full knowledge of one another's views
throughout.

Mrs Thatcher also said that the Cabinet Overseas and Defence Committee, had met
on Monday morning. She said that, depsite the fact that Sir Geoffrey Howe was
with some EEC partners on Monday, the British Government did not itself consult
with the EEC partners or those fellow-members of Nato because the decision of
the use of British air bases was a particular matter for British decision.

To Mr Kinnock's question if she had seen the American evidence, she said: 'Of
course I have seen and examined our own intelligence evidence,' leaving Labour
MPs believing that she had not seen the American evidence.

On the question of publication she said she was naturally careful about
intelligence efforts, 'because to publish it will compromise the sources and may
therefore undermine our security. I will try to see we give as much as we can
without undermining that security. '

Mr David Steel, the Liberal leader, asked, whatever the evidence against Libyan
terrorism, in what respect did she expect that terrorism would be halted by what
happened on Monday night? He said that of all the things said by the Prime
Minister he found it most appalling that she felt it was inconceivable for her
to refuse President Reagan's request. 'That is writing a blank cheque,' he said.

Dr David Owen, the SDP Leader, demanded that the evidence be presented to the UN
Security Council, which he said was an obligation under the 1952 agreement
between Truman and Churchill which established the arrangements over American
bases in Britain.

But the Prime Minister angrily retorted that the UN Security Council was
excellent on words but failed to carry out deeds.

Sir Peter Blaker, the chairman of the Conservative backbench foreign affairs
committee, asked her, in spite of the problems, to see Whether more information
could be published about the evidence.

This plea was repeated by Mr Michael Mates (C. Hampshire E), who argued that it
was necessary to explain to ordinary people why the world's most powerful
democracy in the free world had taken that action, in particular the intimations
of future actions that justified the bombings.

But Mrs Thatcher angrily replied that the people of Britain already very much
understood the need to take all legitimate action against Colonel Gadafy.

The former Tory Foreign Minister, Sir Ian Gilmour said the Prime Minister was
mistaken in her decision to allow British bases to be used for the attack.

'You could have stipulated that the bases should not be used for attacks on
targets in civilian areas which were bound to and apparently did lead to the
killing of innocent people,' he told her.

Mrs Thatcher replied: 'Yes, there are always some risks, but if you fail to take
action because there might be some risks incurred, you are saying you should
never tackle or take any action to reduce State-sponsored terrorism. You would
have to cringe before Colonel Gadafy. '

Mr Tony Benn (Lab. Chesterfield) angrily demanded to know why Mrs Thatcher had
supported the death of civilians in Libya who were killed by aircraft, flying
with her consent, from British bases when the House of Commons had neither been
informed nor consulted nor given any approval to the act.

Mr Michael Foot, the former Labour leader told her: 'Don't you now understand
the worst way to deal with terrorism is to act like terrorists ourselves? '

Mr Roy Jenkins (SDP, Hillhead) asked, if the Prime Minister strongly counselled
President Reagan against military action in Libya, what were the precise reasons
that led her to make British bases available?

Mrs Thatcher said the United States was intending to take military action and
the response from Europe had been inadequate. The evidence was there and they
decided to exercise their right of self-defence. 'I would take the same decision
again,' she said.

Answering accusations that Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, had been
involved in an act of duplicity when he was negotiating with the EEC Council of
Ministers on Monday, Mrs Thatcher said the EEC talks had taken place on the
basis that they knew the Americans were contemplating direct action against
Libya.

The Prime Minister vigorously denied a suggestion from Mr Enoch Powell (UUP.
South Down) that the episode had shown how flimsy was the protection against the
use of British bases for the launching of nuclear weapons. 'Mr Powell is asking
about something totally different and I believe he knows. ' said Mrs Thatcher.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1986

How British-based F-111s struck after months of secret planning / US air raids
on Libya

BYLINE: By DAVID FAIRHALL, Defence Correspondent

LENGTH: 969 words


The Libyan raids were an elaborate combined operation launched from four US Air
Force bases in Britain - Lakenheath and Mildenhall in Suffolk, Upper Heyford in
Oxfordshire, and Fairford in Gloucestershire - and from two US carriers in the
Mediterranean, the America and the Coral Sea.

The US bombers struck in darkness, a few seconds before 1 am London time. Three
targets round Tripoli were assigned to F1-11s from Britain, including Colonel
Gadafy's personal headquarters, and two near Benghazi to A-6s and A-7s from the
carrier task force.


The military damage will be analysed using photographs taken by the SR-71
Blackbird high altitude reconnaissance plane that took off from Mildenhall
yesterday morning shortly after the bombers landed back at nearby Lakenheath.
Fires were certainly started on the outskirts of Tripoli. But houses in the
Libyan capital were also hit and the French Embassy damaged. Casualties,
according to the Libyans, include many civilians, some of them foreigners.

Eighteen of the 33 bombers were British-based F1-11s despite the fact that they
had to fly a 5,600 mile round trip down the Atlantic and across the
Mediterranean, refuelling in the air several times, after France and Spain
refused permission to cross their airspace. The direct route would have saved
1,200 miles each way.

President Reagan told Mrs Thatcher that the F1-11s were essential to the
operation because their special characteristics (their allweather, low-level
navigation and bomb aiming system) made them the safest way of avoiding civilian
casualties in Libya or losses among US servicemen.

Pentagon sources added that the British-based supersonic bombers were used
because they carry more ordnance than the smaller carrier-borne A-7s, as well as
being equipped for precision bombing at night. The US Navy A-6s also carried a
heavy bombload, but there were not enough available, the Pentagon said.

In the event, the only US casualties seem to have been the two crewmen of an
F1-11 which, according to an unofficial report from Mildenhall, crashed into the
sea before it reached Libya. Another bomber from Britain made an emergency
landing at Rota, in southern Spain, after jettisoning its bombs in the early
hours of yesterday morning.

The F1-11 crews that did arrive off the Libyan coast had no need of radar to
find Tripoli. The lights of the city were only turned out after the bombers had
left, although the military defences had been reorganised and hospitals alerted.
Tracer bullets searched for the raiders in vain and only one surface-to-air
missile seems to have been launched.

Joint US Air Force-Navy planning for the raids began months ago, and was
intensified after the terrorist bombing of a Berlin discotheque on April 5.
British cooperation was privately sought last week, invoking the standing
unpublished arrangements governing the use of US bases in this country, thereby
setting a major precedent for large scale operations outside the Nato area.

Detailed preparations, such as loading the F1-11's bombs, were conveniently
obscured by rehearsals at Upper Heyford and Lakenheath for next month's Nato war
alert inspection, known as a tactical evaluation. But the rehearsal exercise
itself was apparently genuine. A US Air Force spokesman pointed out yesterday
that it had been announced in advance to the local press.

The best public clue to the secret operation was probably the arrival at
Mildenhall of an unusually large number of KC-10 air tankers at the weekend,
which were supported by the permanent force of KC-135 tankers which also operate
out of Fairford. Other supporting aircraft included US Navy airborne radar
pickets and three EF1-11 electronic jamming aircraft from Upper Heyford.

According to the US Defence Secretary, Mr Caspar Weinberger, briefing
journalists in Washington on an operation he is believed not to have favoured,
five main targets were chosen:

The Al Azziziyah barracks in Tripoli, where Colonel Gadafy lives, which is
described by the Pentagon as 'the main headquarters of Libyan planning and
direction of its terrorist attacks overseas';

The Sidi Bilal port facility, described as 'a training base for Libyan
commandos';

The military side of Tripoli airport (Mr Weinberger said the lights went out
after the raid), which the Pentagon says is used by Soviet-made aircraft 'to
transport military and subversive material round the world';

The Al Junahiriya barracks in Benghazi, described as 'an alternative command
post to the Al Azziziyah barracks in Tripoli';

The Benina military airfield, which was hit for 'military suppression purposes,'
to prevent interceptors taking off, although the fact that the Libyan air force
rarely operates at night was one factor in the timing of the raid.

Mr Weinberger said that the military planners looked for 'good night targets',
those that would show clear outlines on an aircraft's radar and would not be
confused with something else. Other criteria were that the targets 'had a full
terrorist connection, that we would minimise any collateral damage to civilian
or other facilities nearby, and that we would have full consideration for the
safety of the pilots'.

This clear statement of the intention to confine the raids to anti-terrorist
retaliation with minimum civilian casualties was reflected in the assurances
that were given to Mrs Thatcher before she agreed to let British-based aircraft
take part - backed no doubt by reminders of how much the US helped British
forces in the Falkland conflict.

But the hard fact is, though American and Israeli military Planners often seem
to ignore it, that there is no such thing as a so-called 'surgical strike' on a
sprawling Middle Eastern city that is believed to contain terrorist 'camps'.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1986

Unionists and churches critical / British response to US air raids on Libya

BYLINE: By MARTIN WAINWRIGHT

LENGTH: 299 words


Public reaction to the raid was overwhelmingly hostile yesterday, with church
and union spokesmen leading attacks on Britain's role.

Those in favour of President Reagan's policy were either keeping quiet or
relatively few. A radio poll, showing a four-to-one ratio against the raid,
suggested the latter.


CND members and others held widespread, though small, demonstrations and 15
people were arrested outside the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square. Bigger
protests are planned.

Religious reaction was led by the British Council of Churches. A statement
signed by the Archbishop of Canterbury accused the British Government of helping
to undermine international law.

'The Government owes it to the British people to explain fully why, in contrast
to its partners in the European Community, it has given support to the American
action,' the council said, 'Such an attack on a city, inevitably involving
civilian loss of life, was disproportionate in scale. '

The Imams and Mosques Council UK said its switchboard was jammed with calls
condemning the US. The council chairman, Dr Zaki Badawi, appealed to Muslims
throughout the world to rally to their 'Libyan brothers. '

Mr Terry Waite, the Archbishop of Canterbury's special envov, warned that the
raid would rally the Libyans and the Arab world around Colonel Gadafy and might
increase terrorist attacks.

'Has sufficient effort been put into sitting down and talking to Gadafy?' said
Mr Waite.

The TUC has asked for a meeting with the Prime Minister to discuss the use of
aircraft from bases in Britain. The General Secretray, Mr Norman Willis, said
terrorism would not be eliminated by 'the massive and indiscriminate use of
force. '

Statements condemning the raid were issued by most major unions.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1986

Howe 'did not mislead EEC' / British Foreign Secretary apparently unaware of US
decision to bomb Libya

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL

LENGTH: 567 words


The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe appears to have been kept in the dark
about the US decision to proceed with the raid on Libya until after the F-111
bombers had taken off.

The final dispositions for British support of President Reagan's strike were
made at a half-hour meeting in Downing Street which started at 8 pm on Monday.


Sir Geoffrey arrived at that meeting hot-foot from his talks with other European
foreign ministers in the Hague that afternoon. He joined the Prime Minister, her
deputy, Lord Whitelaw, and the Defence Secretary, Mr George Younger, to hear for
the first time that the raid on Libya was to go ahead.

Foreign Office sources were adamant yesterday that Sir Geoffrey remained in the
dark about the final US decision until he reached that meeting.

The reason for their insistence was that they do not want European colleagues to
believe that Sir Geoffrey was keeping information from them as he tried to
produce a European package of non-military measures against Libya. 'He was in
the dark as far as final decisions when he got back here,' said one spokesman.

The meeting at Number 10 started about two hours after the F-111s are understood
to have taken off. American sources say the flight took 14 hours. The bombers
can be assumed for reasons of fuel economy to have travelled at subsonic speeds
on both legs of the journey, which puts departure time at around 6 pm on Monday.

The Prime Minister told MPs yesterday that she and Sir Geoffrey had 'acted
together in the knowledge of one another's views throughout. '

Although Sir Geoffrey apparently did not know that the raid was to go ahead, it
is clear that there had been considerable consultation by the Prime Minister
earlier in the day about the possible use of American bases in case it did.

A meeting of the Cabinet's Overseas and Defence Committee on Monday morning,
which was attended by most Cabinet ministers, was told about the principle of
'self-defence' which was to be used to justify the raid under international law.
It was also given intelligence information about future Libyan terrorist
activity, which is also being used to justify President Reagan's pre-emptive
strike.

What remains unclear from yesterday's account is whether the committee approved
the use of the American bases in Britain on the information available to it.
Downing Street sources refuse to say when such approval was given.

The Prime Minister's account starts at an unspecified point last week when, she
says, President Reagan informed her that the US intended to take military action
to deter further Libyan terrorism.

She said that Sir Geoffrey and Mr Younger were present at Number 10 when the
initial message arrived. At no point did President Reagan talk to her
personally, Downing Street sources said.

Mrs Thatcher told the Commons that she replied to the President that Britain
would support action against specific Libyan targets demonstrably involved in
the conduct and support of terrorist activities. She added that if the US
President concluded that it was necessary, Britain would agree to the deployment
of US aircraft from bases in the UK for that purpose.

Her statement gave no indication of when she communicated this to Mr Reagan, or
how this general approval was translated into specific consent, once details of
the American operation had become clear.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1986

Security chiefs consider 'Class One' threat in UK / Possible reprisals for
Britain's support of the US air raid on Libya

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 301 words


Police and security chiefs were yesterday assessing the heightened threat of a
terrorist attack after Britain's support for the American bombing raid on Libya.
There was also considerable concern for the safety of the 5,000 Britons in
Libya.

The Ministry of Defence refused last night to confirm of deny reports that six
RAF Hercules transport planes seen taking off from Lyneham, Wiltshire, were part
of a contingency plan to evacuate the Britons to Cyprus. The MoD said the
aircraft could be taking part in a military exercise there.


Security chiefs are considering the possibility of what is known as a 'Class
One' threat.

This would mean putting all of Britain's most important targets - from nuclear
power stations and military bases to Government offices - on Red Alert, the
ultimate degree of readiness against attack.

Police yesterday also increased the guard on obvious targets, such as the
American embassy in Grosvenor Square, London.

Security services are reviewing files on Arab diplomats in Britain who might
come under Libyan pressure to react.

In Austria, police increased the protection of Prince Charles and Princess
Diana.

In 1984, 50 people were injured in bombings in London and Manchester, and 11
Libyan demonstrators were injured by shots from within the Libyan People's
Bureau.

WPC Yvonne Fletcher was fatally wounded in the incident, which led to expulsion
of Libyan diplomatic representatives.

In the previous four years 15 anti-Gadafy Libyan exiles were assassinated in
Europe.

Although the number of Libyan nationals admitted to Britain has fallen from
28,500 in 1983 to 1,300 in the first half of 1985, the primary threat considered
yesterday was from 'suicide squads. ' In security terms, these are considered
almost unstoppable.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1986

Sceptical Tories demand evidence to justify raid / Premier Thatcher to defend
Britain's part in US air raid on Libya

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 747 words


The Prime Minister faces a formidable political test today in defending
Britain's part in the attack on Libya against an angry Opposition and
Conservative MPs sceptical about her judgment and fearful of the consequences.

Mrs Thatcher told the Commons yesterday that it was inconceivable that the
United States should be denied the use of its British bases for the assault on
Tripoli, and that she would do the same again. But many Conservatives were
expressing doubt last night about the wisdom of her whole-hearted support for
President Reagan.


At a 50-minute Cabinet meeting yesterday Mrs Thatcher gave ministers some
information about the raid and her own justification, but some colleagues were
still expressing private doubts last night about the course upon which she is
now set.

The political difficulty facing her in today's special Commons debate was
highlighted by Mr George Younger, the Defence Secretary, in a radio interview
broadcast yesterday. In the interview, which was recorded on Monday, Mr Younger
disclosed the anxiety among ministers about American policy, and their initial
reluctance to co-operate in a military mission to tame the Gadafy regime.

In the Radio Clyde interview in his Ayr constituency Mr Younger said: 'My
colleagues and I are very dubious as to whether a military strike is the best
way of doing this. It's too liable to hit the wrong people, and it creates other
tensions in the area. '

It was said on Mr Younger's behalf last night that he had no doubt about the
final decision, and had been consulted throughout but his remarks exposed the
nature of the gamble on which ministers embarked in agreeing to the use of
British bases for the attack.

There were some vocal supporters in the Conservatives' ranks, but others were
exhibiting great anxiety, and some were threatening to abstain in tonight's
procedural vote if Mrs Thatcher did not give a much fuller account of the
reasons for Britain's support of the Reagan plan.

Such a withdrawal of support, so soon after a humiliating Government defeat on
domestic legislation earlier this week, would be a painful blow for the Prime
Minister, and last night the troops were being rallied for a show of loyalty in
the debate. It seemed likely, however, that several would express their
reservations openly.

As part of the preparation for that debate. Opposition leaders have been given a
private briefing from Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary in which he is
believed to have produced some of the evidence of terrorism planned with the
support of the Libyan government, which Mrs Thatcher indicated had justified the
American attack.

Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, Mr David Steel, the Liberal leader, and Dr
David Owen, the SDP's leader, went to Sir Geoffrey's office to see the evidence
on Privy Counsellor terms, binding them to secrecy. Mr Steel said afterwards
that his mind had not been changed and he still believed that the attack on
Libya had shown a lack of wisdom.

He said he had never doubted the evidence of Colonel Gadafy's complicity in
terrorism, but the attack would not be effective in stopping terrorism
originating in Libya or anywhere else.

In the Commons, Mr Kinnock indicated deep disquiet about the American action. He
demanded that the evidence on which the Government's decision was based should
be published, accused the Foreign Secretary of possible duplicity in dealing
with European allies, and asked Mrs Thatcher to join him in condemning the raid.

But the Prime Minister said the United States had been right and had a duty to
invoke its right of self-defence. She said that she would not change her view,
and would support the attack again.

Conservative MPs are worried, however, that Britain may now be drawn into
support for a series of American raids, a worry sharpened by Mrs Thatcher's
blunt warning that reprisals could be expected, her appeal for people to be on
the alert, and her announcement that military stations had been put on full
alert.

Among the Tories it was the demand for more information about the reason for
Britain's agreement to the use of bases in the attack that was most marked. The
issue dominated a meeting of about 80 back-benchers who left Sir Geoffrey in no
doubt that they were finding it difficult to give their full-hearted support
without publication of some of the evidence.

One of those present said: 'It was far from gung-ho. People are worried. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 16, 1986, Wednesday

Thatcher defends US but warns public to be alert / Premier backs American
bombing of Libya (498) /SCT

BYLINE: ANTHONY BEVINS, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 524 words


The Prime Minister told the Commons yesterday that the Americans had not only
been right to bomb Libyan targets, but that they had a duty to do so.

It would have been inconceivable, she said, for the Government to have refused
permission for the United States to use its own British-based F111s to strike in
self-defence against the scourge of terrorism.

But she warned the Commons that the public must be fully alert to the threat of
indiscriminate terrorist reprisals.

'Military establishments and government departments have been placed at a high
level of alert,' she said.

Mrs Thatcher will open a special Commons debate on the American action this
afternoon, when Mr Neil Kinnock will deliver an all-out onslaught against the
Government's practical support for the American attack.

The Labour leader said yesterday that even if there was evidence of Libyan
complicity in terrorist attacks, the bombing could not be justified as an act of
self-defence under international law.

Mr David Steel, the Liberal leader, said that Mrs Thatcher's view that it would
have been inconceivable to refuse permission amounted to a blank cheque.

There was also some ministerial disquiet that the Cabinet had not been informed.

A significant number of Tory MPs asked for evidence of the Libyan connections
with terrorism.

That concern was raised repeatedly at a meeting between Sir Geoffrey Howe, the
Foreign Secretary, and about 70 backbenchers in the Commons last night, although
the overwhelming view was that the Government had been right. There was strong
support, however, for the view that the Government should end trade and training
agreements - that it was applying double standards.

The Prime Minister yesterday deployed her case during Question Time and in a
later statement, in which she said: 'The United States, after trying other
means, has now sought by limited military action to induce the Libyan regime to
desist from terrorism. That is in the British interest. '

Although she had not spoken personally with President Reagan, he had been told
that Britain would support action against specific Libyan targets 'demonstrably
involved in the conduct and support of terrorist activities. '

She added that the Americans had been told that if the President had concluded
that it was necessary, the Government would agree to the deployment of the F111s
from British bases while reserving its position on further action which might be
more general or less clearly directed against terrorism.

Downing Street sources said last night that in spite of the escalation of
terrorism, the proof of the Libyan connection, and backing for the IRA, the
British Government had never contemplated direct military action.

But Mrs Thatcher told the House that Sir Geoffrey and Mr George Younger, the
Secretary of State for Defence, had been at Number 10 when the initial message
had been received from the President.

Police made 160 arrests last night as a crowd estimated by the organizers at
more than 2,000 brought Whitehall to a standstill with a candlelight vigil in
protest at the strike on Libya.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 16, 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Why Britain backed US air attack on Libya / Commons (588) /SCT

LENGTH: 651 words


After trying other means, the United States had now sought by limited military
action to induce the Libyan regime to desist from terrorism - a scourge of the
modern age - and that was in the British interest, Mrs Margaret Thatcher, the
Prime Minister, told the Commons in a statement. It was why the Government
supported the US action.

The Commons is to have a full debate tomorrow (Wednesday) on the US attacks on
specific targets in Libya during the night of April 14-15.

In her statement, Mrs Thatcher made clear that having agreed to the deployment
of US aircraft from bases in the UK, she had reserved the position of the UK on
any question of further action which might be more general or less clearly
directed against terrorism.

Mrs Thatcher told MPs that the Government had evidence showing beyond dispute
that the Libyan Government had been and was directly involved in promoting
terrorist attacks against the United States and other western countries, and
that it had made plans for a wide range of further terrorist attacks.

The United Kingdom had itself suffered from Libyan terrorism. The House would
recall the murder of WPc Fletcher in St James's Square. There was no doubt,
moreover, of the Libyan Government's direct and continuing support for the
Provisional IRA in the form of money and weapons.

Two years ago (she went on) we took certain measures against Libya, including
the closure of the Libyan People's Bureau in London, restrictions on the entry
of Libyans into the UK, and a ban on new contracts for the export to Libya of
defence equipment.

Yesterday (Monday) the foreign ministers of the European Community reaffirmed
their grave concern at Libyan-inspired terrorism and agreed on new restrictions
against Libya.

Since we broke off diplomatic relations with Libya we have had no choice but
consistently to advise British nationals living and working there that they are
doing so on their own responsibility.

Our interests there have been looked after by the Italian Government. Our
representative in the British Interests Section of the Italian Embassy will
continue to advise the British community as best he can.

The US has tried by peaceful means to deter Colonel Gadaffi and his regime from
their promotion of terrorism but to no effect.

President Reagan informed me last week that the US intended to take military
action to deter further Libyan terrorism. He sought British support for this
action.

He sought also agreement, in accordance with our long-standing arrangements, to
the use in the operation of some US aircraft based in this country. This
approach led to a series of exchanges including a visit by Ambassador Walters on
Saturday.

Article 51 of the UN Charter specifically recognises the right to self-defence.

In view of Libya's promotion of terrorism, the failure of peaceful means to
deter it, and the evidence that further attacks were threatened, I replied to
the President that we would support action directed against specific Libyan
targets demonstrably involved in the conduct and support of terrorist
activities.

Further, that if the President concluded that it was necessary, we would agree
to the deployment of US aircraft from bases in the UK for that purpose.

I reserved the position of the UK on any question of further action which might
be more general or less clearly directed against terrorism.

The President assured me that the operation would be limited to clearly defined
targets related to terrorism, and that the risk of collateral damage would be
minimised.

He made clear that the use of F-111 aircraft from bases in the UK was essential,
because by virtue of their special characteristics they would provide the safest
means of achieving particular objectives with the lowest possible risk both of
civilian casualties in Libya and of casualties among US service personnel.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 16, 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Bombing unjustified as act of self-defence - Kinnock / US-Libya
crisis (865) /SCT

LENGTH: 957 words


Far from bringing the curtain down on Gadaffi's reign of terror, as President
Reagan had put it, the US action had caused bloodshed and damage to innocents
and would result in a lessening of British and American influence over even
moderate Arab states. Mr Neil Kinnock, Leader of the Opposition, said when he
questioned Mrs Thatcher on her statement. Mr Kinnock asked if Mrs Thatcher had
spoken directly and personally to President Reagan at any time before she
decided that the attack on Libya by F-111s could be launched from bases in
Britain.

Is it true (he continued) that the decision not to veto the use of bases in
Britain for action against Gadaffi was made by her alone? Is it true that the
Foreign Secretary was not told of the American action until Monday morning?

Is it true that the Cabinet overseas policy committee was not consulted at all
until very late last night?

If it is true, the Prime Minister has treated her Cabinet and Government with
the same contempt as shown to her by the President of the United States. Has she
or her Foreign Secretary actually seen or heard the evidence of which President
Reagan spoke in his broadcast on television last night?

Will she respond to the view held in all parts of the House that the maximum
possible amount of the evidence on which her decision was made and that of the
President was based should be made public?

Even if there was such evidence against Gadaffi, last night's bombing could not
be justified as an act of self-defence under international law, which required
that armed response to aggression was immediate, protective and proportionate to
the scale of aggression.

He asked Mrs Thatcher for an undertaking that she would refuse permission for
the use of British bases for any further similar action by President Reagan.

Mrs Thatcher said she disagreed totally with Mr Kinnock and reminded him that
the United States was Britain's staunch ally and kept over 330,000 troops in
Europe to defend the freedom of Europe.

The Foreign Secretary (he said) and the Secretary of State for Defence were in
No 10 when the initial message from the President was received and we have acted
together in knowledge of one another's views throughout. The overseas committee
of the Cabinet met on Monday morning.

Of course I have seen and examined our own intelligence evidence. We are
naturally careful about intelligence evidence because to publish it will
compromise sources and may therefore undermine our security.

A certain amount has been given and I will try to see we give as much as we can
without undermining that security. To undermine that security could be very
damaging indeed to the United Kingdom and to our allies.

I have indicated, and I know the United States takes the same view, that the
selection of targets demonstrably in connection with terrorist activity was
within Article 51. That is my legal advice and I understand it is the legal
advice of the United States.

Mr Kinnock speaks about moderate Arab states. Many Arab states have also been
the subject of terrorist attack and some understand very well what we are doing.

Mr Julian Amery (Brighton, Pavilion, C) congratulated her on the strong support
she gave to their American allies in seeking to deter not just terrorism but a
terrorist state which had been Britain's enemy as much as the enemy of the US
and of the moderate Arab countries.

The drastic action by the Americans yesterday (he said) will find its
justification only if the terrorist state is finally prevented from continuing
terrorism. Those who support Colonel Gadaffi are accessories to the murder of
our police constable in this country and many other people in other parts of the
world.

Mrs Thatcher: I am very much aware that if there were to be any further action
it would also have to be justified under article 51. Precisely the same rules
would apply to any further action as applied to this one.

Yes, some risks have to be faced in order to try to turn the tide against
terrorism. The US has come to Europe asking for further action and we in Europe
have been the country which has already taken most. The US did not get much of a
response from Europe.

Mr David Steel, Leader of the Liberal Party: Whatever the evidence no doubt
substantial, of Libyan past terrorism, in what respect does she expect that
terrorism will be halted by what happened last night?

How was it that the Foreign Secretary agreed unanimously with the European
ministers that increased military tension in the area would be dangerous, yet 12
hours later we have a substantial increase in military tension in the area.

Did she seek to limit permission on use of British bases to military targets?

The most appalling thing she said this afternoon was the use of the word
'inconceivable' that she would ever refuse any request. Is not that a blank
cheque to President Reagan?

Mrs Thatcher: We had direct evidence of Libyan past terrorism in St James
Square. Since then there appears to have been an escalation of terrorism and if
MPs thought we were not firm enough about that particular act they should
welcome the action that has now been taken and support that has been given.

Not only did we say confine it to military targets directly associated with
terrorism, indeed the words we used were 'demonstrably associated with
terrorism', because we believe that to be within article 51.

The discussion in Europe between the Foreign Ministers took place on the basis
that action might well be imminent. The Foreign Secretary argued the case for
action in self defence but also for a stronger Community response. There was
some further new actions but they were not very much.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 16, 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Britain cannot be supine or passive towards terrorism / US-Libya
crisis (1282) /SCT

LENGTH: 1431 words


If Britain always refused to take risks because of the consequences then
terrorist governments would win and one would only be able to cringe before
them. Mrs Margaret Thatcher the Prime Minister, said at question time. She
defended the decision to allow American bases in Britain to be used for the
launch of the American air strike against Libya early today.

She said that to refuse to take action against terrorism would mean that Britain
was supine and passive in the face of that terrorism.

I believe (she said) that in the circumstances the United States was within
Article 51 (of the United Nations Charter) and exercised its inherent right to
self-defence to try to turn the tide against terrorism and to discourage those
who engaged in it and in state terrorism to desist from further attacks.

Under the arrangements for the use of bases by the American forces, British
agreement was required and sought. After discussion it was obtained on the basis
that the action would be targets within Article 51.

Mr Robert Litherland (Manchester Central, Lab): By giving permission for the
launching of F111s for a military attack on the mainland of Libya, she has not
only broken the confidence of the European Community, and international law, but
now has the blood of innocents on her hands.

This kind of build-up of American naval power in the Mediterranean is a threat
to world peace and she should divorce herself from Reagan's Rambo policies in
the area. This is not the answer to international terrorism. These are the
questions nations are asking.

Mrs Thatcher: I believe that the attacks which the United States made on Libya
were within the inherent right of self-defence. That was why we gave our support
to that action and gave consent to the use of bases in Britain for that purpose.

Mr Henry Bellingham (North-West Norfolk, C): There is considerable concern in
East Anglia about the use to which United States bases have been put. That
understandable anxiety could be allayed if it is proved beyond doubt that United
States raids were not contrary to Article 51 and were strictly necessary to meet
Libyan attacks.

Mrs Thatcher: I believe United States action against terrorist-related targets
was taken in the light of evidence that further terrorist attacks were planned
and were inherent self-defence under Article 51.

Mr Neil Kinnock, Leader of the Opposition: The country will want to know as soon
as possible what steps have been taken by the Government to safeguard the
welfare of British citizens in Libya and in other countries in the Middle East.

Mrs Thatcher: As soon as we broke off diplomatic relations with Libya following
the St James's Square incident, we told our people who remained there on their
own responsibility. Representation there is through the British Interests
Section of the Italian Embassy. Our representative will do his best to advise
British citizens.

Mr Kinnock said that not only in Libya, but elsewhere, British people would be
extremely vulnerable and proper safe-guards should be given to ensure their
security.

Mrs Thatcher: In terrorist attack there is no universal safeguard. All posts
have been alerted and security stepped up.

Mr Dennis Walters (Westbury, C): While recognizing the frustration felt by the
United States when dealing with the Libyan Government, will not the effect of
the American attack on Tripoli be to strengthen Colonel Gadaffi and weaken our
moderate friends in Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.

Mrs Thatcher: I do not believe it will have that effect. There has been
state-sponsored terrorism by Libya for a long time.

Mr Tony Benn (Chesterfield, Lab): Is she herself standing at the dispatch box on
behalf of the Government and condoning and supporting the death of civilians in
Libya who were killed by aircraft flying with her consent from British bases
when the House of Commons had neither been informed nor consulted nor given any
approval of this act?

Mrs Thatcher: That action by the US took place against continued state-sponsored
terrorism by Libya and I believe the US was entitled to use its inherent right
to self-defence.

Mr Patrick McNair-Wilson (New Forest, C): Until some real progress is made in
securing self-determination for the Palestinian people - a cause to which I
believe she is committed - no amount of bombing is likely to stop friendly Arab
governments planning violent acts throughout the world.

Mrs Thatcher: We take as much action as we possibly can to further the peace
process between the Arab and Palestinian peoples in the Middle East and we shall
continue to do so.

We have taken peaceful action against terrorism, much of which has unfortunately
not secured its objective and the US decided to exercise, in the light of
specific targets, its inherent right to self-defence.

Mr Michael Foot (Blaenau Gwent, Lab): What discussion was there with the US
about the acceptable level of civilian destruction and murder which might follow
from an attack on Libya? Was there any discussion with President Reagan about
these matters?

Did she not try to restrain his action on that account? Will she now acknowledge
that the worst way to deal with terrorism is to act like terrorists ourselves?

Mrs Thatcher: The discussion was to secure targets and action proportionate to
the threat and to secure that the action taken by the US was within Article 51.
The US, and we believe that action was within Article 51.

Could I refer him to the leading article in the Daily Mirror yesterday - as
robust a leader as ever I have seen.

Mr Charles Morrison (Devizes, C): Two weeks ago there was a skirmish between the
US and Libya. Yesterday there was a major attack by the US on Libya. Could she
say what convinces her that this escalation in events will not continue?

Mrs Thatcher: There has been an escalation in terrorism for some time and we
have all been subjected to it in this country as well as elsewhere. The question
was at what time did the US attempt to invoke the right of self-defence or just
go on being passive and supine.

Dr David Owen. Leader of the SDP: Under the Churchill-Truman 1952 agreement the
matter of decision as to whether to use the bases is a matter for joint decision
and does that not lay an obligation on the Government to prove that Article 51
has been fully used and produce its evidence to the Security Council?

Mrs Thatcher: The Security Council has of course condemned terrorism but equally
that condemnation has been without effect. Therefore is does not seem further
condemnation by the Security Council would have any effect this time.

He is right that the arrangements under which US bases are used in this country
have been the same for well over 30 years and have not changed. Under these
arrangements our agreement was required.

Dr Maurice Miller (East Kilbride, Lab): Did she consult our EEC partners, some
of whom are members of Nato? If not, why not? If she did, why did she disregard
their views?

Mrs Thatcher said the UK had not consulted on the use of this country's bases,
because that was a matter for its own decision.

Mr Jonathan Aitken (Thanet South, C) said Mrs Thatcher had taken a totally
correct decision - (Conservative cheers) - to permit the use of British bases
for the attack. Had she been influenced, not only by loyalty to an ally with a
just cause, but also by the fact that there were fewer risks to Libyan civilians
and US personnel by using the much more precise equipment available in the shape
of these aircraft? Mrs Thatcher said that had been a factor. The decision had
also been influenced by the fact that the US had 330,000 forces in Europe to
defend the liberty of Europe. They had been subject to terrorist attack and it
was inconceivable that the United Kingdom should refuse them the right to defend
themselves.

Mr Stefan Terlezki (Cardiff West, C): Am I right to assume there is a strong
link between Libya and the IRA which has resulted in the killing of so many
innocent people in this country? (Loud Conservative cheers).

Mrs Thatcher: The Libyan Government supports the Provisional IRA. That is a
factor that must be taken into account.

Mr Dennis Skinner (Bolsover, Lab) from a seated position: That means you will be
bombing Dublin, then? (Laughter).

A guillotine motion to limit discussion of the Social Security Bill was carried
by 280 votes to 195 - Government majority, 85. The committee stage must end by
May 1 and the report and third reading must be completed in two allotted days.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 16, 1986, Wednesday

Police put on alert / US-Libya crisis (166) /SCT

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER

LENGTH: 170 words


Police and security experts are assessing the possibility of Libyan reprisals in
Britain and tightening protection for potential targets, from the US Embassy to
sections of Heathrow airport (Stewart Tendler writes).

As extra armed officers were brought out on patrol one defence expert canvassed
the suggestion yesterday that Libya might use the Provisional IRA as proxy
bombers because the Irish terrorists could owe Libya a debt for past training.
But a senior Scotland Yard source discounted the use of the IRA and pointed
instead to a number of radical Arab regimes which might help the Libyans.

Yesterday, senior Special Branch officers were in conference much of the day
discussing the prospects for terrorist reprisals.

The anti-terrorist branch at Scotland Yard was on alert for possible terrorist
attacks but one source pointed out that in the past the Libyans have never
mounted attacks in this country on US or British targets. They have always
struck against opposition Libyan politicians.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 16, 1986, Wednesday

In the Commons: Lioness in a den of Daniels / Commons response to US-Libya
crisis (570) /SCT

BYLINE: JOHN O'SULLIVAN

LENGTH: 602 words


Mrs Thatcher arrived yesterday in a Commons which was rumoured to be
passionately indignant at her decision to allow US aircraft to fly to Libya from
British bases and determined to call her to account. Was this the parliamentary
occasion, wondered men grey in years and opinions, that would finally bring her
down?

As so often before, however, she proved to be a lioness in a den of Daniels.
Every criticism from the Opposition benches was turned away with remorseless
logic; every hint of nervousness on the Tory benches was soothed away with
painstaking explanation.

It was in the phony war of Prime Minister's question time that she won her
essential victory. Several Arabists, her natural opponents on the Tory benches,
began confidently. They thought that she was altogether too hostile to
terrorism.

Mr Patrick MacNair-Wilson (C. New Forest), for instance, complained that while
the Palestinian problem was unsolved, no action would stop 'friendly Arab
governments' from taking violent actions around the world. Apparently we have to
grin and bear it. No doubt they are carried out in spirit of fun.

The Prime Minister replied that she favoured the peace process, but that
peaceful methods had not reduced terrorism.

She went on to point out to another Tory sceptic, who feared that terrorism
would now escalate because of the attack on Libya, that terrorism had been
escalating during the period when peaceful methods were pursued. That was why
the United States had finally exercised its inherent right of self-defence under
Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.

Dr David Owen now weighed in fresh from his televised lectures on international
law. He thought that the President Reagan had an obligation to ask the UN
Security Council to intervene, as Britain had done in the Falklands.

Mrs Thatcher said that the Security Council had already condemned terrorism -
whereupon nothing much had happened.

These brisk replies were visibly rallying support on the Tory side. And when Mr
Jonathan Aitken (C. Thanet) began by referring to her 'difficult, but totally
correct decision' to support the US reprisal, there was a low rumble of Tory
support.

She responded to it by asserting that it was 'inconceivable' that a British
Government would refuse America assistance to protect its 330,000 US troops who
were in Europe to protect Europeans against aggression.

A Labour MP, sensing that Mrs Thatcher was replying effectively to frontal
assaults, tried subtlety. Since the Americans had all those jets on aircraft
carriers, he wondered, why had she granted permission for the land-based F 111s
to be used? That produced a subtle reply in return. The F 111s were more
accurate aircraft liable to hit their targets with the least harm to civilians
and least collateral damage. Her permission - ran the implication - might have
saved lives.

Most of Mrs Thatcher's main themes had been established at this point. The US,
as a loyal ally helping to defend Europe, deserved British support; the evidence
for Gadaffi's involvement in terrorism was massive; peaceful methods had not
persuaded Gadaffi to abandon terrorism; and to continue to rely entirely on them
in these circumstances would mean being supine and passive before the terrorist
threat. She reiterated these points in her full statement.

Mr Kinnock rose - and embarked on a criticism of Mrs Thatcher's role in the
Westland case. Had she consulted the Cabinet Committee? Were Ministers in her
confidence on this? Did the Foreign Secretary know? And so on and so forth. It
was all very uninteresting.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 17, 1986

Soviet trip to Britain in jeopardy / US-Libyan crisis

BYLINE: From MARTIN WALKER

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


The proposed visit to Britain by the Soviet Foreign Minister Mr Eduard
Shevarnadze, may be at risk after a series of bitter attacks in the Soviet media
on Britain's role in the Libyan bombing.

'Great Britain, above all, will share responsibility for the possible
unpredictable consequences of Washington's terrorist act,' Pravda said
yesterday.


Tass claimed there had been three aircraft carriers off the Libyan shore - two
American and one British. It said, 'The unsinkable aircraft carrier of the
island of Britain took a direct part in Washington's piratical adventure.

'Britain can be described only as a direct accomplice in the American
aggression,' Tass went on. 'The Conservatives were the only Government in
Western Europe to support politically the Reagan Administration's barbarous
actions, and to give them direct assistance. '

The Soviet Foreign Minister's visit was originally arranged during Mr
Gorbachev's triumphant British tour in December, 1984, before he became Soviet
leader.

Since then British diplomats in Moscow have been working assiduously to restore
relations. Two months ago they were given to understand that Mr Shevarnadze
planned to come in May or June. But the visit is not yet firmly scheduled and
the tone of yesterday's media comment about Britain has thrown new doubt on the
long efforts to seal better relations with an official visit.

The Kremlin gave a clear signal yesterday that it believed the Libyan crisis to
be over when Mr Gorbachev flew to East Berlin to attend the East German
Communist Party Congress, a visit that would have been cancelled had Moscow
feared a new escalation in the Mediterranean.

Last night, Tass reported that the British ambassador, Sir Bryan Cartledge, was
summoned to the Soviet Foreign Ministry to discuss the British role.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 17, 1986

Americans count the cost of acting as world's policeman / Demonstrations and
threats of terrorism follow the US bombing of Libya

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The attack on an American diplomat in Khartoum yesterday provided Washington
with a sharp reminder of the hostile world the US and its economic interests
face after the Libyan bombing raid.

The chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, Admiral William Crowe, warned last
night that the danger to US officials 'is very high around the world. '


Officials here were particularly fearful about the vulnerability of targets such
as airlines, banks, and tourists, which the authorities say are almost
impossible to protect. The computer giant, IBM yesterday cancelled a conference
in Spain and US oil companies - which have so far failed to heed Administration
economic sanctions - were preparing to evacuate Libya as soon as possible.

There were clearly no illusions in Washington that, in the short term, the
Libyan raid probably means that the world is less safe for American interests.

Dr Geoffrey Kemp, a British-born Middle-east specialist who served on the
National Security Council in President Reagan's first term, said: 'In the short
run it probably sets us back, but in the long run it will be a net plus. ' His
views were echoed by the former secretary of state, Mr Dean Rusk.

Nevertheless, while the US had expected attacks against traditional terrorist
targets, it seems to have been unprepared for the widespread demonstrations
which the attack provoked on the streets of European capitals. Here in the US
there has been almost unalloyed praise for President Reagan, despite satellite
pictures of injured children in Tripoli hospitals.

The US Ambassador to the UN, General Vernon Walters, told correspondents that
the European street protests were the result of action by the US's 'professional
enemies. ' He said they were part of a 'large clique of anti-American
demonstrators in Europe. '

To protect American interests, emergency procedures and security arrangements
were put into place around the world. The US Air Force despatched about 200
security policemen to Europe; machine-gun-toting security guards were put on
alert in embassy compounds from Mexico to Peking; and Egyptian police patrolled
the areas around the US Embassy in Cairo.

In Britain, the high level of alert against a terrorist attack will remain in
force for a considerable time, security sources said yesterday.

The threat of an attack is expected to increase within the next week or so, as
any terrorist group or individual is given time to organise one. The primary
threat being considered yesterday was from a suicide squad mustered in support
of Colonel Gadafy.

Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner, Mr Simon Crawshaw, who is head of
the anti-terrorist branch, has cancelled all leave and most of his officers are
working on the threat.

Attacks on such places as airline offices are expected and an 'amber alert' -
the penultimate state of precaution - is now in force at government buildings.
Queues built up at the entrances to military bases around Britain yesterday as
increased security measures began to take effect.

In Paris. the signs were removed from outside the American International School,
and in Rome consideration was being given to closing the US international school
which has 300 children. The Federal Aviation Administration ordered an emergency
squad of 'sky marshals' into the air and a special warning went out to US
airlines to be extra vigilant when flying into foreign airports and at their
offices and ticket counters abroad.

As the dominant force in the international airline business, the largest banking
power, and by far the most important force in international commerce - with tens
of thousands of plants and facilities abroad - keeping American commercial
interests safe is a logistical nightmare.

The tightest US security was reported in West Germany, where the West Berlin
discotheque bombing provoked the US wrath. Troops were put under curfew,
American guards with automatic weapons patrolled bases, and security checks were
beefed up on roads leading to US facilities.

Washington was thrown into chaos on Tuesday by a series of hoax bomb threats
which caused government departments, news offices, and other buildings to be
evacuated.

The FBI was described as on full alert and all the Libyans in the US, many of
them students, were put under special surveillance. In New York Kennedy airport
was put on red alert and the police reported that security had been stepped up
at the British Embassy because of the UK's involvement in the air strike.

While Congress is well on its way to approving a dollars 4.4 billion package
aimed at turning US embassies into foreign fortresses, the money has not come
through in time to defend them against the immediate threat. The London embassy
in Grosvenor Square is earmarked to receive some dollars 59.6 million to buy
better security, including armoured vehicles and guards to protect senior
officials.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 17, 1986

Thatcher reassures nervous Tory backbenchers / Premier opens emergency debate on
Britain's role in the US-Libyan crisis

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 2508 words


The Prime Minister yesterday appeared to have reasured some of her own doubting
backbenchers over the US attack on Libya when she produced some of the evidence
of Libyan state-sponsored terrorism.

Opening the emergency debate in the Commons on the use of British bases for the
American assault, she said: 'Terrorism has to be defeated. It cannot be
tolerated or side-stepped. ' The Prime Minister was cheered by Tories as she
rose.


The Labour leader, Mr Neil Kinnock, however, effectively accused the Prime
Minister of having show subservience and not solidarity in her decision to allow
the American allies to use British bases to launch their attack. He demanded
comprehensive economic sanctions instead of military action to squeeze the life
out of the Gadafy regime.

He found a measure of support from Mr Edward Heath, the former Conservative
Prime Minister, in condemning Mrs Thatcher's decision. Mr Heath said that
bombing cities was not the way to destroy terrorism.

The former Labour premier, Mr James Callaghan, also warned that it was not
possible to bomb terrorism out of existence. He cautioned that unless the US
begins a new momentum to resolve the Middle East crisis 'we should all start
building the air raid shelters now. '

Mrs Thatcher began the full-scale emergency debate conscious of her isolation on
the European stage and the potential for rebellion among her own nervous
backbenchers, but her speech appeared to calm some of her party's fears.

Opening the debate, Mrs Thatcher said her decision had not been an easy one and
she had pondered with her closest ministers all the risks involved, including
Britain's relations with other countries, before taking the decision.

If Britain had refused permission, she said, the US operation would still have
taken place, but more lives would probably have been lost, in the air and on the
ground.

The United States attack was conducted against five specific targets directly
connected with terrorism. She would wait for the United States to publish its
assessment of its results but she knew there were civilian casualties, including
members of Colonel Gadafy's own family.

'The casualties are, of course a matter of great sorrow. We also remember with
great sorrow all those men and women and children who have lost their lives as a
result of terrorist acts over the years - so many of them performed at the
behest of the Libyan Government. '

She noted the critical international reaction but she said she was pretty
certain that some of the routine denunciations concealed a rather different view
in reality.

She told MPs: 'Of course when we took our decision we were aware of the wider
issues and of people's fears. 'Terrorism attacks free societies and plays on
those fears. But if those tactics succeed terrorism saps the will of free
peoples to resist. '

Some of those arguments had been heard in this country, said Mrs Thatcher.
'Don't associate ourselves with the United States, some say. Don't support them
in fighting back - we may expose ourselves to more attacks, say others. '

Then she declared: 'Terrorism has to be defeated. It cannot be tolerated or
side-stepped. '

The Prime Minister then gave MPs a glimpse of the evidence of Libyan
state-sponsored terrorism upon which the Americans had based their justification
in international law for the attack.

She said that on March 25, instructions were sent from Tripoli to the Libyan
People's Bureau in East Berlin to conduct a terrorist attack against the
Americans.

On April 4 the Libyan People's Bureau alerted Tripoli that the attack would be
carried out the following morning. On April 5, the Bureau reported to Tripoli
that the operation had been carried out successfully. The bomb, which killed two
people and injured 230 in the discotheque, had exploded in the early hours of
that same morning.

She also cited close links between Libya and the Provisional IRA, saying that
the major find of arms in Sligo and Roscommon in the Irish Republic on January
26, the largest ever on the island, included rifles and ammunition from Libya.

She also outlined evidence relating to a planned bomb attack on civilians
queuing for visas at the US Embassy in Paris three weeks ago, which was foiled,
and an attempt on April 6 to attack the US Embassy in Beirut.

'It is equally clear that Libya was planning yet more attacks. The Americans
have evidence that United States citizens are being followed and American
embassies watched by Libyan intelligence agents in a number of countries spread
across the world. In Africa alone there is intelligence of Libyan preparations
for attacks on American facilities in no less than 10 countries. ' She also
quoted a speech by Colonel Gadafy, saying that he was ready 'to export terrorism
into the heart of America. '

To give evidence of other planned future acts of terrorism would endanger lives
and make it more difficult to apprehend the terrorists, said Mrs Thatcher.

Mrs Thatcher warned: 'In this country we have to be alert to the possibility of
further terrorist attack - so, too, do our British communities abroad. ' She
added: 'Members of the public should therefore be ready to report to the police
anything suspicious which attracts their attention. '

The Prime Minister then recalled the non-military measures taken in the past
four years against Libya, but said that while resolutions and condemnation
issued from the United Nations, the bombings and hijackings were happening and
were still being planned.

She reminded MPs questioning whether military action should be the priority:
'The sad fact is that neither international condemnation nor peaceful pressure
over the years has deterred Libya from promoting and carrying out acts of
terrorism. '

She repeated the explanation she gave on Tuesday for her decision to allow
President Reagan to use UK-based F-111s.

President Reagan had made it clear he needed to use the F-111 aircraft from
British bases. 'There are, I understand, no other F-111s stationed in Europe,'
she said.

'Had we refused permission for the use of those aircraft the US operation would
still have taken place but more lives would probably have been lost both on the
ground and in the air,' she declared to Labour jeers.

'It has been suggested that as a result of further Libyan terrorism the US might
feel constrained to act again. I earnestly hope such a contingency will not
arise. '

Mrs Thatcher went on: 'In my exchanges with the President I reserved the
position of the UK on any question of further action which might be more general
or less clearly directed against terrorism.

'Moreover, it is clearly understood between President Reagan and myself that if
there were any question of using US aircraft based in this country in a further
action, that would be the subject of a new approach to the UK under the joint
consultation arrangements. '

She challenged critics who had argued the attack would only increase Arab unity
and support for Colonel Gadafy. 'In the short term we would expect statements of
support for Libya from other Arab countries, though one is entitled to ask how
profound or durable that support will be.

'But moderate Arab governments, indeed moderate governments everywhere, have
nothing to gain from seeing Colonel Gadafy building up power and influence by
persisting in policies of violence and terror. ' Mrs Thatcher said she would be
meeting King Hussein of Jordan later this week to discuss the matter.

Mr Alan Beith (L Berwick-upon-Tweed) asked the Prime Minister, 'To what extent
do you think that Colonel Gadafy's capacity to mount acts of terrorism has been
reduced by the measures taken by the United States?'

Mrs Thatcher replied; 'I believe both his capacity and the will of the people to
do so has been impaired by the action that has taken place. '

America was 'our greatest ally,' which defended British liberty by stationing
330,000 US troops in Europe. 'She gave us unstinting help when we needed it in
the South Atlantic. The growing threat of international terrorism is not
directed solely at the United States. We in the UK have also long been in the
front line, To overcome the threat is in the vital interest of all countries
founded on freedom and the rule of law.

'Terrorism exploits the natural reluctance of a free society to defend itself in
the last resort with arms. Terrorism thrives on appeasement. '

The Prime Minister went on: 'Of course we shall continue to make every effort to
defeat it by political means, but in this case that was not enough. The time had
come for action. The United States took it. Their decision was justified. As
friends and allies we support them. '

Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour Leader, rose to a barrage of heckling from Tory MPs
and despite several interruptions to his speech managed to recover and rouse the
Labour benches behind his plea for comprehensive economic sanctions rather than
'vengeful military adventures. '

He said the real question was not whether terrorism was evil but what to do
about it. He said he did not believe there was anyone who seriously believed
that the bombing would bring down the curtain on Gadafy's reign of terror. It
was more likely to provoke and expand terrorism.

The consequence had been that the influence of the United States and Britain had
been diminished and there had been statements of condemnation from European and
Commonwealth allies which would have been unthinkable a short time ago.

Britain's policy against terrorism had never employed military force, not
because we had been supine or passive, not because we had cringed before
terrorism.

'We have not struck back with bombers because we know that whilst the first stem
might be easy, all further steps into conflict and all subsequent steps away
from conflict produce impossible difficulties. '

Mr Kinnock said strong commercial and financial sanctions would have particular
effect on Libya. It depended for 80 per cent of its revenues on oil - and all of
Gadafys power did. 'The falling oil prices provided an unprecedented opportunity
for effective action against Gadafy. He will need credits and he should be
denied those credits so that his internal and external power is squeezed to
nothing. '

Mr Kinnock said: 'Gadafy is without doubt a malignancy. No one can seriously
doubt his involvement in sponsoring and financing terrorism throughout the
world.

'But as a consequence of actions by the US in the last few days, Gadafy has a
degree of support even from the moderate Arab states, which have previously
regarded him with unrestrained hostility. ' The influence of Britain and United
States had been diminished by the bombing.

In choosing to follow the military course Mrs Thatcher has proved a 'compliant
accomplice rather than a candid ally' to President Reagan.

'The Prime Minister has not shown solidarity with the US President. She has
shown subservience to the US President. ' The British people knew that terrorism
could not be bombed out of existence. The world cannot be run on the basis of
the instinct for revenge and Mrs Thatcher was wrong to give support to the
calculated reprisals which arose from it.

He said no diplomat, lawyer or analyst upheld her view.

Mr Kinnock urged Mrs Thatcher to 'resume a course of common sense and legality -
that was essential to the isolation of Gadafy. He said it would be difficult to
repair relations on this issue with Britain's European allies particularly
because Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, had agreed on Monday a
communique which urged restraint on all sides when he knew that the Americans
had unleashed the dogs of war.

Mr Kinnock said Mrs Thatcher had not acted in the interests of Britain nor
defended British citizens, but had placed them in great jeopardy wherever
terrorists could take their mad revenge.

Mr David Steel, the Liberal Leader, said Mrs Thatcher had made a severe error of
judgment and the British nation wanted to see a Prime Minister who would
occasionally say no to the occupant of the White House.

He said the last 48 hours would breed more fanaticism and more terrorism
throughout the Middle East and he regretted the casualty of the postponement of
ministerial talks between the USA and the Soviet Union on arms control.

'Far from stopping terrorism, the American action will have boosted terrorism in
Libya and elsewhere.

'It is undeniable that it has taught Colonel Gadafy a lesson, but great nations
do not grow in stature by giving in to acts of revenge and by venting their
frustration. '

He said the Americans were right to complain of the inadequacy of the European
reponse to terrorism and he said they should take fair evidence to the United
Nations and the EEC to get a more united response.

The Truman-Attlee accord which governed the use by the US of British air bases
was outdated and unpublished. Mr Steel said it should be published and updated.

Mr Edward Heath (C. Old Bexley and Sidcup) said Mrs Thatcher had been wrong to
sanction the use of British air bases.

He revealed that during the 1973 Yom Kippur war he had been asked by the
Americans far the use of Cyprus air bases, and Britain had said no. 'That was
done with the reality of British interests in mind, which is what the Prime
Minister and the Cabinet are concerned with. '

'We cannot come to the conclusion that this is going to destroy terrorism, nor
by bombing cities is it the right way to destroy terrorism. It is essential that
we use all our resources, the intelligence services and the forces of law and
order to deal with terrorism. I do not believe that it is justified that the
United States should bomb cities,' said Mr Heath, recalling the civilian
casualties and the children killed in Tripoli.

He said he did not believe that in future Britain should be prepared to say yes
again to the Americans. 'We need to go to the root of the Middle East problem,
which is the Palestinian problem and the relationship between Israel and the
Arab world.

Mr James Callaghan (Lab. Cardiff S and Penarth) told MPs that he would have
refused the American request to use British bases for the Libya assault.

'I do not believe either the long-term interests of the US or anyone else have
been enhanced by what has taken place,' he said.

He backed Mr Kinnock's call for sanctions to isolate Libya. And he condemned
European governments for their 'most inglorious role' in ignoring the 'rising
cry of frustrated outrage from the US' against terrorism.

He urged Mrs Thatcher to take the lead in talks with King Hussein this week and
to galvanise Europe into action on Middle East problems.

But he warned that if President Reagan failed to put his personal authority
behind a Middle East peace settlement 'the most volatile area in the world could
set the rest of the world aflame .. If nothing is going to succeed, then let us
build the air raid shelters now,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 17, 1986

Britain in fresh plea for EEC sanctions / Government commits itself to policy of
'pressure and persuasion' on Libya

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 872 words


The Government committed itself last night to a policy of 'pressure and
persuasion' on Libya starting this morning with another appeal to Britain's
Common Market partners to join in sanctions against the Gadafy regime.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, left for Paris soon after responding
in the Commons to an angry Opposition and still-anxious Conservatives with a
defence of the US raids in Tripoli and Benghazi and Britain's support for them
but with a commitment to more peaceful means of 'choking' the Libyan terrorism.


He will meet Common Market ministers this morning to persuade them to take tough
action against Libya.

Earlier, the Prime Minister appeared to have stifled most of the Conservative
dissent with an aggressive defence of her stance, but was still facing strong
private criticism.

A few Tories abstained after the special Commons debate on Libya and others were
expressing private concern about British support for President Reagan. The
doubters included some ministers.

Sir Geoffrey, replying to a 6 1/2 hour debate, sought to answer the critics of
the authorisation for the use of British bases for the attack by stressing it
had included strict conditions - limiting the strike by F-111 bombers to
military targets.

The measures for which Sir Geoffrey would press included closure of all Libyan
People's Bureaux across Europe, though he admitted that he did not expect
European agreement.

But he said the Government wanted restrictions on exports to Libya, on the
movement of Libyan government personnel, and strict monitoring of all Libyan
activities.

Of the People's Bureaux he said: 'They are the very centres of state-directed
terrorism. '

Sir Geoffrey's emphasis, unlike the Prime Minister's was on the diplomatic and
economic pressure which could be applied - with the implication that it would be
more effective in the wake of the US attack.

During the debate some of Mrs Thatcher's old adversaries - including Mr Edward
Heath and Sir Ian Gilmour, who both abstained had joined in doubting the choice
of a military strike as the best response to Libyan terrorism.

Tory concern had been sharpened by a Harris poll conducted for ITN showing that
68 per cent of those questioned were unhappy about the use of British bases.

Responding to an effervescent assault from Mr Denis Healey, the shadow foreign
secretary, Sir Geoffrey denied that he had deliberately concealed knowledge of
the forthcoming attack from his European partners on Monday.

He did not know it had been launched until he returned to London to meet the
Prime Minister. By that time the strike was under way.

Following the Prime Minister. Mr Kinnock, the Labour leader, made his most
effective speech for some time.

He agreed with the Prime Minister that Colonel Gadafy sponsored and financed
terrorism across the world, but said the Government was culpable because it had
supported an armed attack which would not be effective in its aim.

Mr Kinnock said everyone was familiar with the instinct of revenge, but it could
not be the basis for running the world. 'We know that an international strategy
cannot be built on such instincts, and much as we may comprehend the sense of
outrage we cannot support the calculated reprisals which arise from it,' he
said.

It was foolish to start on something which could not be finished, and Mrs
Thatcher should have been a candid ally of the President rather than 'a
compliant accomplice,' Mr Kinnock said.

Mrs Thatcher had stressed in her speech the incontrovertible evidence of past
Libyan sponsorship of terrorist acts, and what she said was clear evidence of
future plans.

She gave evidence of some successful and foiled terrorist attacks organised from
Tripoli, and said she could give no further details because of the need to
preserve security. But her message was clear: that the scale of Libyan terrorist
involvement justified military action.

The consequences had been pondered deeply, and guarantees had been given by
Washington that only clearly defined targets would be attacked and other damage
would be minimised, Mrs Thatcher said.

In the short term, she admitted, Libya would find support from other Arab
countries, but claimed that there was no alternative to 'firm and decisive
action' to make those who practised terrorism think again.

Mr Heath, however, was unconvinced. 'I do not believe bombing cities is the
right way to attempt to destroy terrorism,' he said. Mr David Steel, the Liberal
leader, argued that the Government had made a severe error of judgment, and that
the British people, who had a broader view of the country's world interests than
Mrs Thatcher, would agree.

Mrs Thatcher appeared afterwards to have stopped any embarrassing outpouring of
criticism from her own supporters with her attack on Libya, but the view among
senior figures on all sides was that the pressure is now strongly on the
Government to refuse any new request for the use of bases for another attack.

Police detained a man after two stink bombs were thrown from the public gallery
of the Commons on to the floor of the chamber during the debate, despite
tightened security at Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 17, 1986

America warns it will strike again / Aftermath of US air raids on Libya

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The White House warned last night of further 'pre-emptive' strikes against
Libyan-sponsored terrorism in response to the attacks on a US diplomat in
Khartoum and a US coastguard station near Malta, which has now been evacuated.
'Our goal is to cripple their terrorist capability,' a senior official said.

The latest American threats of a military response came amid efforts by
President Reagan and US officials to smooth the ructions in the Atlantic
Alliance, and strong indications that the US was not at all disturbed by the
turn of events in Libya itself, where it said there were reports of fighting on
the streets.


The US denies that its attacks were directed at Colonel Gadafy and his family
personally, although the Secretary of State, Mr George Shultz argued that
civilians around terrorist bases 'were either not civilians, or shouldn't be
there. ' State Department officials did however, express regret at the loss of
life of innocents.

President Reagan yesterday went out of his way to praise Mrs Thatcher's
Government for its support, stressing the 'common heritage and history' which
bound the United States and Britain together.

The President also gave the West German foreign minister, Dr Hans Dietrich
Genscher, the red carpet treatment at the White House, despite the lukewarm West
German support for the US bombing raids.

Dr Genscher offered the US assistance in its diplomatic battle against
terrorism. saying that 'there might be opportunities for enlisting more support
from East European states. '

The main resentment here appears to be directed against France, which sent US
aircraft carrying heavy loads of bombs on a long and dangerous detour. It was
revealed last night that several of the British-based US F-111s were forced to
abort their mission because of mechanical problems.

It was stated for the first time that the lost F-111 fighter-bomber may have
been hit by anti-aircraft fire before crashing into the Gulf of Sidra, killing
both members of its crew. 'My best judgment is that the crew was killed in the
crash,' said the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral William Crowe. The
Pentagon said the crippled plane may have dropped its 2,000lb bomb on civilians
before it exploded into a fireball and crashed into the Mediterranean.

Despite claiming the air raid as a success, the Americans conceded yesterday
that Libya still retained its terrorist capability, however impaired it may be.
Correspondents at the White House were told that the Khartoum attack, in which a
US diplomat was shot in the head, was part of a pattern and that intelligence
reports showed there were some 30-35 US diplomatic missions which have been
selected for future attacks.

The US said that it has not conducted any air attacks since its Monday night
raid, but is continuing to fly reconnaissance flights over Libyan territory.

A suggestion that the anti-aircraft fire from Tripoli may be due to attempts to
shoot down US surveillance planes was discounted.

President Reagan was still awaiting a full report on the bombing damage to
Libyan targets. Heavy cloud cover over Tripoli meant that satellite pictures
received on Tuesday were not good enough for a detailed assessment. However, the
US acknowledged that the French Embassy had been hit in the onslaught.

The White House spoke of unconfirmed reports yesterday that elite members of
Colonel Gadafy's revolutionary guard were engaged in a shooting war with army
units.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 1986, Thursday

Parliament: US action more likely to provoke terrorism / Labour leader Kinnock
comments on British backed US raid on Libya (951) /SCT

LENGTH: 1063 words


Mr Neil Kinnock, Leader of the Opposition, said the House was united in the view
that terrorism was evil and cowardly in any cause. It was not a question of who
loathed terrorism most but of what should be done about it. It was this
benchmark against which the American actions must be judged.

They must judge Mr Reagan and the Prime Minister on the effectiveness of the
action they had jointly taken. Mr Reagan had said the purpose was to bring down
the curtain on Gadaffi's reign of terror.

I do not believe (Mr Kinnock said) there is anyone who can seriously believe
that that objective has been or will be achieved by violence. The use of such
force does not punish terrorism. It will not prevent terrorism. Indeed, it is
much more likely to provoke and expand terrorism.

There was some Conservative laughter when Mr Kinnock cautioned those who allowed
their judgement to turn solely on the evidence made available to the Prime
Minister and others.

Nobody needed convincing, he continued, about the criminality of Gadaffi and
those who put their whole weight of judgement on the evidence of a particular
series of atrocities and planned atrocities were in danger of falling into the
trap of saying that the response to evidence must be bombing raids. That was to
say that international law could be put aside.

The response was the opposite of what President Reagan intended. Gadaffi was
without doubt a malignancy. No one could seriously doubt his involvement in
sponsoring and financing terrorism throughout the world. But as a consequence of
the action of the United States in the last few days, Gadaffi had a degree of
support even from moderate Arab states which had previously regarded him with
unrestrained hostility.

By the same means and for the same reasons the influence of the United States
and Great Britain had been diminished. From European and Commonwealth allies had
been heard statements of condemnation which would have been unthinkable a short
time ago.

British policy had always been to stop short of responding to terrorism with the
might of armed force, with the might of the American attack on Monday night. It
was not because Britain was supine, passive or because it cringed before
terrorism. It was certainly not because Britain had not been provoked.

Britain had not struck back with bombs because while the first step might be
relatively easy, all further steps into conflict and all consequent steps
backward from conflict produced impossible difficulties.

That policy of rationality and restraint was the right policy. Now it could and
should be strengthened, especially in the case of Libya, which was known to be a
haven for terrorists. There should be strong commercial and financial sanctions.
There was now an unprecedented opportunity of making this effective against
Colonel Gadaffi.

The way was now made much more difficult by a decision of the Prime Minister
within the last week to be a compliant accomplice rather than a candid ally of
the President of the United States. She had not shown solidarity with Britain's
ally. She had shown subservience to the United States President.

She was wrong to give in to United States pressure on this occasion. She was
wrong to believe that the F111s were necessary for the operation or capable of
reducing the casualities. She was wrong to depart from the commonsense and
legality of British policy against terrorism. She was wrong to neglect the
impact of this action and her complicity in it on opinion in the moderate Arab
states. She was wrong to disregard the reservations of Britain's European
allies.

Everyone understood the frustration of and resentment of the American President
and people at terrorist attacks. Every one of us is completely familiar with the
instinct of revenge. But we know too that the world cannot be run on the basis
of that instinct.

The Prime Minister had been wrong to give support to the action of reprisal
which arose from the sense of rage and outrage of the American President. That
was not merely the view of the Opposition; it was the view of international law.
She had given her interpretation of international law as self-defence.

We have listened but we are not convinced (he said). We can say that however
much the Prime Minister believed in her interpretation, she could find no
recognized authority outside the immediate ranks of her own party to support her
view.

There were those who said the international law had evolved in a different age
and that it must now be stretched to deal with it. He counselled against that,
not from any reluctance to act against terrorism, but because of the
impractability of hitting back at terrorism with military force and because of
the inhumanity resulting from the killing and maiming of innocent neighbours of
terrorists.

Where were the terrorists? They were hidden away in farms and tenements of
Ireland and Beirut, the Punjab and even in the quiet suburbs of European cities.

If we are to set our hand to a strategy of reprisals (he said) it will provoke
not prevent terrorism. And any pause in that strategy would be seen as
irresolution or weakness and that would then encourage them to further
atrocities.

That strategy led to a trap; either doing too much or never doing enough. It
would not be a strategy; it would be a snare.

He urged the Prime Minister to resume the course of commonsense and legality.
There was only one effective policy for her to pursue, that was to return to
their European allies and partners and urge them to adopt comprehensive
sanctions that were the only way to isolate Col Gadaffi.

She could still repair the damage she had caused and if she pursued a course of
securing combined and coordinated sanactions, she would have the support of the
Opposition.

It was an essential change because she had not been strong; she had been supine
in her support of President Reagan. She had not acted in the interests of
Britain; she had isolated it from allies and from moderate leaders in the Middle
East.

She had also damaged the long-standing, wise anti-terrorist policy; she had not
defended British citizens, she had placed them in great jeopardy.

That is why (he said) her policy has been and will be rejected by the British
people. They know she could have neither justice nor success on her side.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 1986, Thursday

Public opinion against Reagan / Britain's view on US raid on Libya (916) /SCT

BYLINE: DAVID WALKER, A clear majority of the British people

LENGTH: 970 words


66 per cent - disapprove of President Reagan's decision to bomb Libya. Nearly
two thirds have little or no confidence in American handling of events.

A MORI poll carried out for The Times late on Tuesday and early yesterday showed
that both Mr Reagan and Mrs Thatcher have the support only of minorities.

In one of the first rigorous tests of public opinion since the American action,
71 per cent judged Mrs Thatcher's decision to allow the use of British bases by
the Americans to be wrong. Only 29 per cent thought the Americans right to order
strikes against Libya and only 25 per cent approved of Mrs Thatcher's backing.

Confidence in American handling of likely fallout from the action is low. The
practical results of the attack are in doubt, too.

More than eight out of 10 people believe that the likelihood of Libyan-backed
terrorist attacks in Britain has increased. Only a tiny handful - 4 per cent -
think terrorist outrages are now less likely.

The entire basis of the American action appears to be rejected by the majority.

MORI's figures seem to show widespread support instead for what had emerged by
last weekend as the European options for dealing with Libya, a concerted package
of economic sanctions.

Well over half of the sample - 57 per cent - thought Britain should take
economic sanctions against Libya and exactly the same proportion favoured a
British effort to encourage other European countries to withdraw diplomatic
recognition.

Only 13 per cent wanted any further use of British bases by American warplanes.

Sizeable numbers of people would back direct action against Libya by Britain,
but would prefer blockades by air and sea to the use of British forces.

MORI found that roughly equal numbers, about 28 per cent, favoured military
blockade. Only 5 per cent would support the use of British planes attacking
Libya.

Reaction against the Americans appears to have spilled over into a loss of
reputation and support for Mrs Thatcher.

Compared with MORI's most recent study of voting intentions and satisfaction
with political leaders, Mrs Thatcher has lost rather more than the Conservative
Party, and both Mr Neil Kinnock and the Labour Party have clearly gained.

In late March Mrs Thatcher dissatisfied 61 per cent of people. Now that figure
is 68 per cent. Mr Kinnock by comparison dissatisfies fewer and his approval
rating has increased from 32 per cent to 45 per cent.

The fortunes of the Conservative Party do not seem to have suffered.

Labour's approval rate has increased, but the Alliance seems to have suffered,
probably from the effects of its third place in the Fulham by-election.

The questions and responses were as follows.

Do you think President Reagan was right or wrong to order the bombing of Libya
on Tuesday night in reaction to Libya's support given to terrorists?

Right 29 Wrong 66 No opinion 5

Do you think that Mrs Thatcher was right or wrong to give President Reagan
permission for American bombers to fly from British bases to participate in the
attack on Libya?

Right 25 Wrong 71

No opinion 4

What actions, if any, do you think the British Government should take against
Libya to counteract Libyan support for terrorism?

-Economic sanctions 57 -Blockade of Libyan ports 27 -Air blockade of Libyan
airfields 28 -Encourage other European countries to withdraw diplomatic
recognition of Libya 57 -Allow further use of British bases for US warplanes to
attack Libyan targets 13 -Use British airplanes to attack Libyan targets 5 None
of these 8 Don't know 7

Do you think the bombing of Libya will increase the likelihood of terrorist
-backed attacks of Libya in Britain, decrease the likelihood or make no
difference?

Increase 84 Decrease 4 No difference 12

Finally, how much confidence do you have in the American Government to deal
wisely with the Libyan situation over the next few weeks. Have you?

A great deal of confidence 8 A fair amount of confidence 18 A little confidence
28 or No confidence at all 43 No opinion 3

Ironically, a parallel poll of American opinion to be published today in the New
York Times shows that Mrs Thatcher has not received a great deal of credit on
the other side of the Atlantic.

The CBS-New York Times poll finds that while 45 per cent of Americans thought
British permission to use the bases was the act of an especially good ally, 34
per cent seemed to dismiss the British decision as one simply in the country's
own best interests.

A large number of Americans - 65 per cent - thought the United States' European
allies should have given more help.

Curiously, though, a quite high proportion thought the French refusal to allow
American planes to fly through national air space to be 'understandable'.
Forty-seven per cent thought the French were being 'poor allies'.

Meanwhile, President Reagan's standing among Americans has shot up.
Seventy-seven per cent approved of the bombing and 76 per cent approve generally
of his handling of foreign policy. This last figure contracts with 51 per cent
registered a week ago.

However, even the bullish Americans seem sceptical about whether the bombing
will result in less terrorism. Thirty per cent said the attack would reduce
terrorism while 43 per cent thought an increase was likely.

A Harris poll commissioned by ITN has showed that 59 per cent disapproved of Mr
Reagan's decision, with 32 per cent in favour. Sixty-eight per cent were against
the Government's decision to allow American planes based in Britain to take part
in the attacks, while 28 per cent approved. But the Harris poll did find that 57
per cent of people did believe both government's claim to have absolute proof of
Libya's involvement in planned terrorist attacks, against 23 per cent who did
not.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 1986, Thursday

Parliament: Action will breed fanaticism / Liberal Party leader Steel condemns
Britain's support of US raids on Libya (487) /SCT

LENGTH: 516 words


Mr David Steel, Leader of the Liberal Party, said no one would doubt the
decision taken by the Prime Minister had been difficult but it had been wrong.

The easiest way of coming to that conclusion was to draw up a balance sheet of
gains and losses incurred as a result of the action taken.

The first loss was that a great many people had, unhappily, been killed and it
had been wrong for the Prime Minister to assume that all the terrorist acts had
been inspired by Libya when many acts came from other countries.

Secondly, Britain was now exposed to further terrorist attacks both on its
citizens in Libya and in this country. The Prime Minister appeared to
misunderstand the nature of terrorism. To have a terrorist, there first had to
be a fanatic. To breed terrorism they had to breed fanaticism.

My great fear (he said) is that this action will breed such fanaticism not just
in Libya but throughout the Middle East.

Also on the debit side, Britain had angered her allies. Not one other member of
the European Community supported Britain's view, and some were rather more close
to the situation.

The action had also resulted in the postponement of the American-Soviet peace
talks and had also boosted the standing of Gadaffi both internally and
externally in the Middle East.

Mr Cranley Onslow (Working, C) said Libyan exiles in this country protested
against the public hanging by the Gadaffi regime of a 14-year-old boy.

We were targets (he continued) because people in our country, exercising the
freedoms that we cherish, dared to protest against that atrocity.

As the facts became more clear, public support for the Prime Minister would
become steadily stronger.

Mr Kenneth Weetch (Ipswich, Lab) said the important question which should be
before the House was to make a sober appraisal of the consequences for British
foreign policy of this military adventurism. The major foreign policy objective
in this area was to prevent instability in a very critical part of the world.

We also have (he went on) as a major aim in foreign affairs to keep oil flowing
from the Gulf and to try and minimize the penetration of Soviet influence
throughout the Middle East.

The net result on those policies of developments in the past 24 hours had been
detrimental. At one stroke Gadaffi had been strengthened throughout the Arab
world.

Sir Patrick Wall (Beverley, C) said if Gadaffi was no longer there, President
Reagan and Mrs Thatcher would have been fully justified and Mr Kinnock and Mr
Steel would look rather stupid.

Mr Peter Temple-Morris (Leominster, C) said the American action was wrong,
indiscriminate and an ineffective use of force. The need was to isolate Libya.
Europe should act in a concerted way.

Mr Ronald Brown (Edinburgh, Leith, Lab) said Gadaffi was no ogre and did not
remain in office for 17 years as an inspiration of revolution if he was
unpopular.

He was not as bad as he had been painted. Neither should he be judged by western
standards but by the standards of the Middle East. Gadaffi was very pro-British.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 1986, Thursday

Parliament: Terrorism cannot be tolerated or sidestepped - Thatcher / Premier
defends British support of US raid on Libya (1227) /SCT

LENGTH: 1378 words


The United States informed the Soviet Union that limited military action was
being taken which was in no way directed against the USSR, Mrs Margaret
Thatcher, the Prime Minister, said in opening the Commons debate on the air
attacks upon Libya. She dismissed the postponement by the Russians of the
meeting planned for next month between the Soviet foreign minister and the US
Secretary of State as a ritual gesture.

If the Soviet Union is really interested in arms control (she went on) it will
resume senior ministerial contacts before long.

When the Government decided to support American military action taken in
self-defence against terrorist targets in Libya, it was aware of the wider
issues and people's fears, she said. Terrorism attacked free societies and
played on those fears. If those tactics succeeded terrorism sapped the will of
free peoples to resist.

Terrorism (she continued) has to be defeated. It cannot be tolerated or
side-stepped. When other ways and methods have failed - I am the first to wish
they had succeeded - it is right that the terrorist should know that firm steps
will be taken to deter him from attacking either other people or his own people
who have taken refuge in countries which are free.

US action was conducted against five specific targets directly connected with
terrorism. It would be for the US Government to publish its assessment of the
results.

The casualties were a matter of great sorrow. Also remembered with sadness were
all those men, women and children who had lost their lives as a result of
terrorism.

The Government had no reports of British casualties. The telephone lines to
Libya were open and people in the United Kingdom had been able to contact
relatives there.

In Britain it was necessary to be alert to the possibility of further terrorist
attacks and so should British communities abroad. It was a terrorist tactic not
just to choose obvious targets. The public should be ready to report to the
police anything suspicious which attracted their attention.

It was pretty certain that some of the routine denunciations of the American
action concealed a rather different view in reality.

MPs had asked about the evidence that the Libyan Government was involved in
terrorist attacks against the US and other western countries. Much of this
derived from secret intelligence.

It was necessary to be extremely careful about publishing detailed material of
this kind. To do so could jeopardize sources on which Britain continued to rely
for vital information. But the Government was satisfied from the evidence that
Libya bore a wide and heavy responsibility for acts of terrorism.

For example, there was evidence showing that on March 25, a week before the
recent Berlin bombing, instructions were sent from Tripoli to the Libyan
People's Bureau in East Berlin to conduct a terrorist attack on the Americans.
On April 4 the bureau alerted Tripoli that the attack woulds be carried out the
following morning and on April 5 it reported to Tripoli that the operation had
been carried out successfully.

The bomb which killed two people and injured 230 exploded in the early hours of
that same morning.

It was beyond doubt that Libya provided the Provisional IRA with many of their
weapons. The major find of arms at Sligo, in the Irish Republic, on January 26,
the largest ever on the island, included rifles and ammunition from Libya.

On April 6 an attempt to attack the US Embassy in Beirut, known to have been
undertaken on Libyan Government instructions, failed when the rocket exploded on
launch.

It was equally clear that Libya was planning yet more attacks. The Americans had
evidence that US citizens were being followed and American embassies watched by
Libyan intelligence agents in a number of countries spread across the world.

There is (she said) other specific evidence of Libyan involvement in past acts
of terrorism and in plans for future acts of terrorism, but I cannot give
details because they would endanger lives and make it more difficult to
apprehend the terrorists.

Yesterday many MPs referred to the need to give priority to measures other than
military. The sad fact was that neither international condemnation nor peaceful
pressure over the years had deterred Libya from promoting and carrying out acts
of terrorism.

It was against this remorseless background of terrorist atrocities and
restrained peaceful response that the case for military action under the
inherent right of self-defence to deter planned Libyan terrorist attacks against
American targets was raised.

President Reagan (she said) informed me last week that the US intended to take
such action. He sought our support under the consultation arrangements which
have continued under successive governments for over 30 years. He also sought
our agreement to the use of US aircraft based in this country. Our agreement was
necessary.

In the exchanges which followed she raised a number of questions and concerns.
There were risks in what was proposed. Many of them had been raised in the House
and elsewhere since the action took place. She pondered them closely with the
ministers most closely concerned. Decisions like this were never easy.

We also had to consider (she said) the wider implications, including our
relations with other countries, and we had to weigh the importance for our
security of our alliance with the United States and the American role in the
defence of Europe.

After repeating the President's assurance that the operation would be limited to
clearly defined targets related to terrorism, Mrs Thatcher told MPs she
understood there were no other F111 aircraft stationed in Europe and that had
Britain refused permission for the use of these aircraft, the American operation
would still have taken place but more lives would probably have been lost on the
ground and in the air.

It had been suggested that as a result of further Libyan terrorism, the United
States might feel constrained to act again.

I earnestly hope that such a contingency will not arise (she said) but in my
exchanges with the President, I reserved the position of the United Kingdom on
any question of further action which might be more general or less clearly
directed against terrorism.

Moreover it is clearly understood between President Reagan and myself that if
there was any question of using US aircraft based in this country in a further
action, that would be the subject of a new approach to the United Kingdom under
the joint consultation arrangements.

Some MPs had questioned whether the US action would be effective in stopping
terrorism or, instead, quicken the cycle of violence in the Middle East. But the
violence had already taken a great many lives since it started long ago.

It has not been so much a cycle of violence (she said) but a one-sided campaign
of killing and maiming by ruthless terrorists, many with close connections with
Libya. The response of the countries whose citizens have been attacked has not
so far stopped that campaign. Indeed, one has to ask whether it has not been the
failure to act in self-defence which has encouraged state-sponsored terrorism.

Firm and decisive action may make those who continue to practise terrorism as a
policy think again.

It had been suggested that the action would only build up Colonel Gadaffi's
prestige and support in the Arab world. In the short-term one must expect
statements of support for him from other Arab countries, but she wondered how
profound or durable that support would be.

But moderate Arab governments, moderate governments everywhere, have nothing to
gain (she said) from seeing Colonel Gadaffi build up power and influence by
persisting in policies of violence and terror.

She wished to emphasize the important point that the peaceful settlement of the
Arab-Israeli question remained policy.

And we shall continue to seek ways forward (she added) with moderate Arab
governments.

She would be seeing King Husain later this week to discuss this very matter.

The growing threat of international terrorism was not directed at the US solely,
and Britain had long been in the front line. Terrorism thrived on appeasement.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 1986

A wing and a prayer / Focus on security at London's Heathrow airport following
the El Al plane bombing attempt

BYLINE: By GRETH PARRY

LENGTH: 906 words


Had airline security officers at Heathrow not spotted the soft holdall-type bag
at the El Al check-in desk at Terminal One yesterday at least 400 people on
board El Al flight LY016 to Tel Aviv would have perished. Security sources
suggested yesterday that among them would have been the terrorist bombers
willing to die to avenge the Gadafy regime.

Such a scenario had already been given a 'Class Three' - top priority target -
rating by intelligence forces bracing themselves for the expected reaction in
Britain to the American air raid on Tripoli earlier this week.


Security at Heathrow Airport had been high since March 25, when Colonel Gadafy
threatened to strike at American targets round the Mediterranean 'and beyond' in
retaliation for the US Navy's assault on Libyan forces in the Gulf of Sirte.

Although intelligence and security sources had predicted that pro-Gadafy
reaction would be little more than 'brick throwing' incidents, the lack of
activity in Britain in the three days following the Tripoli raids was considered
ominous.

It indicated that the Libyan 'hot heads' usually drawn from the student
community, who had in the past broken the windows of airline offices and so on,
were no longer around. They had probably all been expelled from Britain after
the purge in the wake of the Libyan Embassy siege and murder of WPC Yvonne
Fletcher in April 1984.

For the security services the threat had suddenly polarised to one involving a
determined and professional terrorist. That message was passed to Mrs Thatcher
who followed advice to put the whole of the country on alert against a possible
terrorist attack. It was the first time the Prime Minister had been forced to
issue such a warning.

The primary threat was from any so-called suicide squad. In security terms these
are considered almost unstoppable.

A special police intelligence unit based at Heathrow had recommended increased
vigilance against the Libyans following the bombings at Rome and Vienna airports
late last year, the first public sign of this came in January with the
appearance of armed police officers, carrying Heckler and Koch sub-machine
carbines, which, even converted to single-shot mode, are capable of firing 400
rounds a minute.

Flights from Heathrow by EI Al and those going to Ireland are always subjected
to far greater security checks than others. Earlier this year, the EI Al
check-in was transferred from the Inter-continental Terminal Three to Terminal
One, where monitoring of passengers and their luggage could be more strictly
controlled.

El Al staff often intervene as passengers check in their baggage to ask
apparently innocent questions about their trip in the hope of detecting any
hesitancy, signs of nervousness or weakness in a potential terrorist's cover
story. All luggage is X-rayed, and passengers are body searched as opposed to
passing through metal detection machines as in other airlines check-in
procedures.

Heathrow's security record over 20 years has been excellent. There have been
only two explosions. The first was in May 1974 when three people were injured in
the blast from a car bomb in one of the numerous vehicle parks. The other was in
April 1984, when a suitcase bomb exploded on a baggage re-claim turnstile in
Terminal Two. Twenty-two people were taken to hospital and police sources blamed
Libyan extremists.

In August, 1978, Arab terrorists attacked a coach carrying El Al air crew from
the airport to the Europa Hotel in central London. They machine-gunned the bus
and threw grenades. Israeli security men on board returned fire. A stewardess
and one terrorist died, and nine others were injured.

Special Branch and Anti-terrorist Squad detectives are now watching all airports
and ports and have also tracked the movements of known Libyan students and
possible Gadafy supporters. Most of these are under regular surveillance but it
is impossible to keep continuous watch on the 3,000 or so living and studying in
Britain.

The Offices of Population Censuses and Surveys, using the latest census in 1981
as a base, estimate that there are 5,000 Libyan nationals living in Britain. The
number of Libyans admitted in 1984, just before the Libyan Embassy siege in
London was 6,020. This fell to 1,300 in the first half of last year.

Government buildings are now on 'Amber Alert' - the penultimate state of
precaution - and queues build up at the entrances to military bases around
Britain as increased security measures take effect.

At Heathrow airport, particular emphasis is being placed on the aircraft and
passengers of the American carriers, TWA and PanAm. It is believed that the
police and British Airports Authority fear that Heathrow, which handles more
American scheduled flights than any other in Europe, plus a whole string of
flights from the Middle East, could be in the front line of a Gadafy reprisal.
Police sources have discounted suggestions that Libya could receive support in
Britain from the IRA.

The three Libyan pilots training at an airfield only seven miles from the United
States Air Force base at Upper Heyford, were grounded again yesterday. Last
month, in a telephone call to Tripoli, one of the Libyans had offered himself as
a Kamikaze 'suicide pilot. ' Around a hundred other Arabs, all student-pilots at
the Oxford Air Training school, were given restricted air-space, and precluded
from solo-flying.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 1986

Leading Article: The scatter and pattern of violence / Combatting international
terrorism

LENGTH: 753 words


The likelihood always, in the aftermath of Tripoli, was that it would be a
brutish, nasty and frightening time. Mr Reagan said as much openly. Mrs
Thatcher, heightening security, implicitly echoed that judgment. No one can say
for sure whether yesterday's scatter of violence - three British bodies on the
hills above Beirut, another journalist seemingly kidnapped, a rocket attack on
the British Ambassador's deserted residence, a defused bomb at Heathrow, and a
handful of incidents directed at America, and American installations - makes
that predicted pattern or not. In the faction ridden anarchy that is Lebanon
much of it might just pass for a normal day's carnage. But we expect a pattern:
there is no point in pretending otherwise, for the State Department expects it
too.

As that pattern becomes clearer, there will be a temptation for many who view
the bombing of Libya with repugnance to argue narrow cause and effect. If
President Reagan had held his hand, if Mrs Thatcher had denied him the use of
the bases, then (for instance, in sad probability) Mr ALec Collett, Mr Philip
Padfield and Mr Leigh Douglas might have been live captives today. The argument,
so narrowly couched, should be resisted, for it risks piling heedless and too
specific guilt on politicians who are as human as the rest of us. Men Egyptian
commandos storm a hijacked jet at Valletta airport, and many die, one may blame
the tactics or the techniques if one must: but holding Hosni Mubarak
responsible, even in such a defined incident, goes beyond the bounds of
commonsense or decency. How much more difficult, then, is it to take a
collection of incidents around the world, and around the Middle East, and turn
them into a case for the prosecution?


But there is a broader argument and it needs to be put. One cannot say how days
and weeks of perhaps random, perhaps orchestrated violence will leave public
opinion in Britain and the United States. The natural tendency here, as the
threat to British lives becomes manifest, will be some rallying behind the Prime
Minister and her denunciations of international terrorism the two-thirds of the
land who, on first polls, reject the American bombing, and British co-operation
in it, may fracture. In America, because the burden of opinion is entirely
different, the apparent failure of a simplistic solution may conversely produce
second thoughts, and doubt and criticism. None the less, the over-riding
argument remains. If terrorism around the globe were some co-ordinated, cohesive
force, it might be ended by a single strike to its heart. But it is not so
cohesive. Look first at its most fertile and desperate breeding ground, the
Lebanon, where so much of yesterday's horror was unveiled. If there were
cohesion there - any cohesion - then Lebanon would be a nation State which could
pull itself from the abyss of disaster. But the Lebanon is a world of competing
cliques and gangs and militias. One set of murderers will, as easily, turn their
guns on another if there is no common enemy in sight. Press some emotional
trigger - like the bombing of Tripoli - and there is spontaneous combustion.
Hostages held for months die: rockets explode: more men are kidnapped. That is
predictable reality.

When Mr Reagan ordered the bombing of Tripoli he knew that reality well. He also
knew the horrors of the Lebanon, the memories of his marine fiasco there surely
still etched on his memory. He went ahead. Mrs Thatcher, too, must have spared a
thought for the British hostages and many others. She went ahead. Many people
have views on that enterprise, and no view can be final until the last act of a
stretching drama has been played. But there was, and is, a cost in blood, and in
the sacrifice of individual life at the hands of many enemies untouched by any
rockets that can be aimed at a bunker in Tripoli. States do not like the
perception of costs in blood. They censor photographs from the Falklands. They
ask Congress to fund the Contras so that no GI shall be involved. They bomb from
a great height - aware that too many direct casualties may affect the public
support they as politicians hold dear. But in this 'war,' which is not a war,
against an enemy of many creeds and many wild beliefs around the world, the
casualties are ordinary men and women going about their business. One may,
however indirectly, sacrifice them if there is no other way. But they are real
sacrifices, to be accounted as they mount, and not some dislocated sideshow.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 1986

The Day in Politics: Hostage position was considered before strike / Reported
killing of three British hostages in Beirut after US attack on Libya

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 781 words


The Government took account of the position of the three British hostages in
Beirut before the decision to allow the Americans to launch their air strike on
Libya from British bases was taken, a minister told the Commons yesterday.

Amidst Labour cries of 'You thought them expendable,' Mr Timothy Renton, the
Foreign Office Minister, told MP's, 'If we had allowed our hands to be tied, and
not taken action of the sort we deemed right because of possible reprisals, this
would have been giving in to terrorist criminals. '


Mr Renton confirmed that the Foreign Office had been conducting negotiations
with the Syrians for the release of the three murdered hostages and he refused
to accede to Conservative requests for an evacuation of the remaining British
citizens in Beirut. He said there was a regular ferry service that could be used
if it was too dangerous to go to the airport.

Mr Renton reported on events in the Lebanon saying that the British ambassador,
Mr John Gray, had reported that three bodies were found near Beirut earlier
yesterday and they were urgently seeking official confirmation of the bodies'
identities.

'Pinned to one of the bodies was a notice claiming that they had been executed
as 'CIA spies' by an organisation calling itself the Arab Fedayeen. ' Mr Renton
recalled the kidnapping of British journalist, Mr Alec Collett, a British
employee of UNRWA, in March last year and the kidnapping of Mr Leigh Douglas and
Mr Philip Padfield last month and Mr Brian Keenan, of dual British-Irish
nationality, on April 11. He expressed sympathy to the relatives of the
kidnapped victims.

The ambassador had also reported that another British citizen had been kidnapped
yesterday in West Beirut on his way to the airport. The Government has asked the
ambassador for his further advice on staffing the British embassy and the safety
of the remaining British community.

Mr Renton also reported on a rocket attack on the ambassador's unoccupied
residence in West Beirut yesterday morning in which there were no casualties.
British citizens have again been warned of the risks of remaining in West
Beirut.

Mr Donald Anderson, a Labour foreign affairs spokesman, said the three hostages
were the first tragic victims of the Prime Minister's total and isolated support
for President Reagan. They confirmed Labour's prediction that 'we in Britain
will now be in the front line of terrorist outrages. '

He said that Mr Renton had confirmed that the negotiations were under way with
the Syrian Government about the release of the British hostages. 'They were
totally undermined by that invasion and our Government abandoned those citizens
to their fate. '

Mr Tam Dalyell (Lab, Linlithgow) said that senior officials at the Foreign
Office had advised their ministers that if there was a military attack on Libya
reprisals against the hostages in Beirut must be expected.

'Was that advice then passed on by ministers to Downing Street? Isn't it a case
of Downing Street thinking it knows better than everybody else?'

Mr Renton said it wasn't necessary for officials to warn ministers about the
position of hostages.

'When the decision was taken to support the United States in its measured attack
on terrorist targets in Libya the implications for our hostages was one of the
matters very carefully taken into account. '

For the Liberals, Mr Jim Wallace told Mr Renton: 'By standing alone in Europe by
supporting, aiding and abetting American military action you have made British
citizens and British subjects more vulnerable to retaliatory attacks - the first
victims of which you have mentioned in your statement today. '

Mr Renton said the events of the last few hours showed the 'clear need for
international action against international terrorism. '

Mr Renton declared: 'I have no doubt that despite these tragic events, on this
side of the House we will be convinced that there should be no compromise or no
trading with terrorists. '

Mr Ron Leighton (Newham NE) said that 'by acting as an American puppet,' the
Government had placed the lives of countless British citizens in danger. 'The
responsibility for their blood is now on its hands,' he charged.

Mr Renton retorted angrily: 'I find your comments cheap, unpleasant and
time-serving. ' The price for resisting terrorism was 'never cheap. ' 'We never
thought, and no intelligent person should think, that it will be. '

To Tory cheers, Mr Renton added: 'You cannot combat terrorism by side-stepping
it. If you do try that way, then in the end the eventual price is likely to be
greater than if you had resisted the terrorism in the beginning. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 1986

Kinnock renews pledge to expel US atom bases / Labour leader promises removal of
American nuclear bases from Britain

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 391 words


Mr Neil Kinnock said last night that an incoming Labour government expected to
negotiate removal of US nuclear bases within about a month of gaining office.

He told journalists in Westminster that the experience of the Libyan crisis
neither added to nor detracted from Labour's proposition 'to seek the withdrawal
of the nuclear bases of the US Air Force and US Navy. '


'That will remain,' Mr Kinnock said. He argued that there was no need to
renegotiate the British Government's controls on the American's use of their
non-nuclear bases.

The evidence of the former prime minister, Mr Edward Heath in Wednesday's
Commons debate on Libya showed that a British prime minister and government
should have adequate control under the 30 year-old agreement with the American
states. the Labour leader added.

Mr Kinnock said he could envisage circumstances in which a Labour government
would give the US permission to use its British bases. But it would be foolish
to specify what they were.

'We would not be accommodating the air forces of any foreign country if we
excluded the possibility of our country being used as a base,' he said.

The length of time it would take to remove the nuclear bases was a technical
question which related to the ease with which military equipment could be moved.
'But I understand from military sources that it is not a prolonged operation' he
said. It should take about a month.

The Labour national executive will today debate emergency resolutions on the
Libyan crisis. One, which is not expected to be passed, says the affair 'calls
into question the wisdom of Britain's continued membership of the Nato alliance.
'

A Commons motion tabled by MPs in the Tribune group said that US use of British
bases to launch unjustified bombing attacks on Libya raised serious concern
about the potential use of such bases for the deployment of nuclear weapons.

The Labour NEC meeting today has been called to approve rule changes following
the collapse of disciplinary hearings against 12 party members from Liverpool
when seven members walked out and deprived the meeting of a quorum.

The new rules are designed to prevent a repetition. Mr Kinnock said: 'We will
get a change of rule. ' Militant supporters might challenge this in the courts,
but he said they were on very thin ground.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 1986

Thatcher facing attack backlash / Opposition accuses Premier for support of US
bombing raid on Libya

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 875 words


The Prime Minister was caught in the backlash of the Libyan attack last night,
accused by the opposition of putting Britons at risk by helping President Reagan
and facing demands for new controls on the use of American bases.

News of the deaths in Beirut, the attack on the ambassador's residence there and
the explosives find at Heathrow shocked MPs in all parties and put Mrs Thatcher
under renewed pressure. Some Labour MPs laid personal blame for the death of the
hostages on her, and opposition leaders accused her of having overruled Cabinet
colleagues in agreeing to help the United States.


Some ministers are angry that the attack on Tripoli and Benghazi appears to have
produced the violent reaction they warned of when President Reagan's request was
being considered. Among MPs on all sides, the Prime Minister is seen as
vulnerable politically to any increase in terrorist activity because of her
support for Washington.

In the Commons, her tone appeared to have moderated in one way compared to that
in her original statement.

On Tuesday she said it would have been inconceivable to refuse to help to defend
the US against terrorist attack from Libya by supporting the raid. Yesterday she
said in answer to Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, that it was open to
Britain to withhold agreement if there was another request to use the bases.

The two statements were defended as consistent, but some MPs - including
Conservatives - detected a change reflecting the political pressure on Downing
Street since news broke of Britain's involvement in the attack.

The passions showed. Mrs Thatcher and Mr Kinnock had one of their most fiery
exchanges when she accused Labour of having failed to support the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.

This had Mr Kinnock thumping the dispatch box with rage and saying: 'The sour
and salutary fact about the Prevention of Terrorism Act is that it has not
prevented terrorism, it will not prevent terrorism and you provoke terrorism. '

Later, he told journalists: 'I think that with her complicity with the American
attack the Government did abandon people who were hostages, and alive, to their
fate. '

Like other MPs Mr Kinnock denounced the Beirut murders as vile. Mr David Steel,
the Liberal leader, said the Prime Minister had exposed British citizens to
terrorist attack by her support for the Americans, turning 'the British bulldog
into Reagan's poodle. '

At the end of the Commons debate on Wednesday, Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign
Secretary, said detailed conditions had been laid down by the Prime Minister,
but that the agreement could not be published. It was more a series of exchanges
between London and Washington.

One of the Government's tasks now is to calm fears of another attack. Sir
Geoffrey said in the debate that it was nonsense to suggest that Britain was
being drawn into escalation by its support for Mr Reagan.

Senior Tories believe that if a second request were received, Mrs Thatcher would
not have the support either among ministers or backbenchers, to approve the use
of bases in Britain.

Among those who have expressed grave reservations about Mrs Thatcher's agreement
with President Reagan is the Lord Chancellor, Lord Hailsham, who made his doubts
plain at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. With sceptics among some of her
traditionally close supporters in the Cabinet, it is felt that Mrs Thatcher is
now in are unusually weak position.

Some Foreign Office officials are also known to feel that Downing Street has
overruled their warnings about the possible effects of British involvement. Mr
Tim Renton, the Foreign Office minister said in his statement on the Beirut
attack yesterday that Britain had taken account of the position of hostages in
the Middle East in deciding to back the Americans.

He told MPs: 'If we allowed our hands to be tied, and had not taken action of
the sort we deemed right because of possible reprisals, this would have been
giving in to terrorist criminals. '

Mr Donald Anderson, Labour's spokesman, said the deaths had confirmed the
party's prediction that Britain would be in the front line of terrorist
outrages.

Mr Michael Heseltine, the former defence secretary, said in a radio interview
that there was no effective way of stopping terrorists operating on a worldwide
scale. He said that there would still be terrorist attacks by Libyans even
without the American attack.

'It is appalling that the awful truth is that we could have had IRA explosions
financed by Libyan terrorists which would have been the partial consequence of
doing nothing,' he said.

By Our foreign staff

Libya has decided to launch random and unrestricted attacks on British and US
targets in Europe and the Middle East starting within the next 48 hours, Western
diplomatic sources in the area claimed in reports reaching London last night.

The sources said there were clear indications that the Libyans intend to choose
soft British and American targets such as banks and commercial enterprises.

Britain, it was said, now appeared to have become the primary target for attacks
because of the full cooperation of the British Government with the execution of
the American air strike.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 1986

Britons lie low as Beirut hostages die / Three men reported killed as reprisal
for British part in US attack on Libya

BYLINE: From JULIE FLINT

LENGTH: 1044 words

DATELINE: BEIRUT


Britain paid a savagely high price yesterday in Lebanon for the Government's
support for the US air strike against Libya. Three British hostages were
reported killed, a British journalist was kidnapped and the residence of the
British Ambassador was heavily damaged in a rocket attack.

The British Embassy immediately telephoned the 70 Britons left in West Beirut to
urge them to keep off the streets.


Most Western, English-speaking journalists in West Beirut flew to East Beirut in
a helicopter laid on by the Lebanese army, while Druze militiamen guarded
streets around the Commodore Hotel, the favourite haunt of foreign journalists.

The bodies of the three dead men - tentatively identified as Alec Collett, aged
64, Philip Padfield, aged 40, and Leigh Douglas, aged 33 - were discovered early
yesterday morning near the Syrian patrolled town of Sofar in the Shouf mountains
east of Beirut.

They carried no identification but a note left by the bodies and signed by the
Arab Fedai (Commando Cells) claimed they were those of 'a CIA official and two
British intelligence officers' killed 'in response to the American attack on the
Arab people of Libya carried out with the support of the British Government. '

There would be fresh attacks against 'British and American imperialists,' it
said.

The Revolutionary Organisation of Socialist Muslims later said that it had
hanged Alec Collett. 'Our organisation announces the execution of the death
penalty on the British spy, Alec Collett .. in reprisal for the joint barbaric
American-British raid (on Libya),' it said in a statement.

The group said it would send 'a picture of the celebration of his execution by
hanging' to the press.

The Reagan Administration last night linked the triple murder to the
Libyan-backed Abu Nidal terrorists, while President Reagan insisted that the
killings proved that 'terrorism is something we have to deal with once and for
all - all of us together. '

The connection with Abu Nidal, which the US blames for the Rome and Vienna
shootings in December, was made by the President's spokesman, Mr Larry Speakes.
He said that Abu Nidal was now largely a Libyan-based terrorist group having
pulled out of Syria in the last year.

In Paris, the Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe last night warned that Britain
would not be diverted by reprisal attacks.

'I totally and fully understand the anguish of those families whose members are
caught up in the horrors of terrorism,' he said. 'But if we are to prevent
others from having that experience we must not concede victory to the terrorist.
'

Sir Geoffrey expressed sympathy for the families of the three British victims,
but said the loss of innocent lives was one of the 'tragic consequences' of
state-sponsored terrorism.

At talks in Paris with other EEC foreign ministers, Sir Geoffrey promised to
give their governments Britain's 'indisputable evidence' of Libya's
state-sponsored terrorism.

Mr Collett was kidnapped on March 25, last year. He was the journalist with the
UN agency for Palestinian refugees and responsibility for his abduction had been
claimed by the Revolutionary Organisation of Socialist Muslims, widely believed
to be an arm of the Abu Nidai.

Mr Padfield, the director of an English-language college in West Beirut, and Mr
Douglas, a lecturer in political science at the American University, were
kidnapped on March 28, this year. within minutes of leaving a popular nightspot.
Responsibility for their kidnappings had not been claimed.

The three bodies arrived at the American University hospital here early
yesterday evening, under Red Cross escort. Each was wrapped in a bloodstained
white sheet covered by transparent plastic. Each man had been killed with a
single bullet in the head.

Shortly after the discovery of the bodies on a gentle, tree-lined mountain road,
30-year-old John McCarthy of Worldwide Television News was abducted by four
armed men as he drove to Beirut international airport in a two car convoy at the
end of a brief working visit to West Beirut.

The five Lebanese employees who were escorting Mr McCarthy said they were
intercepted on the final stretch of the Shi'ite controlled airport road. The
gunmen ordered Mr McCarthy's driver out on to the street, commandeered his car,
and drove away with Mr McCarthy.

Mr Douglas and Mr Padfield were part of the British community who decided to
stay on in west Beirut after Shi'ite gunmen took control of the area in
February, 1984. Mr Douglas had lived in Beirut for eight years and decided it
was safe for him to stay because he was well known and liked by the Muslim
community.

The two teachers had formed a group with other expatriate Britons, known as the
'daring diners' who would meet at a restaurant each Friday.

They had gone to a restaurant called The Back Street bar on the evening of March
28 for an Easter celebration and had worked out a route which took them past a
sandwich bar, a restaurant, and the German Embassy to get back home. They left
the Back Street at 12.30 pm and were never seen again.

That weekend, bombs were defused outside the offices of British Airways and the
British Council. Responsibility was claimed by a group calling itself the
Pan-Arab Revolutionary leadership. The bombs were linked with the wave of
anti-Western feeling in the Lebanon caused by clashes between American and
Libyan forces in the Gulf of Sidra.

Gunmen fired seven rocket-controlled grenades at the British Ambassador's
residence, causing extensive damage to reception rooms and bedrooms.

British diplomats have for some time now been headquartered in Christian east
Beirut, and the Ambassador, Mr John Gray, was not in the residence at the time
of the attack. He had, however, spent the night there.

It is the first time that the British in Lebanon have been so closely identified
with the US, of whose six hostages there has been no word since the
confrontation with Libya began.

The relatively few Britons left here now find themselves under siege -
'terrified of staying, and terrified of trying to leave,' said one. The Irish
Embassy is also waiting for word on the fate of Mr Brian Keenan, the Irish
teacher kidnapped last Friday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 18, 1986, Friday

Vulnerable British bases reinforced / US-Libya crisis (274) /SCT

BYLINE: RODNEY COWTON, Defence Correspondent

LENGTH: 286 words


Britain is strengthening defences at those bases it considers vulnerable to
attacks by Libyan terrorists or its armed forces.

The armed forces were placed on alert immediately after the American raid on
Libya on Tuesday.

It is understood that there has been a limited special deployment of some forces
to particular bases.

The Ministry of Defence refuses to detail its actions beyond saying that
'appropriate measures are being taken'. But there were reports yesterday that
fighter aircraft were being deployed to Gibraltar.

Two Royal Navy vessels have been in the Gibraltar area for several days and it
appears they will be retained there for longer than normal because of the
present tension.

There are also RAF Phantom fighters at the Akrotiri air base in Cyprus. They
went there originally for weapons practice, but now it seems likely that they
will stay, or possibly be replaced by others, to provide air defence.

Ministry of Defence sources said the changes in deployments were to strengthen
defences and were not part of any move to evacuate Britons from Libya. However,
it has been acknowledged that should an evacuation become necessary, whether
from Libya or Lebanon, the presence of naval and air assets in the Mediterranean
could prove valuable.

Gibraltar and Cyprus are both within about 1,200 miles of Libya and therefore
also within range of air attacks.

Bases are also stepping up precautions against terrorist attacks. More soldiers
are reported to be patrolling in combat kit, and in Gibraltar, there are reports
of cars being prevented from parking close to military installations. Fairs,
which would normally be held on military property, have been cancelled.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 18, 1986, Friday

British hostages shot - 400 saved in jet / Arab terrorists retaliate against US
bombing raid (888) /SCT

BYLINE: RICHARD DOWDEN

LENGTH: 974 words


Arab extremists in Beirut killed three hostages, all believed to be Britons,
kidnapped a journalist and attacked the residence of the British Ambassador

Police are looking for a man accused of trying to plant a time bomb on an El Al
flight from Heathrow to Tel Aviv with 400 passengers and crew on board

European envoys in Libya are discussing whether to make plans for their
nationals to leave the country after the arrest of a Briton in Benghazi

Mr Neil Kinnock, in furious exchanges in the Commons, accused Mrs Thatcher of
having abandoned the hostages to their fate

Extremist Arab groups in Lebanon have killed three hostages, kidnapped a British
television journalist and attacked the British Ambassador's residence in Beirut
with rocket-propelled grenades, in bloody retaliation against Britain for the
bombing of Libya.

The bodies of the three were identified by an Irish diplomat as Mr Alec Collett,
aged 64, a freelance journalist working for the United Nations, who was
kidnapped in March last year, Mr Leigh Douglas, aged 34, a university teacher,
and Mr Philip Padfield, aged 40, the director of the International Language
School in Beirut, both kidnapped three weeks ago. They were found yesterday
morning at Roweisat Sofar, about ten miles east of Beirut. All three had been
shot in the head.

The British Ambassador, Mr John Gray, was still trying late last night to gain
access to the bodies, however, and the Foreign Office in London was not able to
confirm that the bodies found were those of the three Britons.

A group calling itself the Revolutionary Organization of Socialist Muslims said
in a statement last night that it had hanged Mr Collett and that it would send a
'picture of the celebration of his execution by hanging' to the press.

However, a message dated Wednesday, left by the bodies, linked their deaths
directly with Britain's involvement in the American attack on Libya. Issued by
the 'Arab Commando Cell', the statement said that their execution had been 'in
retaliation for the new Nazi policy spearheaded by the international terrorist
Reagan and his decision to launch aggression on the Arab people in Libya'.

It attacked Britain's 'direct support' for the raids by the United States Air
Force and gave a warning that 'American and British terrorists will be targets
for our attacks'. It referred to the three men as an agent of the Central
Intelligence Agency and two British intelligence officers.

The bodies were in Druze-controlled territory, just outside the Syrian
frontline, and it is believed that Mr Collett was being held by the Abu Nidal
group of Palestinians.

There had been unofficial contacts over his release between Britain and the
Revolutionary Organization of Socialist Muslims, who have demanded the release
of two Palestinians serving sentences in Britain for the attempted murder of Mr
Shlomo Argov, the Israeli Ambassador, in 1982. Although Nidal has had contacts
with Colonel Gadaffi he is more closely linked with Syria.

The bodies were identified by Mr John Rowan, an Irish diplomat who knows the
journalist community in Beirut well. He visited the American University Hospital
where the bodies had been taken and positively identified them.

Throughout the day the hostages' families were kept in suspense and were warned
by the Foreign Office to expect bad news.

In Washington President Reagan condemned the killings and said that they showed
the need for a joint international effort against terrorism.

Mr Edgar Douglas, the father of Leigh Douglas, speaking from his home in
Stalham, Norfolk, blamed his son's reported death on Mrs Thatcher's decision to
allow the Americans to use the British bases for the Libyan raid.

'If those planes hadn't left from Britain my son would still be alive now. I'm
very bitter about it,' he said.

Earlier yesterday Mr John Patrick McCarthy, a television journalist, aged 29,
was abducted by gunmen as he drove to the airport to leave Beirut. He was
travelling in a convoy with five Lebanese colleagues when the road was blocked
by a car occupied by four gunmen. They forced Mr McCarthy's driver Kazem out of
the car and drove off in it. No one was injured and later a previously unknown
group calling itself the Crescent of Gadaffi claimed responsibility.

Mr Robert Burke, vice-president of the London-based Worldwide Television News,
which is jointly owned by ITN, America's ABC and Australia's Channel Nine, said
that was the latest news they had and they still did not know the whereabouts of
Mr McCarthy.

'We are trying to make contact on the ground, but we have had no communication
yet with his captors,' he said.

Mr McCarthy had been in Beirut for almost a month and had made several trips to
the city before.

In another incident rocket-propelled grenades were fired at the residence of the
British Ambassador in west Beirut. Mr Gray was not there at the time and no one
was hurt but the kitchen and main reception room were damaged.

A caller to an international news agency in Beirut said: 'The Organization of
Muslim Martyrs announces its responsibility for shelling the house of the
British Ambassador with seven rockets this morning. '

The British diplomatic presence in Lebanon is cut to a minimum, the diplomats
are guarded by British soldiers in civilian clothes with machine pistols, and
their numbers are not disclosed.

In the past month every British citizen in Lebanon was sent a letter reiterating
British government policy that Britons who did not have pressing business should
leave the country. There are now thought to be about 1,000 still there.

In London last night, the Foreign Office advised all Britons in west Beirut to
stay at home and keep in touch with the British Embassy, and to continue to
listen to the BBC World Service.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 19, 1986

The Libyan Crisis: London defends its support for bombing / The US air raid on
Libya

BYLINE: From JANE ROSEN

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Britain has told the UN Security Council that its continued failure to deal with
Libyan-sponsored terrorism had encouraged Colonel Gadafy and contributed to the
American decision to bomb Libya.

Defending Britain's support for the American action, the ambassador to the UN,
Sir John Thomson, said that there was 'incontrovertible evidence of the Libyan
Government's direct involvement in promoting terrorist attacks against the US
and other countries including my own, and of its plans for a wide range of
further attacks. '


The US should not be condemned 'for acting to protect its citizens,' he said.
The British decision to allow the US to use the F1-11s was not an easy decision,
and Britain regretted the Libyan casualties. The Government however, had been
forced to recognise that 'restraint in the face of Colonel Gadafy's many
provocations' did not work.

The British Government, Sir John said, sought 'friendship with the Arab world
and justice for the Palestinians' but 'Colonel Gadafy is an obstacle in the way
of both. '

Spelling out a list of reported Libyan terrorist acts Sir John cited the bombing
of the Berlin night club which led to the American attack, the murder two years
ago of WPC Yvonne Fletcher in London, Colonel Gadafy's shipments of arms to the
IRA, the Libyan plot uncovered three weeks ago to bomb civilians queuing for
visas at the American embassy in Paris and the rocket attack on the British and
American embassies in Beirut.

'Four of Libya's six neighbours .. had suffered Libyan aggression ..' he
continued.

Speaking with deep emotion, he added that more Britons have been murdered and
another kidnapped in Beirut.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 19, 1986, Saturday

Parliament: Whitelaw reaffirms British backing for America / Leader of the Lords
on US raids on Libya (850) /SCT

LENGTH: 949 words


Having weighed up all the factors, the Government's decision to support the
United States action against Libya was justified in the interests of Britain,
world peace and the fight against state inspired terrorism, Viscount Whitelaw,
Lord President of the Council and Leader of the Lords, said when opening a
debate on the US action.

Knowing of plans for further terrorist attacks by the Libyans, no government
could stand by while they were carried out.

That was the position in which the United States found itself when deciding what
action was open to it.

It had been said Britain's decision had lain the country open to greater threat
of Libyan terrorism. No one could ever be sure about the reactions of ruthless
terrorists. The recent tragic events in the Lebanaon and the bomb at Heathrow
yesterday made plain the dangers which such people presented. He hoped no one
would suggest that such a risk would have justified holding back from the
decision the Government believed necessary in the wider struggle against state
sponsored terrorism.

Such an attitude did not buy off terrorists. Experience showed it merely
emboldened them to destroy our country and our way of life.

If by supporting the United States action (he said) we succeed in seriously
weakening the fount of terrorism we shall do a great deal to protect British
citizens as well as American citizens all over the world.

Evidence of Libyan involvement in terrorism included the murder of WPc Fletcher,
support for the Provisional IRA, Libyan arms found in an arms cache in January
in the Republic of Ireland, and the recent bombing in West Berlin which left two
dead and 230 injured.

Communications between Tripoli and the Libyan People's bureau in East Berlin
about the planning and the outcome of this operation were now generally known
and widely accepted.

The history of economic sanctions offered little hope of effectiveness unless
they were widely supported in many countries. Securing such support was not a
real prospect in the case of Libya.

Lord Cledwyn of Penrhos, Leader of the Labour peers, said that he refuted
absolutely the implication that opposition to the American action was in some
way a condonation of terrorism. The American action was not the right course and
the Government should not have supported it.

If the evidence to support the action was irrefutable, substantial and clear, it
should have been on the table of the Security Council. The United States had
taken the law into their own hands. They had done what they and Britain
condemned other countries for, breaching international law.

Everyone agreed that international terrorism must be tackled urgently. Even more
important was to tackle its causes. Reappraisal of the Middle East situation was
urgently required in the light of events and fences must be mended with Egypt,
Jordan, Saudi Arabia and other friendly states.

Lady Seear, leader of the Liberal peers, said the Liberals did not support the
American attack, nor agree that the British Government had been right in giving
permission. The attack made the fight against terrorism more difficult, not
easier. The bombing was likely to stimulate terrorists to further action.

The Archishop of York (Dr John Habgood) said that he shared the doubts of the
councils of churches about the wisdom of the method of combating terrorism and
its legality under the UN Charter.

We have to reaffirm international law and tighten our normal security measures
(he said), but beyond that three things are essential: To tackle the cause
because you will never eradicate terrorism, as long as there are those who
believe they have been treated with deep injustice and believe they have no
other way of expressing that injustice; you have to separate terrorist groups
from their potential allies; and you have to keep the moral high ground because
terrorism feeds on a distorted sense of self-righteousness. The United States
action failed on all three grounds.

Field Marshal Lord Carver said that the natural action of a military man was to
ask what was the aim of the action and whether it was likely to achieve that
aim. If the action had a good chance of succeeding in that aim why was there any
difficulty?

Obviously there had been grave differences about whether it would achieve its
aim and he suspected that that would have been the advice of diplomatic and
military advisers if they were consulted. He hoped they were.

Lord Home of the Hirsel (C), the former Prime Minister, said so far the cold
fact was that no one other than President Reagan had tried to do anything
effective about terrorism. In this matter of resistance to violence they must
stand together. Separately they would be picked off one by one.

The main guarantee democracies possessed against those who dealt in aggression
was the readiness of the people of the US to underwrite with their power the
security of the continent of Europe and the Atlantic ocean. In all the
circumstances on that occasion, faced with that dilemma, the Prime Minister's
decision was right.

The Russians must be beginning to be interested in strengthening international
law against terrorists. In these matters Britain must give a lead.

Lord Stewart of Fulham (Lab), a former Foreign Secretary, said they were being
launched, if they were not careful, on what was in effect a war which would
stretch from Beirut to Heathrow and possibly further. The answer could not be
found by threatening each time to reply to an act of terrorim by bombing here or
there.

There was a danger of seeing the Nato alliance torn in two between American
recklessness and European hesitancy.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 19, 1986, Saturday

Carver accuses Reagan / Former British Chief of the Defence Staff comments on
use of US bases in Britain against Libya (348) /SCT

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS, LobReporter

LENGTH: 365 words


Lord Carver, former Chief of the Defence Staff, yesterday accused the United
States Administration of using near blackmail against the Prime Minister in
order to launch the Libyan attack from British bases.

He said it was hypocritical and unwise to try to justify the American action as
self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.

'Hypocritical, because that article was clearly never intended to cover anything
like this, and unwise because it opened the door to its abuse', he said.

He sympathized with the Government in the moral dilemma 'in which they were
placed by what can only be described as the near blackmail of the statement that
if the F111s were not used there would be a greater risk both to civilians near
the targets and to the US air crews. '

Lord Carver said during a Lords debate on Libya that Britain's military
advisers, if asked, would have given warning that the attack could make
terrorism worse and direct some of it at Britain. It could range Arab opinion
behind Gadaffi.

Lord Carver said that Britain would be separated from her European allies,
making it less likely they could be persuaded to act more effectively against
terrorism. In any future anti-American terrorist attacks, the United States
would have much less sympathy.

The Archbishop of York, Dr John Habgood, questioned the legality and wisdom of
the raid. He said: 'You have to isolate terrorist groups from their allies and
you have to keep the high moral ground because terrorism feeds on a distorted
sense of self-righteousness. The US action fails on all three counts.

'We have got ourselves into this mess, and now we have to look to the future for
a constructive way forward. Somehow we have got to help our American friends see
that some problems can be, and must be, tackled in a lower key. Some ministers
and Conservative MPs were privately dreading the effect involvement in the
attack will have on local and two parliamentary by-elections on May 8.

Four years ago, the Falklands victory resulted in sweeping local election
successes for Mrs Maragaret Thatcher's Government. Some Tories believe the raid
will have the reverse effect.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 1986

US tourists shun Europe for home / Fear of reprisals for American bombing of
Libya

BYLINE: From MARK TRAN

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


American tourists are cancelling holidays in much of Europe in droves and are
heading instead for Moscow, China, Ireland, Canada and the Caribbean. Since the
raid on Libya, travel to Europe and the Mediterranean has plummeted by as much
as 75 to 80 per cent.

A Pan Am spokesman said: 'Moscow is selling like crazy. Advance bookings for
Ireland are incredibly strong. '


Even before the US bombed Libya, about 1.8 million Americans - or 35 per cent of
US travellers with foreign reservations - changed their plans in February. Of
that number 1.4 million decided against travelling abroad at all, deciding to
switch to holidays at home or to cancel altogether. For a while, in the wake of
the terrorist attacks at the airports in Rome and Vienna two days after
Christmas, people who had been planning to go to southern Europe re-booked for
Northern Europe. But now the whole of Europe is off limits. A number of people
have boycotted France because of the French decision not to let F1-11 bombers
based in Britain fly in French airspace on their way to Libya.

Throughout the Carribbean, hotel and resort companies have been flooded with
inquiries and bookings. The ABC Television network has scrapped plans to
broadcast its Good Morning America programme from the Mediterranean in early
May. Now ABC is going on location to five cities in the US. The theme of the
programme is to be, 'Vacation Idea: Summer, 1986.' There will be reports from
Canada, five Caribbean Islands, and other US holiday spots.

Cavalcade Tours, one of the largest travel agencies on the East Coast said that
80 per cent of the clients it had booked for the Mediterranean had cancelled and
that at least 50 per cent of those are making plans to go to the Caribbean.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 1986

Bomb woman under guard at safe house / Investigation continues into attempted
bombing of El Al airliner at London's Heathrow Airport

BYLINE: By ANDREW MONCUR

LENGTH: 465 words


The woman held by police after the foiled attempt to plant a bomb aboard an
Israeli airliner at Heathrow was under armed guard 'for her own protection' at a
safe house, probably in the London area, last night.

Mr Nezar Hindawi, the Jordanian arrested on Friday under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, was still being questioned yesterday by anti-terrorist squad
officers investigating the discovery of the airport time bomb.


Security at all British airports has been increased by the Department of
Transport with more passengers being singled out for full searches and thorough
scrutiny of their hand baggage before boarding flights.

British Airways responded yesterday by asking its passengers to check in early
for Heathrow flights - 15 minutes ahead of normal time for domestic departures
and 30 minutes for international services - to allow for new security measures.

The moves follow last Thursday's discovery of a sophisticated bomb, consisting
of 101b of plastic explosive rolled paper-thin and concealed in the false bottom
of a holdall. It was found by El-Al staff carrying out their routine preflight
check of hand baggage. The device had not shown up in an earlier X-ray check.

Ann-Marie Murphy, the 32-year-old woman held by airport security staff
immediately after the discovery, was released from formal custody on Saturday.

Scotland Yard confirmed last night that she was being kept in a place of safety,
available for further questioning on the incident and on her relationship with
Mr Hindawi, who accompanied her to the airport before the bomb was found as she
joined passengers boarding the El-Al jumbo, due to fly to Tel-Aviv with 400
people on board.

Miss Murphy, a hotel chambermaid, from Kilburn, north London, was allowed to see
her family who travelled from Dublin at the weekend.

Her brother, Martin, said that police had given details of the dangers
confronting her. A family friend said: 'The police made it clear she could be in
grave danger if she did not stay in protective custody. '

Foreign Office and security authorities were last night treating cautiously an
unattributed report in an Israeli newspaper that the bomb intended to destroy
the El-Al jet was prepared in the Syrian embassy in London.

The London correspondent of the mass-circulation Yediot Aharonot gave no source
for the claim. Scotland Yard declined to comment on the report and a Foreign
Office spokesman said that he knew nothing of any alleged link.

Another Israeli newspaper, Hadashot, quoted political sources in Jerusalem as
blaming the dissident Palestinian Abu Nidal group and Libya for the attempted
terrorist attack. It said that Israel would be seeking detailed information from
Britain about the man arrested in London on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 1986

Howe aims for deal to resist Reagan / Foreign Secretary seeks agreement
justifying British refusal to take part in further US attacks on Libya

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 882 words


The Government's hopes of avoiding a rift with Washington over any future
attacks on Libya rest on whether EEC countries agree today to implement the
tough anti-terrorist measures recommended in their report commissioned after the
Rome and Vienna bomb attacks.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, will use the report of the working
group on terrorism as the centrepiece of his appeal to his ministerial
colleagues in Luxembourg to impose new restrictions on Libyans in Europe and to
close Colonel Gadafy's network of people's bureaux.


There was no hope last night of an agreement which would satisfy all Britain's
demands. However, Sir Geoffrey believes enough progress can be made to allow the
Government to tell Washington that an effective European counterattack on
Libyan-inspired terrorism is under way and justifies British refusal to
participate in another American attack.

The report outlines a series of responses against countries known to be involved
in sponsoring terrorist activities, including the use of students, technicians
and diplomats. It lays out a sliding scale of measures which Britain will argue
provides a basis for action against Libya.

Behind the appeal is the knowledge that British assistance for last week's
American attack on Tripoli and Benghazi has been deeply damaging politically. A
majority of the Cabinet appears convinced that no further use of American bases
in Britain for such an attack can be authorised.

Sir Geoffrey made plain the Government's reluctance to contemplate cooperation
in any future raid in a television interview yesterday, though he said it was
impossible to say that the use of bases was 'absolutely excluded. '

Speaking on ITV's Weekend World, Sir Geoffrey left no doubt that the Government
needed help from Europe if it was to avoid the embarrassing possibility of
another American request for help.

'I think that the fact that the principal target of that terrorism has felt
obliged to go down this road as the United States did last Monday is an
additional factor which our European colleagues ought to take into account in
deciding how resolute their determination will be to organise collective
action,' he said.

His priority is to achieve agreement on stricter monitoring of Libyans in
Europe, tighter credit facilities for exports to Libya, and closing the people's
bureaux. There is unlikely to be general agreement with the Greeks, who are
particularly reluctant to move quickly.

However, the acceptance by some governments represented in Luxembourg today of
the need for new measures is vital for Mrs Thatcher as she struggles against
public opposition, expressed in opinion polls and in demonstrations. Perhaps
more worryingly for her, ministerial colleagues and many Tory MPs are reluctant
to contemplate help for President Reagan if more attacks are planned.

The Government's difficulty in defending the outcome of the raid was highlighted
yesterday by Mr George Younger, the Defence Secretary. He admitted that despite
several days of discussion between London and Washington, Britain did not know
which targets had been selected before giving permission for East Anglian bases
to be used.

He indicated on This Week, Next Week on BBC television that the Government had
not known that a building in the centre of Tripoli, near the French embassy
which was damaged in the raid, was a target.

'We didn't agree to each specific target as such. We gave our permission on the
grounds of the assurance that the targets would all be military and connected
with terrorism. So they were. I think the Americans carried out that assurance
quite clearly,' he said.

However, the admission that information about the targets was imprecise, coupled
with a report yesterday that more planes were used in the attack than had been
suggested to Mrs Thatcher, kept the Government on the defensive.

Mr Edward Heath, the former prime minister, stepped up his criticism of Mrs
Thatcher, saying that he did not believe the Government could survive another
American attack on Libya launched from Britain.

He said on TV-am that he suspected that the Americans would be drawn by Libyan
reprisals into further attacks and that Mrs Thatcher faced a serious political
problem.

The Government has started to rally Tory MPs to its cause, an indication of
ministers' concern about opposition. A letter from Sir Geoffrey has been sent to
backbenchers, urging support and defending British help for the raid.

It says: 'Our aim now is to avoid the need for further military action. ' He
says that the decision to help Washington was difficult and underlines the
assurances sought and received by Mrs Thatcher. Sir Geoffrey also outlines the
recent history of terrorism in Europe in which Libya has been involved and
refers, though not specifically, to 'plans for further such attacks in numerous
countries. '

European governments are said to have been provided with American evidence of 30
planned attacks originating in Libya. Today's meeting of European foreign
ministers will consider how many of the measures recommended by the working
group to implement. Sir Geoffrey will say that Britain is likely to take more
steps to limit trade and restrict the movement of Libyans.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 21, 1986, Monday

Cost of car hire 'may rise 10%' (181) /SCT

BYLINE: DEREK HARRIS, Industrial Editor

LENGTH: 185 words


Britain's car renters, hit by cost problems and the threat of a big drop in
American tourists this summer, are forecasting a big rise in rental charges.
Rates have been virtually static for about 18 months but could rise by 10 per
cent or more.

Cancellations by Americans are starting to come through and appear to be linked
with worries over terrorist attacks.

Mr Max McHardy, European vice-president for marketing and sales at Budget, the
world's third largest car rental company, said it looked like it was going to be
a bad time for Europe, including Britain with a downturn of as much as a fifth.

Car renters likely to be most affected are those accounting for much of the
airports business or with strong US links.

The phasing out of capital allowances is now also biting. The change of the car
registration year start from August to October is expected to hit renters'
second-hand car values. Many change fleets in the autumn but October will now
see many more used cars coming on the market.

Renters could face depreciation on cars just under a year old of about 35 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 21, 1986, Monday

EEC meets to find peaceful solution / Libyan crisis (399) /SCT

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN, BRUSSELS

LENGTH: 421 words


Britain today joins its European partners for the third time in a week in a bid
to find a peaceful solution to the Libyan crisis.

Today Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, will insist on a number of tough
anti-Libyan sanctions, including the complete closure of all Libyan People's
Bureaux in Europe, when he meets other EEC foreign ministers in Luxembourg.

But even with transatlantic mistrust and misunderstanding running strong, the
EEC is reluctant to impose the kind of economic and trade sanctions the
Americans see as the minimum condition for an agreed Western alternative to
military action.

Today's meeting comes at a time when EEC states appear to be moving away from
their initial shock and dismay over the American bombing of Libya and towards a
greater understanding of American motives and frustrations.

The emphasis among European officials is now on Colonel Gadaffi's culpability in
supporting, or ordering, terrorists attacks that have cost European as well as
American lives.

The Europeans are anxious to avoid a damaging split in the Western alliance,
with Washington writing off the allies as 'appeasers'. On the other hand,
European officials are conscious that public opinion in Europe - including
Britain - is against the American action.

EEC diplomats say that Sir Geoffrey will come under pressure today to ensure
that British bases are not used in future American operations.

Greece, which has been the most reluctant of the Twelve to condemn Libya, is
expected to propose that an EEC contact group go to Tripoli to try to intercede
between Libya and the US. Colonel Gadaffi has already asked Belgium, which
represents American interests in Libya, to seek a cessation of hostilities.

Three months ago EEC foreign ministers issued a vague condemnation of terrorism
without mentioning Libya by name. Since it followed the Rome and Vienna airport
bombings, this caution aroused American scorn and sowed doubts in Washington
that the Europeans could be counted on for help.

Sir Geoffrey, who has given his colleagues detailed evidence of Libyan links
with the IRA, wants the EEC as a whole to shut down the Libyan People's Bureaux,
which he calls 'command posts of terrorism'.

Such action, combined with severe visa restrictions and a ban on export credits
and arms sales to Libya, would 'restore Europe's credibility', British officials
believe.

The Luxembourg meeting will be a test of the EEC's ability to adopt a common
position on foreign policy.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 22, 1986

Guidelines tightened / Extradition of criminals from Ireland to Britain

LENGTH: 152 words


Tight new guidelines, have been drawn up between British and Irish law chiefs to
avoid the risk to technical slip-ups in the extradition of criminals from the
Republic, MPs were told yesterday.

The move, outlined by the Attorney General, Sir Michael Havers, follows the
release of IRA bomb suspect Evelyn Glenholmes by an Irish court over flaws in
warrants produced by UK authorities.


'My officials and the officials of the Attorney General of the Republic have
been meeting and have drawn up a 'check list,' said Mr Havers at Commons
Question Time.

The Junior Northern Ireland Minister, Mr Nicholas Scott, yesterday warned that
attacks on police by some opponents of the Anglo-Irish Agreement are hindering
the fight against terrorism.

Mr Scott had been asked by the Official Unionist MP, Mr Cecil Walker (Belfast
N), about burdens placed on the Royal Ulster Constabulary by the deal.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 22, 1986

World Cup terror fears are growing / Security concerns over soccer finals in
Mexico

BYLINE: From PETER CHAPMAN

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


With less than six weeks to the World Cup soccer finals in Mexico, fears are
mounting here over the security risk posed by the event. The hostilities between
the US and Libya, and threats of retaliatory action against Britain following
the Thatcher Government's support for US actions, have sharply heightened
concern.

'The World Cup will mean a severe security problem,' a US embassy official said.
He added that Mexico - which shares an easily penetrable 2,000-mile border with
the US - could be used as a jump-off point for terrorist groups entering Mexico
among many thousands of World Cup visitors.


With Britain also now identified as a frontline target for terrorist actions,
there is concern, too, for the safety of supporters of England, Scotland and
Northern Ireland. As many as 7,000 Britons are expected here for the event,
which begins on May 31 and ends on June 29.

'We cannot discount the danger of the possibility of attacks, especially with
large numbers of British people gathered together in crowds and hotels,' a
British official said.

The official added that he was encouraged by the fact that the Mexican
Government seemed aware of such risks and was taking the matter very seriously.
Following the threat last week that British targets around the world would be
singled out for terrorist attacks, the Mexican interior ministry quickly
convened talks with British Embassy representatives on tightening up security.

Bearing in mind the events which marred the 1972 Olympics in West Germany.
French anti-terrorist experts have recently arrived in the country to advise
Mexico's strengthened army and police forces.

It was also announced during a visit by the US Attorney-General, Mr Edwin Meese,
last week that security checks on the Mexican/US border are being increased and
that FBI agents and US security personnel used during the 1984 Los Angeles
Olympics are being drafted into Mexico for the World Cup.

Three Arab countries will be represented during the event. Iraq will be based in
Mexico City, Algeria in Northern Ireland's group in Mexico's second city of
Guadalarjara, and Morocco - one of England's early rivals - in the northern city
of Monterrey, 100 miles from the US border.

Some concern appears to centre on Iraq and Algeria, and the possibility that
terrorist group members using false and illegally acquired passports could enter
Mexico under cover of the increased numbers of visitors from Arab countries.

The whole security issue has been complicated by the Easter holiday crash of a
Mexican airliner en route for Los Angeles, which killed all 166 people on board.
The causes of the crash are still under investigation, but reports in Mexico and
from abroad have continued to fuel speculation that the plane was brought down
by two bomb explosions.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1986

The Day in Politics: More may go if they endanger security - Hurd / Home
Secretary approves expulsion of 21 Libyans from Britain

BYLINE: By our Political Staff

LENGTH: 553 words


The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, told MPs in the Commons yesterday that he
had approved the expulsion of 21 Libyans from Britain 'in the light of the
latest information about the active involvement of those concerned in organising
Libyan student activity in support of the Gadafy regime in the UK. '

Since it was a matter of national security 'it would not be right for me to
disclose further details of the information available to me on which I took the
decision,' he said.


But he went on: 'Student activity in support of a foreign government need not in
itself harm national security, but I judged that following the threats of last
week in this case it did. I reviewed the situation last week in the light of the
latest situation and decided that the criteria were met and that the presence of
these 21 was no longer conducive to national security. '

He warned: 'I will not hesitate to use my powers to deport other Libyan
nationals if evidence is received of their involvement in activities which might
endanger national security. '

Questioned by the Shadow Home Secretary, Mr Gerald Kaufman, about the 250Libyan
pilots still being trained in the UK, Mr Hurd replied; 'Steps have been taken to
ensure that those people can do no harm, whether at airports or in the air. '

Mr Hurd added: 'There are some legal and practical problems about further
action, but the departments concerned are reviewing these urgently. '

Mr Kaufman said he did not question the deportations themselves, but the timing
of the government action. 'In the two years of complacency following the death
of WPC Fletcher, why have the Government suddenly acted with such speed? Have
they at last realised, following approaches from this side of the House two
years ago, that some potential terrorists are at large in this country?

'Or following the outrage against the Prime Minister's collusion over the
American bombing of Libya, is this simply a cosmetic exercise to cover up the
unacceptable face of Thatcherism?'

Mr Kaufman also claimed that it was easier for certain foreign nationals to
enter Britain to commit acts of terrorism than it was for an Indian grandmother
to enter to attend a family funeral or wedding.

The Home Secretary confirmed to Mr Alan Beith (L Berwick upon Tweed) that one of
those to be expelled was a student who had threatened on Libyan Radio to carry
out a suicide mission against a British airbase. Mr Beith also asked the
Government to take into account the position of those students in Britain who
opposed Gadafy.

Mr Hurd said there were about 1,800 students from Libya in Britain and most must
be reckoned as critics of Gadafy.

Sir Edward Gardner (C Fylde) asked whether the students facing deportation had
any right of appeal.

Mr Hurd said that they had a non-statutory right to make representations to a
panel of three Home Office advisers.

Mr Michael Mates (Hampshire E) said that reports had indicated that Syria was
involved in preparing the bomb that was almost placed on the El-Al airliner last
week. 'Will you not flinch from taking equally robust action against any Syrian
whether they have diplomatic immunity or not?'

Mr Hurd said he was concerned with the presence of anybody in the country who
was not conducive to national security.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1986

The Day in Politics: Row over weapons used on Libya

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 897 words


The Prime Minister said yesterday that the choice of weapons used by the
Americans in the Libyan raid was a matter for them.

During a stormy Prime Minister's Question Time in the Commons Mrs Thatcher upset
the Opposition MPs when she said that it was for the Americans to choose what
weapons they used after they had selected targets within criteria agreed by
Britain.


The Prime Minister also attacked other EEC states, saying that they had gone
further than they were prepared to do before on sanctions, but she would have
liked them to have done much more.

In addition to the 'legitimate and desirable expulsion' of the 21 Libyan
organisers the British Government is considering further steps against the 250
Libyan students and engineers training in the country. There are 7,000 Libyans
in Britain at present.

Mr Tam Dalyell (Lab. Linlithgow) first raised the question of the choice of
weapons by asking: 'What time did the Americans tell the Prime Minister that
they would use anti-personnel cluster bombs?'

Mrs Thatcher said she had set down certain criteria for the mission. 'The
Americans selected the targets within those conditions and it was for them to
choose the weapons. ' This produced gasps from the Labour benches and the Prime
Minister repeated: 'It is for them to choose the weapons to defeat those targets
within the conditions laid down. '

Later Mr Norman Buchan (Lab. Paisley S) pressed home the question, asking if
defending British interests meant leaving the Americans the choice of weapons
when that included cluster bombs; and he asked if it extended to nuclear
weapons.

Mrs Thatcher sidestepped the nuclear issue and said that 'the precise methods
which the United States used is a matter for the United States within the
criteria. '

Mr Gareth Wardell (Lab. Gower) asked if there was any evidence that the 39
Libyans killed in the raid were involved in terrorist activities.

Mrs Thatcher replied: 'Terrorism thrives on appeasement. '

Mrs Margaret Beckett (Lab Derby S) asked if 'an eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth' was the best basis for a foreign policy.

'The best basis for a foreign policy is what is in the British interest,' Mrs
Thatcher replied to loud Labour laughter.

Mrs Thatcher also indicated that she had discussed several particular steps
concerning the Middle East with King Hussein of Jordan earlier this week and she
hoped to put them to the Israelis soon. She said they did not yet form the basis
of a new initiative in the Middle East.

The Labour Leader, Mr Neil Kinnock, asked whether the action taken against the
21 Libyan students was the beginning of further steps to isolate Gadafy, which
would include economic sanctions.

Mrs Thatcher said the expulsion of the Libyan students was 'an action that we
felt was legitimate and desirable under the circumstances and we are considering
further matters about Libyan pilots in this country and any further actions
which we can take.

Mr Kinnock pressed her again as to whether she had ruled out direct economic
sanctions saying that it would be cynical and inconsistent if that was the case,
given her support for the bombing last week.

Mrs Thatcher said that a refusal to sell military equipment to Libya was one
direct economic sanction imposed by Britain which had not been taken up by all
the EEC states. 'Sanctions will only work provided everyone operates them, but
there are some which we can take unilaterally,' she said.

She accused the EEC in particular of having sidestepped a European Commission
management committee when it decided to sell subsidised EEC butter to Libya. She
said that the Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe had raised the issue with the
Commission and made Britain's views known very strongly indeed. Unless the rest
of our Community partners agree with us there is nothing we can do alone. '

Mr Kinnock again demanded economic sanctions, asking her to put further pressure
on the European allies to exercise the power that they must have to employ
economic sanctions which were most effective and had the advantage of not being
lethal towards Libyan people.

Mrs Thatcher said she was doing that, and was particularly concerned about
butter exports.

Several Conservative MPs criticised the EEC's action agreed on Monday, saying
that it was woefully inadequate.

Mrs Thatcher said it went a good deal further than before, 'but we would like
much more to have been done, and we must consider how much further to go
ourselves. '

Sir Edward Gardner (C Fylde) asked Mrs Thatcher to persuade the American
Government that no country committed to the defeat of terrorism could any longer
afford to allow the extradition of terrorists from its jurisdiction to be
impeded or frustrated by the absurd doctrine that murder done with the alleged
motive of political interest was no longer murder and could not be used as the
basis for extradition.

Mrs Thatcher said she agreed, and that efforts were continually being made and
an increasing number of countries were recognising that political murder was not
a ground on which to refuse extradition.

Mr Michael Brown (C Brigg and Cleethorpes) asked for the return of the death
penalty for terrorism and the use of counter-terrorism in anti-terrorism
operations. Mr Thatcher said the death penalty was a matter for the Commons.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 24, 1986

Pressure changes American firm's mind / AT and T to go ahead with appearance at
London electronics exhibition

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 214 words


An American company agreed last night to appear at Britain's annual electronics
exhibition after pressure from conservative backbenchers.

American Telephone and Telegraph was said to have delivered a slap in the face
to Britain's support for the United States fight against terrorism by pulling
out of the largest stand at the exhibition starting at Olympia, London next
week.


The organisers of British Electronics Week had been told that AT and T feared it
would be the target of a Libyan-ordered terrorist attack.

Mr Jerry Hayes, Conservative MP for Harlow, said: 'The Americans were the first
to congratulate Mrs Thatcher for walking tall. Now they should put their money
where their mouth is and come to Britain to support the British electronics
industry. '

Mr Evan Steadman, an exhibition organiser, said that 1,000 other companies, many
of them American, had decided to stay. AT and T had been warned by a secret
State Department brief that its representatives would be terrorist targets, he
said.

An AT and T spokesman said last night that it would go ahead with the stand, but
it would be up to the representatives, four from America and three from Europe,
to decide whether to attend. He said he was not aware of advice from the State
Department.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 24, 1986, Thursday

US firms and stars fear Libyan threat / Possible retaliation for American raids
on Benghazi and Tripoli (364) /SCT

BYLINE: Staff Reporters

LENGTH: 374 words


The threat of Libyan retaliation for the bombing of Tripoli and Benghazi has
forced American companies and showbusiness personalities to postpone visits to
Britain and Europe.

Monsanto, the American multinational company, has indefinitely postponed the
official opening of its pounds 15 million silicon wafer factory at Milton
Keynes.

Monsanto madeits decision because of fears for the safety of executives who were
to fly to Britain for the ceremony next Tuesday.

Telecommunications company, AT&T, has reversed its decision to withdraw from the
British Electronics Week exhibition at Olympia after it was criticized in the
Commons by Mr Jeremy Hayes, Conservative MP for Harlow, who described the
decision as 'a slap in the face for Britain'.

Concern about the threat of terrorism has also spread to the US entertainment
world with film directors, actors and musicians cancelling tours and visits to
Britain and Europe.

Leading film directors, Mr Steven Spielberg and Mr Martin Scorcese and Mr
Sylvester Stallone, the star of the Rocky and Rambo films has cancelled a visit
to next month's Cannes Film Festival. Pop stars Prince, Lionel Richie and the
group Manhattan Transfer have also withdrawn from proposed tours.

The American Chamber of Commerce in London said that a large number of US
businessmen had cancelled or delayed overseas trips because of the Libyan
situation.

Early this week IBM cancelled a sales conference in Spain because of Libyan
threats and IBM in Britain refused to comment on precautions against terrorist
attacks because it did not want to draw attention to its personnel.

Mr Bob Sandford, European vice-president of Monsanto, said the company had
decided to restrict executive travel to essential trips only. He confirmed the
decision had been taken with the Libyan threats in mind.

Executives of AT&T told Mr Evan Steadman, the organizer of British Electronics
Week, that the company's pounds 20,000 stand, the largest in the show, could be
a terrorist target. Mr Steadman responded by accusing the company of cowardice.

AT&T's head office in New Jersey said there had been a failure of communication
and the decision had never been taken to withdraw from the exhibition.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 24, 1986, Thursday

Reagan plea for anti-terror pact with UK / US President proposes revised
extradition treaty with Britain (651) /SCT

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER THOMAS, WASHINGTON

LENGTH: 708 words


President Reagan made a personal appeal to the Senate to approve a revised
extradition treaty with Britain The Foreign Secretary criticized Britain's EEC
partners for not taking tough enough action against Libya The 21 Libyans ordered
out of Britain are being detained and will probably be flown back to Libya today
In Tripoli Colonel Gadaffi told Soviet journalists they should regard an attack
on Libya as one on themselves

President Reagan issued a personal appeal yesterday to the Senate to pass a
revised extradition treaty with the United Kingdom, saying that Britain had
demonstrated once again last week that 'she is our staunchest ally in our battle
against international terrorism'.

He added: 'We need to stand tall with our British allies at this important
moment'.

The appeal is a clear attempt by Mr Reagan to thank Britain in tangible terms
for allowing F111 bombers to fly from England to Libya, and reflects an
overwhelming pro-British sentiment now sweeping much of Capitol Hill.

Congressmen noted the contents of a leader in The Times on Tuesday which said of
the United States: 'You owe us one. ' Although the comment raised a few eyebrows
for its bluntness, it reflected a sentiment not unshared here.

Some Democrats who were flatly opposed to revising the treaty are now more
inclined to support changes, even if they are not prepared to go as far as
Britain and the Reagan Administration want.

Essentially, the revised treaty aims to prevent Irish and other terrorists from
seeking a safe haven in the US by claiming that their crimes were politically
motivated.

Sir Oliver Wright, British Ambassador to Washington, wrote to the Senate foreign
relations committee saying that as long-standing friends and allies, the US and
Britain had a common interest in giving a lead.

Any attempt to distinguish between crimes against civilians and those against
soldiers or policemen would give rise to 'the most serious problems for us. It
would be completely at odds with UK domestic law and our other extradition
arrangements. '

Sir Oliver was referring to proposals by the Democrat leadership to leave the
political exclusion provision intact if terrorist attacks were mounted against
military targets, but removing it for attacks on civilians.

The ambassador said that stable and reliable arrangements for the extradition of
those who operated through the bomb and the bullet were essential ingredients in
the response of Western democracies to international terrorism.

Mr Reagan wrote that he frankly could not understand the Democrat proposals.
Rejection of the treaty would be viewed by the British and the world as a
weakening of US resolve against terrorism.

The appeal was sent to Senator Richard Lugar, chairman of the foreign relations
committee, just before the start of a debate yesterday on the proposed new
treaty. A vote was not called but could be scheduled when the committee meets
again next week.

In emphasizing the 'vital importance' of the treaty, Mr Reagan said that 'our
own unpleasant experiences with terrorism clearly demonstrate that American
servicemen are a primary target. We should not do anything that suggests in any
way that it is permissible to attack soldiers or policement. Joint action
appeal: President Reagan called on the Arab world yesterday to join the United
States in trying to eliminate international terrorism, and declared that he
planned to press Japan, West Germany, Canada, Italy, France and Britain for
joint action in talks next month.

The seven-nation economic summit in Tokyo on May 4-6 is clearly regarded by the
Administration as a timely occasion to demand tougher action by the allies, and
also to express forcibly America's anger at the response of most of western
Europe to the attack on Libya last week.

Mr Reagan told the US Chamber of Commerce: 'As we proved last week, no-one can
kill Americans and brag about it. No-one. We bear the people of Libya no ill
will but if their Government continues its campaign of terror against Americans,
we will act again. '

His call to the Arab world to join in was a new departure, and reflects the
first tentative attempts by the US to mend fences with moderate Arab leaders.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 25, 1986

The Day in Politics: PM and Kinnock in new clash over backing for US on Libya

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 755 words


The Prime Minister and the Labour Leader, Mr Neil Kinnock, were involved in more
angry exchanges over Libya yesterday which ended with Mrs Thatcher apologising
to the Labour leader for leaving the impression that she had accused him of
trying to help terrorists.

Mrs Thatcher also indicated that during question time that the Government was at
present unwilling to impose an immediate blanket ban on flights to and from
Libya, saying that they were needed to allow Britons to leave the country and to
deport the 21 Libyan students from the United Kingdom.


Later Mr Giles Shaw, the Home Office Minister, made a statement on the explosion
at the British Airways office in London, saying that although the Scots National
Liberation Army and the Angry Brigade had both claimed responsibility, it was
not yet possible to attribute responsibility to any person or group. He stressed
that at present there was no information which would firmly link the explosion
with any Arab organisation.

The Prime Minister rejected American fears about terrorist attacks in Britain.

Mrs Thatcher was urged by Tory backbencher Mr Conal Gregory (York) to encourage
as many Americans as possible to visit Britain which he said was 'the safest
country in the European Community'.

She told him: 'Yes I gladly support you. You will have heard what someone from
the US Embassy said this morning when they hoped more American tourists will
come to this country. It is a safe and good country to come to. '

During question time Mr Kinnock repeatedly pressed the Prime Minister to make a
clear statement on what her response would be to any renewed request from
President Reagan to launch another air strike from British bases.

The Prime Minister said that, should there be a further request, it would have
to be considered. 'We should reach our conclusion in the light of circumstances
and matters which had to be considered at that time. '

Mr Kinnock quoted from a Guardian interview with Mr George Younger, the Defence
Secretary, published yesterday, in which it was suggested that it would not be
her own decision. 'If the President of the United States should again present
the Prime Minister with such a fait accompli and said he should go ahead
whatever her opinion, what would her response be then?'

Mrs Thatcher, beginning to lose her patience, said she had already answered that
question and told Mr Kinnock to listen.

Mr Kinnock accused the Prime Minister of not having answered the question. 'What
she is trying to do is to claim she has in some way mitigated the nature and the
effect of the US raid. She has moved into the worst of all worlds and has
demonstrated her complicity and impotence. '

Mrs Thatcher to rising uproar around her, said: 'What you are trying to do is to
help the terrorists,' but her sentence was broken off by loud Labour anger and
her qualification that Mr Kinnock was trying to help the terrorists by 'knowing
exactly what answer we should give to a request,' was lost in the uproar.

When question time had finished Mr Kinnock demanded an apology from the Prime
Minister. 'Because it is a complete calumny, want to ask Mrs Thatcher to
unreservedly withdraw her statement made in the heat of questions that I am
seeking to help terrorists. That is utterly unjustified, a vile insult, that is
not even acceptable in the bitterest of exchanges in this place. '

Mrs Thatcher responded: 'May I make it perfectly clear what I believe I said. If
you tell the terrorist precisely what you are or are not going to do, that is a
way of helping him. I did not seek to impute anything personal to you. If that
was the effect of what I said, then I gladly withdraw it. '

Dr David Owen, the SDP leader, had pressed the Prime Minister for the second day
running to adopt sanctions against Libya by banning all flights into and out of
that country. On Wednesday the Foreign Secretary said that was a step which
would be considered if there was proof of a link between Libya and the attempted
bomb attack on the El Al airliner.

Yesterday Mrs Thatcher said that if some of the deportees were to go they would
have to get out on Libyan aircraft. She also noted that there were a number of
British citizens who would want to leave Libya on aircraft as well.

Earlier, Mr Kinnock had said that he believed that Britain was a much safer
country to visit than America. He noted that the murder rate in Detroit was 22
times higher than in London, and in Dallas it was 14 times higher.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 25, 1986

Fall in US visitors feared / British tourism worries following Oxford Street
bombing

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 426 words


British tour operators fear that yesterday's bomb in Oxford Street, London, will
cause further damage to the country's tourist industry, which is already
suffering from a wave of cancellations by American travellers alarmed at the
prospect of terrorist attacks in Europe.

Many operators are receiving cancellations from the US. The decline compounds a
trend which began towards the end of last year after the dollar started to slide
against European currencies and American tourists got less value for their money
as a result.


Yesterday's bombing featured prominently on US television news. Some US holiday
bookings were cancelled earlier this year after the US media featured tanks on
exercise at Heathrow Airport, London. While 1985 was a record year, with 3
million Americans visiting Britain and spending some pounds 3.5 billion, this
year is expected to be relatively bad.

Ms Shirley Hewson, a member of the British Incoming Tour Operators' Association,
believes it will take some time before many Americans felt confident enough to
travel to Britain.

'In order for the situation to clear up we've got to have a couple of months of
normality. Things seem very bad now to the Americans because there is an
incident almost every day. We're almost in a phoney war situation. '

Ms Hewson runs Hollywood Travel Services, which specialises in upmarket tours
for groups of people with special interests. So far this year, she believes,
business is down 50 per cent on last year. More down-market tour operators will
be suffering even more. She recently began advertising 100 places for a special
royal wedding tour but has yet to sell one.

'Not only are people not coming,' she said yesterday, 'but they are saying
that's exactly the time when there will be a bombing. '

American bookings have dropped by 15 per cent in Bath, one of the country's top
tourist centres. Local businessmen predict that the number of US visitors to the
city will be 150,000 down on last year, with a consequent earnings drop of
pounds 1 million for local restaurants and hotels.

Mr Christopher Skidmore, manager of the Grand Hotel in Bristol, has already
received one cancellation saying: 'Due to recent events in Libya. '

US tour companies are taking advantage of the situation by promoting heavily
holidays in Hawaii and Alaska, and urging people to stay home in 1986.

Ms Hewson feels somewhat helpless. 'What we really want,' she said, 'is for
nothing to happen, for Gadafy to be found dead and for everyone to get back to
normal. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 25, 1986

Thatcher to attack Libya IRA links / British Government preparing counter
offensive to critics of US air raid

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 587 words


The Government is preparing a counter offensive on the critics of President
Reagan's Libyan raid by publishing a new account of links between the Gadafy
regime and the IRA.

The Prime Minister said last night in a Commons answer that a new document of
the alleged connections is being drawn up and will be made available to MPs. Her
decision comes amid mounting personal attacks on her handling of the crisis,
highlighted in a furious encounter with Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, at
question time yesterday.


Mr Kinnock accused her of having said that he wanted to help terrorists and Mrs
Thatcher was forced to apologise for any implication about his personal attitude
which she said had not been intended.

But the opening was seized upon by Opposition MPs. Mr Roy Hattersley, Labour's
deputy leader, said in a Central Television interview last night that she had
made absurd allegations, had lost her poise and calm, and was now out of
control. 'What we saw in that apology was part of the destruction of Margaret
Thatcher,' he said.

The incident at question time came during fiery exchanges between the two party
leaders in which Mr Kinnock asked whether the Prime Minister would accede to a
second American request for help in a military attack on Libya.

She replied: 'What you are seeking to do is to help the terrorist by knowing
exactly what answer we should give to a request. ' Mr Kinnock complained that it
was 'a vile insult' and the Prime Minister said she withdrew any personal
imputation.

The interpretation by Labour MPs of the remark - that Mr Kinnock was somehow
supporting terrorism - was emphatically denied later. It was said that Mrs
Thatcher has been talking only about the effects of discussing future policy in
the Commons.

But the row kept up the tension of the Libyan debate, which is still worrying
ministers. In a series of Commons written answers last night Mrs Thatcher
published the digest of worldwide Libyan terrorist activity which was sent to
Conservative MPs last week, and said that a new account of up-to-date links
between the Gadafy regime and the IRA was being prepared.

The Government believes that such evidence will assist in the justification of
the American attack on Tripoli and Benghazi last week.

Mrs Thatcher dismissed brusquely suggestions that the Government had no control
over American weapons launched from Britain, saying it was perfectly clear that
only conventional weapons were to be used against Libya. 'Nuclear would require
totally different procedures,' she said.

Asked by Mr Kinnock whether British permission for a raid would be given in the
future, she said: 'Should there be a further request, it would have of course to
be considered and we should reach our conclusion in the light of circumstances
and matters which had to be considered at that time. ' Mr Kinnock promptly
accused her of claiming that she had mitigated the attack, and of demonstrating
'both complicity and impotence. '

Mrs Thatcher was also questioned by Dr David Owen, the SDP leader, about the
possibility of stopping all flights to Libya. She pointed out that some Libyans
from Britain might wish to fly directly home and that it was important to
remember that some Britons in Tripoli might wish to use flights to get out.

She also joined in appeals from Tory backbenchers - and, later, from Mr Kinnock
- to American tourists to continue coming to London on holiday. She said Britain
was 'a safe and good country to come to. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 28, 1986

Carrington gloomy over Libya rift: Nato leader urges new steps to ensure
alliance consultation

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK

LENGTH: 540 words


As Western leaders prepare to use next weekend's economic summit in Tokyo to
organise a concerted drive against terrorism, Lord Carrington, Nato's Secretary
General, yesterday warned 'that the situation in the Atlantic Alliance is very
serious and as bad as I can remember. '

Lord Carrington was referring to the differences that have developed between the
US and most of Nato's West European members over the US air strike against
Libya. While declining to take sides he noted that 'in Europe there is a
widespread feeling that the air strike did not solve anything,' and he added:
'There are no easy answers to terrorism. '


Lord Carrington emphasised that Nato's theatre of operations is limited to
Europe. 'These limits are set in cement,' he said, and the alliance could not
therefore be drawn directly into a debate about counter-terrorist action, which
inevitably also applies to 'out of area' countries.

The seven countries participating in the western economic summit, which include
Japan as well as the principal Nato countries Which are not bound by a treaty
which limits their sphere of operation, were much better qualified to consider
counter-terrorist actions, said Lord Carrington. He added that 'a procedure with
the US to consult on operations outside Nato borders must be urgently devised. '

Mrs Thatcher, strongly behind President Reagan's strategy of using the Tokyo
summit to launch a joint attack against terrorism, focused on such action during
talks at Chequers on Saturday with the new French Prime Minister, Mr Jacques
Chirac.

The French leader afterwards emphasised a joint commitment with Britain to step
up anti-terrorist measures. But he also noted that the two countries differed in
their view of the US strike against Libya.

France had refused to allow US F-111's from Britain to fly over French
territory. This has provoked deep anti-French feeling in the US. But it has now
also led to claims by US officials that the French Government, far from being
opposed to action against Colonel Gadafy, only withheld its permission because
it had wanted more drastic action against the Libyan leader and had doubted that
the US action would be sufficiently effective.

Mr Chirac refused to comment on this claim.

British officials, in common with those of other Western countries, are
bewildered by the rivalry between President Mitterrand and his new right wing
Prime Minister. Both men are seeking control of French foreign policy, and it is
unclear to their partners in the EEC and Nato which of them will prevail. Both
men will be in Tokyo, but they will not necessarily be speaking with one voice.

Mr Chirac's visit to Chequers on Saturday was followed by a lightning trip to
Rome for dinner with the Italian Prime Minister, Mr Bettino Craxi. His weekend
excursion was interpreted as part of a campaign to establish his credentials.

A leading Madrid newspaper, El Pais, reported yesterday that Spanish-based US
tankers were used to refuel F-111 bombers used in the air raid on Libya. It
quoted a report from the Spanish Air Force headquarters saying five US tankers
based in the joint US-Spanish air base in Zaragoza, flew to the British base of
Fairford on April 11.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 28, 1986

Britons advised to go as Gadafy plans next move / Libyan retaliation expected
for EEC expulsions of diplomatic staff

BYLINE: From DAVID HIRST

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: TRIPOLI


The Libyan Government is expected to retaliate against the latest EEC measures
to reduce the staff of its People's Bureaux in Europe. European diplomats here
believe this will take the form of a reduction in the number of their staff at
embassies here.

Meanwhile, Britain advised dependants of its nationals to leave Libya.


Apart from Italy, no European country maintains more than a handful of diplomats
in Tripoli, so the effect of the Libyan action will be small - and is probably
intended as symbolic gesture. Some of Colonel Gadafy's officials are clearly
weary of endless confrontation, and he himself seems to want a breathing space.

The head of the British interest section in Tripoli met leading representatives
of the British community yesterday and advised British citizens who could do so
to leave. But this is a routine precaution that is unlikely to lead to a
significant exodus.

Britain is advising dependants of its nationals to go because of the uncertain
situation, diplomatic sources said. Nationals were in no immediate danger, but
Britain wanted to reduce the numbers in Libya in case an evacuation was thought
necessary later, the sources added.

The lower key that Colonel Gadafy, his officials and media are currently
striking should not be taken as an indication of his longer-term mood or
intentions. Almost a fortnight after the US raid, nothing is clear. As before,
the regime continues to speak with two, often contradictory, voices.

One, for local or Arab consumption, still urges 'revolutionary violence,' and
the setting up of suicide squads to strike at the heart of the imperialist camp.
It is couched in vague generalities. In the other, addressed to the
international community, Colonel Gadafy disowns any connection with individual
terrorist attacks as they happen.

All that can be said is that the second of these discourses now has the upper
hand. Colonel Gadafy himself publicly boasts of his self-restraint. The Soviet
Union - visits by its warships, exchanges of messages with the Kremlin, a Gadafy
interview with Soviet journalists - has figured prominently in what crumbs of
information the local media dispenses.

Yesterday, the crew of a Soviet warship laid wreaths in Tripoli to mark the
deaths in the US air raids.

According to Arab diplomats here, the Russians have sought, and secured,
promises that Colonel Gadafy will not encourage terrorism in Europe.
Significantly, perhaps, visits by hard-line, Damascus-based Palestinian leaders
go officially unreported.

For the first time, the media has mentioned that an Arab summit is to take place
in Morocco this week. If, as expected, Colonel Gadafy shows up, it means that,
for the time being, he is trying to cash in on the diplomatic rewards of his
military action.

The Libyan people's attention is shifting back to the country's increasingly
serious economic problems. They are bracing themselves for a further drastic
dose of austerity measures that have been proposed to cope with 'the
complications arising out of the fall in oil prices. '

It would be foolhardy to forecast any fundamental and enduring policy change
without a change of leadership or regime, and there is little public evidence
that Colonel Gadafy is less firmly in command than he was before the raid.

He has not addressed a public rally, or faced Western newsmen, all of whom have
been told to leave. But, for the local media, he remains the only person who
counts. He appears to be as uninhibited, and idiosyncratic, as ever in his
opinions and theories. The thrust is still his own and Libya's aggrandisement.
He did not hesitate to tell Soviet journalists that he had renamed the
Jamahariyah the Great Jamahariyah, because it had not merely defended itself,
but the Soviet Union, too. Libya had 'stood in the path' of F-111s designed to
strike at Moscow as well at Tripoli. Publicly, at least, one of his notions of
selfrestraint is that he did not destroy the US Sixth Fleet, as he could have.

Libyan oil - the vital prop of his regime - continues to flow and the great
majority of Western technicians who keep it flowing will not give up their large
tax-free salaries until things get much more disturbing than they are at
present.

Things are essentially back to what they were after the skirmish in the Gulf of
Sidra, waiting for the next big terrorist outrage, in Europe or America.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 28, 1986

IRA bomb suspect loses US asylum plea / Peter McMullen

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER REED

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A former member of the IRA wanted in Britain for two bombings of army barracks
has been refused political asylum in the United States. But he will not have to
return to the UK.

Peter McMullen, who once served in the Parachute Regiment, has been in the US
since his arrest in 1978 in California with a false passport. An attempt in 1979
by Britain to have him extradited was rejected by a US judge who said that Mr
McMullen had been involved in a political 'insurrection' in Northern Ireland in
1970 and 1974.


After the ruling, Mr McMullen sought political asylum, claiming that he was on
an IRA murder list because he had disobeyed orders to murder a New York bar
owner.

His asylum request was rejected by a lower court, and he has now lost his
appeal. Three judges of the US Appeal Court in California unanimously found his
application unacceptable because of his involvement in 'gun running .. and
terrorist atrocities. '

British police want McMullen on suspicion of bombing a barracks in Ripon,
Yorkshire, in 1974, and the 1972 bombing of barracks in Ulster.

McMullen, who had deserted from the army, was last heard of working in an hotel
in Hawaii. He may now attempt a final appeal to the US Surpreme Court.
Otherwise, he will be ordered to leave as an illegal US resident, but may go
where he likes.

The orginal McMullen ruling created embarrassment in Britain because the judge
based his 'insurrection' finding on papers submitted by British authorities - at
a time when they were denying in Britain that turmoil in Ulster amounted to a
political uprising.

This question is due for testing again in the case of William Quinn, an
American-born former IRA member wanted on suspicion of murdering a London
policeman in 1975. He has been in prison in San Francisco since his arrest in
September, 1981.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 28, 1986

Thatcher toughens stand on terrorism / British premier calls on other nations to
halt arms contracts with Libya

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 627 words


The Prime Minister yesterday launched a distainful attack on policies of
restraint and appeasement and demanded that other nations should follow
Britain's example of halting arms contracts with Libya.

Mrs Thatcher made clear that she will fight side by side with President Reagan
at the Tokyo summit next week to produce a comprehensive package of measures
against international terrorism. She refused to rule out British backing for
further US military strikes against other world capitals such as Damascus and
Tehran, which she believed supported terrorism.


The Prime Minister's approach, in an interview on the BBC radio programme The
World This Weekend, showed no signs of the doubts of several of her Cabinet
colleagues about the wisdom of her decision to let the Americans use British
bases for the raid on Libya. Nor did she recognise the strains on the Nato
alliance expressed yesterday by its secretary-general, Lord Carrington.

He said: 'The situation is as bad between Europe and America as I can remember
in the period I have been associated with the alliance. ' He noted that there
was a widespread feeling in most west European countries that the air strike had
not solved anything, and he argued that a procedure should urgently be devised
for the US to consult on operations outside Nato's borders.

The purpose of Mrs Thatcher's remarks appeared to be to sow maximum doubts in
the minds of governments harbouring terrorists about the lenghths to which she
and President Reagan were prepared to go to strike back.

She was asked whether she would back more US attacks on other countries - for
example, the Syrian capital of Damascus or the Iranian capital of Tehran. She
said she would have to consider the request under the circumstances.

'Let me make it clear. I will never run a policy where we can only cower before
a tyrant or cringe before him,' she said. 'In that way he would have won and
terrorism would have won. Terrorism is there to make people do things which are
different from what they would choose to do.

The Prime Minister repeatedly avoided answering questions about the detail of
her involvement in the Libyan raid. She said it was not for her to say whether
acts of terrorism which intelligence sources had predicted were averted by the
strike. She did not want to go into detail about how far she had negotiated
directly with President Reagan.

Mrs Thatcher set the scene the efforts which President Reagan is expected to
make at the seven-nation Tokyo summit which begins next Sunday.

People would not have the means to conduct terrorism if no country in the world
supplied them with weapons. 'We don't. Some other countries still do. There is a
fantastic amount more which can be done. We have to talk to all the countries in
the world which we in fact believe may supply arms to Gadafy. ' President
Reagan's action had served notice on these countries that they had to contribute
more in the way of totally peaceful measures.

The Prime Minister was asked about accusations that she was President Reagan's
poodle. 'I don't think I make a very good poodle. I might be more a sort of
bulldog,' she said.

She was asked about Lord Hailsham's suggestion in a speech last Friday that the
law of treason could be used against terrorists whether or not they were British
subjects. Although she praised his 'fantastic legal brain and mind,' she did not
appear to have been briefed on the Lord Chancellor's argument.

But Mrs Thatcher made it clear that she personally favours the death penalty for
terrorists. Violent criminals, including terrorists, should not be able to go
into their crimes knowing that, however much they killed or maimed, they could
never forfeit their own lives.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 30, 1986

'Threat' to kill Americans as Libya reprisal / FBI to investigate threatened Abu
Nidal retaliation for the US bombing raid

BYLINE: From MICHAEL WHITE

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The FBI was last night investigating claims that the Abu Nidal terrorist group
has targeted the rightwing Heritage Foundation and three prominent conservative
Americans as suitable objects for attack in the wake of the US raids on Libya.

At the same time the Attorney-General, Mr Edwin Meese, is poised to consider
whether it is 'necessary or desirable' to follow Britain's lead and expel some
of the 3,500 Libyans in the US - half of them students.


If confirmed, the threats are the first directed against specific Americans and
institutions in the crisis. They come as the US revealed that it had secured
Egyptian permission to move its nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, the
Enterprise, and its support ships from the Indian Ocean to the Mediterranean, so
that the Sixth Fleet will have two carriers in the area once the Coral Sea has
returned home.

Sources discouraged speculation that the temporary presence of three carriers,
for the first time since the Gulf of Sidra attacks, presaged renewed US military
action against Colonel Muammar Gadafy. The Coral Sea was due home when diverted
to the second air strike on Libya.

Nor was there an immediate linking of the Abu Nidal threat with Libya. The
Heritage Foundation, the most vocal Reaganite lobby in Washington, said it had
been informed in advance of the claim made by CBS Television's Paris
correspondent, but had already taken steps to improve security at its
eight-storey offices a few blocks from Congress.

One of the three named individuals - the military analyst, Dr Edward Luttwak, a
former Bristol University lecturer now at the Georgetown Centre for Strategic
and International Studies - said: 'I'm very flattered. ' He declined to
speculate as to why he had been selected.

Dr Luttwak is a political hawk in East-West terms, but an unorthodox one, whose
book, The Pentagon and the Art of War, is a brilliant conservative critique of
the Defence Department's failings since 1945. The other two men named were
Colonel Oliver North, a senior official of the National Security Council who was
identified last year as the White House's informal link with the Nicaraguan
'contras,' and a retired general, John Singlaub.

General Singlaub told reporters that all three men were known for their
opposition to what he called the Libyan-subsidised Sandinistas and their
terrorist activities. The Heri tage Foundation, which is regarded more as an
activist lobby than a non-partisan think-tank, has often outshone such august
bodies as the Brookings Institution in the struggle to influence top officials.

The FBI said yesterday that it did not provide protection to individuals, which
was the responsibility of their own organisations. 'If we see a situation where
someone says he is going after an individual, we would stop it occurring,' a
spokesman said.

Last year, the bureau claims, it prevented 23 terrorist incidents inside the US,
including two plots against the Indian Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, and what
it calls a domestic leftwing plot to blow up nine buildings, including the old
executive office building next to the White House.

Two domestic terrorist killings did occur: that of an alleged ex-Nazi, and of
Alex Odeh, a spokesman for Arab-Americans, blown up by a letter-bomb in Los
Angeles. Suspicion in both cases pointed towards rightwing Jewish fringe groups.

The European Community Commission has cut the accreditation of Libyan diplomats
at its Brussels headquarters to three from 13.

Major Abdel-Salam Jalloud, the second-in-command to Colonel Gadafy, said in an
interview yesterday that Libya would respond more toughly to any future US
attacks. Libya's reply 'will be firmer and more painful, particularly as the
Jamahiriyah has largely benefited from the experience of past confrontations,'
Major Jalloud said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 1, 1986

Say it on May Day / The origins of International Workers Day

BYLINE: By AIDAN WHITE

LENGTH: 772 words


Today IS a red-letter day for trade unions, socialist parties and labour
organisations around the world. May Day, or International Workers Day, is 100
years old.

May Day, which is still observed by a portion of the population in almost every
country, has its origins in the campaign for shorter working hours in the United
States. In 1886 US unions declared that from May 1 the working day would be
fixed at eight hours. In Chicago, the militant centre of the movement, 40,000
workers marched peacefully on that first May Day. However, on May 3 the police
fired on a crowd of people supporting a local strike killing six people. The
next day a massive protest meeting was held in Haymarket Square. At the end of
it, police charged the crowd, a bomb was thrown, two policemen were killed - six
others died later of wounds - and bullets were sprayed into the throng, killing
another ten demonstrators.


The Haymarket incident triggered a wave of anti-union hysteria, and later four
anarchists were hanged for the bombing. Dan Gallin, in his brief history of the
incident produced for the International Union of Food and Allied Workers'
Association, says that nobody has ever been able to establish with certainty who
threw the bomb.

There was widespread anger and the Haymarket incident, involving as it did so
many immigrant workers, provided a focus for the cause of international trades
unionism. In 1889, at the Congress of the Second International, May 1 was
formally nominated as International Workers Day - a permanent memorial to the
Haymarket victims. Today, for instance, workers in Mexico City will meet to
begin their celebrations in the Square of the Chicago Martyrs.

Though May Day has its roots in America's radical labour tradition, the US and
Canada hijacked the idea and turned it into a celebration of the dignity of
labour and a holiday enjoyed by all classes. Labour Day is now held on the First
Monday of September. But this year a broad Chicago-based coalition has formed
the Haymarket Centennial Committee which, according to a committee member, Paul
Bigman, writing in International Labour Reports, aims 'to reclaim our history. '

In Britain, May Day was first celebrated in 1890. But these days, in the wake of
a debate on the left about whether or not the working class exists any more, it
is marked more by competition between socialist and trade union journals for a
slice of the still popular May Day Greetings business. Today's Morning Star will
undoubtedly be a bumper issue. But there is still some waving of the flag.
Tonight, for instance, demonstrators will march along the Highway in East London
to bring May Day greetings to Wapping.

The decline in Britain and America of the notion of May Day as a workers' day
may have been accelerated in years past by watching the day's events around the
world, which used to focus on the military hardware trundling into Red Square.
Elsewhere, there are governments - in Santiago and Warsaw for example - which
always cancel military and police leave at the end of April. But this has not
prevented workers in Chile or Poland from taking the day off - as they did in
their thousands three years ago - to remind their military rulers of the fragile
nature of their hold on power.

In some parts of the world May Day is still a focus of protest. In the
Philippines, for instance, the anti-Marcos trade unions chose May 1 to launch
their Kilusang Mayo Uno (the First of May Movemen) in 1980. The KMU was able to
mobilise thousands of protesters for its May Day parades, and became one of the
organisations that built the popular movement that eventually swept Marcos from
power.

In South Africa, the May 1 demonstrations last year were the largest ever.

In the last decade memorable pages in labour movement history have been written
on May Day. On May Day 1974 a million people in Lisbon took to the streets to
celebrate the fall of Portugal's 40-year-old fascist regime. In 1977 the largest
ever May Day demonstration in Turkey called by the trade union federation DISK
involved a crowd of 150,000. A terrorist attack on the demonstration left 38
people dead - an escalation in terror which led to the military dictatorship in
1980.

But in spite of banning orders, imprisonment and all manner of intimidation, May
Day still survives - a reminder that, for one day at least, the workers can
claim the calender as their own. The problem is claiming the other 364 days as
well.

May Day published by International Union of Food and Allied Workers
Associations, 8 rampe du Pont-Rouge, CH123 Petit Laney, Switzerland.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 3, 1986

Gorbachev hands arms plea in via Thatcher / British Premier to urge US President
Reagan to remain within 1979 Salt II treaty at Tokyo summit

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK

LENGTH: 398 words


The Prime Minister, bearing a personal message from the Soviet leader, Mr
Mikhail Gorbachev, will urge President Reagan at the seven-nation Toyko economic
summit to keep US strategic nuclear missiles within the limits set by the
now-expired 1979 Salt II treaty.

Mrs Thatcher, trying to calm fears of terrorist attacks in Britain, also
promised American visitors yesterday that they would be perfectly safe. When she
stopped in Alaska, on her way to South Korea, she told local television that
flights to Britain from North America were far from full in the wake of last
month's US bombing of Libya.


She said there was no reason to fear. 'London is safer than most American
cities. '

Armed with her message from Mr Gorbachev, Mrs Thatcher arrived in South Korea
last night for her 36hour official visit, the first by a British Prime Minister.

President Reagan still has to announce whether the US will retire and destroy
two other nuclear submarines when Neptune, a new Trident submarine, goes to sea
in the middle of this month. Neptune has 24 nuclear missiles, and unless two of
the older submarines are destroyed, the US would be in violation of the Salt II
limits to which the two super-powers have so far adhered.

The President, who is being pressed by some of his advisers to break out of the
treaty, has indicated that he wants to consult his allies.

Britain has all along urged respect for the treaty, and fears that the East-West
arms control process would otherwise be fatally undermined. Mr Gorbachev's
message, handed to the Prime Minister on Wednesday by the new Soviet Ambassador,
Mr Leonid Zamyatin, appears to have reinforced this view.

Little has emerged about the contents of the message. While it mentioned no
specific date, Mr Gorbachev has confirmed that the Soviet foreign minister Mr
Eduard Shevardnadze, would soon be paying an official visit to Britain.

Mr Gorbachev focused on arms control; and it is clear that he has done more than
merely repeat routine Soviet interest in rapid progress towards the elimination
of nuclear weapons.

Mrs Thatcher will hold talks today with President Chun Doo Hwan, whom she
received in London only last month, and Prime Minister Lho Shin-yongall She will
then fly to the tense border with North Korea, first visiting a monument to
British soldiers who fought in the 1950-53 Korean war.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 1986, Monday

British family feared dead / Sri Lanka airliner bombing (526) /SCT

LENGTH: 574 words


A British family of three are missing and feared dead following the bomb
explosion that ripped apart a Sri Lankan airliner at Colombo airport on
Saturday.

Twenty-two people are thought to have died in the terrorist attack on the Air
Lanka Lockheed Tristar jet at Katunayake international airport as it was being
boarded for a flight to the Maldive islands at 9.12am local time.

A Foreign Office spokesman said the Sri Lankan authorities confirmed that the
McPherson family was missing, feared dead.

Airline records show that the British family was assigned seats in Row 39, very
close to the centre of the cargo hold where the explosion is said to have
occurred.

The daughter of the McPhersons is aged 19 and one of the bodies at the police
morgue, charred beyond recognition, is that of a young girl.

Only eight of the 22 dead have been positively identified. They are one
Frenchman, two Japanese, two Maldivians, including a child, and three Sri
Lankans, including an Air Lanka steward.

The majority of the bodies disfigured and charred beyond recognition are
believed to be the Japanese and Europeans listed as missing.

Twenty four of the 128 passengers were injured in the bombing. They include four
Britons, one of whom was taken to a Government hospital and is thought to be in
danger. The other three were taken to Colombo's Radnaloka private hospital.

The eighteen other Britons on board escaped injury.

A British High Commission spokesman said some had decided to fly on to the
Maldives on an Air Lanka flight on Sunday evening. He said that on Saturday
afternoon they were keen to return to Britain but by yesterday had changed their
minds. Commission officials helped the British passengers get new travel
documents and, for those who lost all their belongings, clothes.

A major obstacle to tracing the passengers on the fated flight was the absence
of a passenger list. Commission authorities had to telephone all hospitals and
hotels in Colombo to check if any British nationals had been admitted or had
checked in.

Sri Lankan security officials believe the bomb was hidden in a consignment of
meat and vegetables being freighted to the Republic of the Maldives.

No official announcement has been made about how the bomb may have been smuggled
into the cargo hold, where the explosion is said to have occurred.

Most of the vegetables and meat supplies to the Maldives are air freighted daily
from Sri Lanka by its airline.

The wreck of the Air Lanka Tristar lay near the departure lounge at Colombo
airport yesterday as special investigators searched it for clues. The tail part
of the aircraft rested on the ground and the plane was broken in two. Luggage,
cargo and small parts of human flesh were still visible around the aircraft.

Mr Cyril Herap, the inspector-general of police, said at least 50 kilogrammes of
explosives had been used.

The explosion occurred three minutes before the plane was due to take off. An
Air Lanka official said 'if it had occurred in the air a few minutes later the
passenger list would have been a list of the dead'.

Air Lanka had been taking special security precautions since it believed it was
likely target for attacks from Tamil separatist guerillas

National security officials say the militant guerrilla group, the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), were responsible for the explosion even though
they have denied it.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 1986, Monday

Summit rush to agree draft on terrorism: Rocket attack near Tokyo palace as
leaders gather (819) /SCT

BYLINE: From SARAH HOGG and DAVID WATTS

LENGTH: 904 words


Economic summit officials were working on a special declaration on terrorism
after rocket attacks in Tokyo Both Mrs Thatcher and President Reagan were
unruffled by the attack, but police increased security The attacks near the
Akasaka Palace concided with the arrival of leaders of the seven most powerful
democracies President Reagan is to press Europe to join an embargo on Libyan oil
in a further attempt at sanctions

TOKYO - A salvo of rocket attacks in central Tokyo, coinciding with the arrival
ceremonies for the economic summit of the leaders of the seven most powerful
democracies, further underlined the need for a strong declaration on measures to
counter terrorism, Mrs Thatcher urged here yesterday.

She arrived in Tokyo only a couple of hours before five home-made rockets
exploded near the Akasaka Palace, where the Prime Minister, Mr Yasuhiro
Nakasone, was greeting the heads of government of the United States, Germany,
France, Britain, Italy and Canada, as well as the President of the European
Commission.

The rockets were fired from outside a two-kilometre ring of security thrown
around the summit area by 30,000 Japanese police.

However, the attacks did not disrupt the summit talks, which are focussing on
anti-terrorist measures, the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and - after
the delivery of a special letter from Mr Mikhail Gorbachov, the Soviet leader,
to Mrs Thatcher before she left London - the prospect for a summit meeting
between the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union.

Officials were working overnight on two special declarations, expected to be
issued today, suggesting concrete measures to deal with terrorism and restore
international confidence in the nuclear industry.

Other issues being aired on the eve of the two-day summit include the
international traffic in drugs, the situation in Afghanistan and the prospects
for south-east Asia, for which Mr Nakasone considers himself the natural
spokesman at the summit.

A sharp disagreement on exchange rates has developed as the most critical
economic conern, followed by the growth of protectionism.

Heads of government, meeting for dinner last night at Mr Nakasone's official
residence, concentrated on a British draft for the planned declaration of new
counter-terrorist measures, but officials were instructed to quarry other drafts
for measures.

These are expected to include limitations on arms sales to terrorist states and
tighter visa controls, but not economic sanctions. Nor are the Americans likely
to succeed in their demands for a mention of Libya by name in the summit
declaration, which will take a much firmer tone than previous anti-terrorist
statements made at several summits in the past decade.

The summit deputations, which include foreign and finance ministers, are also
framing as a statement on the need for worldwide agreement on an early warning
system between governments on the kind of nuclear leakage which occurred at
Chernobyl.

President Reagan's criticism here on Saturday that the Soviet Union had not
shown good neighbourliness will be shaped into a demand that all members of the
International Atomic Energy Agency provide other members with prompt
explanations and permit international inspection of their nuclear plants. One
senior official suggested the declaration should oblige all states to recognize
that no nuclear plant is an island.

Japan's interest was stimulated by an unexpected increase in levels of
radioactivity in the rainfall reported in Tokyo yesterday.

Relations with the Soviet Union secured a high place on the summit agenda with
Mrs Thatcher's delivery to President Reagan of the message contained in the
letter from Mr Gorbachov.

According to leading British officials, the gist of the message was that Mr
Gorbachov was still very much in the summit business.

In Tokyo, President Reagan, with whom Mrs Thatcher had a one-hour private
meeting yesterday, responded to the Gorbachov message by stressing his desire
for talks with the Soviet leader.

Mrs Thatcher also discussed Libya, and the fall-off in American tourism to
England since the raid on Tripoli, as well as economic relations between the
United States and Britain, which have worsened following the further upsurge in
protectionism. She further stressed the need to check American supplies of funds
to terrorists in Northern Ireland.

Economic issues, on which these annual summits are intended to focus, will come
to the fore in formal discussions beginning this morning.

The rapid rise of the yen, which has appreciated 40 per cent against the dollar
since September, and the decline in the dollar, are the critical issues.

Yesterday the American Treasury Secretary, Mr James Baker, rebuffed Japanese
pleas for help in lowering the yen, stressing the need for Japan to reduce its
trade surplus, now running at more than dollars 60 billion a year.

Summit governments are expected to agree to let markets decide for a while,
taking no further steps to depress the dollar but refusing to intervene
collectively to prevent a further rise in the yen.

Japan's trading partners are urging the removal of special tax incentives to
saving which deter spending.

The Japanese Finance Minister, Mr Noboru Takeshita, indicated yesterday that he
was planning to reduce the top rate of tax in Japan from 88 per cent to 60 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 7, 1986

Brighton bomb 'planned weeks in advance' / Trial of Patrick Magee and others for
1984 IRA bombing of Grand Hotel

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 597 words


An Old Bailey jury was told yesterday that the bombing of the Grand Hotel,
Brighton where the Prime Minister and the Cabinet were staying during the
October 1984 Conservative Party conference was 'one of the worst acts of
terrorism in this country, and came within an inch of being the Provisional
IRA's most devastating explosion. '

Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, alleged that a bomb was planted about 24 days before
the explosion, by Patrick Magee, aged 35, of Belfast who is accused of causing
the explosion and murdering five people who died as a result of it.


Accused with Magee of conspiring to cause explosions last year are Gerald
McDonnel, aged 34, Peter Sherry, aged 30, Martina Anderson, aged 23 and Ella
O'Dwyer, aged 26. All five plead not guilty.

Mr Amlot said Magee planted the bomb behind a panel in the bathroom of Room 629
on the hotel's sixth floor while staying there under a false name between
September 15 and 18, 1984.

'The bomb went off at precisely 2.54 am. No warning was given. Five people were
killed, many seriously injured and there was of course enormous damage done to
the hotel. '

A huge security operation was mounted for the trial, Britain's biggest involving
terrorist charges. Armed police patrolled outside, and took positions on
rooftops overlooking the Old Bailey, while a helicopter flew overhead as the
accused were brought from Brixton prison in a convoy escorted by motorcyclists.

Police moved off a demonstration by some 50 people, supporters of Irish
Prisoners' Appeal, who were protesting about what they called a' political
show-trial. '

Everyone entering the court building was body-searched, and passed through an
airport-style electronic security gate, including the 80 people from whom the
jury was selected.

It took an hour to select six men and six women from the panel after the judge,
Mr Justice Boreham had asked all the jurors whether they, or any close relative
or friend, had been directly affected by any bomb explosions, served as a member
of the security forces in Northern Ireland, or been in the services.

About a dozen people were discharged after answering affirmatively to the second
question.

Fourteen potential jurors were challenged by counsel.

Magee is charged with the murder of sir Anthony Berry, aged 59, MP for Enfield,
Southgate; Mrs Jean Shattock, aged 52, wife of the chairman of the Conservative
Party's Western Area; Mr Eric Taylor, aged 54, chairman of the party's
North-west area; Mrs Anne Wakeham, aged 45, wife of Mr John Wakeham, the Chief
Whip; and Mrs Muriel McLean, aged 54, wife of the chairman of the Scottish
Conservative Party.

Mr Amlot said that the main damage to the hotel on October 12 was from the
fourth floor upwards. The front wall from the fifth to the seventh floors was
blown out and the roof over that area was completely destroyed.

Those guests asleep in the column of bedrooms which collapsed suffered the
'nightmare experience of falling right to the bottom of the building and then
being covered in debris,' counsel said.

The Shattocks were in room 628, the Taylors in 528, the Wakehams in 428 and the
Berrys in 328. Mr Norman Tebbit, the Conservative Party chairman, and his wife
Margaret were in room 228.

Mr Amlot said there was 'considerable significance' that the experts said the
seat of the explosion was the bathroom of 629 rather than 628. The bomb,
consisting of 20 to 30lb of explosive, was right inside, or touching the panel
of the bath.

The trial, which continues today, is expected to last two months.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 8, 1986

The Day in Politics: El Al bomb raised with Syrians / Terrorism

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 825 words


The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said yesterday that his advice to
British travellers in all areas where there was a risk of terrorist violence was
that they went at their own risk, on their own responsibility and had to make
their own judgments.

Sir Geoffrey failed to give clear support to President Reagan when he was
questioned yesterday in the Commons as to whether he thought Syria would be an
appropriate target for further United States military action. However, he did
confirm that the Foreign Office in London has had recent talks with the Syrian
Ambassador about last month's attempted bombing of an El Al jet at Heathrow.


The measures agreed at the seven-nation summit at Tokyo on Monday would only be
applied if there was plain proof of state involvement in terrorism 'suitable to
deserve the response suggested,' he said.

The Foreign Secretary said he had already advised the withdrawal of dependents
and non-essential British nationals from Libya and confirmed that Libyans would
not be expelled from Britain simply because they were Libyan.

'Action taken in respect of Libyans resident here has been taken on the basis of
evidence and on the grounds of security considerations and not general
categorisation,' Sir Geoffrey said.

Mr Dick Douglas (Lab. Dunfermline), asked what advice Sir Geoffrey gave to
British nationals given the statements made by President Reagan on the
possibility of US action against state-sponsored terrorism emanating from Syria
and Iran.

The Foreign Secretary said: 'Our advice to travellers in all areas where tension
is increasing and there is a risk of terrorist violence, such as certain parts
of Beirut, is that they have to make their own judgment at their own risk and on
their own responsibility. '

Mr Andrew MacKay (C. Berkshire E) said some Tory MPs would not be particularly
sympathetic to British nationals who found themselves in difficulties in Libya
since it had been made clear to them the risks of going there.

Sir Geoffrey said he understood the sentiment but said he had no legal means of
preventing travel to Libya.

Mr Dennis Healey, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, asked whether Sir Geoffrey
shared the view expressed on Tuesday by President Reagan and of Vice President
Bush that Syria would be a suitable candiate for possible unilateral American
military action, possibly involving the use of sea-launched cruise missiles.

'Or do you share the view of Italian Prime Minister Craxi that further action
would be a clear breach of the Tokyo agreement' He added that the Japanese
premier, Mr Nakasone, had said every country had the right to interpret the
communique as it wished. 'What is left of Mrs Thatcher's great achievement after
that? ' said Mr Healey.

Sir Geoffrey said that after such a confusing question he was left wondering
which interpretation Mr Healey backed. 'Craxi|' shouted Mr Healey.

'The communique was a commitment on collective, effective international action.
It was not related to the prospect of military onslaught on any given country. '

Mr Alan Beith, the Liberal spokesman, pressed the point. 'Do you recognise that
Syria does provide a safe haven for some particularly ruthless terrorists? If
you do recognise it, do you advocate bombing Syria or some other more realistic
and promising means of dealing with the terrorist threat from there?'

The Foreign Secretary said the measures agreed at the Tokyo summit would only be
applied if there were 'plain proof of state involvement in terrorism suitable to
deserve the response suggested. '

He confirmed that the Syrian Ambassador in London had called at the Foreign
Office last week at the British Government's request, and again at his own
request on May 5. 'I can confirm that we discussed the El Al bombing incident
with him. I can give no further details while the police investigation is
continuing. '

He had been asked to confirm a newspaper report that the Foreign Office had
asked for the withdrawal of a Syrian diplomat engaged in terrorist activities.

Earlier Mr Healey had accused President Reagan of being involved in a 'blatant
form of state terrorism' by the US government proposals for military aid to the
contras in Nicaragua.

He said the contras were involved in horrifying atrocities and were now being
accused in America of drug running and plotting the murder of an American
Ambassador in Central America.

'As long as President Reagan supports such acts he has no right to claim to be
an opponent of state terrorism,' Mr Healey said.

Mr Timothy Eggar, junior Foreign Office Minister, said the parallel between
Libya and Central America was absurd. Colonel Gadafy had organised and directed
world-wide terrorist violence against innocent people outside Libya, while the
contras had launched an arms struggle in their own country and did not seek to
advance their case by terrorist actions in third countries.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 8, 1986

Thatcher 'misled MPs on F-111 use in raid' / Accusation against British Premier
over US bombing raid on Libya

BYLINE: By PAUL BROWN

LENGTH: 723 words


Evidence from the Pentagon about the United States' reasons for wanting to use
British bases for the bombing raid on Libya show that Mrs Thatcher misled the
House of Commons, Mr Tam Dalyell, Labour MP for Linlithgow said last night.

He challenged Mrs Thatcher's explanation that the F-111s were used for
'humanitarian reasons' because greater bombing accuracy caused fewer civilian
casualties. This had not occurred to the Pentagon, he said.


Mr Dalyell said he was relying on information from the authoritative US
magazine, Aviation Week, which in a detailed account of the raid quotes the
Pentagon as saying equally accurate bombers from the US fleet could have
completed the raid without help from British bases.

'Mrs Thatcher is guilty of hypocrisy of a very tall order. It is clear that
F-111s are not more accurate than carrierborne aircraft. The Pentagon wanted to
tie in the British for political reasons. ' he said.

Pentagon sources reveal that planning for the Libyan raid began a week before
Mrs Thatcher gave permission. Back-up tanker planes used in the operation had
already been brought into British bases.

The article also revealed that US plans for British-based F-111s extend beyond
Nato deployment and are for use in the Middle East.

In a frank comment a senior military official said that the Navy's carriers
could have hit all the Libyan targets at the same time, but they would have had
very little spare capacity.

'There were a lot of good reasons to include the Air Force F-111s. In most of
the contingency planning for large air strikes by the Sixth Fleet. the F-111s
from Britain are to be used

'The Libyan attack provided a good proving ground for thy F-111s to be flown in
the Mediterranean. Understandably after all the Navy action in Libya previously,
the Air Force wanted a piece of the action.

'The fact that the Defence Department budget is under consideration - and here
was an opportunity to show how well the money is being spent on aircraft and
weapons - was not overlooked by be services as a side benefit to the mission.

'Another reason to include the F-111s in the operations was that it showed the
support of Great Britain for our anti-terrorist activities. '

The American military was particularly keen to test new technology added since
the Vietnam war. Three EF-111 strike and electronic warfare aircraft from Upper
Heyford in Oxfordshire, which would be deployed ahead of a nuclear strike, were
used in the Libyan raid.

A fleet of 28 tanker aircraft were used to refuel the strike force, some of
which were flown in some days before Mrs Thatcher gave permission.

The EF1-11s and 18 F1-11s were refuelled four times on the flight to Libya and
twice on the return.

The F1-11s struck three targets: The Al Azziziyah Barracks, the home of Colonel
Gadafy and alleged headquarters of international terrorist attacks; the Sidi
Bilal port facility, and Tripoli airport.

The Navy was assigned to two targets in and near Benghazi: a barracks which
serves as an alternative headquarters and Beninia airfield.

The article reveals that the Libyans fired back with Russian-made surface-to-air
missiles. The US carrier aircraft hit back with a dozen Shrike missiles and 30
Harm missiles at sites in Tripoli and Benghazi.

Most of the F1-11s were equipped with four 2,000lb bombs dropped from 400 feet
at more than 500 miles an hour. Some carried 12 500lb bombs. Some bombs had to
be dumped when they were not released over the targets.

The Navy planes used 1,000 lb bombs and cluster bombs. Both sets of planes used
radar and laser targeting systems. Navy and air force pilots were briefed not to
drop their bombs unless they had a positive identification and a perfect
approach on their low-level run to their target.

Some of the aircraft crews could not meet the stringent release requirements and
did not drop their weapons on the target areas. Five F-111s and two A-6Es did
not complete their bombing mission.

Mr Dalyell said he would press Mrs Thatcher to make a Commons statement on the
contrast between her views and those of the Pentagon on why the F-111s were
used.

Speaking to Christchurch Labour party in Ferndown, Hampshire, he said the
principal reason for their use seemed to be to tie the British into the
operation.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 12, 1986

Syrians expel three British diplomats

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SIMMONS

LENGTH: 704 words


Syria yesterday ordered the expulsion of three British diplomats in retaliation
for a Foreign Office decision to expel three Syrians suspected of being involved
in terrorist activities.

The Foreign Office last night condemned the latest Syrian move as 'quite
unjustifiable,' but a spokesman said that no more Syrians would be expelled from
Britain as a result.


'We're not in the tit-for-tat game. We have expelled Syrians because they were
allegedly involved in terrorist activity,' he said. 'That as far as we are
concerned is the end of the story. No measures are contemplated. '

A fourth Syrian diplomat left London yesterday but the Foreign Office said his
departure had not been ordered and was a Syrian matter.

The expulsion represents a new dimension in the United States and West European
drive against alleged Middle East terrorism. Syria has close links with the
Soviet Union and remains Israel's most determined opponent in the region.

The three Syrians have been asked to leave Britain by the end of this week. The
order came after the refusal by the Syrian ambassador, Dr Loutouf Allah Haydar,
to waive diplomatic immunity so that they could be questioned about the attempt
to blow up an Israeli airliner at Heathrow Airport last month, which led to the
arrest of an Arab described in London as Jordanian.

Dr Haydar said yesterday 'We have stated and we state again that the Syrian
embassy has never had any knowledge of or involvement in any terrorist acts on
British soil. '

He said that Scotland Yard investigators had made no mention of 'charges' or
'accusations' against the three. The word 'expel' was not used, he said, and his
offer to allow them to be questioned in the Syrian embassy - which is
technically Syrian soil - was not accepted.

Dr Loutouf also said that one of the three Syrians facing expulsion had left
Britain two weeks ago after his daughter had been injured in a 'terrorist' act
in Syria. The three expelled diplomats, all described in the Foreign Office
diplomatic list as attaches, are Mr Zaki Oud, Mr Ahmed Abdul Latif, and Mr
Mouna.

Their expulsion comes just weeks after a visit to Britain by the Syrian Foreign
Minister, Mr Harar, who met Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, for
discussions which were afterwards described as 'tolerably friendly. '

The expelled Britons are the defence attache, Colonel David Maitland-Titterton;
the first secretary, Mr David Taylor; and a vice-consul, Mr Andrew Balfour. The
defence attache is currently in Britain.

The Foreign Office said last night that the expulsion represented a marked
change in British-Syrian relations.

By IAN BLACK

JERUSALEM - The Israeli Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, said yesterday that
an official arm of the Syrian Government had been responsible for the plot to
blow up the Israeli airliner at Heathrow.

'According to the most reliable information at our disposal, the decision to
attack the El Al plane was not taken at a low level,' Mr Rabin told reporters on
his return from a trip to the US. 'It was planned and executed by an authorised
Syrian body. '

There have been suggestions that the Heathrow attack may have been organised by
an arm of Syrian intelligence for reasons connected to internal power struggles
in Damascus.

'Syria has recently broadened the scope of its terrorist operations to Europe,'
Mr Rabin said. 'This is a dangerous development that requires us to work out
what is happening here. '

The Defence Minister said there was no necessary connection between Israel's
determination to fight Syrian terrorism and the likelihood of a military
confrontation between the two countries, a possibility which has been discussed
widely in the last few days.

The Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, said at yesterday's weekly cabinet meeting
in Jerusalem that Israel would do all it can to prevent a war with Syria, but
the world must do what was necessary to fight international terrorism.

Israeli radio reported that Mr Peres expressed satisfaction with the British
decision to expel the diplomats from the Syrian embassy in London and with
American statements condemning Damascus for its involvement in terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 13, 1986

The Day in Politics: Britain 'will act' warning to Syria over terrorism /
Diplomatic expulsions

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 571 words


The British Government will not hesitate to act firmly and appropriately if
further Syrian state involvement in terrorist activity is established as a
result of continuing police investigations in London.

Mr Timothy Renton, the Foreign Office minister, said in a Commons statement that
the Govemment did not wish to see any escalation of military action in the
Middle East. But he refused, despite repeated questioning, to give a direct
response to the possibility of Israeli or American military action against
Syria.


Mr Donald Anderson, for Labour, urged the Government not to use the terrorist
threat as a cover for military action against Syria, while Dr David Owen, the
SDP leader, asked for a clear and categorical statement that the Government
would not support retaliatory and punitive action by Israel against Syria.

Mr Renton described the Syrian government decision to expel three British
diplomats from the embassy in Damascus as 'totally unjustified retaliation' for
the weekend expulsion of three Syrian diplomats from Britain.

The Foreign Office in London had asked the Syrian embassy to waive diplomatic
immunity of three attaches to enable police to question them about Syrian
involvement in certain terrorist activities in Britain. The Syrian government
said they were not willing to allow diplomatic immunity to be waived. This was
found to be unacceptable and the British Government asked the Syrians to
withdraw the three attathes within seven days.

'We are now considering whether there is cause for any additional measures
against Syria,' said Mr Renton. 'It will be necessary to take into account all
factors affecting our bilateral relations with Syria. These include the level of
the diplomatic staff whom the Syrians have asked us to withdraw, and the need to
protect British subjects in Syria. '

Mr Anderson offered no criticism of the expulsions but asked how far the
government relied on Israeli intelligence reports for the information about the
attempted bombing on the EI Al airliner at new information indicated that it was
the Syrians rather than the Libyans who may have been behind the West Berlin
disco bombing.

Mr Renton insisted that the British Special Branch police were perfectly capable
of doing their own legwork and he denied that the British Government had acted
upon information from Israeli intelligence. On the West Berlin bombing Mr Renton
said there was no reason whatever to doubt earlier conclusions about the extent
of Libyan involvement.

Mr Renton said that the Government would take into account the relative sizes of
the British embassy in Damascus and the Syrian embassy in London if further
action in contemplated.

Dr Owen called for diplomatic and economic sanction and even the closure of the
Syrian embassy if further evidence proved their involve. ment with the EI Al
bombing or the West Berlin bombing He asked for a clear statement that the
Government would not suppport retaliatory action by Israel against the Syrians.

But Mr Renton said only 'We will not hesitate to act firmly and appropiately if
Syrian state involvement in terrorist activities is established. Each situation
must be examined on its own merits. What we wish to do is to look at the full
range of peaceful measures agreed by the Community and at the Tokyo summit to
see what of those should be followed if Syrian involvement is established. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 13, 1986

Britain considers move against Syria / Foreign Office expects further evidence
of terrorist backing from London investigation

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 332 words


The Foreign Office expects police investigations in London to uncover further
evidence of Syrian involvement in terrorist activity following the expulsion of
three British diplomats from Damascus.

Mr Timothy Renton, the Foreign Office Minister of State, told MPs yesterday that
the Government was considering whether additional measures should be taken
against Syria.


The Government, he said, would not hesitate to act 'appropriately and firmly' if
further Syrian state involvement in terrorist activities was established as a
result of continuing police investigation in London.

But the Government is keen to distance itself from possible United States and
Israeli military action against Syria as suspicions increase of alleged Syrian
involvement in the El Al attempted bombing at Heathrow and the West Berlin
nightclub bombing.

Mr Renton insisted that any measures taken by the Government would come within
the terms of the international anti-terrorist package agreed at last week's
Tokyo economics summit.

'This incident highlights the need for the peace process between Arab countries
and Israel to be continued and I look forward to Mrs Thatcher's visit to
Israel,' Mr Renton said in the face of repeated Opposition demands for an
assurance that the Government would not support a punitive raid.

The Syrians ordered the expulsion of three British diplomats from Damascus on
Sunday in retaliation for a Foreign Office decision to expel three Syrians from
London. The Syrian ambassador had refused to waive diplomatic immunity so that
allegations about involvement in terrorist activities could be fully
investigated.

Syria's retaliation was described by Britain as totally unjustified, but it was
made clear yesterday that the Government would not continue a 'tit for tat. '

But while the issue of the three particular diplomats may not be pursued it
believes that police Investigations may uncover further evidence of
state-sponsored terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 1986, Tuesday

Extradition pact raises US doubts (460) /SCT

BYLINE: From MICHAEL BINYON, WASHINGTON

LENGTH: 493 words


Old-fashioned Irish ethnic politics, strong emotions over international
terrorism, US sensibilities on political refugees and strong pressure on London
and the White House have combined to snare the US-British extradition treaty in
a web of increasingly bitter argument and complex domestic politicking.

The powerful Senate foreign relations committee may take up the stalled treaty
tomorrow, after a new intensive round of lobbying here by Mr Tom King, the
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, who is today seeing some of the key
senators as well as leaders of the Irish-American community. Britain has
insisted the treaty is a test of US resolve to fight terrorism in the wake of
the Tokyo summit agreement.

But passage of the treaty is still uncertain: influential Democrats strongly
oppose automatic extradition of those accused of attacking British military
officials and installations, and want to rewrite the treaty to limit this to
terrorists attacking civilian targets.

They are backed by Senator Jesse Helms, the right-wing North Carolina
Republican, who argues that such a treaty could become a precedent for use
against the rebel forces in Afghanistan or Nicaragua and all groups mounting
attacks against established governments.

Britain, the Reagan Administration and most Republicans are adamant that any
gutting of the treaty's language that excludes the murder of British soldiers in
Ulster would make nonsense of the treaty. Mr Abraham Sofar, the State
Department's legal adviser, said it would 'declare open season' on military
personnel.

Senator Richard Lugar, Republican chairman of the foreign relations committee,
who has tried to avoid confrontation, especially with the powerful Irish lobby,
may at the last minute not present the Bill if he finds he does not have the
vote. The issue has been repeatedly postponed since last August.

To speed up the treaty he has skilfully tied it to the economic aid package for
Ireland, which has the vociferous support of the US Irish community.

Ironically this has upset Dublin, which wants the money more than the treaty,
and fears further delay for the dollars 250 million ( pounds 160 million) in
cash already approved by the House of Representatives.

Republicans, however, are refusing to allow one to go forward without the other,
and are already asking whether the US can afford the sum.

The British Embassy here has been energetically lobbying, and Sir Oliver Wright,
the Ambassador, has personally held talks with the Democratic waverers, invoking
a strong support of President Reagan and his Administration.

But with Mrs Thatcher openly calling for immediate action, it is becoming harder
for Senator Lugar to counsel patience.

Meanwhile, senators of both parties are increasingly resenting outside attempts
to ride roughshod over the domestic implications, including American
sensitivities on the historic right of sanctuary in the US.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 1986, Tuesday

Leading Article: The men from Damascus / Expulsion of three Syrian diplomats
from Britain (586) /SCT

LENGTH: 656 words


Yesterday's Commons statement on the expulsion of three Syrian diplomats and the
subsequent - plainly retaliatory - expulsion from Syria of three British
diplomats made it clear that the Government is treating the matter cautiously
but seriously. Both attitudes are justified. Few matters could be more important
than the importing of terrorism and murder into the capital; few accusations
could therefore be more damaging than that foreign diplomats were implicated in
this activity.

Much wil obviously depend on what evidence of official Syrian involvement in
terrorism emerges from any future court proceedings. As yet the Government draws
a distinction between the immediate cause of the Syrians' expulsion - namely,
the refusal of the Damascus government to lift their diplomatic immunity so that
they might be questioned about their alleged involvement in a terrorist incident
- and the wider question of whether the Syrian embassy has been involved in
promoting terrorism in Britain.

The first is a serious enough matter. The police believed that there was good
reason to question the diplomats in a way that might yield evidence that could
be used in court. For the Syrian government to refuse such cooperation on such a
serious matter - and one with such important consequences for Syrian-British
relations - was unacceptable. It entirely justified the decision to expel the
Syrian attaches. It was still more unacceptable for Damascus to expel three
British diplomats for no other reason than tit-for-tat. If subsequent court
proceedings should nonetheless exonerate the Syrians, the Government might well
decide to content itself with a verbal protest.

But a much more robust response will be required of court evidence suggests
Syrian involvement in a terrorist campaign here. Britain and Syria have no
dispute that might even remotely explain such action. British policy towards the
Middle East has been generally friendly to Arab interests. If that friendliness
has been less marked towards Syria than towards the 'moderate' Arab states, that
is explained by our close relationship with Jordan, which until recently has
been at odds with its powerful neighbour, by Syria's generally pro-Soviet
policies, and by the presence in Damascus of an office of the terrorist Abu
Nidal group about which Britain has twice protested to Damascus in recent
months.

These disagreements, however, have made relations formal rather than hostile.
Syrian terrorism here, if it should be proved, would be an argument for the
proposition that there is nothing to be lost by firm retaliation against
terrorist states since they attack friends, enemies and by-standers with a fine
impartiality. Nor would Britain risk a great deal economically by responding
firmly to any evidence of Syrian terrorism. There is a very small community of
approximately 250 British expatriates in Damascus who should be advised to
depart if relations between the two countries deteriorate. And trade between the
two countries is minimal.

What the Government should do, at least in the first instance, has been
carefully laid out in the Tokyo declaration, It consists of such measures as
strict limits on diplomatic and consular missions, strict requirements on visas
for the nationals of terrorist states, and denial of entry to friendly states of
anyone, diplomat or not, who has been expelled for terrorism.

There are useful, if limited, measures. But one further sanction, applied to
Libya after the murder of WPC Yvonne Fletcher, should surely be considered.
Should the Syrian embassy be implicated in terrorism in this case and perhaps
earlier - and the two Syrian diplomats, killed in London when their car exploded
some years ago, are generally thought to be victims of an 'own goal' explosion -
then the question must arise of whether diplomatic relations with Syria have any
meaning. If they do not, should they be continued?

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 14, 1986

PC suspended after gun 'horseplay' / Birmingham police woman hit in leg by
firearms training pellet

BYLINE: By PAUL HOYLAND

LENGTH: 383 words


A policeman on armed anti-terrorism duties at Birmingham airport has been
suspended after a woman colleague was hit in the leg by a firearms training
pellet.

The West Midlands force, which has one of the worst firearms records in Britain,
suspended the officer on Monday pending an inquiry.


The incident has proved double embarrassing for the force because it involved
the firing of a training pellet from a .38 Smith and Wesson handgun by an
officer who was supposed to be on armed security duties in the event of a
terrorist attack.

Neither the suspended officer, said to be in his twenties, or the woman officer
has been named. The policewoman, also in her twenties, suffered bruising and
reported unfit for duty after seeing a police surgeon.

It was thought that the incident occurred during locker room 'horse-play' when a
number of officers were present.

Last month the West Midlands Police Authority firearms committee considered a
report expressing concern at the' shocking record of injuries suffered by
innocent people' as a result of firearms being discharged in the region during
the past six years.

In 1980, a 16-year-old pregnant girl, Gail Kinchin, was killed when she was hit
by police bullets during a siege at her boy friend's flat in which she was used
as a human shield. The boy friend was later convicted of her manslaughter.

In 1982, there were two incidents involving accidental discharges. In one, a
shot narrowly missed two sleeping children.

Last year, five-year-old John Shorthouse was shot dead when armed police raided
his Birmingham home. PC Brian Chester, of the West Midlands Tactical Firearms
Unit, has been committed for trial, accused of his manslaughter.

Mr Les Sharp, the West Midlands Deputy Chief Constable, said yesterday that a
senior officer had been appointed to investigate the airport incident. A report
would be submitted to the Director of Public Prosecutions.

Asked if it was unusual for an officer to be using wax training pellets while on
armed duty, he said: 'It is not usual but that is one of the things which will
come out in the examination. '

The officer had been issued with his handgun and ammunition. 'There is no point
in being on security duties without live ammunition,' Mr Sharp added.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 14, 1986

Leading Article: The trouble with Syria / Possible action against Syrian
involvement in terrorism

LENGTH: 629 words


What is to be done about Syria? According to what passes for logic in
Washington, they should be arming the bombers for a punitive raid and drafting
statements about 'collateral damage' (alias civilian casualties and the odd
allied embassy). The '' incontrovertible evidence' which pointed to Libyan
involvement - in recent terrorist incidents now turns out to point just as
circumstantially to Syria - the instrument for ascertaining complicity in
terrorism seems to be working overtime. And if the guilt-by-association detector
is left switched on much longer, will it not soon point to Iran and Iraq, to
name but two? The same blunderbuss logic should eventually incriminate the East
Germans, whose formidable security apparatus could hardly have been totally
unaware of the nasty little plots being hatched at certain Middle Eastern
embassies in East Berlin.

We can be pretty sure that the F-111's will not rise from East Anglia to flatten
Potsdam because we know that the Soviet Union would, to put it no higher, take a
dim view of the USAF using the most bombing practice. Precisely the same
circumspection ought to be applied by Washington to Syria, which may be on more
than nodding terms with the likes of Abu Nidal but also happens to be the Soviet
Union's principal client in the Arab world. On this occasion, however, it is
not, for the moment, primarily the Americans but the British who are talking of
measures against Damascus for alleged complicity in terrorism, specifically the
abortive plot to blow up an Israel aircraft at Heathrow. If we take it, as we
surely can, that sending in the RAF is not an option, what else can be done? The
government decided to expel three Syrian attaches when their ambassador refused
to let them assist Scotland Yard with its inquiries, and the three alleged
envoys duly passed safely through Heathrow yesterday on their way home, their
lips and their diplomatic baggage firmly sealed. Syria has already retaliated in
the time-honoured, petty way by expelling three British diplomats, which would
appear to exhaust the possibilities of the tit-for-tat game for the time being.
No doubt the Americans are watching with as much interest as anyone what the
next move in showing British firmness against terrorism will be, if the
Government's condition for further action - more evidence of alleged Syrian
involvement - is met.


There is in fact very little that Britain can do. The one obvious reserve
measure is breaking-off diplomatic relations, as we did with Libya over the St
James's Square atrocity. Whether that would make a political leader of the
undisputed calibre of President Assad lose any slip is open to doubt, though it
might be therapeutic here. So we are limited to a gesture, and the Americans (we
sincerely hope) are constrained by Syria's Soviet connection. The real danger in
throwing the anti-terrorist spotlight on Damascus is that it might tempt
neighbouring Israel's hawks to press for a military intervention, with or
without US connivance, with a view to extending their lease on the Golan
Heights. Were at to happen, the American bombing of Libya, so lightly entered
into, would be largely to blame. Israel has been moved to counter terror with
terror more than once; now Washington has taken to the same approach, the
restraints on the gun-ho element in Israel will be all the weaker. The answer to
international terrorism lies maximum preventive measures (including steadily
improving co-operation among governments), good police work, publication of
evidence and patient diplomacy aimed at settling the underlying causes, such as
the Palestinian problem. There is no quick fix for terrorism; Killing Arabs is
no solution to anything. For evidence, apply to Colonel Gadafy.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 16, 1986

Detective denies concocting story on resort bombs / Brighton bomb trial

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 650 words


Defence counsel at the Old Bailey trial of the alleged IRA bomb conspirator
Gerard McDonnel yesterday suggested that a detective who interrogated him
concocted evidence to allay fears 'at the very highest level' about last
summer's threatened seaside bombing campaign in Britain.

Mr Martin Thomas QC, for McDonnel claimed that Detective Sergeant Hamish Innes
of Strathclyde Police was under 'an extremely heavy burden of responsibility'
trying to persuade McDonnel to disclose details of bombs.


He suggested, that this was because the Home Secretary had made a Commons
statement announcing the discovery of the IRA bomb plot in 16 resorts.

'I did not know that,' said Detective Sergeant Innes, who earlier told the jury
that McDonnel, after two days of questioning, during which he often folded his
arms and stared at the wall in silence, had started to talk of the bombing
campaign.

After McDonnel's arrest with four other people at a flat in Langside Road,
Glasgow, last June, the prosecution allege that a 'deadly accurate bomb
calendar' listing the towns to be attacked was found in his money belt, together
with information about a bomb already planted at the Rubens Hotel, London.

According to Detective Sergeant Innes when first questioned McDonnel had refused
to give details of the locations of any bombs. Then he is alleged to have said:
'The fact ten down was an oversight. Such information should be filed elsewhere
with the squad whose brief it was to set and place the device. '

Asked for more information, McDonnel is alleged to have replied: 'I've said too
much already. '

At another interview he refused to comment when asked if it was IRA policy that
a warning would be given before a bomb exploded.

Detective Sergeant Innes went on: 'He was asked again if innocent civilians
would be in any danger and was it now the policy, or would a warning be given.
He said a warning was always given, that was official IRA policy. '

McDonnel was questioned about the letters 'H' and 'B' which appeared on papers
found in the flat, relating to bombs.

'We had been round the various possibilities and were satisfied that 'H' meant
hotel. We wanted to know what 'B' meant so we could make some move to find
something.

'We asked McDonnel whether it meant 'Beach' and would innocent families be
involved. He confirmed that 'B' meant beach but said warning would be given. '
McDonnel was alleged to have added: 'You have nothing to worry about. '

Mr Thomas said: 'You knew there was at the very highest level a degree of
concern. ' He accused the officer of inventing spurious matters because of
internal pressure 'from the highest quarters in the country' to get results.

'I can understand there would be,' Detective Sergeant Innes replied.

Counsel: 'That was something pun in by yourself, reassuring your superiors that
you were making some progress, and people need not worry, the tourist trade in
England need not be at risk because you, Sgt Innes, had received assurances from
McDonnel that warnings would be given. Is that not the basis of it all?'

Detective Sergeant Innes replied: 'That is not the basis of it all,' McDonnel
had made all the comments attributed to him.

Asked if it was possible to remove any devices which had already been set,
McDonnel is said to have replied that the best that could be done was to give a
warning.

Detective Sergeant Innes also denied planting a 9mm Browning automatic pistol on
McDonnel when he was arrested at Langside Road, Glasgow, with Patrick Magee,
aged 35, of Belfast, who denies murdering five people staying at the Grand
Hotel, Brighton, in October, 1984.

Magee and four others, McDonnel, aged 34, Peter Sherry, aged 30, Martina
Anderson, aged 23 and Ella O'Dwyer, aged 26, deny conspiring to cause explosions
in the United Kingdom last year.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 16, 1986, Friday

US visitors still down but recovery 'on the way' / Tourism in the aftermath of
the Libyan bombing (634) /SCT

BYLINE: DEREK HARRIS, Industrial Editor

LENGTH: 658 words


There have been manycancellations by Americans planning to come to Britain after
the terrorist attacks and the Libya bombing, Mr Duncan Bluck, chairman of the
British Tourist Authority (BTA), admitted yesterday.

Group travellers, particularly school parties, and cruise traffic has been most
affected.

In the case of school groups and incentive travel, where a trip is a reward for
sales people and others, the key factor appears to be organizers' worries over
legal liability should problems arise.

But Mr Bluck, who is just back from an American fact-finding tour, said he was
encouraged that the rate of cancellations was slowing. At British Airways, whose
trans-atlantic bookings from American customers dropped by about 10 per cent
after the Libya bombings, the rate of cancellations appears to be easing.

But there have been reports in the trade of bookings down immediately after the
Libya bombings by as much as a third.

The tourist authority, whose London annual conference of managers has been
looking at the American problem, is planning initiatives to strengthen bookings.

An additional dollars 1.2 million (pounds 800,000) in promotion is to be spent
in the United States with cash help from the trade in Britain.

A mission to tour key American cities is being organized. It will include
leading personalities such as a fashion designer, a pop musician, an author and
well known Americans living in Britain.

Mr Don Ford, the authority's marketing director for North America, who is based
in New York, said: 'The problem seems to be that some Americans are worried
about getting on the aeroplanes.

'Nobody has said Britain itself is unsafe. What hit us most was the picture of a
British bobby armed with a machine gun at London airport. '

The authority thinks that if there are no more terrorism incidents there will be
a partial recovery in the level of bookings by mid-summer and a return to normal
by early autumn. The forthcoming royal wedding is expected to be a big
influence.

The possible effect of travel-shy Americans on Britain's pounds 13
billion-a-year turnover from tourism had to be seen in perspective, Mr Bluck
said.

He added that about pounds 6.5 billion of that was spending by Britons with only
a quarter of pounds 6 billion from foreign spending originating with US
visitors.

But America is Britain's biggest single national source of tourism earnings and
Mr Bluck said of the cancellations: 'It is a worrying situation and we must not
be complacent'.

It is also being argued that, with no evidence that individual travellers are
cancelling in any numbers, a big proportion of the US market could be
unaffected. Group travel accounts for only about 15 per cent of US visitors.

A new organization to develop a strategy for tourism in London over the next
decade was launched yesterday by the London Visitor and Convention Bureau.

The move comes after such a strategy was called for in a consultants report on
London's tourist accommodation in the 1990s published yesterday by the British
Tourist Authority and the English Tourist Board.

The new body is the Joint London Tourism Forum whose chairman will be Mr John
Salisse, a former director of Marks and Spencer.

London's Tourist Accommodation in the 1990s by Horwath & Horwarth (BTA/ETB
Research, Thames Tower, Black's Road, London W6 9EL; pounds 150)

Three executives from the Gleneagles Hotel Group in Scotland flew to America
yesterday in an attempt to win back business lost over fears of terrorism.

The hotel group, which includes the Gleneagles in Perthsire and the Caledonian
and North British hotels in the centre of Edinburgh, lost pounds 500,000 in one
week after the Libyan crisis.

Mr Peter Bates, sales and marketing manager, said 2,000 bed-nights in the
incentive travel market had been cancelled. He added: 'We need to react
immediately to make sure of regaining this business'.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 16, 1986, Friday

UK attacked over Tamil terrorism / Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict (360) /SCT

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN, COLOMBO

LENGTH: 378 words


While warning his countrymen to take new precautions against a continuation of
the series of bomb outrages in Colombo, the minister responsible for Sri Lanka's
anti-terrorist campaign also pointed out yesterday that people living in Britain
bear some blame for the killings.

Mr Lalith Athulathmudali, the Minister for National Security, said: 'Mr and Mrs
Macpherson and their daughter died through terrorist activity based on money
which could conceivably have been raised in Britain. '

The Macphersons were killed when a bomb destroyed an Air Lanka TriStar on the
tarmac of Colombo airport last week.

Mr Athulathmudali has complained in the past about the fund-raising activities
of Tamil separatists living in exile in Britain.

Yesterday he compared his fears with those of the Indian Government over the
activities of Sikh extremists in Britain.

He also said that although Sri Lanka had not yet formally requested the
extradition of any separatist rebel living in Britain, because 'we don't think
we have enough evidence to satisfy the English courts', he thought it would soon
do so.

Mr Athulathmudali added that relations on a government-to-government basis with
Britain have been good in most respects.

Issuing a list of seven detailed precautions which should be taken in all
government buildings and all buildings to which the public have access, the
minister said he believed the rebels would again try a terrorist bomb attack in
the south in order to wreck the current Indian diplomatic initiative.

Seventeen people died as a result of the bomb planted on the Air Lanka plane,
and another 14 were killed when a bomb exploded in the city's central telegraph
office three days later.

Discussing the chances for a peaceful political solution to the island republic
ethnic crisis, the minister, who had detailed discussions with an Indian
Government team visiting Sri Lanka, said that now was the time for informal
talks.

He said he was personally anxious to avoid negotiations taking place in the
limelight, but thought that progress could now be achieved provided the glare of
publicity on every move was avoided.

He thought it was unlikely that a ceasefire could be agreed before the
negotiations could take place.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 17, 1986

Howe asks for US aid in fighting IRA terror / Foreign Secretary appeals for
White House cooperation on extradition of terrorist suspects

BYLINE: By JEAN STEAD, Scottish Correspondent

LENGTH: 447 words


The foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe, yesterday appealed to the United States
to co-operate on the extradition of Irish terrorist suspects.

He told the Scottish Tory conference at Perth yesterday: 'I would say one thing
to the United States; just as we gave you support over the Libyan action, so we
look to you for support in the deterrence of Irish terrorism in the United
States. '


Sir Geoffrey spoke out after delegates in an emergency motion on terrorism had
attacked the Government for supporting the United States in the Libyan bombing.

Eleanor Lang of the Scottish Conservative Lawyers' Group said that Irish
terrorists were safe in the United States. 'One can't help questioning the
special relationship between Britain and the United States in the light of this,
which is a pity. '

Another speaker said: 'I think the Libyan bombing was a disaster. The Government
is toeing the American line. '

But Sir Geoffrey rejected the idea that Mrs Thatcher was playing second fiddle
to Mr Reagan.

'There is nothing anti-American about seeking to change particular American
policy. We do it all the time. ' But to seek out, and exacerbate differences was
irresponsible and damaging to Britain, Europe and the West.

Attacking the Labour leader, Sir Geffrey said: 'The reaction to the Libyan
action flushed out the fundamental anti-Americanism of Neil Kinnock and his
Labour Party. '

The Defence Secretary, Mr George Younger, attacked Alliance defence policy,
saying: 'If you join them you can choose your own defence policy. '

It was an insult to voters that they should be expected to take seriously the
pretensions of the Liberals and SDP to form a government when they had not
agreed something as fundamental as a credible policy on defence.

'If you believe in unilateral disarmament and wish to join the Alliance you must
join the Liberals, who usually support CND. If, however, you wish to keep some
form of independent British nuclear deterrent and join the Alliance, you must
join the SDP. '

Mr Younger said the Government intended to maintain a force of about 50
destroyers and frigates and to order about three frigates a year. If Swan Hunter
could agree satisfactory price and terms it should get a Type 23 frigate order.
Tenders were being evaluated from four yards.

Referring to this week's white paper on defence cuts, Mr Younger said for seven
years the Government had increased defence expenditure in real terms in line
with Nato targets. In the future there had to be consolidation.

On chemical weapons, Mr Younger said that the Government would support the Nato
goal to modernise chemical weapons in America.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 19, 1986, Monday

Police to continue ferries alert through summer / Prevention of terrorism (489)
/SCT

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

LENGTH: 532 words


Armed police in Britain, France, the Low Countries and Scandinavia were on duty
at main ferry ports yesterday to prevent a possible Middle East terrorist attack
on one of the dozens of sailings across the Channel and North Sea.

The alert was called after an exchange of intelligence between British police
and the Continent. Senior officers have no details of specfic targets, places or
times but intelligence sounding suggests that ferries could be targets, rather
than airports and aircraft.

Over the past few weeks, since the attempted bombing of an El Al aircraft at
Heathrow airport, the international situation has been under constant review by
British intelligence officers and Special Branch. Middle Eastern groups might
try to seek revenge for the British involvement in the American air strike on
Libya and ferries could be favoured as targets because of the increased security
at airports.

Over the weekend extra officers were drafted in by the eight forces involved in
guarding the British ferry ports. Dogs and equipment to detect explosives were
on hand at some of the ports.

Levels of security at the ports will fluctuate during the summer as police
assess the state of the alert and the fruits of intelligence gathering.

Police in plain clothes may travel on board some ferries and senior officers are
not commenting on the possible use of military personnel.

Police are uncertain whether the threat would come from a car bomb left on a
ferry or a device which might be placed on a vessel by a passenger. Hovercraft
will also be checked.

The security operation began on Friday with a conference of chief constables at
the headquarters of Kent police in Maidstone. Briefings were held for customs
officers, port officials and ferry companies in the British ports involved.

These are Dover, Folkestone, Harwich, Newhaven, Weymouth, Hull, Felixstowe,
Sheerness, Ramsgate, Portsmouth, Plymouth, Ipswich and Great Yarmouth.

On the Continent, security has been stepped up for sailings to Britain from
Zeebrugge, Ostend, Hook of Holland, Dieppe, Calais, Boulogne, Dunkirk, Flushing,
St Malo, Le Havre, Cherbourg, Olso, Goteborg and Ejsberg.

A police information centre has been opened at Maidstone under the control of Mr
Paul Condon, assistant chief constable of Kent. Yesterday he said: 'There is no
specific threat to a specific port. What we do have is a heightened awareness of
the possibility of vessels as potential targets. '

Levels of security will rise and fall as they do at airports, he said. 'We
decided on a high profile this weekend and it will be reviewed and will alter
from day to day. '

Mr Condon said: 'The public can be reassured. The police are working very
closely with the full co-operation of everyone concerned. ' At Dover yesterday
he found no delays or any public unhappiness at the measures which he said were
'sensible precautions against the background of international terrorism'.

Dover is the largest single port affected and handles 17 million passengers a
year compared with more than 30 million passengers at Heathrow airport. Police
have appealed for passengers to report anything suspicious.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 21, 1986

Botha defends action by citing strike on Libya / South African President accuses
West of double standard over air raids on neighbouring states

BYLINE: From our own Correspondent

LENGTH: 655 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG


The South African President, Mr P. W. Botha, yesterday sought to justify
Monday's raids on neighbouring territories by identifying his government's
action with the stance of President Reagan and Mrs Thatcher on Libya.

During a debate in parliament, he claimed that the African National Congress -
whose alleged bases in Botswana, Zimbabwe and Zambia were the targets of the
raids - had 'for years' been sending recruits to Libya for training with members
of the PLO.


In a text of his speech distributed in advance to journalists, the South African
leader concluded defiantly: 'We will do it again when the occasion demands. ' He
did not use this phrase on the floor of the House, however, having presumably
decided it was too inflammatory.

But Mr Botha did tell parliament that South Africa 'will not allow the double
standards and hypocrisy of the Western World, even on the application of legal
principles, to stand in the way of our responsibility to protect our country.

'In commenting on the attack on terrorist installations in Libya, President
Reagan said on April 14: 'Self-defence is not only our right, it is our duty. It
is the purpose behind the mission undertaken tonight. A mission fully consistent
with article 51 of the United Nations Charter'.

'Even Mrs Thatcher, who of course assisted President Reagan by making available
aircraft bases in Britain, had a clear vision of terrorism and those who
perpetrate it,' Mr Botha added.

'Let us look at a few of the British Prime Minister's remarks; 'The growing
threat of international terrorism is not directed solely at the United States.
To overcome the threat is in the vital interest of all countries founded upon
freedom and the rule of law. Terrorism thrives on appeasement. Terrorism has to
be defeated'.'

Stating that the ANC had been responsible for 193 'serious acts of terrorism'
since it was clear the organisation was not interested in peaceful negotiation.

'South Africans cannot tolerate this without taking action,' he said. 'The
smugglers of terrorist arms into our country and murderers of innocent people
must be hunted down. '

The parliamentary debate had been called by the opposition Progressive Federal
Party whose leader, Mr Colin Eglin, described the raids as 'a major political
blunder' which would prove 'damaging, if not disastrous' to South Africa.

Mr Eglin said the issue was not whether South Africa had the capacity to hit
such targets, or the right to do so in international law, but whether the raids
had helped to resolve the country's internal problems.

'These raids, whatever they were intended to achieve, will take South Africa yet
another step down the road of violence and counter-violence along which we have
been moving at gathering speed,' he said.

'The Government has stated it wants to get the process of negotiation going in
South Africa. Does it really think the raids will help to get this process of
negotiation going?'

Outside parliament, reaction to the raid was muted yesterday.

A headline in one afternoon newspaper said: 'world shouts its rage. ' The
accompanying news reports listed punishments which the international community
was now planning to level against South Africa.

The impact on domestic confidence round expression on the foreign exchange
market, where the rand dipped towards its lowest levels in more than a year,
firming slightly to 43 cents against the US dollar after reluctant Reserve Bank
intervention. Some predictions were being offered that it would fall to 30 cents
in coming months.

A little optimism was offered to the white community by the statement from the
Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group that their initiative was still not dead. But
this was countered by a statement from the ANC in Harare that the raids had
destroyed the Commonwealth negotiations. 'A chapter has been closed and we are
back to square one,' it said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 21, 1986

Havers ponders identity ruling / Leicester hearing on alleged Sikh conspiracy to
assassinate Indian Premier Rajiv Gandhi in Britain

BYLINE: By PAUL HOYLAND

LENGTH: 504 words


The Attorney-General may intervene on behalf of an undercover policeman who has
refused to be identified at committal proceedings of four Sikhs accused of
conspiracy to murder the Indian Prime Minister.

Mr Peter Crane, prosecuting for the Director of Public Prosecutions, told the
hearing in Leicester yesterday that Sir Michael Havers was considering the
ruling by the stipendary magistrate, Mr William Probert, that the officer's name
should be disclosed to the court.


'He is considering what course to take, but it is likely that an application
will be made to the divisional court for a judicial review of the decision,' Mr
Crane said.

The magistrate's jurisdiction was in contention and the prosecution was
extremely concerned about the safety of the officer, who had asked to give
evidence anonymously.

The officer who had posed as an IRA gunman, was allegedly offered pounds 60,000
to kill Mr Rajiv Gandhi during his visit last October. Reporting restrictions
have been lifted at the hearing.

Mr Probert said the question of his jurisdiction being in contention 'comes as a
blinding novelty today. ' On Monday he ruled that the officer should be referred
to as Detective Constable B, and that his identity should be written down and
shown only to himself and legal representatives.

Defence counsel claims that the officer acted as an agent provocateur who had
entrapped the defendants and sought to implicate them in crimes which otherwise
would not have been committed.

The officer had admitted telling the defendants he had killed the former
Conservative spokesman on Northern Ireland, Mr Airy Neave. and it was vital that
the defence knew his identity so that it could investigate him.

Mr James Wood, representing Parmatma Singh Marwaha. aged 44, of Kedleston Road,
Leicester, expressed fears that the prosecution might use the adjournment to
apply to a High Court judge for a bill that would commit the defendants for
trial without the defence having the opportunity to challenge witnesses and
apply for the case to be discharged.

Mr Neil Tims, representing Harminder Singh Rai, aged 31, of Mere Road,
Leicester, said a judicial review would take considerable time 'and the
likelihood is that the matter will not end in the divisional court. ' In those
circumstances the committal proceedings would effectively have to be abandoned.

Mr Crane said: 'I have very much in mind the undesirability of appearing to
deprive the defendants of the right to make an application for discharge in
these proceedings. '

It was an exceptional case, which had now been referred to both the
Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General, Sir Patrick Mayhew.

Granting the prosecution a 48-hour adjournment, Mr Probert said the prosecution
must reach a decision by tomorrow morning about what course of action it
proposed.

The two others accused are Jarnail Singh Ranuana, aged 46, of Canon Street,
Leicester, and Sukhvinder Singh Gill, aged 30, of Worthington Street, Leicester.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 24, 1986, Saturday

Thatcher plea to Americans - We miss you / Effect of the fear of terrorism in
Europe on Britain's tourist industry (561) /SCT

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER, Political Reporter

LENGTH: 588 words


The Prime Minister yesterday delivered an impassioned message to American
holiday-makers: please come to Britain.

In four television broadcasts across the United States and to some other
countries, Mrs Margaret Thatcher attempted to calm the fears about terrorist
reprisals which have caused thousands of Americans to call off European trips
and threatens to cost Britain about pounds 400 million in revenue from tourism
this year. And she appealed to the US Congress to pass the British-American
extradition treaty.

The Prime Minister told Americans that life in Britain was going on as normal,
that the British were deeply upset that the Americans were not coming and that
Britain's economy was being badly hit because of it.

And in all four interviews, which went out at breakfast time and were being
shown throughout the day, she said: 'The chances of your being hit by terrorism
here is about the same chance as being hit by lightning. '

In one she said: 'Please come. Please change your mind. Not only does it help
our standard of living and our economy but we miss you. We like seeing you. We
love your friendliness. We love your warmth. We love your generosity and we are
missing it on our streets. ' And in another she implored her audience: 'Life is
normal. Come. We miss you. '

The fall-off in bookings to Britain has been causing increasing alarm in the
tourist and airline industries. It was cited as a factor in the decision of
British Caledonian to make 1,000 workers redundant and it has been discussed in
the Cabinet.

About pounds 1.5 billion of Britain's pounds 6 billion revenue from tourism
comes from the Americans, and operators have been reporting booking declines of
30 to 40 per cent. Last year 3.3 million American tourists visited Britain.

Mrs Thatcher also used the interviews to make a strong appeal to Congress to
pass the extradition treaty which Britain wants for the return of IRA fugitives.
It is being held up by the opposition of influential Democrats who want it to be
restricted to terrorists attacking civilian targets.

The Prime Minister said that she did not feel betrayed by the delay but added:
'I just hope that that extradition treaty will go through. You cannot pick and
choose between terrorists. They are all terrorists. They are all murderers and
bombers. They are all against democracy. You cannot say: 'I will support one and
not another. ' You cannot just pick and choose. '

She again refused to rule out the deployment of a new generation of American
chemical weapons in Britain. If a request was received, she would have to
consider it in the light of circumstances at the time. 'If the United States
asked us to have chemical weapons here, I cannot tell you what the answer would
be but I am certainly not going to say No here and now. '

She said: 'Above all you never tell your potential enemy what your answer is
likely to be. Who does that help? It does not help the defence of your own
people. It only helps a potential aggressor. '

When pressed on domestic politics the message from Mrs Thatcher was a firm 'no
retreat' on economic policy.

The Prime Minister's efforts were welcomed last night by the British Tourist
Authority. It said: 'Britain is the same friendly stable welcoming country as it
was last year. Britain has always been a favourite destination for Americans and
we can see no valid reason why this should change. The fears are largely
irrational and we welcome the Prime Minister's confirmation of this. '

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 26, 1986

Police objection to water cannon is overruled by Home Office: Minister approves
place for weapon in fighting riots

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 358 words


The Government has overruled police objections to the use of water cannon as an
instrument of riot control in Britain.

New trials are to be conducted and the Home Office Minister, Mr Giles Shaw, said
yesterday that he believed water cannon should 'form a place in the panoply of
resources' for dealing with civil disturbances.


Mr Shaw said that he was impressed by the water cannon which he inspected on a
recent official trip to West Germany. The Metropolitan Police have been
experimenting with prototypes at a testing ground in London, and have told the
Home Office that they find them unmanoeuvrable and unsuitable for use in the
narrow streets which have been the flashpoints for past riots.

Mr Shaw said that the West Germans have improved the technical capacity and
performance of the models which they have brought into service. 'They now have a
model which is more manoeuvrable and more adaptable,' he said. 'Their experience
suggests that they are a significant deterrent to the close confrontation
between protesters and police. '

Mr Shaw, who was being interviewed on BBC Radio's World this Weekend,
acknowledged that British police fear that water cannon could get stuck in
narrow streets and become the target for petrol bomb attacks.

'This is still a matter for substantial argument and discussion,' he said. The
police were correct to observe that water cannon would not have been useful in
riots such as those at Handsworth, Birmingham, and on the Broadwater Farm estate
in London, he said. There were many circumstances in urban areas where the
police could not make effective use of them.

'Equally, there could be occasions when they are useful. There could be
occasions when they are a deterrent merely to be present, rather like the use
the mounted brigade has shown itself to have major deterrent value.

'I think they form their place in the panoply of resources which public disorder
calls into question,' Mr Shaw said.

The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, declined to comment on the issue last night
be fore he flew to the United States for three days of talks on terrorism and
drugs.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 28, 1986

Pakistani freed after five days in detention under Terror Act / Muntaz Abbasi

BYLINE: By DAVID ROSE

LENGTH: 412 words


Muntaz Abbasi, a Pakistani from Doncaster, who was said to have arranged
contacts between the National Union of Mineworkers and the government of Libya
during the miners' strike. was last night released after being detained in
London for five days under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Four others including an Arab businessman who had been in London trying to fix
up a franchise with Coca-Cola and a Jordanian minister of State, were released.


Mr Abbasi, said last night that he was arrested on Thursday evening at the Park
Lane home of Mr Mohammed Jalil, the businessman, who has extensive interests in
the United Arab Emirates.

Twelve plain clothes officers searched Mr Abbasi and took him to Paddington
Green police station, where all five were held. The Home Secretary Mr Douglas
Hurd, granted an extension of their detention at the weekend.

Mr Abbasi was reported to have arranged a visit to Libya by the NUM general
secretary, Mr Roger Windsor.

Earlier this year he attended an anti-imperialist conference in Tripoli and in
1980 he was arrested in Karachi with the Libyan ambassador to Afghanistan and
held for six months on allegations of terrorism. He said last night that his
questioning at Paddington Green centred on an alleged plot to kidnap and kill an
Arab ambassador.

The police had put 20 names of Arab diplomats to him, suggesting that one was
the target of the supposedly Libyan backed plot.

There was further questioning about a trip he made to visit Sinn Fein in Belfast
earlier this month. Mr Abbasi said that he made no secret that he had travelled
to Northern Ireland on a ticket made out in a false name, but said that this was
only because he had been given it by a friend who had been forced to cancel a
planned visit.

'I used my real name on the boarding card. I went to Ireland to find out why
Sinn Fein did not send their delegate to the conference in Libya. ' He said the
police repeatedly told him: 'We've got you now, your game is over. '

Mr Abbasi is an executive member of the Standing Conference of Pakistani
Organisations. The police had questioned him about the group - the main
representative body for people of Pakistani origin in Britain.

Mr Sibghat Kadri, a barrister and spokesman for the organisation, described Mr
Abbasi's treatment as 'outrageous. ' 'We Pakistanis have fled General Zia to
escape this kind of thing and now we find the same situation here in Britain,'
he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 28, 1986

Thatcher risks Arab anger in PLO snub / British Premier considers other
representatives of Palestinians in Middle East negotiations

BYLINE: From IAN BLACK and JAMES NAUGHTIE

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


British-Arab relations may be entering a period of strain as a result of the
Prime Ministers firm indication yesterday that Britain no longer considers the
PLO to be the sole representative of the Palestinians in Middle East peace
negotiations.

Speaking in Jerusalem at the end of her three-day visit - the first to the
Jewish State by a British Prime Minister - Mrs Thatcher made clear that
alternatives must be found if the PLO will not recognise Israel and renounce
terrorism.


'If they were willing to do that, I think that would create a new situation
which would enable seeing the PLO in a different light,' she told
correspondents. 'If not, we have to find other Palestinians who truly represent
the Palestinian people. '

The PLO representative in London, Mr Faisal Aweida, condemned Mrs Thatcher's
visit and warned that there could be a renewal of terrorist attacks if the
organisation were left out of the peace process.

And a PLO spokesman in Tunis said she had taken a clear position against the
Venice declaration of the European Community itself, which specifically
recognised the PLO's right to be associated with the peace process.

Britain has been reassessing its policy towards the Middle East for several
months, but the Prime Minister's remarks yesterday were the strongest indication
yet that there is a new readiness to bypass the PLO by seeking independent
Palestinian moderates who will be prepared to negotiate with Israel.

'We have been discussing representation other than the PLO,' she said.
'Obviously, there have been a number of proposals put forward. We must consider
an alternative because we simply must follow all routes. You simply cannot have
negotiations between King Hussein is accompanied by people who are accepted as
representing the Palestinian people. There is not yet a solution. We must try to
find one. '

Mrs Thatcher expressed frustration about three recent developments involving the
PLO: The fiasco over last September's invitation of two of the organisation's
leaders to London; the resurgence in terrorist attacks on civilians during the
last few months; and the final breakdown in February of political co-operation
between Jordan and the PLO.

The Prime Minister made it clear that she was in full agreement with King
Hussein about the way to move the peace process out of its rut. She said she
favoured the creation of a Palestinian entity in confederation with Jordan and
not an independent Palestine state, as demanded by the PLO.

'The present proposal of a federation with Jordan would be the one most likely
to achieve success,' she said. 'There is not much point in working for anything
that will raise other difficulties and other problems. '

The Prime Minister is determined to pursue her efforts to help to break the
deadlock in the peace process by talking regularly to moderate Palestinians and
the Israelis. Despite the lack of progress during her three-day visit, she is
insisting that there is no alternative to her attempt to find a way of assisting
genuine Palestinian representation in the occupied territories.

Mrs Thatcher insists that her talks have opened up new possibilities Which she
can discuss with King Hussein next month, though she refuses to be specific. She
is strongly in favour of the election of Palestinian representatives from the
West Bank to sit in the Jordanian parliament.

The decision to speak about the need to look for alternatives to the PLO was
clearly taken after much thought. Mrs Thatcher has little hope of early
significant progress and is prepared for a backlash as a result of her apparent
dismissal of the PLO in its present form as interlocutors.

The British argue that, by exploiting any leverage Mrs Thatcher may have,
specific proposals for alternative representation for Palestinians in the
occupied territories might emerge.

The Prime Minister will meet King Hussein in London next month in the knowledge
that she has little more than a few ideas which in the long term might prove
attractive to a small number of Palestinians.

Before she left Tel-Aviv Mrs Thatcher denied that elections in the West Bank or
Gaza would necessarily produce victories for the PLO. Though she gave no
specific reasons for her statement, she committed herself to continue to work
for practical steps acceptable to all sides, but her tone was not an optimistic
one.

The general tenor of Mrs Thatcher's remarks here yesterday signalled an
unprecedented closeness of views between London and Jerusalem. This, together
with her tough approach to fighting terrorism, is seen in Israel as going a long
way to making up for what is perceived here as a traditional pro-Arab bias in
British foreign policy.

She told a Palestinian journalist who asked for her definition of
self-determination that it was impossible to visit Jerusalem's Yad Vashem
ho,ocaust memorial 'without having a heightened awareness and understanding of
the fundamental desire of the Israeli people for peace with security. '

Mrs Thatcher appears, however, to have made little or no progress in persuading
the Israelis to make confidence-building gestures in the occupied territories
that might improve the chances of starting negotiations.

The Israeli Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, rebuffed the proposal that
municipal elections be held in the West independent of the PLO.

Mrs Thatcher said she would not be deterred by the fear that her tough attitude
towards the PLO might make Britain a target for terrorist attacks. 'If you are
saying that the threat of terrorism must in fact prevent you from taking any
action or considering anything, I could not more heartily disagree with you. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 29, 1986

Hurd welcomes terror pledge / British Home Secretary meets US officials for
talks on cooperation against terrorism

BYLINE: From MICHAEL WHITE

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, emerged from two days of talks with US
officials yesterday satisfied with Reagan Administration pledges of closer
cooperation in the fight against terrorism.

He also declared himself pleased with official support for Britain's efforts to
persuade American tourists not to be deterred from visiting Britain by terrorist
threats.


But Mr Hurd's assessment of the US position appears at odds with Administration
actions. US officials have done little to convince Americans to travel to
Europe. And the Administration was last night poised to unveil a plan to head
off the Libyan nationalisation of residual US oil assets.

The new directive, which was coupled with an effort to stop dollars 10 million
worth of 'lowtech' exports like nuts and bolts which are used to sustain the
Libyan oil industry, would ban the remaining five oil companies in Libya paying
taxes and royalties to the Government there. But it would not require them to
renounce their ownership.

After three sessions with the US Attorney General, Mr Edwin Meese, which covered
drugs and the US-British extradition treaty as well as terrorism, Mr Hurd told
reporters that Mr Meese and the FBI director, Judge William Webster, 'strongly
agreed' with the British view that terrorists must not be allowed to succeed in
'creating an unsettled atmosphere. '

Mr Meese told him of a statement he had made on the subject. 'Our attitude
around the table was identical,' said Mr Hurd. But the Justice Department could
later point to only one remark made by the Attorney General, who said on April
28 that he had been impressed by European 'dedication to the safety of citizens'
and the anti-terrorist precautions taken. 'Probably the hazards of going Europe
as a tourist are not greater, probably less great, than being a tourist on the
highways of the United States,' said Mr Meese.

Mr Hurd yesterday stressed he comparison more forcefully by saying that Britain
was 'a country notably less violent than the US' in which a tourist was eight
times less likely to be shot than in New York.

Half a million Americans have responded to British Airways' offer of free
flights to Britain on June 10, the airline said yesterday. BA's pounds 4 million
'woo them back' campaign includes a sweepstake advertised in US newspapers for
5,600 free seats to Britain on flights from 15 American cities on June 10.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 31, 1986

British tourists scorn Spanish hotel bombs / Four bombs discovered so far on
Costa del Sol following Basque threat

BYLINE: By JOHN EZARD and from JANE WALKER

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: MALAGA


Spanish authorities admitted yesterday that four bombs have so far been
discovered or the Costa del Sol after the threat by the Basque separatist
organisation, Eta, to bomb holiday resorts.

Holidaymakers in Britain and Spain seized on the situation almost with glee as
proof that they are not as soft as the Americans.


'No way am I not going on holiday,' said one, waiting for a flight at Heathrow.
'That's just what these terrorists want. Stuff 'em. '

At Fuengirola, where a small bomb exploded at the Las Palmeras Hotel on Thursday
night, Mrs Carol Frye, aged 43, from Huddersfield, said: 'I went to the local
funfair yesterday - and I was much more frightened by the ghost train. '

Three big tour operators, Thomson, Horizon, and Southern Enterprise, reported no
trace of cancellations since the terrorist threat and no dent in the trend of
sharply increased bookings to Spain this summer.

'It takes a lot to put the British - unlike the Americans - off their holidays,'
a Thomson spokeswoman said. 'Terrorism has become so much a part of everyday
life that people are taking it in their stride. '

The 1lb bomb at Fuengirola went off in a basement staff area near the hotel's
main dining room, breaking a window and bringing down plaster. No one was hurt.

The civil governor of Malaga's spokesman, Mr Rafael Contreras, said yesterday
that there were two devices earlier in the week at Torremolinos and a third in
Marbella.

One device at Torremolinos went off on Tuesday at the Hotel Cervantes, but he
said 'it was so small that we thought it could have been a gas explosion. It
didn't even wake up the guests. '

He added that bomb disposal men had defused a device at the Melta Hotel,
Torremolinos, and another at the Andalusia Plaza Hotel, Marbella.

In Fuengirola Mrs Pat Robinson, from Liverpool, wrapped up against the gales and
rain which have hit the Costa, said: 'We are much more worried about the bad
weather than we are about a small explosion. '

Mrs Hilda Hunter, from Merseyside, said some Americans staying at the seafront
Las Palmiras had said they wanted to 'get out fast'.

She added: 'I don't think this would stop me coming back to the Costa del Sol.
People have taken it very well. But the terrorists have achieved what they want,
making everybody scared with the disruption. '

At Heathrow airport Mr Robert Anderson, a 45-year-old car salesman, said: 'I
still feel Spain is a fairly safe country. As for the bomb, where else in Europe
can you go to avoid that kind of trouble?'

Mr Martin Foster, aged 36, from Dudley, Yorkshire, who flies often to Spain on
business, said: 'In my line, you can quite easily see the trends and what
affects people's decisions. There have been bombs in Spain in the past but
certainly no mass cancellations like the Americans have done this year for
Europe.

'Maybe it's just something in the British character. People here don't panic
easily. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 2, 1986

Agenda: Lesson of Lebanon's wasteland / Effects of opposition to the Anglo-Irish
agreement in Ulster

BYLINE: By ENOCH POWELL

LENGTH: 896 words


A bishop of the Church of Ireland was recently reported as saying that
opposition to the Anglo-Irish Agreement could result in Ulster becoming the
Lebanon of Western Europe 'unless' - and I quote the words attributed to his
lordship - 'its people turn to the way of mutual respect and peaceful
co-existence. ' Warming to his theme, he continued: 'Beirut was once prosperous
and beautiful. It is now a wasteland through hatred, fanaticism, bloodshed and
death. '

I wonder if, from his profound knowledge of the Levant, the good bishop would
answer a simple question. Did the character of the people of Beirut undergo some
spontaneous change? Was there a sudden rise in the percentage or component of
original sin which is to be found in Lebanese genes? What caused its people to
go astray from 'the way of mutual respect and peaceful co-existence'?


In case, however, his lordship should not deign to answer my question, or even
may have spoken without asking himself that crucial question first. I will
supply the answer pertinent to Northern Ireland. No, the Lebanese did not
change, nor did the religious and sectarian composition of the population of
that country. What changed was that other countries, notably the United States,
began to percieve Lebanon as a pawn in the international power-game they were
playing. In order to get command over that pawn or to deny possession of it to
their opponents, they were prepared to utilise the potential lines of cleavage
in the Lebanese population for their own in the Lebanon on behalf of United
States, accomplished the transformation scene which the Bishop of Connor took as
text for his moralising.

Of course a country and its people will be torn to pieces and be unable to
prevent that happening if mighty external forces play faction politics in that
country for their own ends.

Bowing, as they apparently always do, to the demands of the United States, which
regards the island of Ireland as yet another piece on the global strategic chess
board, Her Majesty's Government by international treaty has conceded the formal
right of intervention to a foreign power on behalf of a political minority in
this part of the United Kingdom. What else did they or anybody - right reverend
prelates included - imagine would be the natural consequence than to strengthen,
to deepen and to exacerbate the internal differences in Ulster? Given that
people in this province are still made of flesh and blood, not stone and wood,
no other result could follow. The cause, and consequently the power to remove
the cause, lies in the hands of those in London who knowingly set out to barter
this province of Ulster for the strategic requirements of the United States. If
moral reprobation is appropriate, then let it be leveled against those who are
truly guilty and truly responsible.

All this will not be pleasant hearing episcopal palaces or in the corridors of
power. We shall be told that, unlike that excellent place, the Lebanon, in days
of yore, there has always been dissension in Northern Ireland, and its territory
has always been coveted by its neighbours and attacked by the terrorists whom
they harbour. All that is, to a certain extent, true. But the cause is the same.
Nineteen eighty-five was not the first year in which Britain for strategic
reasons and at American behest set out systematically to deny to the people of
this part of the United Kingdom the right, like their fellow citizens elsewhere,
to enjoy the status for which they overwhelmingly and democratically vote.
'British rights for British citizens' was precisely not what the people of
Ulster were to be given - in 1919, or in 1969, or in 1979, any more than at
Hillsborough in 1985.

Treat a population unjustly, make a compact with their enemies to hand those
enemies a voice and a veto in that population's affairs, and then you may hold
up your hands in pious horror at the resistance and indignation you encounter.

Our own country, Britain, has done this thing to us: Our own country, whenever
the opportunity arose, has been doing this thing to us for two-thirds of a
century. But Britain remains our country none the less for that. Our rights
remain British rights none the less for being denied to us. Injustice does not
disfranchise a people, neither does repeated wrong take away their birthright.

There are those who go about saying: 'Britain has betrayed us. The mutual trust
that ought to bind a nation and its several parts has been sundered. Let us
therefore renounce and repudiate it, or rather' - for those who hold this sort
of speech are careful not to speak too plainly - 'let us make a compromise and a
pattern to be somehow less than British. ' That is the very language which our
enemies delight to hear from us. They will encourage it and amplify it. They
will whisper it in closed rooms and broadcast it far and wide. No wonder, for
nobody can take the Union forcibly from the people of Ulster so long as they
maintain their claim of right intact. Only the Ulster people themselves can
throw it away. That is why those whose purpose is to surrender Ulster to its
enemies work so asiduously and surreptitiously to persuade its people to do just
that.

Enoch Powell is the Official Unionist MP for Down South. This is an edited
extract of a speech delivered in Ballynahinch on Saturday night.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 5, 1986

Bomb plot 'not proved' / Old Bailey IRA bombing trial continues

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 361 words


The IRA bomb trial jury at the Old Bailey was warned yesterday of the most
'terrifying path for an English jury to take,' that of finding a person guilty
by association.

Defence counsel for Peter Sherry, one of five people accused of plotting a bomb
blitz in Britain last summer, said there was no evidence to link his client with
an arms and bomb cache found a year ago in Glasgow.


Sherry, aged 30, was said by the Crown to have been caught red-handed with the
other four defendants when detectives raided a flat in Langside Road, Glasgow.

Mr Stephen Solley, in his closing speech on the 20th day of the trial, said that
if the police raid had occurred one hour and 40 minutes earlier they would never
have known of Sherry's existence. 'There is some vague allegation that because
he happened to be there by a complete fluke when the police came, that in some
way he must have been guilty of this grave crime. '

Mr Solley told the jury that only eight minutes of the prosecution's lengthy
closing speech was devoted to the allegations against Sherry.

Mr Solley said the jury was not to hold it against Sherry that he did not go
into the witness box, or call any witnesses. 'Give evidence? Answer a charge?
Answer what charge?'

'The danger of Mr Sherry's case is of guilt by association,' said Mr Solley, who
also accused the prosecution of 'moving the goalposts' during the trial, and
trying to widen the allegations against Sherry after the introduction of an
allegedly 'sinister' note written on cigarette papers and found in his
possession.

'It may have occurred to the prosecution during the course of this trial,
particularly when they analysed that new exhibit, that Sherry was not there to
take part in the resorts conspiracy.

Sherry, Magee, aged 35, Gerard McDonnel, aged 34, Martina Anderson, 23 and Ella
O'Dwyer, aged 26, deny conspiring last year to bomb the seaside resorts and
London.

Magee also pleads not guilty to planting a time delay bomb at the Grand Hotel,
Brighton, and murdering five people who died in the explosion on the last day of
the 1984 Conservative Party conference.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 6, 1986

Why you can't get away from it all / Britain's nuclear geography

BYLINE: By DAVID FAIRHALL

LENGTH: 746 words


Think back to September last year, seven months into the pre-Chernobyl era, and
you may recall thousands of part-time soldiers rushing about in Exercise Brave
Defender, practising the defence of this country's key installations against
'Spetsnaz' saboteurs, the Soviet equivalent of the SAS.

The odd thing was they seemed to pay no attention to some of the most important
and vulnerable of installations - nuclear power stations and reprocessing
plants. In fact, the omission was deliberate. The war game planners simply did
not want to draw unnecessary attention to such choice targets, which are near
the top of the real list of things to defend.


Or take this week's air defence exercise Central Enterprise. Today's concluding
phase will involve about 1,000 aircraft, many of the runs across the North Sea
to Coast. From a military point of view, the war game scenario no doubt gives
priority to airbases, radar stations, and missile sites. But one of the first
targets to show up on an enemy radar would be the square bulk of the Sizewell
nuclear power station near Aldeburgh, the impact of whose destruction could go
way beyond the loss of its electricity output.

In a world where nuclear deterrence is supposedly working, none of this may seem
to matter much. But as this week's exercise demonstrates, Nato has long since
stopped kidding itself that it can rely for its security on a simple nuclear
tripwire. A conventional air war - the second world war with supersonic bombers
and guided missiles - is once again part of the hypothesis. And Chernobyl has
reminded us that you do not have to be attacked with nuclear bombs to suffer the
effects of nuclear fallout.

There are currently 17 civil and military nuclear power stations in the UK, and
over the next 10-20 years the Central Electricity Generating Board wants to
build perhaps another half a dozen to an American-style pressurised water
reactor (PWR) design starting at Sizewell, where there is a ready a first
generation Magnox station. If the Government gives its approval, the next site
after that will be Hinckley Point in Somerset, then perhaps a new site at
Winfrith, Somerset, or Druridge Bay, Northumberland, or extra stations on
existing sites at Dungeness, Kent, Sizewell again, Wylfa on Anglesey, or
Trawsfynydd, North Wales.

The map shows two circles drawn round existing installations: the 30-kilometre
(18.6 mile) radius from within which the Russian authorities initially decided
to evacuate everyone following the Chernobyl disaster, and the 100-mile zone
which they now admit was partly contaminated, necessitating further evacuation.

As you can see, if it happened here - whether by accident, terrorist sabota by
or military attack - only a few corners of the country could feel remotely
secure (it could do wonders for house prices in Lincolnshire). The Russians
originally talked about evacuating 50,000 people, but calculations done by Stan
Openshaw and John Fernie for the New Statesman show that only the Scottish sites
at Dounreay and Torness have less than this number living within 30 kilometres.

Many British nuclear power stations have hundreds of thousands of people living
within the Soviet evacuation radius. Two of them, Heysham and Hartlepool, which
are both advanced gas-cooled (AGR) stations, were built near towns under the new
'relaxed' siting policy introduced in 1968. The nuclear engineers decided a
major accident was 'incredible' with this second generation British design.

The Sizewell PWR is another matter. The Nuclear Installations Inspectorate
insisted on returning to the old 'remote' siting for the first of this
American-style design and as it happens the future PWR sites are all considered
to be in the same category.

Whether Chernobyl will persuade the NII and the generating boards to change
their siting policy remains to be seen. The CEGB is certainly reviewing its
emergency procedures. This could lead to a redefinition of the so called
'maximum credible accident' and as a result to an extension of the 1 1/2 mile
evacuation zone it has drawn, for example, around Sizewell.

After Chernobyl, many will find that unacceptable. Accidents happen, however
improbable. And where radioactivity is concerned, there is really no such thing
as a remote site in this crowded country. Both the nuclear power industry and
the military planners must surely take this simple but fundamental geographical
fact into account.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 6, 1986

Compassion 'led woman to aid Maze escapers' / Old Bailey trial of alleged IRA
bombers

LENGTH: 287 words


An Irishwoman accused of taking part in a plot to explode 16 bombs in Britain
last summer had helped escapers from the Maze prison in Belfast because she was
a compassionate person, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.

Ella O'Dwyer, aged 26, and her co-accused, Martina Anderson, aged 23, were
Republicans motivated by a revulsion for imprisonment without trial in Northern
Ireland, conditions in the Maze prison and the fate of the hunger strikers, said
Mr Ivor Richard QC.


The two had espoused human rights issues in which they believed strongly. 'There
is nothing wrong in that - they are not on trial for their views,' said Mr
Richard.

O'Dwyer's background provided her with the ideological motivation for her
defence to the charge she faced - that she had come to mainland Britain to help
to smuggle men on the run from the 1983 Maze prison breakout to safe
destinations abroad.

O'Dwyer and Anderson, with Patrick Magee, aged 35, Gerard McDonnel, aged 34, and
Peter Sherry, aged 30, deny conspiring to bomb London and resorts last year.

Magee also denies planting a bomb in 1984 at the Grand Hotel, Brighton, and the
murder of the five people who died when it exploded during the Conservative
Party Conference.

Mr Justice Boyle will begin his summing-up today, and the jury is expected to be
sent out early next week.

Mr Richard, making his closing speech on the 21st day of the trial, said: 'In
our submission, the prosecution cannot be certain to have satisfied you that
O'Dwyer attached herself voluntarily to a conspiracy to cause explosions. '

The jury, said Mr Richard, might decide that O'Dwyer had been party to a
different conspiracy. But she was not charged with that.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 7, 1986

Thatcher extradition hopes are dashed / US Senate foreign relations committee
postpones action on proposed treaty to deal with IRA fugitives

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Mrs Thatcher's hopes of a tough new extradition treaty with the United States
which would bring IRA fugitives to justice were dashed again yesterday when the
Senate foreign relations committee postponed action on the measure.

The Congressional action is an acute embarrassment to the Prime Minister and to
President Reagan, who have urgently pressed the passage of to treaty which was
signed almost a year ago.


Mrs Thatcher has urged the US to speed ratification of the treaty as part of its
war on terrorism after Britain's support for the US bombing raid on Libya.
Yesterday's setback came despite confident predictions by British officials that
it would be passed after President Reagan's personal appeal for the treaty in a
radio address to the nation last weekend.

A compromise designed to lift the treaty from the Congressional mire fell apart
yesterday when the British and US governments objected to new language added to
the treaty by Senator Thomas Eagleton of Missouri, which would require US courts
to show a 'probable cause' before sending back IRA and other fugitives to face
British justice. Such a procedure could mean that extradition would be slowed,
or even halted, by ponderous US legal proceedings.

'It would open the hearing to becoming a trial of the political system in
Britain of the extraditing country,' a senior State Department official said
last night. 'That is unacceptable to us. ' The official also sharply criticised
a compromise under which 'conspiracy' would be dropped as an extradition
offence.

If widely applied, the official explained, this would mean that the 'masterminds
of terrorism, such as Abu Abbas and Abu Nidal,' would not be covered, even
though they were largely, responsible for terrorist acts. The strong objections
from the US State and Justice Departments mean that those drafting the treaty on
both sides of the Atlantic and in the Congress will have to begin work again.

State Department officials cautioned, however, that the latest difficulties did
not mean the end of the extradition treaty. 'We've come a long way,' the senior
official said. Congressional sources noted, however, that with a crowded
programme ahead, and mid-term elections in November the treaty could become too
sensitive to handle. Nevertheless. Senator Richard Lugar, chairman of the
foreign relations committee, has scheduled another meeting on the treaty for
June 12, and was still predicting success last night.

The Reagan Administration and the British Government had seen Senator Eagleton
as the 'weak link' in the Democratic opposition to the Extradition Bill, which
it is claimed, runs counter to US legal traditions. The Administration had
counted on the Senator to agree to a relatively neutral compromise which would
have given President Reagan and his successors in the White House the final say
on extradition.

But when Senator Eagleton met Senator Lugar on Thursday afternoon, he presented
new phrasing which would have made extradition far more complex. White the two
men reportedly shook hands on the tougher language. After a two-and-a-half hour
meeting it was decided to withdraw the measure from consideration by the full
Senate foreign relations committee until the US and British governments had been
given a chance to study the new formulations.

The legal counsel to the State Department, Mr Abraham Sofaer, was reported by
Congressional sources to have found the language totally unacceptable and out of
keeping with similar extradition arrangements which the US is negotiating with
other governments, including Israel. While British diplomats sought to put the
best face on the setback, it was clear that the language - some of which was
picked up from Britain's own Fugitive Offenders Act - fell far short for the
unamended treaty that the Northern Ireland Secretary, Mr Tom King, has been
insisting on.

The National Irish Caucus, headed by Father Sean McManus, yesterday claimed
credit for the new phrasing which Senator Eagleton had put into the bill. He
said that it was intense lobbying by his organisation - which has collected up
dollars 2 million to fight passage of the bill - which led Senator Eagleton and
other Democrats to draw up their own terminology rather than rely on the milder
Lugar amendments.

'It's a devastating blow to Britain and the State Department,' Father McManus
said. But he conceded that the fight over the bill was not over. 'We will have
to see how the negotiations go,' he added. However, even if the Senate foreign
relations committee eventually votes through the treaty, Father McManus and his
supporters are vowing a tough fight on the floor of the Senate, where a
two-tiered majority is required for treaty retification.

Several deomocratic Senators sought to explain yesterday, however, that their
new language was not a result of sympathy for the IRA, as the British Government
and press her implied. One senior aide said that the real objection was to
setting a precedent with a tough extradition treay which the Reagan deminisra
At- said hat the real objection was to setting a precedent with a tough
extradition treaty which the Reagan Administration and then use against exiles
whom it dislikes for political reasons.

By DAVID MCKIE

The British Government was not convinced last night that the battle for the
extradition treaty was lost. A Downing Street spokesman said that the British
and US administrations had asked for more time to consider the matter.

'We are grateful for all President Reagan has done in this matter and we look
forward to a decision soon,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 12, 1986

The Brighton Bomb (1): The top graduate from Long Kesh / Profile of Patrick
Magee, IRA bomber

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 1232 words


Patrick Magee was known to the British security services as an IRA militant for
a dozen years before his arrest in a Glasgow tenement in June 1985. Twice in the
previous four years, when he was wanted by the English police, he could have
been detained and charged. In the spring of 1983 Special Branch officers in the
North of England were secretly following him and taking surveillance
photographs. In 1981 his whereabouts in Dublin were known and publicised in the
local press after a shooting incident in which he lost part of a finger.

Earlier that year he evaded a bungled extradition request in Holland where he
had been arrested on information from Scotland Yard. Perhaps others could have
taken his place as the 'Roy Walsh' who constructed and planted the bomb in the
bathroom of room 629 at the Grand Hotel. But perhaps, too only his expertise
made that attack possible.


His serious IRA training began in a British prison - he was interned without
trial in 1973 in Long Kesh (now the Mace) and was put in the same 'cage' of
Nissen huts as Gerry Adams, the Belfast commander and now president of Sinn
Fein. It was from these internees that the new Belfast-based, radical IRA
leadership emerged in the mid seventies to turn the organisation into a more
sophisticated military and political machine. Magee went on to become one of the
most experienced and most elusive of the active service unit members deployed in
the mainland campaigns.

He was unusual in that he spent his first 14 years in Kent where his mother and
sister had moved shortly after his birth in 1950. He grew up, something of a
tearway, speaking with an English accent. He left school early. As the Old
Bailey jury heard he committed a string of petty thefts. He ended up in an
approved school.

In his late teens, when the Catholic civil rights movement was taking off, he
returned to Belfast and was soon swept into Republican circles. Before
internment in 1973 he had already been picked up several times as a likely young
IRA supporter by the army and the police. The cages of Long Kesh, holding
several hundred convicted prisoners and internees, were a training ground for
both military training and revolutionary politics.

Magee spent two years inside and after his release he was again the subject of
constant army attention. In April 1977 he was arrested and taken to Castlereagh
Holding Centre. The RUC said they had found micro switches on the roof of the
toilet at the back of the house belonging to his girl friend, Dene. Much later
he described his treatment:

'For three hours, I was constantly punched in the stomach and hit on the head;
they also squeezed my balls. Eventually they held a pistol to my head. When I
objected to my treatment they threatened to arrest me again within 14 days and
give my name, address and photo to the UVF' (the illegal Ulster Volunteer Force,
paramilitary army of the Ulster Defence Association. )

He was held for three days. On the journey home he says that his black taxi was
rammed by an Army Land Rover, injuring three of the passengers. Shortly after
this incident he and Ilene had a quiet June wedding in St Patrick's Roman
Catholic Church, Belfast.

Magee, a small bearded man with a quiet intensity, continued to be a member of
the IRA. Indeed in 1979 the police found an arms and explosive cache in a
Greenwich flat carrying a fingerprint from Magee identified from police
fingerprint records dating back to his juvenile crime.

But in the same week of the Greenwich raid Magee was stepping off a ferry at
ROtterdam, planning to go into temporary hiding. He had planned the trip well in
advance, applying for a passport in his own name in May. The man who signed the
back of his passport photograph was a member of the garda.

Through a now defunct student holiday employment agency he found work first at a
brick factory then at a small metal factory at Venray near the German border. He
stayed in a spacious farmhouse in the sprawling country town of Overloon. Jan
and Maria Vloet-Peeters, the owners, remember him as a polite and reserved young
man who complained about the problems a Roman Catholic had in finding work and
bringing up a family in Northern Ireland. He had gone through all the Dutch
formalities, including registering with the aliens' police.

Within three weeks of his arrival he was arrested riding to work on his bike and
placed in solitary confinement in Maastricht remand centre. The British
extradition request listed 14 charges, including conspiracy, possession of
explosives, and possession of a gun. Dutch lawyers saw difficulties over the
British request, given the very narrow basis of the 1898 treaty between Britain
and Holland. The Dutch courts have to investigate whether there is a prima facie
case of a criminal offence under Dutch law. Extraditable offences have to carry
more than a year's prison sentence.

Conspiracy, for a start, is not an offence in Holland so that charge fell.
Possession of a gun carries a maximum sentence of one year. And the court
decided, with the prosecution's concurrence, that there was not enough evidence
on the explosives charge. The judge ordered Magee's immediate release on January
8, a full two weeks before he officially confirmed the verdict. Lawyers familiar
with the case found the British extradition warrant, like so many before and
since, incomprehensibly sloppy. One remarked: 'It is always the same with the
British. Their officials should have some questions to answer. '

The Magee case attracted considerable publicity in Holland and for the next 10
days he stayed with a man who had contacted him in prison from the Holland Irish
Committee. Antoon Seelen and he talked and drank beer. 'I never asked him if he
was in the Provisionals and he never told me,' Seelen says. 'He would mainly
talk about his family. He was an amiable and shy man. '

Although Magee applied for political asylum, he never turned up for his
interview with the aliens police. In mid-February he left Amsterdam for Dublin
with an Irish friend working in the city.

His movements in Dublin were certainly known to the police, as a regular visitor
to the offices of Republican News, the Provisional IRA weekly newspaper, in
Dublin. In November, 1981, a loyalist gunman entered the building, spraying
bullets. One of them injured Magee in the hand and the incident, together with
his name, was reported in the Irish Times.

Despite his high profile as a wanted man Magee continued as an IRA activist in
Dublin and, again, in England. In the spring of 1983, he was in the North of
England. Fearing police might be aware of his presence Magee fled to North
Wales. Later that year, according to informed sources, he made a trip to France
but it is unclear why.

When 'Roy Walsh' booked into the Grand Hotel, Brighton, over a year later he
left a print on the registration card. The police traced thousands of guests and
visitors to the hotel in 50 countries around the world and Roy Walsh stood out
as a fiction. His identity as Patrick Magee was established from RUC fingerprint
records by January 1985. Several weeks before his arrest he was suspected to be
back in the country. An internal police circular on May 10 alerted police forces
to him. A dedicated career in the service of bombing the British out of Ireland
was about to come to an end.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 12, 1986

Queen may have been IRA target / Old Bailey bombing trial

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 681 words


The IRA's plot to explode 16 bombs at resorts and in London on consecutive days
last summer was intended to bring terror and havoc throughout Britain.

But while the Old Bailey trial heard that the Provisionals intended to give
warnings before the time-delay devices were due to explode in hotels and on
beaches, there is also the possibility that the 'resorts campaign' may have been
planned as a diversion to sap police resources while the terrorists attacked
VIPs.


Although no evidence of this possible 'secondary offensive' was adduced during
the 24-day trial, some security sources point out that assassination attempts
against people whom the Provisional IRA considers to be legitimate targets, such
as members of the royal family, politicians, and leading military figures, could
be more consistent with the IRA's attempt to attack the British establishment
rather than its citizenry.

What concerned security forces more than anything was that Peter Sherry, who was
arrested with the other IRA terrorists in Langside Road, Glasgow, that June, was
not a bomber but the Provisionals, most deadly sniper - and an expert with the
Armalite rifle.

Six days after the arrests in Langside Road, Donal Craig, aged 27, another of
the gang, was arrested in Willesden Green, north London. Craig, who pleaded
guilty to the bombing conspiracy at the outset of the Old Bailey trial, told
police that the bombs intended for the resorts were to be found in James Gray
Street. Glasgow.

There, in a cellar of the tenement block police found plastic packages
containing 139lb of nitro-glycerine based gelignite, enough to make at least 25
bombs. But there were also the timers and time power unit, and several rifles
and handguns.

The explosives fitted in with Magee, McDonnell, O'Dwyer and Anderson and the
resorts campaign, but the police feared, the guns were for Sherry.

The dates of the intended campaign coincidentally or not, do match some of the
dates, as if bomb attacks were being planned at places being visited by VIPs.

The infamous 'bomb calendar' details the 16 bombs beginning with a bomb to
planted at an (unnamed) hotel in Brighton on July 19.

On that morning, the Queen and Prince Philip arrived at Brighton station in the
royal train before being driven about a mile out of the town to St Dunstan's
training establishment, at Ian Fraser House, Ovingdean. The purpose of the royal
visit was to re-open St Dunstan's new south wing.

The Queen was received by the president of the establishment for the blind,
Colonel Sir Michael Ansell, and the chairman, Admiral of the Fleet, Sir Henry
Leach.

The Brighton bomb was planned to explode at 13.00 hours. Evidence during the
trial of the IRA's proficiency and 'deadly accuracy' in the making and setting
of time-delay devices suggests that the blast would have happened as the Queen
and the three other possible targets were touring St Dunstan's.

While it is unlikely that the Queen would have been left unguarded by the
bombing of an hotel in the same town, the incident would necessarily have posed
the possibility of her visit being curtailed, and her being driven quickly out
of the area.

In any case the juxtaposition of an IRA bomb in Brighton on the day of a royal
visit would have claimed world-wide attention.

The bomb calendar, however, provides for another bomb that day in Ramsgate, only
20 miles away. The picture of potential panic and havoc in that particular part
of the south coast was complete.

Another significant date in the bomb calendar, which coincided with a royal
visit, was July 31. This was set for a bomb in Great Yarmouth, Norfolk.

On that day, the Queen and Prince Philip travelled in the royal train to
Sandringham. The next day, August 1, they paid official visits to Great Yarmouth
and Lowestoft.

The police also discovered in the cache in James Gray Street, Glasgow, a large
amount of tourist publicity material covering the resort towns, as well as
railway timetables, and military magazines giving details of army camps and
reunions.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 12, 1986

IRA team is found guilty of terror blitz / Five convicted at Old Bailey of
British coastal bombing campaign

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 1035 words


Five members of the Provisional IRA, including Patrick Magee, the man already
convicted of the Brighton bombing, were last night found guilty of planning a
blitz of London and 12 English coastal resorts last summer. They face heavy gaol
sentences for one of the worst terrorist crimes mainland Britain has
experienced.

The plan to explode 16 bombs on consecutive days in July and August was intended
as a follow-up to Magee's bomb at the Grand Hotel, Brighton, on the last day of
the Conservative party conference in October, 1984, which came 'within an inch'
of assassinating Mrs Thatcher and her Cabinet.


Yesterday Magee, aged 35, who was convicted on Tuesday, and his compatriates
Gerard McDonnell, aged 34, Martina Anderson' aged 23 Ella O'Dwyer, aged 26 and
Peter Sherry, aged 30, were found guilty of conspiring to cause explosions in
the United Kingdom.

All the verdicts were unanimous apart from that against Sherry, which was on a
10 to two majority. The five will not be sentenced until next week pending the
hearing of other associated cases.

Police sources said last night that the mastermind behind the Brighton bombing
is still free although his name is known. The 37-year-old man, who has overall
responsibility for IRA attacks in mainland Britain, lives in Dublin but often
travels to Belfast.

Although police sources cannot confirm speculation this week that the IRA leader
has already sent a new team of assassins to England, security over the next few
days is expected to be of a high priority, particularly for the Queen's
appearance at the Trooping the Colour ceremony on Saturday.

Detective Chief Superintendent Jack Reece, head of Sussex CID, said last night
he suspected that another man, and possibly a woman, might have been with Magee
when he planted the Brighton bomb. Investigations are continuing, he said.

At the Old Bailey the six men and six women of the jury, who heard the 25-day
trial, took 12 hours and 35 minutes, spread over a two-day retirement, to reach
their verdicts.

The 16 bombs, four in London and one each in Brighton, Dover, Ramsgate,
Blackpool, Eastbourne, Bournemouth, Torquay, Great Yarmouth, Folkestone,
Margate, Southend and Southampton, were planned for consecutive days, excluding
Sundays.

They were 'deadly accurate' time bombs, the jury heard. But only one was
actually planted, at the Rubens Hotel in Buckingham Palace Road, London, before
police raided a flat in Glasgow last June and arrested the defendants.

Magee, who like the other men remained silent throughout the trial, remained
impassive as the verdicts were given. As Sherry was led away, he shouted: 'The
British are responsible' before being grappled by four prison officers.

Magee's wife Eileen and Mrs Shelagh McDonnel shouted from the public gallery the
Irish slogan 'Tiocfaidh Ar La' - meaning Our Day Will Come - and the two women
defendants responded with salutes as they were hurried out of the dock.

Friends of the five screamed 'Bastards' and 'Ireland will be Ireland when
England's up. ' Then screaming and shouting was heard coming from the cells
below the court.

It was Peter Sherry on his first terrorist operation outside Ireland who gave
away the gang's Glasgow hideout. He was followed from his home in Dungannon, Co
Tyrone, by members of the Royal Ulster Constabulary's undercover surveillance
unit, known as E4.

Sherry was driven by car to the port of Larne, Co Antrim. He took a ferry to
Stranraer and then a bus to Carlisle where he met Magee who got off the
London-Glasgow train.

They were spotted outside the W. H. Smith bookstall by the Special Branch
detectives - a young man and a young woman - observing from a nearby doorway.
They noticed that Sherry's companion had the tip missing from one of his
fingers, which led the woman to identify the man as Magee.

When Sherry was arrested police discovered on him three medallions, one hollow
and containing a piece of cigarette paper on which was written 'WHS 3.30 meet. '

It is not known why police did not seize him in Carlisle.

Sherry, because of his notoriety, had been under a round-the-clock watch. Once
he moved, security forces were fairly confident something was afoot.

E4 is a secret counter Insurgency unit of plainclothes officers within the RUC
who specialise in digging out high grade intelligence, cultivating Republican
informers and grilling IRA suspects.

They have used electronic bugs underneath cars to help them follow suspects. But
it is not known if one was used to trail Sherry to Larne. Before the E4 team
reached Stranraer, Strathclyde police were alerted.

The Ulster officers travelled to Carlisle, and on to Glasgow. There, Sherry and
Magee had split up but detectives followed Magee to the address where, after
about 24 hours' surveillance, all the defendants were arrested.

E4 was set up about six years ago and followed a decision in 1976 by the Ulster
chief constable at the time, Sir Kenneth Newman, to establish the first real
anti-terrorist undercover unit. It was known as the bronze squad and had bases
in Armagh and Belfast.

After four years its cover was blown. Security chiefs were horrified to discover
that the squad's movements were being closely monitored by the Provisionals, who
had recruited a police reservist as an informer.

A new undercover unit, this time with three different squads, was set up, and
E4, with a hand-picked team of 40 men, was the front line team.

They are under direct control of the RUC Special Branch, which is headed by an
assistant chief constable.

An alleged member of the Irish National Liberation Army was arrested by French
police yesterday with six other people, including two Americans, after an arms
cache was seized at Le Havre. The guns, 12 assault rifles, 32 pistols and 2,000
rounds of ammunition, were found in a container shipped from the United States.

The Irishman, Mr Sean Hughes, is reported to be wanted in Dublin for an alleged
murder and in France for a series of alleged hold-ups attributed to the extreme
left terrorist organisation, Direct Action. The two Americans were named as Mr
and Mrs William Norton, of Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 20, 1986

Boyle 'security risk' to IRA bomb plot / Old Bailey trial

LENGTH: 350 words


Patrick Magee and his IRA gang would never have risked a 'colossal breach' of
security by telling John Boyle that they were making bombs in a room they rented
from him in Glasgow, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

Their plot to explode 16 bombs across Britain would have required military
precision to plan and they would never have risked telling Boyle what was going
on in the pounds 16 per week upstairs room at James Gray Street, said defence
counsel, Mr Geoffrey Robertson.


'He would have been terrified out of his wits. He would have gone to the police
himself, or his girlfriend would have had him off to the police in no time and
his mother would have blabbed,' said Mr Robertson in his closing speech.

The prosecution claims that Boyle helped Magee and three others as they planned
the bombings last summer.

Boyle has admitted hiding the bomb-making cache in the cellar after the gang's
arrest. He told the jury that he acted out of panic, fearing that he and his
mother Frances would get the blame.

Boyle denies procuring, counselling, aiding, abetting, or being an accessory to
the commission of a crime.

He also denies having in his possession or control explosive substances with
intent to endanger life or cause serious injury to property in the United
Kingdom or enabling another to do so last June.

He pleads not guilty to a third charge of being an accessory to the commission
of a crime by Magee and the others by secreting materials for causing explosions
in the cellar of his home.

The judge, Mr Justice Boreham, yesterday began his summing-up by saying that
very few jurors have listened to the elements of a conspiracy of such
proportions: gang of five or more banding together to plant bombs at random -
not directed at military political or even economic targets, but during the
height of the summer season, where they were likely to harm women, men, and
their children on holiday.

It was not suggested that Boyle was a party to the plot, but that he knew
substantially what was going on.

The judge adjourned the trial until today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 27, 1986

Leading Article: Repressive tendencies / Social ills, law and order and Europe's
police forces

LENGTH: 623 words


Look around democratic Europe and you will see the police under a growing dual
pressure almost everywhere - from their increasing workload and from controversy
about the way they deal with it. In Britain there are the hippies, the Stalker
affair, Wapping and the unending row about tougher police measures. In Sweden
the force is under attack for failing to find Olof Palme's assassin. In West
Germany the boys in green are on the streets again with tear-gas and
water-cannon against nuclear protesters. In the Netherlands and Ireland they are
all but swamped by the drug problem, in Spain by Basque terrorists, in Italy by
organised crime. In so many democracies there seems to be a growing tendency to
treat deep-seated social ills as problems exclusively of law and order because
they begin with, or can lead to, lawbreaking.

It is a central feature of democracy that there should be a continual debate
about the role and power of the police, when technology offers unprecedented
possibilities for social control as society itself becomes more and more
difficult to manage. Never was it truer to say that the price of liberty is
eternal vigilance - and nowhere is it more true than in France since the Right
returned to government. When the Socialists took office in 1981 one of their
first actions was to liberalise French law-enforcement, which is uniquely
elaborate and all-pervading among the democracies. It was the first occasion in
modern times that the particularly (though not exclusively) French trend towards
tighter police control, going back to the Revolution and beyond, was put into
reverse.


The Right has also made an early move on law and order - by swinging the
pendulum violently in the opposite direction. The four security bills now
winding their way through parliament are dramatic evidence of the peculiarly
French obsession with crime. Since Paris is the western capital most attacked by
terrorists and France is noted for violent crime, popular anxiety is not
surprising. But the proposed measures make enormous inroads into civil liberties
without any evidence that they will have the desired effect. The police will be
able to make random identity checks and arrest people on unspecified suspicion,
with heavy penalties for those who do not cooperate. A 'forgery-proof,'
computer-readable identity card is to be issued, minimum sentences of 30 years
imposed for some crimes, detention without charge to be made easier and parole
to be severely restricted. Right-wing deputies are falling over themselves to
propose even tougher amendments to restore the death penalty and introduce heavy
fines or imprisonment for those defending or even those (such as journalists)
publicising the aims and words of terrorists. Add all this to impending
legislation on immigration and nationality and you have a vicious mix of
repression which threatens immigrants and the young above all.

The law-and-order package has rightly aroused all manner of social
pressure-groups. Roman Catholic and Muslim leaders have condemned it in an
unparalleled joint initiative. Here, one would think, is a clear case for
intervention by the Socialist President Mitterrand. Unfortunately the opinion
polls show that the voters may dislike almost everything else the Chirac
Government has done since it took over in March - but they favour the surrender
of precious civil liberties for fear of terrorists, criminals and foreigners. Mr
Mitterrand has made no comment so far and his party is pulling its punches. If
he suppresses the liberal instincts he showed when he came to office in order to
improve his chances of re-election, he will surely reduce his claim on a second
term. This is no time to be saying nothing.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 27, 1986, Friday

Blue-chip security at summit casino / EEC summit in The Hague (286) /SCT

BYLINE: From Our Own Correspondent, THE HAGUE

LENGTH: 299 words


The blackjack and roulette tables at the Kurhaus, Holland's top seaside casino,
fell silent yesterday. The Hague's 2,400-strong police force, which normally has
little more to deal with at the Kurhaus than the occassional over-excited
holiday gambler, moved in en masse to protect the leaders of the EEC, who had
chosen it as their accommodation for the two-day EEC summit.

It was, even by the standards of most international meetings nowadays, an almost
unprecedented exercise in security.

The Kurhaus Hotel at Scheveningen, a fantasy in stone resembling a cross between
Harrods and Brighton's Royal Pavilion, is a Dutch national monument (opened
1885, restored 1979) and the authorities in The Hague close by were anxious that
it should not be subjected to the indignity of a terrorist attack just because
EEC leaders were using its famous rooms.

Mrs Thatcher, either as a wise precaution or in a show of British independence,
chose to stay at the residence of the British ambassador instead.

The Dutch, normally a clam, tolerant and understated people, appeared to have
been seized with last-minute alarm at the thought of an outrage at the summitt,
which marks the end of The Netherlands' presidency of the EEC and the beginning
of Britain's six months in charge.

There are no doubt lessons in the security surrounding the summit for Mrs
Thatcher and Sir Geoffrey Howe, as they consider the arrangements Britain will
have to make.

Security at the Kurhaus was echoed at the ultra-modern Dutch Foreign Ministry in
the centre of The Hague, where the formal summit sessions are being held, and at
the more modest Ministry of Agriculture next door, where more than 1,000
journalists are gathered to observe the summit discussions on sanctions against
South Africa.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1986, Saturday

Concern rises over security / Murder of British consul in Colombia

BYLINE: NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 62507.

LENGTH: 475 words


The murder of a British honorary consul in Colombia on Thursday has revived
concern about the threat of terrorism to diplomats abroad, and in particular the
vulnerability of honorary consuls.

Although the motives for Mr Geoffrey Hutchinson's assassination by two
unidentified gunmen in the port of Barranquilla are not clear, the Foreign
Office said yesterday the latest attack added to a 'regrettable record of
murders' of diplomatic staff.


A relative of Mr Hutchinson's in Britain said: 'He was not involved in any local
politics and he was simply running a family import business established by his
late father.

'When I heard the news, my initial reaction was that he had been killed just
because he was the British consul,' he said.

A Foreign Office spokesman said that although there was no recent history of
attacks against honorary consuls, their safety is of particular concern because
they are scattered around the world, often in remote areas.

With recent cut-backs in the number of diplomatic staff sent abroad, the growing
trend has been to appoint unpaid honorary consuls in regions with only small
British interests.

Honorary consuls are often resident British businessmen based in large towns and
cities who carry out basic consular services and receive an honorarium of pounds
600.

Although full-time diplomatic staff have frequently come under attack from
terrorists, provisions for their safety are met by security personnel assigned
to embassies overseas.

No such measures exist to protect honorary consuls, who by their very nature
have close contact with the local community and are based in remote regions.

There is a fear that they may become easy prey for terrorists, as Graham Greene
described in his novel, The Honorary Consul, about a British businessman and
honorary consul, who is kidnapped by guerrillas in South America.

The last British diplomat to be killed was the Deputy High Commissioner in
Bombay, Mr Percy Norris, who was assassinated in 1984 by a group linked to the
Palestinian terrorist leader Abu Nidal.

He was the seventh British diplomat to be attacked by terrorists and the fourth
to die since 1970. The list of attacks is:

1984: Mr Kenneth Whitty, assistant cultural attache in Athens, shot by the
Revolutionary Organization for Socialist Muslims.

1978: Sir Richard Sykes, Ambassador to the Netherlands, shot dead by Irish
gunmen.

1976: Mr Christopher Ewart-Biggs killed by an IRA car bomb in Dublin.

1973: Mrs Nora Murray, a member of the embassy staff in Washington, whose hand
was blown off by a letter-bomb.

1971: Mr (now Sir) Geoffrey Jackson, Ambassador to Uruguay, held for 245 days
after being kidnapped by guerrillas.

1970: Mr James Cross, trade commissioner in Montreal, kidnapped by Quebec
separatists and released unharmed.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 13 1986, Sunday

Video gives tips on how to survive in a hijack

BYLINE: STEPHEN DAVIS

SECTION: Issue 8449.

LENGTH: 656 words


A video guide to surviving a terrorist attack has been produced by Hollywood.
Travel without Terror, a 30-minute film narrated by an Israeli security expert,
will be on sale in Britain later this year. Its advice ranges from how to speak
to armed men to where to sit on a plane.

The tape has been made by Trans World Entertainment, better known for horror
films, and it will be available for rent or hire alongside the Rambo and Rocky
movies in 20,000 American video shops next week. It is being released at a time
of unprecedented concern about the dangers of travel following last December's
machine gun attacks on Rome and Vienna airports and the American bombing of
Libya.


When the Israeli-born boss of Trans World Entertainment, Moshe Dimanat,
witnessed the Rome attack and saw helpless people gunned down, not knowing what
to do when the shooting started, he decided a guide was needed and commissioned
Dr Sabi Shabtai, a former Israeli army officer who lecturers on terrorism in the
United States, to advice travellers.

In the tape, Shabtai illustrates survival techniques in a hijack or kidnapping.
Never look a terrorist in the eye, they may regard it as a challenge, he says.
Be extremely polite to your captors, no matter how provoked you are. Never raise
your voice to them. Whispering is out, as is swearing in front of your captors.

'Don't confide in fellow passengers you don't know personally; they might be
accomplices,' says Shabtai. 'Don't ignore the terrorists' words or turn your
back on them, particularly the leader. Don't refuse offers of food, drink or
cigarettes or you risk insulting them. '

The video tells its US audience to leave behind anything that will advertise
them as an American or a Jew, although in last year's TWA hijack, the terrorists
forced a stewardess to collect passports to enable them to identify passengers.
Book a window seat on airplanes, not an aisle seat. There you will be less
vulnerable to being single out for rough treatment.

At airports, pass through the security gates as soon as possible, not even
lingering to visit the restroom in public-access areas. Scan the departure
lounge for abandoned baggage and for suspicious-looking people and do not
embarrassed to point them out to security personnel. Get in the habit of
scouting out places to hide.

At the hotel, avoid the first two floors and all floors above the fifth,
statistically the danger areas for bombs. If you live abroad, try thinking like
a terrorist with yourself as the target for one week: it will point out the
vulnerable parts of your daily routine.

The list of dangers recited by Shabtai has scared off some potential customers
for the tape, including corporations which Trans World Entertainment hoped would
buy it for jet-setting executives.

An early version containing newsreel footage of terrorist acts had to be
scrapped in favour of cartoon-like sketches of guns, grenades and shifty-eyed
terrorists. 'We had to cut the footage and put in drawings instead. It was too
frightening,' said an executive.

The fright factor has left airlines and travel companies divided on how to
respond to the fall in transatlantic travel, which could cost Britain as much as
pounds 400m. British airlines have chosen to play down the threat and
concentrate on promotional campaigns, while Pan Am has emphasised security with
the setting up of its own anti-terrorist squads and world-wide security system.

Trans World Entertainment, which has no connection with TWA, has decided that
travellers would rather think about the dangers and how to deal with them, than
ignore them. But the dangers should not be exaggerated, the video tells
travellers.

'More Americans die in their own bathtubs or as a result of dogbite than at the
hands of terrorists. Keep travelling. Cutting back will only give terrorists a
victory. '

Additional reporting by Dewey Gramm, Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 16 1986, Wednesday

Barry rebukes King over Ulster parades / Irish Foreign Minister criticises
British government over handling of Loyalist marches

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD

SECTION: Issue 62510.

LENGTH: 611 words


Mr Peter Barry, the Irish Republic's Foreign Minister, last night delivered a
stinging rebuke to Britain over the handling of 'loyalist' parades in Northern
Ireland and sectarian attacks on Roman Catholics during the last 10 days.

In a lengthy statement issued in Dublin, Mr Barry said: 'I share the deep
resentment of nationalists in Northern Ireland about certain operational
decisions made by the RUC on the routing of marches and I have made my views
known in strong terms to Mr Tom King (Secretary of State for Northern Ireland).'
Mr Barry was referring to the Royal Ulster Constabulary's decision to allow
eight Orange lodges to pass along a road fronted by three Roman Catholic estates
housing an estimated 3,000 people after banning them from walking a road
populated by 900 nationalists.


He said: 'It is intolerable that provocative demands by Unionist marchers should
be listened to. I want nationalists to know that I am determined to see to it
that their interests are safeguarded and their physical security is protected.

'Nationalists have been dismayed by the events of the past 10 days. They have
suffered at the hands of thugs and bully boys. Their lives have been at risk.
There has been one tragic death and many serious injuries. Nationalist property
has been vandalized and their right to equal treatment under the law denied. '

Mr Barry's minister refrained throughout the weekend from any public comment on
the controversy surrounding the routing of the loyalist parades in Portadown, Co
Armagh, despite widespread dismay and anger among northern nationalists. He said
he had kept silent until last night in order not to aggrevate an already
inflamed situation.

He ended his statement saying that he had been shocked by Provisional Sinn
Fein/IRA attacks on members of the majority community and that he condemned all
violence.

It is understood that officials in the Republic feel they have been betrayed by
the British Government, which had been privately suggesting that loyalist
marches would not pass through overwhelmingly Roman Catholic areas of Portadown.

Mr Barryhs complaints have been made direct to Mr King via the machinery of the
Anglo-Irish agreement. Mr King has recognized the Irish Government's concern,
saying: 'I know that they are concerned about some of the events and I
absolutely understand why that is the case. '

Mr Barry's statement indicates the alarm felt within Dublin and among northern
nationalists that recent events in the province have seriously undermined faith
in the Anglo-Irish agreement.

But his criticisms are likely to inflame loyalists still further, bringing with
it the danger of increased attacks on the nationalist minority by a community
already angered by an agreement giving Dublin a consultative role in the affairs
of Northern Ireland.

The statement shows that the deal, signed last November, is being put under
serious strain by the province's marching season, but clearly the Republic has
felt it necessary to shore up faith in it by going public with criticisms that
until recently have been made only in private.

Nationalists had believed that the agreement, with its emphasis on equality and
respect for both traditions, would result in the ending of 'provocative' marches
in their area.

The timing and content of Mr Barry's remarks last night angered the Northern
Ireland Office and Mr King is expected to respond within the next few days.

Mr Barry's statement was seen as an attempt to lump the RUC on the same side as
the Unionists. But British ministers are adamant that the police favour neither
the Unionists nor the nationalists.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 18 1986, Friday

Senate passes treaty on extraditions / US approves extradition treaty with
Britain

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER THOMAS

SECTION: Issue 62512.

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States Senate yesterday approved an anti-IRA extradition treaty with
Britain by an overwhelming 87 votes to 10, ensuring that Irish terrorists will
no longer be guaranteed a safe haven in America.

After the Senate approval President Reagan telephoned Mrs Thatcher with the
news, a Downing Street spokesman said.


'Mrs Thatcher said that she was delighted with the result of the vote and she
sent her congratulations to all those who were involved. '

Moments after approving the treaty, the Senate gave voice vote approval to a
dollars 20 million (pounds 13 million) aid package to support the Anglo-Irish
accord signed on November 15, last year.

The British Government is expected to begin early proceedings to get at least
one fugitive returned to Britain.

He is Joseph Doherty, convicted in June 1981 of murdering Captain Westmacott of
the British Army on May 2, 1980 in Belfast.

Doherty, who is still in a Manhattan jail, escaped from court during his trial
in Ulster and was sentenced in his absence to life imprisonment with a
recommendation that he serve at least 30 years. In June 1983 he was arrested in
a New York bar for being an illegal entrant to the United States.

Doherty has so far survived attempts by the British Government to get him
extradited, much to the anger and embarrassment of the Reagan Administration.

Two judges have ruled that under the present extradition rules he could not be
sent to the United Kingdom because his offences were 'politically motivated'.

The Senate voted to make the treaty retroactive, contrary to a report in some
editions of The Times yesterday.

Besides Doherty there are at least two other Irish fugitives that Britain wants
extradited.

One of the most ardent opponents of the treaty was Senator Jesse Helms, a
rightwing Republican from North Carolina, who thought it might force the
extradition of fugitives from left-wing countries like Nicaragua.

He attempted to introduce an amendment to retain the political exclusion clause
when the victims of a terrorist attack were policemen or soldiers, but that was
thrown out by 87 votes to 9.

Irish-American senators and those with large Irish constituencies were finally
persuaded to accept the measure in part as a quid pro quo for Britain's support
on the raid on Libya, and also because harbouring Irish terrorists would seem to
contradict America's fight against international terrorism.

The treaty needs only to be signed by President Reagan to come into law, since
constitutionally the House of Representatives has no jurisdiction over such
pacts.

The vote came just before Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, was due to
meet Senator Richard Lugar, chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee.

Mr Lugar urged senators to approve the pact because 'to refuse to extradite even
a few terrorists undermines the US war on terrorism'.

A number of amendments were introduced into the final draft of the treaty to
meet detailed objections by individual senators, but the central anti-IRA theme
remains intact. The British Government was kept closely informed about the
changes, which it accepted.

LONDON - Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, praised the vote.

'Everyone who believes in the rule of law will welcome the fact that those
accused of a wide range of terrorist offences will no longer be able to escape
justice by claiming that their crimes were politically motivated,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 23, 1986

Terrorists threat to royal day puts units on alert / Security measures for the
wedding of Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson

LENGTH: 577 words



    Byu GARETH PARRY

 The Royal Wedding will be surrounded by the biggest security operation ever
mounted in Britain. The risk of a terrorist attack this year, in the wake of the
British-aided American raid on Libya, and the conviction of the IRA's Brighton
bomber and other supporters who plotted to bomb English resorts, is higher than
ever.


The police will not identify specific threats, but it is well understood that
beyond the IRA and Libyan threats, there is the 'joker card' element; the
psychopath who simply wants to get his name in the papers.

This happened when a deranged youth fired a starting pistol at the Queen during
the Trooping the Colours ceremony in 1981. A ceremonial occasion like the Royal
Wedding, with its long list of distinguished guests, could prove an irresistible
target.

As a security source remarked yesterday: 'In normal terms it is impossible to
totally secure a person all the time, unless you put him in a tank and drive him
along a secret route. '

The Metropolitan Police, which will have more than 2,000 uniformed officers on
the royal route, used the recent visit of the West German president, and the
Trooping the Colour, as trials of their ever-evolving security patterns.

There were 3,500 police on duty in June when the Queen rode her horse, Burmese,
in public view on the half-mile journey to Horse Guards Parade and back. Like
today's event, the state of security alert was the ultimate - 'black. '

Police will only say that 'an appropriate number' of officers will be armed. The
number could be irrelevant for the real power against terrorist attack will be
in the hands of highly trained members of such units as the SAS and D11 -
Scotland Yard's Special Firearms Squad.

Armed marksmen from these units will be on rooftops overlooking strategic points
and mingling with the crowds. They will be armed with an array of weapons, from
high velocity single-shot sniper rifles to Heckler and Koch 9mm carbines capable
of firing 15 rounds a second.

And few of the tens of thousands of people lining the route will be aware that
their conversation could be listened to by Special Branch.

The procedure is now well rehearsed, for it is used during such events as
political demonstrations. A marksman covering a particular patch can, through
his sniper sights, pick out a suspect.

A similarly aimed listening device can then pick up a conversation, even amid
the roar of the crowds. A TV monitor can also be used to zoom in and take a
photograph of the person.

The anti-terrorist policing continues at a much more basic level too. Every PC
is encouraged to chat to the crowd around him, to try and assess who are
'genuine' members of the public.

Security work began a month ago when regular patrolling of the royal route was
ordered, with the aim of identifying suspect packages and vehicles. Groups like
the IRA are capable of extremely accurate and sophisticated long-delay
time-bombs, as the Brighton hotel bomb with its month-long delay graphically
proved.

The constant patrolling will, by this morning have established what security
services call a 'clean' ground. Around 4 am, army search teams will have made
final checks of such bomb hiding places as lamp-post junction boxes, traffic
light boxes and manhole covers.

Council workers will then have cleared every rubbish bin for a final time before
the first of many thousands of people arrive.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 24 1986, Thursday

Terrorists 'not hitting tourism'

BYLINE: From PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: Issue 62517.

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The dramatic decline in the number of American package tourists to Britain this
year should not necessarily be attributed to fear of terrorism, the British
Minister for Aviation, Mr Michael Spicer, told a travel industry conference in
New York yesterday.

He denied that American tourists felt Britain was a dangerous place.


Mr Rupert Murdoch, publisher of Travel Weekly magazine, which sponsored the
conference, said two million Americans fewer than expected had travelled to
Europe this year. It was 'one of the toughest problems the travel industry has
had to face for a number of years'.

Recent terrorist incidents had shaken the confidence of the American traveller,
though 'since the heroic actions of the US Administration in punishing
terrorism' that confidence had been partially restored and bookings were
improving.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 31 1986, Thursday

France and Spain discuss Eta terror

BYLINE: From RICHARD WIGG

SECTION: Issue 62523.

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: MADRID


The determination of the French and Spanish governments to fight together
against terrorism was underlined by the foreign ministers of the two countries
at the end of talks lasting two hours here yesterday, according to the Spanish
minister, Senor Francisco Fernandez Ordonez.

M Jean-Bernard Raimond, the French Minister, described the collaboration now
achieved as 'what is normal among two democratic states based on the rule of
law' and insisted that those being expelled could not be regarded as political
refugees.


The visit to Madrid by M Raimond to see Senor Ordonez, comes after clear signs
of increased collaboration by France over Spain's Eta terrorist problem.

The summary extradition to Spain of alleged members of Eta's military wing
living in south-west France hits at the sanctuary the terrorists had enjoyed for
preparing attacks on Spanish targets.

A fourth suspected Eta man was arrested in France and handed over to the Spanish
police at the frontier while the talks were going on in Madrid yesterday.

M Raimond emphasized that the interior ministries of the two countries were in
constant contact on the details of their collaboration and a meeting between the
Spanish Interior Minister, Senor Jose Barrionuevo, and his French colleague is
still on next week.

The two ministers also discussed the fishing rights dispute in the Bay of Biscay
and their differences on the EEC's Mediterranean policy.

The Basque autonomous government expressed its disappointment yesterday that
none of the April recommendations of the international commission of experts,
headed by Sir Clive Rose, of Britain, for solving the problem of Eta terrorism,
has yet been implemented.

At the same time, they expressed scepticism over the lasting effects of the new
Franco-Spanish police co-operation.

First statistics released by the Spanish tourist authorities meanwhile, show
that Eta's campaign has not so far had the effect of deterring Britons from
holidaying in Spain.

Official figures show that more than 805,000 Britons visited Spain last month,
an increase of some 250,000 on June last year.

Visitors to Spain from the UK Britain during the first six months of the year
numbered more than 2.5 million, 27 per cent more than in the first half of last
year.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 3 1986, Sunday

Desperately Seeking Dollars / The decline of US tourism in Europe

BYLINE: TIM MCGIRK and STEPHEN DAVIS

SECTION: Issue 8452.

LENGTH: 1459 words


IF they were lucky, anybody from Britain wanting to dine last summer at the Tour
d'Argent, the best and probably the priciest of Parisian restaurants, would have
had to wait three weeks for the pleasure of paying up to pounds 58 a head for a
meal including their famous canard au sang.

If they were unlucky, the maitre d' would have mistaken him or her for an
American and said the restaurant was complet - fully booked. The Tour d'Argent
was one of several restaurants in the city that had set an unofficial quota for
big-spending American gourmets. If Americans took more than four seats out of
10, the restaurateurs had noted, the natives got restless.


These days, even the Tour d'Argent cannot afford to be so choosy. Ring today
and, no matter how brash your accent, a table and the bloody duck will be ready
on Thursday.

However much the Europeans, and especially the French, may have complained about
loud Americans in the past, they are sorely missing their dollars this summer.
In France, luxury hotels have not only had to lay off staff but to close entire
floors. At the height of the season, business is so bad that the Paris taxi
drivers are taking a break themselves.

From Spain across to Greece, from Italy up to Scandinavia, few hoteliers,
restaurateurs or taxi drivers can remember a worse summer. One Madrid hotelier
is still reeling from the 1,000 cancellations he received from American tour
operators immediately after the US raid on Libya.

The fear of the reprisals that would follow that raid, and the memory of the
massacres at Rome and Vienna airports, are the main reasons why Americans have
stayed away. But the falling dollar and the Chernobyl disaster are also factors
in the great retreat from Europe.

As the manager of an Athens luxury hotel said: 'One American tourist is worth
five Europeans. ' So, to fill the gap, European hotels and restaurants are
trimming their tariffs, and holiday prices, too, have been cut, helping to lure
a record number of British tourists across the Channel.

By the season's end, according to Thomson Holidays, it will have taken more than
2m Britons to the Continent, double last year's number. Thomson itself has 'less
than a dozen empty seats out of 25,000'. Another big tour operator, Intasun,
claims that by October it will have sent another 1.8m Britons abroad, mainly to
Greece and Spain - still the favourite spot for Britons, despite a bombing
campaign on the Costa del Sol by Basque terrorists. Horizon says business is up
100% this summer; Thomas Cook reports a 50% rise.

But Italy is being shunned by Britons: while the Americans see the country as
dangerous, Britons find it too expensive. The Italian National Tourist Authority
admits a tourist will have to spend more in Italy than in nearly any other
European country.

Even the British invasion, however, is not enough to save Europe. If you've got
the money, you can lift the phone and book a room immediately in virtually every
one of Europe's top hotels: the Crillon in Paris, the Ritz in Madrid, the Gran
Bretagne in Athens and the Bristol in Vienna - all are desperate for custom.

In Paris, the Hotel Vendome, which normally has a large American clintele,
reports 'an enormous cancellation rate' of about 50% from North America. The
Bristol, which is usually full, has been advertising to drum up non-American
customers, the British included. The French National Chamber of Hotels and
Restaurants reported that between January and July this year tourism, most of it
American, has fallen by nearly 60%.

Even the poshest hotels have stooped to price-cutting. The palatial Gritti in
Venice, for example, has reduced the cost of a marbled double room from pounds
275 a night to a mere pounds 195. Spain reckons that the number of American
visitors has fallen by 40%.

In Italy and Greece, both scenes of terrorist attacks, the figure is even
higher, at 45% and 60% respectively. A manager at the 450-room Gran Bretagne
hotel in Athens, where Americans normally make up 75% of the clintele, said that
only six Americans were staying there, and many rooms were empty.

BRITAIN, it seemed in May, was headed for a similarly disastrous summer. Just a
month after the Libyan raid, there were 40% fewer Americans in Britain than a
year ago, and many of those wore the protective camouflage of a Burberry
raincoat. The British Tourist Authority in Manhattan reported a derisory 250
calls a day from potential American travellers.

Americans, however, felt guilty about boycotting Britain. Mrs Thatcher, after
all, was President Reagan's staunchest ally, never more so than over the Libyan
raid. Then came the royal wedding: minutes after the Duke and Duchess of York
were shown on television across the US leaving Buckingham Palace for their
honeymoon, calls began flooding in to the BTA office near New York's Central
Park.

The reassuring, fairyland images of the wedding had helped to dispel the
impression that Britain was a dangerous place: Nancy Reagan had gone to the
wedding, so maybe it was not such a dangerous place after all.

The New York office of the BTA is now answering 1,500 calls a day from
prospective tourists. In a recent survey of 252 travel agents in the US, nearly
a third reported a rise in bookings to Europe in June and July as the terrorist
scare died down. Of these, 88% said their clients were planning to travel to the
United Kingdom.

But while Britain may be back on their itinerary, the Americans are taking
greater care than ever before to avoid hazards on the way here. Many are reading
from cover to cover a brochure published by the American Society of Travel
Agents entitled Travelling Safely. It cautions them not to linger at airport
check-in counters and to avoid dressing loudly and taking aisle seats.

If hijackers board the plane, it says, 'stay calm, breathe deeply and don't make
eye contact with the terrorists'. Nearly half a million of the brochures have
been requested by travel agents throughout the US. One Hollywood company has
also marketed a video, which sells in 20,000 shops across America, on how to
Travel without Terror.

The airlines, too, are doing their best to allay passengers' fears. Pan-Am is
making much of its tighter baggage checks and a beefed-up security force called
Alert. Other airlines have spared none of the salesman's razzmatazz in their
efforts to fill seats.

BA offered free flights to 5,000 lottery winners on June 10 and pulled more than
half a million Americans into the contest. In another competition, William
Saunders, an engineer from Tampa, Florida, has won an eight-hour flight on
Concorde for himself, his wife and children and 97 friends. The other prizes
were a pounds 100,000 gift voucher from Harrods, a lease on a Chelsea house and
the use of a Rolls-Royce for a day. Free hire cars in Britain are among the
other offers.

The gimmicks appear to be working. So much so that Pan-Am and several other
airlines actually plan to raise their transatlantic fares by 7% within the next
fortnight. As the chairman of the American Society of Travel Agents, Joseph
Hallissey, puts it: 'We are now seeing people's psychological fears of going to
Europe being overcome and it's very good business. '

IT'S good business, too, for Britain, which may have staved off estimated losses
of pounds 400m and heavy job cuts in the tourist trade. Last year, the 3.3m
American visitors spent a quarter of the pounds 6 billion that flowed into the
economy from tourists.

The British Tourist Authority expects the June figures to show only a slight
drop in the number of US visitors and says that in July and August, the peak
periods for trans-Atlantic travel, the numbers could be near their 1985 records.

While the package tourists have been lost, individual Americans - more confident
and often on their second or third trip to Europe - are happily flying to
London. As for the high-powered American businessmen who stay in London's most
expensive hotels, most of them have never been frightened away.

Even America's popular heroes are discovering their courage. Unlike that symbol
of American strength, the actor Sylvester 'Rambo' Stallone, who earlier this
summer cancelled a trip to Europe because of the risk of being kidnapped by
terrorists, William 'The Refrigerator' Perry, arrived in London last week. The
only terror on his mind is the kind he plans to inflict on opponents with his
289lb frame when his football team, the Chicago Bears, meets the Dallas Cowboys
in today's Wembley stadium spectacular.

Additional reporting by Mike Graham in New York, Dalbert Hallestein in Verona,
Mario Modiano in Athens, Brian Moynahan in Paris and Parin Janmohamed in London.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1986

Protection and the lucky strike / The terrorist attack on RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus

LENGTH: 573 words


The attack on RAF Akrotiri has emphasised the vulnerability of military
installations against determined terrorist action. Whatever the precautions
taken, it is accepted that it can be only a matter of time before a terrorist
attack succeeds. It is also a stark truism of terrorist philosophy that while
their targets have to be lucky all the time, the bombers have to be lucky only
once.

All British bases at home and overseas have been on varying degrees of alert
since the Government gave active support to the American air strikes against
Libya. The US Third Air Force has kept a conspicuously low profile at such
events as air shows since April, particularly in keeping the F 1-11s, which
raided Tripoli, well out of sight.


However, like Akrotiri, most bases have relaxed their precautions because to
maintain them inevitably makes heavy demands on manpower and seriously disrupts
the smooth running of regimental routine.

The Americans, like their British hosts, refused to discuss their security
arrangements yesterday, even to the extent of refusing to confirm the rather
obvious presence of extra armed military personnel patrolling the inner fences
of Greenham Common cruise missile base, while British troops kept their usual
station on the nine-mile long outer fence.

The two sets of guards are part of the fiction created in the Fifties that there
are no American bases in Britain, but simply American forces within RAF
establishments. Another part of this fiction is that first-line security is in
the hands of the Ministry of Defence Police, who unlike their civilian
counterparts, have an age profile well into the forties. Peace protestors call
them Mod-plods.

A highly critical House of Commons Defence Committee report two years ago, which
pointed to shortcomings in the 4,000-strong force's security arrangements, has
resulted in the formation of a reserve unit to help cope with demonstrations,
and a vigorous recruiting drive.

It is well near impossible to guard every part of a perimeter fence which
stretches for nine miles, and the ease with which peace campaigners - ordinary
citizens with no training in sabotage and often no local knowledge - find their
way to the parts that less determined people would have difficulty reaching is a
constant cause of dismay to the military.

Last month Greenham women travelled to RAF Welford, Oxfordshire, where the
Americans store their 'conventional' bombs. The women breached the fence and the
bomb store security, and then painted the bombs with peace slogans. They then
gave themselves up to the MoD police, and were subsequently charged and fined
for trespass. But on the same evening of their court appearance, another group
of women broke into RAF Welford again, and painted another load of bombs.

Peace campaigners also regularly penetrate the Royal Ordnance Factory at
Burfield, near Reading, where they make nuclear warheads. Demonstrators say that
they can nearly touch the big tanker planes at Fairford, Gloucestershire,
because they are parked so close to the perimeter. And at Aldermaston's Atomic
Research Establishment, Greenham women have been known to give themselves up to
security guards, in their frustration at not being caught.

If these bases seem to be all but indefensible from invasion by peace women and
other demonstrators, the chances of a determined terrorist succeeding must be
reckoned to be high.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1986

The base line of security / The British military presence in Cyprus in the light
of the Akrotiri terrorist attack

BYLINE: From JIM MUIR

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: NICOSIA


A fully-fledged terrorist attack on one of the British bases in Cyprus is about
the last thing either the British or the Cypriot governments wanted.

For the Cypriots, it threw the spotlight on a foreign military presence which is
something of an embarrassment for the government. It also threatened to scare
off some of the tourists who provide a large part of the island's income.


For the British, it raised the spectre of having to mount a permanent
anti-terrorist vigil around bases which were certainly not designed with such a
threat in mind. This could only be done at considerable cost to their relations
with the locals.

It is now apparent that the attack carried out against the Akrotiri air base on
Sunday afternoon was considerably more impressive in scale than the authorities
at first admitted. A salvo of 60mm mortar rounds hit the married quarters,
wounding Eileen Malpass, aged 32, an NCO's wife. Another service wife,
25-year-old Sandra Edwards, was wounded when a barrage of rockets, grenades, and
small-arms fire struck the windsurfing club.

Almost as worrying for both the Cypriot and British authorities was the fact
that the assailants were able to deploy such bulky weaponry on an island where
security is normally regarded as good, and that they managed to escape and were
still at large yesterday.

The attack appeared to pitch the bases into the centre of Middle East violence.
In Beirut, an anonymous telephone caller claimed that the action had been
carried out by a hitherto-unknown pro-Libyan group calling itself the 'Unified
Nasserite Organisation. '

The claim reinforced speculation that the attack was made in reprisal for
Britain's decision to allow American bombers to use English bases to attack
Libya. Two British hostages and one American were murdered in Lebanon in
immediate reprisal and further attacks on British targets were threatened. The
Cyprus bases were put on high alert at the time, but the measures had eased off
by the time of the attack on Sunday.

Yesterday, heavily-armed commandos blocked the main road running through the
base at Dhekelia, and checkpoints and patrols imposed high-profile security
measures throughout both base areas.

The dilemma for the military authorities is that, while the strictly military
elements of the bases can be fairly well protected, many other facilities and
personnel are more vulnerable.

If the bases were to come under a standing terrorist threat and such draconian
security measures became necessary, the presence of the bases could become a hot
issue for the Cypriot government, which has hitherto - for many good reasons -
tolerated what in many ways is an extraordinary anomaly.

Were it not for the heat of the Mediterranean summer, the neat houses lining
streets with names like Waterloo Road and Kensington Avenue would look more like
an up-market council estate in Aylesbury than part of Cyprus. They have their
own shops, schools, churches, cinemas, clubs, beaches, police force and radio
stations. They are home to 4,000 British servicemen and their families. Unique
in the world, they were ceded by treaty as British sovereign territory when
Cyprus became independent in 1960.

If the colonial echoes are something Nicosia can live with, the link with
today's Western defence system is more of an embarrassment to non-aligned Cyprus
at times. Although the bases are supposed to be used for Britain's domestic
defence requirements, the lines are not always clear, and the monitoring and
base facilities are regarded as an important Nato asset.

They have been used for such worthy purposes as evacuating foreigners from
Teheran and Beirut, airlifts to Ethiopia, and ferrying observers to the Zimbabwe
elections. More controversially, they currently house two American Blackbird
reconnaissance planes monitoring the Sinai disengagement, and US Navy
helicopters used on the embassy run to East Beirut shelter there at night since
the raid on Libya.

The Cyprus government tolerates the bases for many reasons. They spend pounds 50
million a year locally and employ 3,700 Cypriots. They attract a large
proportion of the British visitors who made up 29 per cent of the 815,000
tourists who came last year. Some Cypriots see them as something of a bulwark
against further Turkish encroachment. They also provide valuable logistical
support for the United Nations forces in Cyprus.

But despite the opposition - and the Nicosia government's own claim that the
bases owe millions of pounds in rent, which London denies - their presence has
never been a serious election issue. But that could change if a permanent
terrorist threat meant the bases began seriously to disrupt Cypriot life.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 5 1986, Tuesday

Concern grows about extent of Cyprus raid as troops find mortar

SECTION: Issue 62527.

LENGTH: 556 words


The full extent of the terrorist attack on the Royal Air Force base at Akrotiri
in Cyprus emerged last night as a mortar used in the raid was found by troops.

Major Gordon Birdwood, a base spokesman, said: 'Several 60mm mortar rounds hit
the married quarters area within the base and several rocket-propelled grenades
landed on the beach next to the surfing club, which was also raked by
machine-gun fire. '


According to one report military sources had indicated that the attack was more
serious that was at first thought.

British officers were said to have thought it 'a miracle' that there were not
more casualties when the terrorists fired indiscriminately on to the beach
crowded with servicemen's families.

Two servicemen's wives were injured - Mrs Sandra Edwards, aged 25, from Hawick,
in the Scottish borders, and Mrs Amy Eileen Malpass, aged 32, of Blackburn,
Lancashire.

They were said to be not seriously hurt. A Cypriot official was also reported
wounded.

A previously unknown guerrilla group, the Unified Nasserite Organization -
Cairo, has claimed responsibility for the raid.

In a statement published in Beirut's an-Nahar newspaper, the group said the
attack was in retaliation for the American air attacks on Libya in April, which
had been launched from US bases in Britain.

The statement, by the apparently pro-Libyan group, claimed the Akrotiri base
played a leading role in the attack.

A search for the attackers was going on yesterday as security was stepped up at
all the British bases on the island.

At Akrotiri teams of investigators, part of the 1,400 personnel at the base,
searched for clues to the attacks.

They found a mortar baseplate and tube in woodland just to the north of the base
but within the British sovereign area. The fact that it was still in position
was being taken as evidence that the terrorist left in a hurry.

There is no wire or fencing between the sovereign base area and the rest of
Cyprus, and members of the public are largely free to come and go as they
please.

The British authorities hoped to announce the origin of the equipment later last
night. Its source of manufacture could provide valuable clues as to who was
behind the attacks.

The Cyprus Government condemned the attack. Mr George Iacovou, the Cypriot
Foreign Minister, will meet Mr John Wilberforce, the British High Commissioner,
to discuss the incident, official sources said.

Cypriot security sources said they were investigating a possibility, 'based on
strong indications' that the guerrilla group could have come through the
Turkish-occupied north of Cyprus, and might already have returned there.

They said heavy weapons apparently used in the attack could not have passed
through security checks at Cypriot ports or airports.

The breakway Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, recognized only by Turkey, is
beyond the control of the internationally-recognized Government of Cyprus.

An official source said stricter travel control through Akrotiri, on a peninsula
60 miles south-west of Nicosia, and Britain's other Cyprus base, Dhekelia, could
cause serious problems for visitors to the coastal holiday resorts of Ayia Napa
and Paphos.

Ten thousand British servicemen, civilians and their dependants serve on the two
British bases in Cyprus.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 11, 1986

Peaceful Adams parade follows rioting / Republican march to commemorate
anniversary of internment in Ulster

BYLINE: From DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The Republican parade at the Falls Road, Belfast, to commemorate the anniversary
of internment passed off without incident yesterday after a weekend of serious
clashes between Republican youths and gunmen and the army in Belfast and
Londonderry.

Mr Gerry Adams, MP for West Belfast and president of Sinn Fein, repeatedly urged
the parade not to be provoked by the security forces. Apart from some ritual
jostling with the police at the start of the parade, when RUC officers told them
to disperse because the parade was not legal, there were no incidents.


The worst violence occurred early on Saturday morning when youths lighting
traditional bonfires on the Falls Road clashed with the RUC who tried to
disperse them The youths threw over 100 petrol bombs. The RUC said that they
fired 137 plastic bullets but no one was seriously injured. Fifty-nine people
appeared in special courts at the weekend in Belfast charged with riotous and
disorderly behaviour and having offensive weapons.

That same night troops in the Bogside area of Londonderry came under sustained
fire from IRA gunmen in the Rossville Flats. A lengthy gun battle ensued but
there were no reported injuries on either side.

rate on Saturday the army defused a 7lb bomb contained in a gas cylinder in one
of the entrances of the flats. Police also defused a bomb containing 25lb of
commercial explosive and a quantity of ball bearings outside an RUC station in
Co Tyrone. On Saturday night there were short-lived skirmishes between
Nationalist and Loyalist youths from the New Lodge and Tigers Bay areas of
Belfast.

In his address, Mr Adams said that the Republican fight would continue but it
was not their choice to conduct the campaign with violence. 'Pax Britannica has
chosen not to listen to the force of argument. Instead, they will have to listen
to the argument of force. They will learn the hard way that our struggle for
freedom cannot be defeated. '

He said the Anglo-Irish agreement was an attempt to create a bulwark against the
unification of Ireland but Peter Barry, the Irish foreign minister, had sold the
agreement about as well as he sold the referendum on divorce. The British and
Irish governments were now realising that it wouldn't work, but the end to
violence lay in their hands.

The rally outside Sinn Fein headquarters in Belfast was addressed by a member of
the visiting Noraid delegation, Mr Richard Lawlor, who called on Americans to
defeat the extradition treaty arranged at Britain's bidding. He said ordinary
Americans would never stop supporting the cause of Irish liberation.

But Mr Martin Galvin, the spokesman for Noraid, who has been banned from
Northern Ireland, did not make an attempt to appear at the rally.

Two years ago outside the Sinn Fein headquarters a Catholic youth, Sean Downs,
was killed by a plastic bullet fired during a melee which ensued when the RUC
tried to arrest Mr Galvin.

The rally observed a minute's silence at the spot in rememberance of Mr Downs.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 13, 1986

Taking sides on the Berlin Wall / Soviets protest to US, Britain and France over
alleged West German provocations against East

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE and MICHAEL SIMMONS

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: WEST BERLIN


The Soviet Union yesterday protested to the US, Britain, and France over what it
termed dangerous provocations and acts of terrorism at the Berlin Wall, which
began to be built 25 years today.

A Foreign Ministry statement, delivered to the Moscow embassies of the three
Western powers, said that West German and West Berlin authorities had supported
acts aimed at kindling hatred towards the Soviet Union and East Germany.


East and West Berlin will today mark the 25th anniversary of the Berlin Wall in
contrasting ceremonies that have been preceded by a rise in ideological tension.
In the East, the cutting off of the city's Soviet sector from the Western zones
by East German troops, on August 13, 1961, will be hailed as a contribution to
European peace. It will be marked by a parade of militia down East Berlin's
Unter den Linden Avenue.

The East German leader, Mr Erich Honecker, who supervised construction of the
13-ft high concrete wall, will speak before the march-past. East Berliners have
been asked to turn out in large numbers.

In the West, the drastic division of Berlin and subsequent 'imprisonment' of the
Communist state's 17 million people will be condemned as an act against human
rights.

Among the speakers in the Reichstag building will be the chairman of the Social
Democratic party and governing mayor of Berlin from 25 years ago, Mr Willy
Brandt, and Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who is interrupting his summer holiday.

Apart from the Reichstag ceremony and wreath-layings at the wooden crosses put
up in memory of those East Germans who were killed in escape attempts, the date
is likely to go largely unnoticed by many West Berliners who have grown
accustomed to speeches commemorating the Wall.

They are generally more concerned about the maintenance of 'normalised
relations', based on the 1972 Four Power Accord that facilitated travel to the
East and guaranteed unhindered access to and from West Germany.

About three million East Germans left for the West between 1949 and 1961, a flow
which the Communist regime brought to an abrupt end by putting up the Wall.

Since then, just over 200,000 East Germans have escaped to the West, mostly
through third countries. Some 40,000 fled across the heavily fortified border
between East and West Germany, while 4,900 managed to cross the Wall.

Altogether, 74 East Germans are known to have been killed trying to escape
across the Wall, 57 of them shot by East German border guards.

In a statement issued by the US embassy in Bonn, President Reagan described the
wall as proof of the failure of totalitarian governments and predicted that the
barrier would some day be torn down.

The building of the Wall will be presented to East Germans today as an act which
checked the Cold War and did much to improve relations between the two Germanys.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 13 1986, Wednesday

Bonn and US firm over Wall

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: Issue 62534.

LENGTH: 114 words


The Soviet Union yesterday protested to the United States, Britain and France
over what it termed dangerous provocations and acts of terrorism in the days
preceding tomorrow's 25th anniversary of the building of the Berlin Wall.

However, both the United States and West Germany issued defiant statements
reiterating their opposition to the wall.


The Soviet protest follows a series of demonstrations at the wall recently.

The United States, however, said that the 'horrible Berlin Wall is an awesome
testament to the failure of Communist ideology to win the allegiance of
individual citizens', and pledged to ensure that Berlin 'shall never become
isolated. '

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 14, 1986

Stratford reflects on absent friends / The impact on Shakespeare's birthplace of
missing US tourists

BYLINE: By ANDREW MONCUR

LENGTH: 558 words


Stratford-upon-Avon, home of the Shakespeare Tea (pot of Earl Grey, finger
sandwiches and cream cakes: pounds 4.75), the Shakespeare souvenir ashtray and,
for a while, of Shakespeare himself, is still missing its best friends this
summer.

The language of Shakespeare to be heard at his birthplace yesterday was French,
German, Japanese, and Finnish. The traditional American accent remains by all
recent standards only faintly heard. There are also distinctly fewer Burberry
raincoats and Rupert Bear golf trousers to be seen.


The return of the Americans has not yet occured on a scale in any way sufficient
to make up the early season losses, when Shakespeare and Stratford became
victims of Libya and fears of revenge attacks by terrorists.

American tour groups are now accepted to have been lost for good this year, with
the possible exception of coach parties of Methodists still drawn, unwavering,
to Stratford.

The Americans seem to be coming instead in ones and twos and as families - small
groups which cannot fill all the gaps left by the wholesale cancellations. Other
nationalities and the British themselves are helping to make up the difference.

Overseas visitors make up a fifth of audiences at the Royal Shakespeare Trust,
and more than 16 per cent of them are usually from the US.

This year the Americans will probably account for only 7 per cent, according to
Gillian Ingham, marketing manager. She said that after the Libyan raid 'we
started to get group cancellations from the big operators for tours booked for
June to September. On the whole that has not come back.

'But we are getting more Americans coming under their own steam. We have lost a
lot of business, but we are making it up from the UK market. '

A visitor to Stratford yesterday would have met a bus-load of Finns, Japanese
and Italians too numerous to mention, and Mrs Jean White, from Maryland, and her
daughter, Mrs Ann Price, from Washington DC.

Mrs White, aged 75, first visited Britain in 1929 and came again last year. 'It
was jam-packed. There were Americans all the time,' she said. 'This year there
is no comparison. '

Mrs Nanette Lindsey, herself a tour operator from Santa Barbara, California,
said: 'We have been here since July 30 and the only other Americans we have seen
were the Dallas Cowboys cheer leaders getting off the plane at Heathrow. '

The cancellation of American package tours is good news for some in Stratford.
Mr Gordon Mucklow, deputy mayor, said: 'The town has been very pleasant because
we don't get these thundering great coaches coming through. The individual
visitors we are getting more of are able to get about more. It is quite
beneficial really. '

Another US visitor, Mr Christopher Nowlan, from California, said that he had
detected a 'terrific' improvement in standards of service in English hotels and
restaurants. He said: 'A lot of people catering to the tourist realise perhaps
that business is off and they are having to try a little harder. '

The shift in tourist patterns is made clear by the visitors' book at the town's
grammar school, where all the evidence suggests Shakespeare was introduced to
Latin and the birch.

In 1984, more than 60 per cent of the entries were signed by Americans. Of 68
names recorded there yesterday, only 13 had US addresses.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 27 1986, Wednesday

Thatcher given bases warning / Opposition urges Premier to veto use of US
airbases in Britain for second bombing of Libya

BYLINE: NICHOLAS WOOD, Political Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62546.

LENGTH: 373 words


Opposition leaders urged the Prime Minister yesterday to veto any use of United
States bases in Britain for launching any second bombing raid on Libya.

Their calls came as US and Egyptian warships engaged in manoeuvres in the
southern Mediterranean amid speculation in Washington that Colonel Gadaffi is
about to mount new terrorist attacks and must be taught another lesson.


It was also confirmed that General Vernon Walters, President Reagan's special
envoy who obtained Mrs Thatcher's consent to the use of British-based F111s in
the April raids, will visit London and other European capitals in a few days'
time.

Mr David Steel, the Liberal leader, said: 'In view of the public outcry on the
last occasion when the Americans used facilities here to launch their attacks,
the British Government should make it quite clear that the Americans would not
be authorized to use Nato bases in this country for any such strike. '

Mr Donald Anderson, a Labour foreign affairs spokesman, said: 'Mrs Thatcher must
realize how unpopular her uncritical support for the last US adventure in Libya
made her. She must .. deny them use, either directly or indirectly, of their
bases in this country again. '

Whitehall sources say that to date the Americans have not approached Britain.

It is suggested that the bellicose noises in Washington are intended to
encourage anti-Gadaffi elements in Libya.

Downing Street said yesterday: 'We are aware of the reports there have been of
recent American statements about Libya, but that is a matter for the American
Administration. There is no comment we wish to make. '

Although the Government appears to have recovered from the public backlash after
the April assault, there seems little doubt that Mrs Thatcher would be placed in
an unenviable position if asked to sanction further action.

After that attack, she said she had gone through agonies before approving
British involvement and that she hoped most earnestly that she would not be
asked a second time.

But she coupled this with a robust denunciation of terrorism, insisting that
appeasement was no answer to tyrants and dictators and saying that any future
request for help would be judged on its merits.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 28, 1986

Jane's suggests building short, fat naval ships / Recommendation by editor
Captain John Moore

BYLINE: By PAUL BROWN

LENGTH: 480 words


Britain should build a short fat warship, far cheaper than the sleek versions
now in vogue, to test whether fatter frigates would meet the Royal Navy's needs,
according to Captain John Moore, editor of the influential Jane's Fighting
ships.

Captain Moore suggests that a prototype hull would cost pounds 32 million - 'a
mere spit in the bucket' compared with the cost of Britain's Nimrod early
warning programme, and could mean Britain getting four warships for the price of
three.


The cost of a fully-equipped short fat ship is put at pounds 73.8 million, while
the current Type 23 frigate costs at least pounds 100 million.

The Government has set up a committee to evaluate the difference between the fat
and the sleek design after Lord Hill-Norton's report earlier this year, which
undermined conventional Navy support for the slim design.

Captain Moore says the prototype warship, which would not need to be equipped
with sophisticated weaponry, could be completed in a year. The project would
provide work and the result would materially assist the committee.

The alternative to the existing design would be easier to build, equip, and live
in, but would be slower.

Captain Moore's consideration of the cheaper ships is based on the premise that
Britain needs more warships to fulfil its defence needs.

He says his reference book, a bible for the world's navies, is able to give firm
predictions for future size and shape of many countries' navies but not for the
UK. Policy for Britain's Navy lacks coherence and is 'a maritime mess', he says.

The merchant navy is in such a mess that the demise of the British flag fleet
could be expected by 1990 if current trends continue, he says.

The run-down of British trained seamen, falling by 5,000 a year - a drop of 43
per cent in four years --means that Britain may not be able to muster trained
crews in an emergency. He describes the drop in British shipping as 'alarming'
but adds, 'no doubt something will be done to prevent this total rundown. '

Referring to the Chernobyl disaster and the role of navies, Captain Moore says
he hopes that the fall-out from the nuclear accident has brought a tinge of
humanity to war planners who view nuclear war impersonally. It must be clear to
them that the Navy would have no role after a nuclear exchange - there would be
nothing left, he says.

In just over 40 years since the end of world war two warships have been used to
intervene on the international stage as frequently as in the 19th century. He
cites Libya as the most recent example where naval strength has been decisive,
and remembers the Falklands, where Britain could only just cope.

Apart from gunboat diplomacy, he describes recent seaborne terrorist attacks,
including the hijacking of the Achille Lauro, as threats which needed to be
countered by the world's navies.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 30 1986, Saturday

Nato chief claims evidence of Libya terrorist plans / Claim by General Bernard
Rogers

BYLINE: From MICHAEL BINYON and HARRY DEBELIUS

SECTION: Issue 62550.

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON and MADRID


General Bernard Rogers, the Nato Supreme Allied Commander, said yesterday there
was 'credible evidence' Libya was planning new terrorist attacks, and he
believed the United States should strike militarily if such attacks came.

General Rogers, who is also commander of the US forces in Europe, said there was
evidence that Colonel Gadaffi was recovering from the earlier raid against him
and planning and guiding new terrorist actions.


He said that the US was now more concerned about Libya than it was after the US
attack in April.

He said he was speaking personally, but he believed that, having once responded
militarily, the US had no choice but to do so again if terrorism could be traced
to Libya.

He said B 52 bombers could be used in an attack, and suggested that US
long-range weapons could be employed.

He denied that the deployment of F 111 bombers in Britain had anything to do
with developments in Libya or a possible military strike. He would not, however,
mind if the Libyan leader thought the bombers were being prepared for use
against him.

He added: 'We've got the B 52s in the United States. He has to know that he is
subject to that kind of treatment. ' He called Colonel Gadaffi a bastard.

General Rogers's remarks could embarrass the Administration, which is trying to
play down the impression that a US strike is imminent.

Mr Vernon Walters, President Reagan's special envoy, leaves today for Europe,
where he will try to convince nervous allied governments that, although the US
has firm evidence of renewed Libyan support for terrorism, it is not asking
their support for another American raid now.

Mr Walters will be visiting Britain, France, Belgium, Spain, The Netherlands,
West Germany, Italy and Canada over the next week, but not necessarily in this
order, the State Department said.

For security reasons, his schedule is being withheld, though he is expected to
be in London early next week.

Attempting to rally allied support for tougher sanctions against Libya, Mr
Walters will present evidence, some of it circumstantial, that Libya is still
plotting acts of violence against the US. The Reagan Administration has insisted
it has new intelligence information, but has refused to give details.

A chilly reception awaits Mr Walters when he arrives in Madrid on Monday morning
with a personal message for the Spanish Government.

The Prime Minister, Senor Felipe Gonzalez, will not see him, a Foreign Ministry
spokesman said yesterday. Instead, Senor Francisco Fernandez Ordonez, the
Foreign Minister, will meet Mr Walters.

He will press particularly for a closure of loopholes allowing products refined
from Libyan oil to evade sanctions, and measures against some subsidiaries of US
companies in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 2, 1986

Gadafy attends Harare summit / Libyan leader arrives for Nonaligned Movement
meeting

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK, Diplomatic Correspondent and agencies

LENGTH: 459 words


The Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gadafy, arrived in Harare yesterday to attend
summit of the Nonaligned Movement.

He said his visit demonstrated solidarity with the people and government of
Zimbabwe. There was no sign at the airport of the 1,500 security people who, the
Libyan Foreign Ministry said earlier in Tripoli, would be needed to guard him.


Colonel Gadafy said it was significant that the meeting was being held in a
neighbouring state to South Africa 'close to the struggle against apartheid. '
He added that the world was currently divided 'into liberated and unliberated
people. '

A Nonaligned delegation visited Libya, soon after the US air raid in April to
express sympathy.

Despite Colonel Gadafy's earlier tirade against Mrs Thatcher, as well as the
Reagan Administration, the British Government has not changed its decision to
stay clear of any military or economic offensive against Libya.

General Vernon Walters, the US ambassador to the United Nations, who is touring
Western European capitals as part of the Administration's campaign against
Colonel Gadafy, will be told by Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, that
Britain already enforces a tough package of sanctions against Libya, and cannot
be expected to do more.

General Walters, whose itinerary is supposed to be shrouded in secrecy,
presumably to guard against Libyan terrorists, was in Madrid yesterday, and is
due in Rome, Bonn and Paris, before meeting the Foreign Secretary in London on
Friday.

Mrs Thatcher has indicated her coolness towards his mission by letting it be
known that she will not interrupt her visit to Scotland in order to meet the US
envoy personally.

The Government, however, is quite eager to discover whether President Reagan is
seriously contemplating a fresh strike against Libya, or whether such reports
from Washington were merely intended to frighten and un-nerve Colonel Gadafy.

Washington officials have also suggested that the Administration would like
Western European Governments to undertake that they will not allow any petroleum
products to be exported to the US that contain a component of Libyan oil. But
British officials will tell General Walters that the oil market is far too
sophisticated for such controls to be exercised, even if governments were
prepared to consider such measures.

In any case, the British Government does not believe that the Libyan leader's
recent actions warrant further action against him. While Britain is prepared to
look at any evidence of fresh terrorist plots, the British view is that there is
only highly circumstantial evidence of Libya involvement in recent terrorist
acts - including the recent terrorist bombing of British bases in Cyprus.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 2, 1986

Maze gaolers threatened / The dangers faced by prison officers working in Ulster

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 638 words


Earlier this year, when prison officers began taking industrial action during a
dispute with the Home Office, the IRA's officer commanding at the Maze prison,
Belfast, delivered a blunt warning to his gaolers.

Inmates at the Maze, like those in prisons in England and Wales, were being
affected by the Prison Officers' Association's action over manning levels, which
was called off pending a government review.


One immediate effect was that an overtime ban resulted in prisoners being locked
in their cells at 4pm for the night.

The IRA's OC - the elected head of the Republican prisoners' self-styled
'prisoner of war' command structure - approached a senior member of the POA
inside the Maze and told him: 'You've got three days to call off this action. If
not, you'll be hearing from us. '

Such a threat from a prisoner at any gaol on the mainland would scarcely have
been believed. In Northern Ireland it had to be taken seriously.

Since political status was withdrawn from terrorist prisoners in the province in
the mid-1970s the IRA has killed 25 prison officers. They are regarded by
Republican paramilitaries as equally 'legitimate' for assassination as members
of the police force or the army.

More recently, the prison service in Northern Ireland has come under threat from
Loyalist paramilitary organisations whose members have been gaoled in increasing
numbers since the 'supergrass' trials started six years ago.

Loyalist prisoners at the Maze and the province's other main gaol, Magilligan in
County Derry, have not only adopted the Republicans' command structure inside
the prisons but their allies outside have also begun attacking officers.

Three thousand members of the prison service in Northern Ireland are being
issued with fire blankets and extinguishers in response to a spate of petrol
bomb attacks by Loyalists on some of their homes.

The Protestant areas in which prison officers have tended to settle have now
become as vulnerable as the Republican districts of Londonderry and Belfast
where they would never have considered buying property.

All prison officers in Northern Ireland are advised to vary their routes to and
from work. But the stresses of their role do not end once they have driven
through the prison gates to go on duty.

'In Britain the assumption is that the prisoners will conform to the regime.
Here it is the opposite,' said a senior official of the Northern Ireland Prison
Service.

The prison official admitted that for many of his staff the work was 'boring and
unsatisfactory' because of the special demands in Northern Ireland prisons which
frequently require officers to spend entire eight-hour shifts monitoring
closed-circuit cameras or manning security gates.

Four hundred of the 700 men at the Maze are classified as 'top risk' Category A
prisoners who can be expected to attempt an escape at any time. In September,
1983, they did just that, with 39 of them breaking out of the Maze and killing a
prison officer in the process.

Prison officers in Northern Ireland work about 60 hours a week on average,
including overtime, which is essential for the running of the system. It means
that an officer may earn around pounds 15,000 a year - a substantial salary in
the province - but it also results in many members of the prison service taking
problems home as well as the money.

'You leave home at 7.30 in the morning and you get back at 9 in the evening.
That's 12 hours working and the rest travelling. When you get back all you're
fit to do is sleep,' said a prison officer 'The people it's hardest on are the
family. '

Over the past eight years 15 members of the prison service in Northern Ireland
have committed suicide. Eight killed themselves with guns issued to them as a
protection against terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 6, 1986

Caution over blaming Gadafy for latest hijack / Britain says US has not claimed
fresh evidence of Libyan involvement in terrorism

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK, Diplomatic Correspondent

LENGTH: 465 words


The tragic end to yesterday's hijacking in Karachi has not deflected the British
Government from displaying the utmost caution in the face of widespread
speculation that Colonel Gadafy may be the instigator, and that the US will call
for retaliation.

It was being emphasised in London yesterday that there had been no advance
intelligence warning of an impending hijacking, and that General Vernon Walters,
President Reagan's special envoy, had been in Western Europe enjoining greater
cooperation in deterring terrorism, but had not presented any specific new
evidence of Libyan terrorist plotting.


The Foreign Office stressed throughout yesterday that it possessed no evidence
so far pointing in that direction. Until and unless such a link is established,
the Government had no intention of activating contingency plans, tentatively
discussed with the Nato allies in the wake of last April's controversial US air
strikes against Libya.

But Sir Geoffrey Howe certainly intends to discuss the Karachi hijack with the
other EEC foreign ministers during their informal two-day meeting this weekend
at Brockley Hall, in Hertfordshire. Earlier yesterday, the Foreign Secretary had
an hour-long discussion with General Walters, who is US ambassador to the United
Nations, who has been visiting West European capitals this week to discuss
further collective action against Libya.

The Walters trip was initiated after US officials hinted last month that they
had new evidence against the Libyan leader and were preparing another military
strike against him.

But this led to immediate speculation that the President was only seeking to
un-nerve Colonel Gadafy, and that no action was imminent.

During the past five days, General Walters has been coolly received in European
capitals, and has been forced to issue assurances that he had not come to seek
support for military action, or even for a fresh package of punitive economic
sanctions against Libya.

Although his talks with the Foreign Secretary took place yesterday morning,
after news of the Karachi hijack had been received the Foreign Office again
stressed that General Walters had not come to Europe to make demands, but 'to
consult close allies on dealing with terrorism. '

Britain, in common with the United States and its other allies, remained
concerned how best to combat international terrorism. 'In this context, they
emphasised the continuing importance of firm, sustained and collective
international action.

The Foreign Office is obviously studying the claim of the group describing
itself as the Libyan Revolutionary Cell that it was responsible for the Karachi
outrage. But officials were quite emphatic that it was far too soon to say
whether this claim should be regarded seriously.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 6 1986, Saturday

Scientist fears more terror by animal groups / Professor Jeffrey Gray predicts
increasing intimidation by liberationists

BYLINE: THOMSON PRENTICE, Science Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62556.

LENGTH: 486 words


Violence against researchers who experiment on animals is likely to increase and
more of them are being intimidated by animal liberation 'terrorists', a
scientist said yesterday.

Professor Jeffrey Gray told a conference of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science that parcel and car bomb attacks were likely to become
more frequent because animal liberationists were failing to win public support
by argument.


Extra security was in force at Bristol University yesterday as Professor Gray
and other scientists spoke on animal experiments.

'I have taken a calculated risk in coming here, but I have a wife and children
to consider and there are some public meetings that I and other colleagues now
refuse to attend,' he said.

Professor Gray, a professor of psychology at London University who observes
animals under test conditions, told yesterday's meeting: 'The distinctive
characteristic of those singled out for liberationist terror is not that they do
particular violence to animals but that they speak out against liberationists. '

One scientist was the target of a letter bomb after writing a letter to The
Times last year and another had a bomb placed under his car early this year
after appearing on television.

Last February four letter bombs were sent simultaneously to researchers in
different parts of the country, but no injuries had yet been caused.

Professor Gray said that animal experiments had led to the development of drugs
which had helped millions and enabled thousands of mental patients in Britain to
be released from hospital and lead more normal lives.

'Advances have been made but it is the advances still to come that are
threatened by the liberationists,' he said. Experimental animals would play a
vital role in research into senile dementia and other disorders of the brain.

'The overwhelming majority of scientists working with animals have no need to
justify causing excessive suffering to animals because they do not cause them
such suffering. '

The liberationists had 'at best distorted and at worst simply lied' about what
went on in animal laboratories.

He said that the liberation movement had been 'joined by anarchists whose main
purpose is to create violence and confusion in society at large. '

Professor Nicholas Mackintosh, head of the experimental psychology department at
Cambridge University, said: 'There is nothing especially wicked about
experimenting on animals. Such experiments have uniquely enriched and informed
our understanding of the world and of our place in it. '

But he said that scientists required policing.

Dr Stephen Lea, head of the department of psychology at Exeter University, said:
'Most people are willing to see some suffering inflicted on animals if
sufficient benefits to people result. This means some experiments on animal
behaviour can be defended but some cannot. '

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 9, 1986

Watch on synagogues / Britain considers tighter security in wake of Istanbul
terrorist attack

BYLINE: By WALTER SCHWARZ, Religious affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 146 words


Tighter security at British synagogues is being considered as a result of last
week's attack in Istanbul in which 21 Jewish worshippers were killed.

The massacre happened three weeks before the start of the jewish High Holidays,
when synagogues are filled to capacity for the Passover and the Jewish new year.


'Istanbul will serve to reinforce the very tight arrangements we already have,'
said Dr Jacob Gewirtz, executive director of the British Board of Deputies, who
has special charge of security.

Each synagogue already has vigilantes within the congregation who work with
police and Special Branch officers.

Rabbi Sidney Brichto, Director of the Union of Liberal and Progressive
Synagogues, said security in synagogues was much higher in Britain than in
Turkey, but he urged tighter measures to protect congregations before and after
services.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 11, 1986

Prior the target, says Maze escaper / IRA bomber tells Dutch court that mass
break-out aimed at toppling Ulster Secretary

BYLINE: From MARTIN CLEAVER and PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE


Gerard Kelly, whose extradition from Holland is being sought by Britain, claimed
yesterday that the mass IRA break-out from the Maze prison three years ago was a
political act designed to embarrass the British government.

Kelly, aged 30, who was serving a life sentence at Northern Ireland's
top-security prison, was among 38 Republican prisoners who broke out in
September, 1983, killing a prison officer and wounding another in the process.


Yesterday he told the Dutch Supreme Court in The Hague - where the British
authorities are appealing against an Amsterdam court ruling that Kelly's
extradition would be illegal - that the escape was expressly designed to boost
Republican morale and bring down the then Northern Ireland Secretary, Mr James
Prior.

He told the six judges: 'A successful escape from H Block, which was the symbol
of British oppression, was to restore confidence. It was a great deal more
significant than any ordinary escape. Thatcher described it as the greatest
prison crisis in history. '

Kelly likened the position of IRA prisoners to that of Nelson Mandela in South
Africa and argued that a certain level of violence was acceptable to achieve
freedom.

'As a prisoner of war I have always looked on it as my duty to escape and rejoin
my organisation. I think this is no different from any other soldier. '

In the court with Kelly yesterday was another Maze escaper, Brendan McFarlane,
aged 34, who was serving five life terms for a bomb attack which killed five
people in a Belfast bar.

Last March an Amsterdam court ruled that neither man could be extradited solely
for his part in the escape. It also ruled that Kelly was not extraditable for
his part in a 1973 bombing campaign in London because the offence was not
extraditable at the time it was committed.

Mr Brian Parker, the director of the Northern Ireland Prison Service, told
yesterday's hearing that at the time of his conviction for the London bombings
Kelly received 'political status' in prison.

But this was withdrawn in 1978 after he took part in an unsuccessful escape
attempt from the Maze.

The appeal judges also heard evidence about the background to the IRA, the legal
system in Northern Ireland, and the question of political status which was ended
in 1976.

One witness, Mrs Bernadette McAliskey - formerly the Westminster MP Bernadette
Devlin - defended political status for Loyalist and Republican activists.

She said she would be prepared to defend the right of the three Ulster Defence
Association gunmen who tried to assassinate her in 1981 to political exemption
from extradition if they ever escaped from prison.

A final ruling on the extradition of the two men is expected from the Dutch
justice minister in about two months, after the supreme court judges have
delivered their verdicts.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 12 1986, Friday

Bombers 'still here' / London Iranian shop blast case

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 62561.

LENGTH: 116 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch suspects that members of the group behind
a bomb attack on an Iranian shop in Kensington, west London, last month could
still be in Britain (Stewart Tendler, our Crime Reporter writes).

The police believe the target shop, which specialized in virulent propaganda
against the Tehran regime, was picked out for attack by a pro-Khomeini terrorist
group because it was, as one senior detective said yesterday, a 'red rag to a
bull'.


Detectives have ruled out any possibility that Mr Bijan Fazeli, aged 22, son of
the owner of the shop, who died in the attack, could have been handling or
putting together a bomb himself for a pro-Khomeini target.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 16 1986, Tuesday

Terror threat forces urgent EEC summit: Hurd to chair London crisis talks after
latest Paris attack

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER and RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 62564.

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: LONDON and BRUSSELS


Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, is speeding up moves to consider and
introduce tougher European measures against terrorism after the spate of bomb
attacks in Paris, including a further one yesterday.

After requests from the French and German Governments Mr Hurd is to chair an
emergency meeting of European ministers of the interior and justice in London
next week.


He wants Britain's six-month presidency of the European Community to result in
the adoption of much stronger measures across Europe to combat terrorism,
organized crime and drugs.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, who is current president of the EEC
Council of Ministers, said in Brussels that the EEC was determined to 'drive the
terrorists out of our 12 countries' and 'rid the world of this 20th century
plague'.

Measures under consideration include tighter frontier controls and stricter visa
requirements throughout the EEC after the emergency introduction of visas for
all visitors to France except EEC nationals and the stepping up of security on
French borders.

The series of recent attacks by Arab-backed terrorists in Paris dominated the
start of yesterday's meeting of EEC foreign ministers in Brussels.

The explosion at police headquarters in Paris came just as they were discussing
terrorism in Europe over lunch.

Sir Geoffrey noted that the foreign ministers' informal discussions in Britain
10 days ago had been held in the shadow of the outrages at Karachi and Istanbul.

'Today we are similarly outraged by the loss of life and injuries inflicted on
innocent French citizens,' he said.

There was dismay about the Paris attacks at the meeting and some apprehension
that the French outrages could presage a terrorist campaign throughout Europe,
despite existing effective measures taken by many European governments.

The new visa restrictions under consideration are at odds with the EEC policy of
open frontiers, but this is a price most EEC governments believe is worth
paying.

The Home Secretary had already planned a meeting in London on October 20 to
discuss wide-ranging proposals to tackle crime.

He wants to consider ways of co-ordinating the various systems of immigration
checks and controls that operate in the EEC.

Another aim is to accelerate the flow of intelligence between EEC countries.

Mr Hurd said yesterday that he sympathized with the French decision on visas.

But government sources played down suggestions that Mr Hurd meant that Britain
was on the verge of introducing tougher rules and visas to counter terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 18, 1986

Terror trial Arab 'wanted peaceful life in Britain' / Old Bailey trial of Nassar
Abdul Karim Mohamed

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 289 words


An Arab arrested in London on suspicion of planning terrorist attacks told the
police that he loved Britain more than the British and wanted to live here
peacefully, an Old Bailey jury heard yesterday.

Iraqi-born Nassar Abdul Karim Mohamed, aged 28, was arrested in September last
year after officers from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch watched the
hand-over of a package containing four grenades.


Giving evidence on the third day of the trial in which Mohamed and Rasmi Abdul
Hafez Awad deny conspiring to cause explosions, Detective Sergeant Michael
Colacicco of the anti-terrorist squad said the Iraqi denied having had any
knowledge of his co-defendant's alleged terrorist intentions.

The two men were arrested together after Awad had collected the grenades at a
London tube station. But Mohamed, who had waited in a hire car, told the police:
'I swear I don't know about terrorist acts. '

The detective told the court that Mohamed, who entered Britain in 1984 as a
student, denied ever having had any connection with the Abu Nidal terrorist
organisation which the prosecution allege both defendants support.

He said he had once belonged to the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine (PFLP), but described that as a political rather than terrorist
organisation. While he had Abu Nidal literature at his home in Hendon, north
London, he did not support the group's terrorist activities.

'My politics are nearer to the PFLP and the Labour Party here in Britain. I
don't believe in international violence or terrorism. I love this country -
maybe even more than the British here - and want to live here peacefully,'
Mohammed was alleged to have told the police. The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 19 1986, Friday

Extradition of terrorists: Britain offers treaty in attempt to improve relations
with India

BYLINE: From Our Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62567.

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: DELHI


Britain took an important step towards improving relations with India yesterday
when the High Commission in Delhi delivered to the Foreign Ministry the draft of
a bilateral extradition treaty.

The treaty is something that the Indian Government has long been pressing for,
since there is a widespread feeling among official circles and in the public at
large that Britain is not doing enough to deal with Sikh terrorists.


Until yesterday the British attitude has always been that a bilateral treaty is
not necessary since the problems can be dealt with by amendment to the
multilateral Fugitive Offenders Act, which governs extradition arrangements
between Commonwealth countries.

India's anger over what its establishment sees as British indulgence towards the
Sikhs has now finally overridden this reluctance.

The treaty presented yesterday goes a long way towards meeting their
requirements.

It is perhaps a measure of how bad relations between the two governments have
now become that the official Indian government spokesman declined repeatedly
last night to welcome the concession, saying simply that India wished to see
what the final outcome of the negotiations might be.

Aside from the Sikh question, and the related issue of pro-Pakistan militants
from Kashmir, relations have taken a further sharp fall over the issue of
sanctions against South Africa, and what the Indians see as racially
discrimatory visa requirements shortly to be imposed by Britain on visitors from
the sub-continent.

Although Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, said during his visit here at
the beginning of April that he was not in favour of a new treaty, he did make
some proposals for improving extradition arrangements which are now incorporated
in the British draft.

The draft also includes a proposal to disallow the 'political' defence for acts
of terrorism, which was proposed to Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the Indian Prime Minister,
when he was in London last October.

The Indians themselves submitted a draft treaty in January of this year, and the
British proposal includes some of the suggestions made then - in particular, it
includes the crime of conspiracy in India to commit an act of terrorism in India
among those not protected by the political defence.

British officials regard the 'no-list' method of defining extraditable crimes as
an improvement on the Indian draft.

This makes extraditable any crime which would attract a sentence of at least 12
months in both countries, instead of relying on a list of agreed crimes, and was
the main proposal made by Sir Geoffrey in April.

In one respect it is less than the Indian proposal. The Indians wanted to
exclude a 'humanitarian' clause, which is present in their own extradition law,
protecting individuals from extradition where they might be harshly treated on
racial or other grounds.

The negotiations on the treaty will be taken up at the beginning of October when
a team led by Dr P. Srinivasa Rao, the Foreign Ministry's legal affairs
director, will go to London.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 21 1986, Sunday

SAS stand by to help Paris / Terrorist bombing campaign in France

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 8459.

LENGTH: 996 words


A UNIT of Britain's Special Air Services regiment has been placed on standby,
ready to fly to the assistance of the French government as it confronts the most
lethal terrorist campaign to hit the country since the struggle over Algerian
independence 25 years ago. The unprecedented offer of SAS assistance by the
British government was cleared in high-level talks between Paris and London last
week.

SAS officers have assisted foreign governments in the past but this is believed
to be the first time that a full unit of the elite force has been made
available. It is ready to go into action if a siege or hijack occurred in the
current campaign being waged by Middle East terrorists in Paris. The SAS are
acknowledged experts in this kind of operation.


The SAS move is one element in the remarkably close inter-government cooperation
that developed last week as the Paris bombing campaign intensified. British
anti-terrorist specialists drawn from the security services and the police paid
two visits to Paris to offer intelligence information to their French
counterparts.

The Paris/London links emphasise the desperation of the French authorities in
the face of the bomb attacks. The animosity between the French counter-terrorism
services and the SAS is no secret. For the French prime minister, Jacques
Chirac, to authorise this level of cooperation must have involved much
swallowing of Gallic pride.

The overtures met a warm welcome in Whitehall where the Thatcher government has
embarked on a new initiative to move the battle against European terrorism into
a higher gear. Douglas Hurd, the home-secretary, will host an anti-terrorist
summit of all European interior ministers in London next Thursday.

Hurd plans to underscore the crucial importance of international cooperation in
combating terror campaigns. The close liaison with the French is designed to
show the British government's commitment to that principle.

Mrs Thatcher, on her visit to West Germany last week, signalled the new drive
against terrorism in an interview with the newspaper Die Welt. 'Because
terrorism itself does not take account of frontiers, international cooperation
is vital in dealing with it,' she said. 'Cooperation among the Europeans is good
but we are never complacent. An intensive pattern of work is going on under our
presidency with close contacts between the police and others involved in
European countries, and between ministers. '

The meeting of the so-called Trevi Group - named after the fountain in Rome, the
city in which they held their inaugural meeting a decade ago - has been convened
by Hurd at the specific request of the French. Officials from all 12 governments
have been working feverishly over the past week preparing the ground for the
summit.

The current terrorist campaign in France will dominate the discussions and the
summit members will try to pool intelligence material and their own experience
of terrorist incidents to assist the Chirac government. They will also hear from
the French what measures they are taking in response to the attack and will
assess what operational assistance they can offer.

Hurd is also anxious to step up the whole tempo of this unique think-tank and
plans to press on his colleagues a series of proposals designed to make Europe a
less comfortable place for international terrorists.

The toughest proposal the home secretary will place before his colleagues is the
need to impose much tighter frontier controls around the European Community to
cut down terrorist infiltration.

Officials talk with despair about the ease with which terrorists are able to
move into and around Europe. With internal frontiers in the EEC being lowered
all the time, they believe it is crucial to throw a much tighter cordon around
the 12 states.

This 'fortress Europe' approach is likely to meet with opposition from some
member states which have neither the resources nor the inclination to seal their
borders with non-EEC states more effectively. But the British government
believes that partial agreement will be better than no agreement at all.

Hurd also wants to offer his European counterparts the benefit of the
anti-terrorism experience so painfully learned in Britain over the past 18 years
The home secretary is able to point to a series of successes against the IRA to
back his claims for British expertise: the nipping in the bud of the IRA's
summer bombing campaign of 1984, the arrest and conviction of the Brighton
bombers, and the interception of a number of large arms shipments.

The key to this increasing success is, according to British security chiefs, a
positive and aggressive approach to the pursuit of terrorist suspects rather
than a passive and reactive one. 'Disrupt and harry them' is the vital technique
according to one top counter-terrorism expert in Whitehall. It means keeping
close surveillance both on suspects and on the tools of terrorism - explosives,
weapons and money - to prevent attacks developing.

Hurd also wants to see closer cooperation within governments between interior
ministers and foreign ministers, a link that has paid dividends in Britain,
particularly with the expulsion of Libyan terror suspects.

Another problem being examined is the carrying of weapons and explosives in
diplomatic bags. The opening of these bags for searching is still regarded as a
non-starter, but there is a growing feeling among the Trevi Group ministers that
they should subject diplomatic bags to X-ray examination.

Whitehall's anti-terrorism experts believe there are serveral hundred terrorists
on the loose in Europe at any one time. They categorise them into three distinct
groups: those who confine their activities to their own countries; those who are
based in Europe and operate in a number of European countries; and the
international groups which operate inside and outside Europe. There are links
between the three categories.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 22 1986, Monday

Hurd to boost fight on terror / Britain to press EEC partners for renewed
efforts

BYLINE: ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor

SECTION: Issue 62569.

LENGTH: 340 words


Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, is to press Britain's EEC partners at an
emergency meeting this week to redouble their efforts against terrorism.

He is to chair a meeting in London on Thursday of the Trevi Group of interior
ministers and security chiefs, called at the request of the French Government,
where Britain will press for tighter visa controls, a wider agreement on
extradition of terrorist suspects and increased scrutiny of diplomatic bags.


Mr Hurd will try to persuade his counterparts in other states to seal their
borders with non-EEC countries more effectively. There is particular concern
about terrorists slipping into Europe through Greek ports and airports.

The meeting has been called after the recent wave of terrorist attacks in Paris,
but Britain, as the country currently in the presidential chair of the EEC, has
been pressing for more concerted moves to combat terrorism. In particular Mr
Hurd wants to see greater co-operation in some countries between their foreign
and interior ministries and a wider exchange of intelligence information on
terrorist activities.

Mr Hurd will also urge all Britain's European partners to ratify a Council of
Europe convention which smoothes the way to easier extradition of terrorist
suspects by removing a supposed political motive for their offence as ground for
denying their extradition.

After a report by the Commons foreign affairs select committee, which
recommended the scanning of diplomatic bags to prevent the smuggling of weapons,
the British Government ruled out routine scanning but said it was ready to scan
diplomatic bags on particular occasions.

This system has now been in operation in Britain for some months. Where it is
decided that there are sufficient grounds for scanning a diplomatic bag a
representative of the embassy concerned is contacted and allowed to be present.
If the country refuses to have the bag scanned it has to be sent back. Mr Hurd
is expected to commend this example to his European colleagues.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1986

Student was an 'innocent pawn in terrorist plot' / Trial of Arab student Nassar
Mohamed for alleged involvement in London Lybian bombings

LENGTH: 416 words


An Arab student was used as an innocent pawn in an alleged Libyan-backed
terrorist plot in Britain, an Old Bailey jury was told yesterday.

Mr Brian Higgs QC, defending 28-year-old Nassar Mohamed, said there was no doubt
that fanatical terrorists would 'stoop to involve the innocent agent in the
furtherance of their terrorist activities. '


Opening his defence, he asked the jury: 'What sort of person would send another
on his or her way with a bomb in their suitcase, not letting that person know
what they were carrying?'

He said the jurors had to ask themselves if it was possible that Mohamed was an
innocent agent. 'If it is possible, the Crown's case has folded because none of
you could be sure of his guilt,' said.

Mohamed and a Jordanian, Dr Rasmi Awad, have denied conspiring to cause
explosions in Britain last year.

The prosecution has alleged that both men were arrested by anti-terrorist squad
officers after they were seen to collect four grenades from a Libyan student
contact at Warren Street Underground station, London. The grenades were alleged
to be for later use against British targets. Unknown to them, the Libyan student
was opposed to Colonel Gadafy's regime and had tipped off British police who
foiled the plot, the jury has heard.

Mohamed told the jury that he was not a member of the extremist Palestine terror
group Abu Nidal - as alleged by the prosecution - and was against all violence
and terrorism. He also denied knowing that grenades were in a bag collected by
Awad from the contact at Warren Street.

'I have always been against any indiscriminate violence or terrorism. I have
always deplored these acts - I denounce them,' he said.

He explained that after showing Awad around London they went to Warren Street.
'I knew he was going to meet a person there. '

On his return to the car, he said, Awad had a bag with him.

'I believe I saw something in the bag covered in foil. I believe it was
cylindrical. I did not give any thought to what it might be. I did not know what
was in the bag. '

He said that when he was arrested in the car later he was 'frightened, surprised
and shocked. '

He added: 'There were many guns. There was a handgun through the window pointed
at my head. There was shouting but I did not understand anything. '

He said that magazines and books found in his room, which allegedly included an
interview with Abu Nidal, were left in his car by Awad.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 24, 1986

Britain and Soviet Union agree to hold discussions on combating terrorism

LENGTH: 87 words


Britain and Russia agreed last night to hold discussions on combating terrorism.
The Soviet Foreign Minister, Mr Shevardnadze, and Britain's Foreign Minister,
Sir Geoffrey Howe, discussed the subject at length during a 65-minute meeting at
the UN.

'They had quite an extensive exchange in which a good deal of common ground was
found about trying to cooperate in preventing acts of terrorism and exchanging
information', said a British official. 'We are going to have discussion at an
official level. '


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 1986

Airline faces ban after terrorist is gaoled / Britain considers curbs on Libyan
Arab Airline flights

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 500 words


The Government is considering a ban or drastic curbs on Libyan Arab Airline
flights to Britain in view of evidence at an Old Bailey trial which implicated
the airline in terrorism.

The court heard that a bagful of grenades for an Arab terrorist, who was gaoled
for 25 years yesterday, was taken through Heathrow Airport by a man in LAA
uniform.


Dr Rasmi Abdul Hafez Awad, aged 43, was convicted after a 10-day trial in which
he had denied conspiring to cause explosions and being a member of the Abu Nidal
terrorist group. A Libyan double agent tipped off police and the grenades were
found under bars of chocolate in the bag.

The Foreign Office said last night that ministers were urgently considering what
measures to take against the airline now that the trial was over. Security
surrounding LAA flights was increased after the man's arrest last September but
international aviation rules and legal agreements prevented further action until
the trial verdict.

'The Government is gravely concerned that this case clearly implicates Libyan
Arab Airlines in terrorist-related activity,' said the Foreign Office. 'The
Government remains determined to be tough on terrorists and those who assist
them. '

The British concession for services to Libya is held by British Caledonian but
security and insurance problems stopped their flights recently.

Awad was arrested in London in September last year by the anti-terrorist branch
of Scotland Yard after officers had watched him collect a holdall containing
grenades from a Libyan student.

The student, who appeared in court at the Old Bailey in disguise to give
evidence for the prosecution, had told the police that he was under pressure
from Tripoli to assist in a terrorist plot and was directed by the
anti-terrorist branch to continue following his instructions.

The student collected a package containing the grenades from the Libya Arab
Airlines office at Heathrow Airport and was later instructed to hand it over to
Awad at a London Tube station. By then, however, the police had substituted
inert grenades in the package.

After being arrested in possession of the grenades with another Arab, Mr Nassar
Mohamed, Awad claimed that he had believed the package to contain drugs. But
documents found at the doctor's apartment in Madrid linked him to Abu Nidal and
terrorist plots.

Awad's co-defendant, Mohamed, a 28-year-old Iraqi-born student, was found not
guilty of taking part in the conspiracy. He had maintained throughout the trial
that he had been asked by a distant relative in the Middle East to show Awad
around London when he visited.

When Mohamed, who had been a language student at a private college in London,
went into the witness box last week he said that he was against terrorist
violence and loved Britain 'more than the British. '

But after the jury's verdict on him yesterday Mohamed was detained in the court
cells and told that he would be served with a deportation notice.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 27 1986, Saturday

Top Arab terrorist jailed for 25 years / Abu Nidal bomb plot trial

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62574.

LENGTH: 566 words


One of the most senior members of the Abu Nidal terrorist group ever captured by
a Western police force was jailed for 25 years at the Central Criminal Court
yesterday for his part in a Libyan-backed plot to mount a grenade attack on a
target in the United Kingdom.

Rasmi Awad, aged 43, is thought to be a high ranking member of the Arab
terrorist group regarded by experts as the most dangerous terrorist organization
currently operating across the world.


The judge, Mr Justice Simon Brown, said: 'The mind shudders to contemplate the
devastation, the carnage and the heartbreak that you were intent on causing. I
have no doubt you are a ruthless and dangerous man.

'It is difficult to think of a more terrible conspiracy than to explode grenades
in this country whether to cause indiscriminate slaughter or to hit specific
targets.

'International terrorism is one of the great curses of our age.

'This country has a long and proud tradition of democracy and freedom. Here you
may hear, read and speak what you like. But you may not bring us your grenades.
The public is rightly outraged by terrorism. '

Mr Nassar Muhammad, aged 28, a student who was accused with Awad of conspiring
to cause explosions in the UK, was cleared by the jury. But he was immediately
detained after the Home Secretary ruled that he should be deported.

During the trial, Mr Muhammad's counsel had maintained that he was used as an
innocent pawn in a terrorist plot.

The jury had been told that both men were arrested on September 22 last year by
officers of the anti-terrorist squad after Awad was seen to collect four
grenades in a bag from a Libyan contact at Warren Street Underground station in
central London.

Unknown to Awad, the contact was an opponent of Colonel Gadaffi's regime and had
tipped off British police who foiled the terrorist plot. The live grenades had
been substituted with perfect replicas after the double agent had collect them
from a man wearing the uniform of Libya's national airline.

In court the young informer said he had been recruited by a man high in Colonel
Gadaffi's regime to act as a weapons courier for terrorists planning a bombing
outrage in the UK.

But he was an avowed opponent of the Libyan leader determined to foil the
terrorists.

He gave his evidence wearing a false beard, moustache and glasses to disguise
his identity.

Awad will serve his sentence under tight security, as earlier in the year Abu
Nidal promised that he would free any of his followers held in the West.

Believed to be Lebanese in origin, Awad is suspected of taking part or
organizing a number of terrorist attacks on the Continent from his base in
Spain.

In Awad's Madrid flat, Spanish police found a detailed briefing note for members
of the Abu Nidal group which listed a multitude of targets including Nato, EEC
members, 'Zionists', Arab 'reactionary' groups or countries such as Jordan, the
Gulf States and the PLO.

While Awad is in prison 'Mr I', the anonymous Libyan who informed on him has
fashioned a prison of his own. Both the Libyans and the Abu Nidal group may try
to take revenge.

He has lost his job training as an anaeronautical engineer and cannot return to
Libya. He is now living undercover with the help of Scotland Yard with his
family in Britain, hoping that he will be allowed to stay or find a safe haven
abroad.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 2, 1986

Armed airport police win backing / Superintendents' Association of England and
Wales' conference in Harrogate

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 257 words


Police superintendents yesterday overwhelmingly rejected a call to end the
deployment of police armed with machine guns at airports.

Delegates at the Superintendents' Association of England and Wales' conference
in Harrogate discussed in closed session a motion which expressed great concern
over firearms in airports.


The motion, from superintendent in Durham, said that such a radical change which
affected the image of the police should not take place.

Police armed with machine guns have been deployed since January at Heathrow and
Manchester airports in response to terrorist attacks at European airports.

Earlier this year some US tour operators said that television pictures of
heavily-armed officers patrolling Heathrow were discouraging Americans from
visiting Britain.

Superintendent Brian Maccenzie, of Durham, said after the debate that he hoped
armed police would be withdrawn from airports as soon as possible.

'We are sounding a warning that if this is allowed to continue it could become
the norm. My view is that it possibly creates more fear than it prevents .. once
you start on this slippery slope it's difficult to stop', he said.

The association secretary, Chief Superintendent Ken Smith, said the conference
felt shoulder-held weapons were more accurate than hand-held ones, and the overt
display of guns was a deterrent.

'The service does not welcome this change of image, but it was thought
inevitable. Exceptional measures were taken for exceptional circumstances', he
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 2, 1986

Ministers decide to ban Libyan airline / Flights to Britain to be halted
following Old Bailey terrorist trial

BYLINE: By MARTIN WAINWRIGHT

LENGTH: 358 words


The Cabinet is expected today to approve a ministerial recommendation that
Libyan Arab Airline flights to Britain should be banned because of court
evidence linking the airline to a terrorist bomb plot.

Ministers from the foreign and home offices and transport ministry decided
yesterday that the air services agreement between the two countries, which
expires next month, should not be renewed and that LAA's operating licenses
should be suspended.


Caution at the transport ministry about legal obstacles did not dissuade the
foreign and home offices from taking a hard line which is likely to appeal to
the Cabinet. Evidence at the Old Bailey last week that a man in LAA uniform had
taken grenades through Heathrow airport angered senior government figures.

In spite of his department's doubts the Transport secretary, Mr John Moore, is
expected to urge his EEC counterparts to adopt the ban when the meet in London
tomorrow to discuss European aviation. He will cite security rather than the
retributive argument which underpin the limited sanctions imposed by the EEC on
Libya after the American raid on Tripoli in April.

British Caledonian flights between London and Tripoli, which will also end if
the agreement is not renewed, have been suspended since mid-summer. Security and
insurance problems were aggravated by the sale of a former B-Cal jet - by a
devious route and without the airline's knowledge - to Libya in defiance of the
European sanctions.

Ending an air services agreement usually requires a lengthy period of notice -
14 months in the case of South Africa, whose air links have been raised in the
sanctions debate. But the fact that the British-Libyan arrangements have not
been ratified may provide a legal loophole for speedier action.

At the old Bailey last week Dr Rasmi Abdul Hafez Awad, aged 43, was gaoled for
25 years for his part in the smuggling of four hand grenades into Britain with
intent to cause explosions. The trial heard that a Libyan double agent, acting
for British police, had been handed the bombs by an LAA official at Heathrow'
hidden under bars of chocolate in a bag.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 7 1986, Tuesday

Syrian 'link' to jumbo jet human bomb / Nezar Hindawi on trial for attempted
bombing of El Al airliner

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER and NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 62582.

LENGTH: 796 words


Britain was put on a diplomatic collision course with Syria last night after
allegiations by prosecuting counsel at the Central Criminal Court that the
radical Arab state masterminded the attempted destruction of an El Al Jumbo jet
at London's Heathrow Airport in April.

Nezar Hindawi, aged 32, a Jordanian, of no fixed address, is accused of trying
to blow up the plane by planting a bomb in the luggage of his pregnant Irish
girlfriend.


But as Mr Hindawi's trial opened, the prosecution alleged that Mr Hindawi had
admitted being given the bomb, and told to put it on an aircraft, how to set it,
which aircraft to put it on, and to use a girl to carry it, by an officer of
Syrian military intelligence.

He had also admitted being helped in London by an official from the Syrian
Embassy and having contacted the Syrian Ambassador, Dr Loutof al-Haydar, after
the plot failed, Mr Roy Amlot, for the prosecution, said.

Mr Hindawi had travelled London under a false name on a Syrian passport normally
issued to government officials, Mr Amlot added, and had a visa indicating the
bearer was on official Syrian Government business.

Mr Amlot said: 'There is convincing evidence he was acting in concert with
agents of the Syrian Government. '

Neither Dr al-Haydar nor any of his staff would comment last night. The embassy
has already denied involvement.

In May, three Syrian diplomats were expeleld from London after they refused to
waive their diplomatic immunity and be questioned by Scotland Yard detectives
investigating the case.

The bomb on board the El Al jumbo, carrying 375 passengers and crew, would have
exploded at 39,000ft over Austria, the jury was told, had it not been detected
by alert El Al security staff at Heathrow.

It was hidden in a case that had been given by Mr Hindawi to Miss Ann Murphy,
aged 32, his girlfriend who was five-and-a-half months pregnant, the night
before the flight, which was to have been the beginning of a holiday before the
couple married.

Miss Murphy was unwittingly carrying the device that would have destroyed her
and everybody else on the plane bound for Tel Aviv.

The explosive was 'one of the most powerful military-style explosives', Mr Amlot
said, and would have caused a 'devastating' blast. 'It would have been one of
the most callous acts of all time if Hindawi had succeeded,' Mr Amlot said.

The Foreign Office refused last night to speculate on the implications of the
case but it is believed that if a direct link between Syria and the attempted
attack is proved, Britain would be forced to take measures against Damascus in
line with last month's European commitment to combat terrorism.

Yesterday, as a witness in the prosecution case, Miss Murphy described in a
barely audible voice how Mr Hindawi kissed her goodbye at Heathrow. She broke
into tears when she told how the 3lb bomb was subsequently discovered in her
luggage.

Mr Amlot said that the timer and detonator for the bomb were concealed in a
calculator, also in the case. On the way to the airport in a taxi, he said, Miss
Murphy saw Mr Hindawi take out the calculator and put in a battery, which
activated the device.

Two separate accounts had been given to the police by Mr Hindawi after his
arrest, Mr Amlot said. In the first account he said he had been given the bag in
Syria and told it contained drugs, and asked to pass it on to the West Bank in
Israel.

In another of his number of interviews he said he was given the bomb in a bag in
London by a man he named.

Mr Hindawi had told police that after he learnt of the failure of the bomb plot
he had gone direct to the Syrian Embassy in Belgrave Square and given an
envelope to the ambassador personally, who then rang Damascus for instructions.

Mr Amlot said the ambassador had apparently 'greeted him warmly that day. ' He
added: 'At the end of his interview with police he identified a picture of the
Syrian ambassador from pictures of a number of different people.

Mr Amlot said Mr Hindawi was acting on behalf of a group calling itself the
Jordanian Revolutionary Movement.

He told police it was a group opposed to King Hussein, and said he had travelled
to Damascus and seen the head of Syrian military intelligence.

He had agreed to carry out attacks on Israeli targets in return for money and
places for Jordanian students at Syrian universities.

In another interview he said he had been given his passport by a man called
Hathan Said, head of Syrian Air Force intelligence, who also gave him GBP
12,000, and suggested a girl should be used to carry the bomb.

Mr Hindawi, aged 32, denies attempting to blow up the aircraft on April 17, and
possessing a Browning pistol and ammunition without a certificate.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 8, 1986

Maguire claims 'set-up' on bomb plot / Irish teacher acquitted of conspiracy
with IRA's Patrick Magee

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 662 words


A young Irish teacher who was acquitted at the Old Bailey yesterday of
conspiracy to cause explosions with Patrick Magee, the IRA's convicted Brighton
bomber, claimed that he was set up by the Lancashire Special Branch and his
stepfather, who became a police informer.

Mr Thomas Maguire, aged 27, the newphew of the Irish Defence minister, claimed
that his stepfather, Mr Raymond O'Connor, had initiated Republican interest in
Weeton army camp, Blackpool, which led to an IRA plan to blow up a nearby public
house.


He admitted that he introduced Mr O'Connor to friends in Sinn Fein, with which
he was politically sympathetic during the H Block hunger strikes of the early
1980s. But he understood that O'Connor, who presented himself as a Republican
supporter, merely wanted to reveal that the camp - erroneously - was being used
by the RUC and the SAS for training.

'I want this as a nail in the coffin of supergrasses,' said Mr Maguire outside
court, after an emotional reunion with his mother and other members of the
family.

Mrs Muriel Maguire, who lived with Mr O'Connor for several years in the late
seventies and had a child by him, said she felt very bitter towards him. 'I
can't find words strong enough to express my feelings about him,' she said.

Patrick Magee and a man called Patrick Murray were both named in the indictment,
but were not in the dock. The Attorney-General decided that Magee would not be
tried since he is already serving five life sentences for the bomb attack on the
Grand Hotel in Brighton.

Murray is living in Dublin and, although there is a warrant out for his arrest,
no attempt has been made to extradite him. In June he was filmed by the BBC in a
Dublin street. The Director of Public Prosecutions has refused to say why his
extradition is not being sought.

The trial heard how Magee and Murray escaped from Lancashire police in 1983, and
how the Metropolitan Police failed to identify Magee for 10 days while he was
under surveillance in Blackpool.

The two men had come over to liaise with Mr O'Connor for the pub attack on April
12, 1983, and were followed and photographed by the police. Lancashire police at
first suspected that one of their targets might also be the Tory conference,
which took place in Blackpool that year.

On April 16 pictures were sent to Scotland Yard for identification. Magee had
several times been arrested in Northern Ireland in the seventies and in 1981 the
British authorities tried to extradite him from Holland for offences in England
in 1978 and 1979.

On April 26 Magee and Murray, in a hired car, became suspicious and they sped
away to Preston followed by four police surveillance cars. At Preston railway
station the Irishmen abandoned their car and disappeared.

Chief Superintendent Norman Finnerty, the head of Lancashire CID, said yesterday
that Scotland Yard only informed him of Magee's identity 'minutes after the
escape. ' Scotland Yard would not comment on why it had taken so long.

Mr Maguire agreed that he and Mr O'Connor had walked around the camp in
February, 1982, and that he had later sent Mr O'Connor a letter about watching
the camp - which he called 'Judy' - at night.

Mr O'Connor claimed that he became disturbed at what was developing when he got
a second letter in October.

In January, 1983, Mr O'Connor took the second letter to the police. He admitted
that the Special Branch urged him to continue and that he told them lies because
they wanted quick results.

Visiting Dublin, Mr O'Connor claimed he met Magee, Murray and a top IRA man
called Brendan Swords through Maguire's Sinn Fein contacts. Swords, the former
general secretary of Sinn Fein, was in 1976 the most wanted man in Britain after
a warrant was issued for his arrest for causing explosions in London.

Mr Maguire argued that his involvement and the letters were all in response to
Mr O'Connor's apparent interest in exposing the use of the camp.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 9 1986, Thursday

Bombers 'smuggled out' / IRA terrorists Magee and Murray smuggled out of Britain
by relatives

SECTION: Issue 62584.

LENGTH: 143 words


Two IRA bombers were helped by relatives to flee from Britain after narrowly
escaping detectives in Lancashire, it was alleged at the Central Criminal Court
yesterday.

Police, with the aid of an IRA informer, had thwarted a plot to blow up a public
house used by soldiers, Mr John Nutting, for the prosecution, said.


But after a high-speed car chase, they lost the two men, Patrick Magee and
Patrick Murray, who had been about to carry out the attack on the Eagle and
Child Inn at Weeton, near Blackpool.

Murray's brother James, and their cousin Joseph Calvey, drove them to Newport,
in Wales, from where they escaped to Ireland.

Calvey, aged 38, of Leyland, and James Murray, aged 36, of Preston, both deny
doing acts to pervert the course of justice, and failing to disclose information
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 9 1986, Thursday

Syrians deny El Al bomb link

SECTION: Issue 62584.

LENGTH: 205 words


The Syrian government denied yesterday that it was involved in an attempt to
destroy an Israeli airliner in London last April.

A Jordanian, Nezar Hindawi, is accused at the Central Criminal Court of trying
to destroy the El Al Boeing 747 by planting a bomb in the luggage of his
pregnant girlfriend. It is alleged that Mr Hindawi, who has pleaded not guilty,
told the police that a Syrian intelligence officer gave him the bomb.


The state-controlled Damascus Radio accused the CIA and Israeli intelligence of
being involved in a 'desperate attempt' to involve Syria.

It said the two organizations had, 'planned and implemented terrorist acts in
Britain and France to be used as a springboard for a wider campaign against
Syria'.

The station said Syria had condemned the recent bombings in France, and had
offered to help put an end to them. But it did not elaborate.

'What is new in this campaign is what is being witnessed at a London court, of
desperate attempts to involve Syria in the drama of the explosive charge
discovered on the stairs of an Israeli airliner in London. This involvement
seems to be the first and last objective behind the London drama,' it said.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 10 1986, Friday

What shall we do about Syria?

BYLINE: DAVID WATT

SECTION: Issue 62585.

LENGTH: 923 words


The Old Bailey hears some pretty unsavoury stories but not often as
extraordinary as the allegations at the trial of Nezar Hindawi, the Jordanian
accused of trying to blow up an Israeli jumbo jet by planting a bomb in the
luggage of his pregnant Irish girlfriend.

The central charge, if it is proved, stuns the imagination. But the overtones of
the affair go far beyond that. The prosecution claims that after he left
Heathrow, Hindawi proceeded to the Syrian embassy in London where he presented a
letter to the ambassador, Dr Loutof al-Haydar. The ambassador is then alleged to
have phoned Damascus for instructions and subsequently packed Hindawi off in the
care of three of his embassy staff, who tried to disguise him and would have
taken him back to the embassy if he had not taken fright and run off.


If this story is established, the consequences are profound - the Syrian
embassy, and by extension the Syrian government, will have been implicated in a
terrorist attempt and Mrs Thatcher will have to decide what to do about it. It
is relevant to note Sir Geoffrey Howe's statement to the Tory conference: 'Any
state which directs violence against another nation must meet the anger of the
whole civilized world. '

The decision is an extremely difficult one for the government. Parliament and
public opinion will surely call for drastic reprisals and Mrs Thatcher's highly
visible stance on the subject of state-supported terrorism, especially in the
case of Libya, will incline her to comply. After WPC Yvonne Fletcher was shot
dead by a member of the Libyan embassy staff Britain broke off diplomatic
relations with Libya immediately. Only last month, when clear evidence was shown
in another trial that Libyan Arab Airlines was involved in a bomb plot, Britain
suspended Libyan flights to London. If the evidence suggesting Syrian
involvement is convincing and the government fails to take action, Mrs Thatcher
will be denounced for appeasement by the Israelis and Jewish opinion here and in
the US; she will lose face with President Reagan and the European allies, and be
harassed unmercifully by the British popular press and Conservative
backbenchers.

Yet things are not as straightforward as that. A reprisal against Colonel
Gadaffi was safe and easy enough but Syria and its President Assad are quite
another matter, as even President Reagan has been forced to recognize. Syria is
a state which is now under the direct protection of the Soviet Union, its
influence in the Middle East is extensive, it controls much of Lebanon, it is
the key to the peace process, and it has close links with some of the most
formidable terrorist groups. An out-and-out breach with Syria might therefore
have the following repercussions:

Closure of Britain's valuable diplomatic listening post in Damascus and probable
withdrawal from Beirut as well.

All British property and individuals in the Middle East might become priority
targets for Abu Nidal and other terrorists.

Other Arab states, even Saudi Arabia, might feel obliged to cool their relations
and their trade with Britain for a while.

British air flights to the Middle and Far East, most of which are now routed
over Syria, would have to be diverted.

These consequences might be avoided if Britain could get full-scale support and
similar action from others. But one of the unwelcome facts of life is that in
any exercise involving serious sanctions against Syria we shall be on our own.
The Americans have superpower reasons for keeping open their lines to Damascus.
The likely attitude of the Europeans can be judged by the fact that when Britain
tried a week or two back to get firm backing for the banning of Libyan Airlines,
they offered nothing more than a bland statement acknowledging that the British
action was 'fully consistent' with EEC policy. The only state that would be
delighted to back us, possibly with military action, would be Israel, but the
more we are associated with the Israelis the worse our general position in the
Middle East becomes.

This last perspective brings us to the question of motive: and here the Syrians
will probably either claim that they have been framed or deny the charge
completely. President Assad himself has frequently and forcefully stated his
opposition to airline terrorism and it seems unlikely that the Syrian government
would have hired somebody directly to blow up an Israeli airliner when it has so
many indirect agents, such as Abu Nidal, at its disposal. Weighing all this up,
it begins to look as if the plot, if plot there was, was a piece of private
enterprise by officials in the middle reaches of Syrian intelligence with
possible embassy contacts.

This theory would reinforce the arguments for caution on Mrs Thatcher's part if
action has to be taken against Syria. It would really be very difficult to see
how the Syrian ambassador could be allowed to remain in London - and if he is
expelled, no doubt the British ambassador in Damascus will be kicked out in
reply. This limited tit-for-tat would probably be criticized as weakness, but it
reflects the realities. Assad cannot disown anybody in public, for reasons of
'face', but given a little leeway might be encouraged to clean up his act. It is
not much of a hope, perhaps, but if we are realistic we have, like the US, to
recognize that if Britain is to retain any influence in the chaos of the Middle
East, it can only do so by keeping some kind of dialogue going with the main
actors, however unpleasant.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 1986

Style: Britain's brightest / Milan fashion fairs

BYLINE: By BRENDA POLAN

LENGTH: 351 words


When the Milan collections are in full swing and time is at a premium, it's
difficult to remember that the Milan fashion fairs are a focal point for the
fashion world at large and a platform for international fashion too, not simply
Italian style. The Milanovendamoda for example, has long been used as an
important selling point for British manufacturers and designers.

This week 20 of Britain's brightest were exhibiting alongside the best of Italy
and not doing too badly either. Alistair Hunter, Under Secretary of State for
the Department of Trade and Industry, paid them a visit on Tuesday. As he
remarked, the threat of terrorist bombings at last week's Paris Pret a Porter
trade shows meant that there was an even greater flow of traffic with many
international buyers, notably American, preferring to use Italy as a buying base
this season.


For once, the jewellery designer, Monty Don, was without his prize accessory -
his tiny baby son, Adam, who is usually tucked under one arm. Instead, he was
busy selling diamante scotties and poodles galore (these are already on sale at
his just-opened Beauchamp Place shop but new for Italy) plus his newest diamante
bird range - parrots, peacocks, birds of paradise.

Some manufacturers were so busy that it was difficult to talk to them. Wendy
Dagworthy was doing well with her black and white jersey separates; Janice
Wainwright (after a quiet time at Paris) had gone flat out with successful black
and white silks while Ally Capellino (a regular in Milan for seven seasons and
with an Italian agent) reported brisk sales in taupe linen, pink Liberty rose
print shirts and jersey separates. Darla Jane Gilroy was taking orders on an
off-beat nautical look of crisp cotton separates in bold navy and white stripes.
Milan, she says, is good for customers from places as far afield as Lebanon and
Hong Kong who don't visit London. Certainly, looking at other sectors of the
exhibition, with their bum-hugging Romeo Gigli look-alikes, the English
contingent seemed to offer something that was a little different - young, but
classy

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 11 1986, Saturday

France rediscovers its love of le car

BYLINE: From DIANA GEDDES

SECTION: Issue 62586.

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Opinions differ about whether a Frenchman's car comes after his wife and his
mistress in importance, or whether it actually takes precedence over his
mistress. At all events, it is one of his most cosseted and jealously-prized
possessions, and there are few things as aggressive as a Frenchman driving his
car.

By the time the French 'Salon de l'Automobile' closes its doors at the Portes de
Versailles in Paris tomorrow night, nearly one million people will have seen the
show, at which futuristic Bertones rub shoulders with the Citroen Deux-Chevaux,
now more than 40 years old.


Despite a fall in attendance of almost 25 per cent compared with the most recent
Paris show two years ago - largely due to the threat of terrorist attacks - the
mood this year is upbeat, particularly among French manufacturers, who are
emerging from a two-year slump.

Peugeot foresees a big profit this year, Citroen is expected to balance its
books after several years of deficit, and state-owned Renault hopes to halve
last year's 10 billion franc (pounds 1 billion) loss.

Despite recent difficulties and mass lay-offs, car manufacturing remains one of
the most important industries in France, employing 200,000.

Nearly 2 million cars are expected to be sold in France this year, 63 per cent
of them French models. (In Britain, only 44 per cent of cars sold are British).
Some 1.7 million more will be exported. Last year French car exports were worth
95 billion francs, representing 11 per cent of the country's exports.

Although foreign cars have been growing in popularity, a poll published by Le
Monde last week showed that 56 per cent of the French population still believes
French cars to be the best, with German cars coming a close second (44 per cent)
and Japanese cars in third place (12 per cent). British cars were at the bottom
of the pile (2 per cent).

Given the continued emphasis on increased speed in the new models at the show,
it was surprising to find that speed was considered the least important quality
for a Frenchman when choosing a car. At the top of his list of priorities,
excluding price, was low petrol consumption, followed by silence and comfort,
and then the car's life expectancy.

Asked how fast they would drive on a virtually empty motorway with no speed
limit, only 4 per cent of drivers said they would drive at more than 93 mph,
while 60 per cent said they would stick within the existing motorway speed limit
of 80 mph.

France not only has the most deadly roads in Europe - nearly 11,000 deaths and
nearly 200,000 injured during the past 12 months - but it also has the rudest
and most aggressive drivers.

One third of drivers admitted that they sometimes shouted insults at other
drivers. The worst offenders were drivers in the professional and senior
white-collar classes and drivers aged from 18 to 34.

Another major hazard on French roads are traffic jams, and they are getting
worse. Three-quarters of French families own at least one car, and one in four
own two or more cars.

Returning to Paris after a weekend in the country has become a nightmare with
regular traffic jams of 20 miles plus.

Is German best?, page 7.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 12 1986, Sunday

Screen (Cinema): Asking for Trouble could be the way out

BYLINE: GEORGE PERRY

SECTION: Issue 8462.

LENGTH: 868 words


THINK of a country with a climate better than California's, tropical rain
forests and windswept moors, a lake as big as Northern Ireland and waterfalls
that dwarf Niagara. Add wildlife ranging from elephants to ostriches, and a
Western-style city peopled by friendly locals who happily enforce strict rules
against bribery, and in theory you have the perfect place to make movies.

Six years after independence, Zimbabwe is trying to convince the international
film community of all that, although until recently without much success. There
were fears - allegedly fuelled by disinformation agents answering to Pretoria -
that Westerners risked assault, kidnap, possibly even murder. Zimbabwe, although
the second most-developed nation in black Africa, is land-locked and
uncomfortably adjacent to South Africa, with whom relations, never good, are
being further damaged by little-reported terrorists attacks on South Africa, and
the reprisal raid on the ANC headquarters last May.


But film makers are now going to Zimbabwe. In 1984, Cannon decided to make King
Solomon's Mines there, and found the experience so congenial that they
immediately put another Haggard story (again with Richard Chamberlain as Alan
Quartermaine), into production. Jake Speed was made there too.

The most significant coup was the setting-up of Sir Richard Attenborough's
dollars 22m film, provisionally called Asking for Trouble, about the brief life
and death of the anti-apartheid activist Steve Biko. Three months' location
shooting ended on Friday.

'The arrival of Sir Richard has given us quality product,' says Beverley Tilly,
a white Zimbabwean who was encouraged to stay on in Harare at the Ministry of
Information by the black government and is now director of film.

But even the desire to attract 'quality product' does not remove all the snags.
Because of the parlous economic situation and the desperate need for hard
currency, not a penny can be taken out of the country. Attenborough, who had
secured his entire financing from Universal, pleaded, but the Mugabe
administration was adamant that the rules could not be broken.

'However, they asked to come in on the investment,' says Attenborough. 'In fact
the government has put around 20% into the film. They paid for the
accommodation, the locations, the construction labour, extras, and all the
ground expenses. '

Another big problem is the lack of indigenous film-making skills. Two-thirds of
the crew were Zimbabwean, but there was some discontent that no key production
job was filled by a local. Among the complaints was that a black was given the
title of first assistant, but not the responsibilty to go with the job. In fact,
Attenborough's intention was to enhance the man's job designation to help him
get work on future films.

Another moan was that Attenborough had ordered that the British camera crew be
served lunch first, while black Africans had to wait. That, in fact, is simply
film set etiquette. Camera crews always get served first, because they have to
get back to work before the others.

There are suspicions that the Pretoria dirty tricks department may have had a
hand in stirring up the malcontent, and certainly Beverley Tilly does not take
it seriously. 'Rome wasn't built in a day,' she says. 'Many of Sir Richard's
people have been in the film industry 20 years or more. Anybody who wants to get
on in films couldn't work alongside better people. '

The stickiest problem of all, however, was the fact that the key part of Biko
himself is played by an American. 'We bent over backwards to find an African,'
says Attenborough. 'There was one young man in particular who we prayed would be
good enough to do it. But in the end we had to go for Denzel Washington, who has
an extraordinary quality. '

Radio stations and newspapers, even some in Britain, have received letters
accusing Attenborough of being an apartheid supporter - an accusation of
palpable absurdity. For years he has wanted to make a film attacking the system,
and his own recent experiences in South Africa, where he was physically
attacked, denounced as a communist and asked to leave because he had been seen
on TV holding Winnie Mandela's hand, hardened his resolve.

The Biko film, taken from two books by the South African journalist Donald Woods
and scripted by Jack Briley (who also wrote Gandhi for Attenborough), manages to
combine good storytelling with a fervent condemnation of all that apartheid
stands for. 'It's worth,' says Beverley Tilly, 'a million words at the UN. '

The irony remains that the Biko film indirectly needed aid from South Africa.
Most of the transport, the generator trucks, and even the unit catering, came in
quietly from across the border. But as Zimbabwe's own film industry develops, it
will encourage the establishment of local ancillary services.

'I've authorised 22 films over the next 18 months,' says Beverley Tilly. 'I'm
even turning some away now. Only the other day a producer came to us with a
story he wanted to film around the Victoria Falls about a group of girl amazons,
in which the heroine strangles an attacking leopard with her bra. I said 'No,
thank you!''

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 12 1986, Sunday

Terror squad is held by police / London

BYLINE: MAURICE CHITTENDEN

SECTION: Issue 8462.

LENGTH: 404 words


ARMED Special Branch detectives believe they have foiled plans for a major
attack in London by Arab terrorists.

Six men - four Jordanians, a Tunisian and a Swede - were arrested in swoops
during the past fortnight. One has already been deported and last night the
others were being held in London's highsecurity Paddington Green police station
awaiting deportation.


All six were detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act after Scotland Yard
received intelligence reports suggesting that terrorists were planning to hit
American targets in London. They are believed to have links with the renegade
Palestinian group led by Abu Nidal. There have been reports that Nidal has
unleashed 80 gunmen into Europe.

No weapons or explosives were found on the six and the authority for their
detention was transferred to the Immigration Act to allow their deportation.
Douglas Hurd, the home secretary, signed their deportation orders on the grounds
that their continued presence in Britain was 'not conductive to the public good.
'

Nidal is believed to have targeted London for an attack following the use of
British air bases for the American bombing raid on Libya earlier this year.
Colonel Gadaffi, the Libyan leader, is now Nidal's main source of cash even
though his Fatah Revolutionary Council has offices in Syria and a training camp
in Lebanon.

His group's last 'action' in London was the attempted murder of Shlomo Argov,
the Israeli ambassador, in June, 1982, an act which sparked the Israeli invasion
of Lebanon. Three Arabs were jailed for a total of 95 years for the shooting,
including Nidal's cousin.

Nidal has been blamed for at least 80 deaths in terrorist attacks. He has been
condemned to death by the Palestine Liberation Organisation leader Yasser Arafat
and Italy has issued an international warrant for his arrest on charges of
ordering the Rome airport attack last December in which 14 people died. He is
also a suspect in last month's Karachi airport and Istanbul synagogue massacres.

Intelligence sources believe he may be trying to recruit Europeans into his
group because they are less conspicuous to airport and embassy security men.
There are still those ideologically committed enough to the Palestinian cause to
follow in the footsteps of Ian Davison, the 26-year-old from Tyneside serving a
life sentence in Cyprus for his part in the murder of three Israelis.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1986

UK News in Brief: IRA man's extradition plea fails / US to extradite alleged
bomber, William Quinn

LENGTH: 100 words


The US Supreme Court yesterday cleared the way for the extradition of an alleged
IRA bomber, William Quinn.

The court's refusals to hear an appeal against extradition means he can be sent
back to stand trial on charges of murdering an off-duty London police constable
in 1975, and conspiring to carry out a letter bombs campaign in 1974 and 1975.


Mr Quinn, aged 38, a native of San Francisco, went to Northern Ireland in 1971.
He was later convicted of being a member of the outlawed IRA. He returned to
America in 1979 and was arrested in 1981 by FBI agents on behalf of Britain.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 17 1986, Friday

Ports fear big job losses and closures from Channel tunnel

BYLINE: MARTIN FLETCHER, Political Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62591.

LENGTH: 323 words


The Channel tunnel would have a devastating impact on ports throughout Britain,
causing huge jobs losses and in some cases complete closures, the British Ports
Association said yesterday.

In evidence to the select committee examining the Channel Tunnel Bill, the
association, which represents all Britain's big ports, demanded drastic
amendments to ensure competition between the ports and the tunnel was fair.


Mr Nicholas Finney, the association's director, called for:

Protection against predatory pricing by the tunnel operators to drive ferries
out of business before raising their own fares again.

The abolition of 'light dues', the tax amounting to as much as pounds 20,000
which ships pay when docking in British ports to finance navigational aids,
including lighthouses.

Upgrading of the 'completely inadequate' customs services at British ports

Independent intervention to stop British Rail curtailing port rail
infrastructure projects and seeking to gain a larger share of container traffic
by favouring the tunnel.

Measures to ensure roads to ports are no worse than those to the tunnel.

Safety regulations for the tunnel as stringent as those for ports and ferries.

No public subsidies for the tunnel.

Mr Finney claimed that if the tunnel attracted only 30 per cent of existing
traffic from the ports of London, Kent, Sussex and Hampshire that would equal
the entire 1985 traffic through the ports of Medway, Ramsgate, Folkestone,
Newhaven, Portsmouth and Southampton.

That would threaten 4,000 direct jobs and 40,000 ancillary jobs, he said.

He added that the tunnel would have an equally severe effect on the ports of the
North and West, attracting their deep sea container traffic.

Ports would undoubtedly close, with serious defence implications and dangers of
severe disruption given the tunnel's vulnerability to industrial action and
terrorist attack, he claimed.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 17 1986, Friday

Ports fear big job losses and closures from Channel tunnel

BYLINE: MARTIN FLETCHER, Political Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62591.

LENGTH: 323 words


The Channel tunnel would have a devastating impact on ports throughout Britain,
causing huge jobs losses and in some cases complete closures, the British Ports
Association said yesterday.

In evidence to the select committee examining the Channel Tunnel Bill, the
association, which represents all Britain's big ports, demanded drastic
amendments to ensure competition between the ports and the tunnel was fair.


Mr Nicholas Finney, the association's director, called for:

Protection against predatory pricing by the tunnel operators to drive ferries
out of business before raising their own fares again.

The abolition of 'light dues', the tax amounting to as much as pounds 20,000
which ships pay when docking in British ports to finance navigational aids,
including lighthouses.

Upgrading of the 'completely inadequate' customs services at British ports

Independent intervention to stop British Rail curtailing port rail
infrastructure projects and seeking to gain a larger share of container traffic
by favouring the tunnel.

Measures to ensure roads to ports are no worse than those to the tunnel.

Safety regulations for the tunnel as stringent as those for ports and ferries.

No public subsidies for the tunnel.

Mr Finney claimed that if the tunnel attracted only 30 per cent of existing
traffic from the ports of London, Kent, Sussex and Hampshire that would equal
the entire 1985 traffic through the ports of Medway, Ramsgate, Folkestone,
Newhaven, Portsmouth and Southampton.

That would threaten 4,000 direct jobs and 40,000 ancillary jobs, he said.

He added that the tunnel would have an equally severe effect on the ports of the
North and West, attracting their deep sea container traffic.

Ports would undoubtedly close, with serious defence implications and dangers of
severe disruption given the tunnel's vulnerability to industrial action and
terrorist attack, he claimed.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 20, 1986

Leading Article: Up the conspiracy pole with Enoch / Ulster Unionist MP's
allegations of secret service involvement in death of Conservative MP Airey
Neave

LENGTH: 315 words


Mr Enoch Powell has refined his thesis with the passage of time but the
substance is the same. The United States is desperate to bring Ireland into
Nato. The only way to do that is to offer reunification with the North as the
prize. That, in turn, can be brought about only by causing such a wave of
revulsion against acts of terrorism that Britain severs the connection.

The suggestion first appeared in the Guardian when Mr Powell darkly attributed
the murder of Lord Mountbatten to the CIA rather than the IRA. In last week's
Spectator he broadened the thrust of the conspiracy: the Brighton explosion
which could have killed Mrs Thatcher and her Cabinet, and the seaside bombing
campaign planned but then discovered by the police, were operations far too
complex for the IRA and INLA to handle alone. 'Big people were out for big
results. ' Now in a speech in Birmingham Mr Powell has named MI6 among the 'high
contracting parties' to a long-running plot which included the murder in the
Commons forecourt of Mr Airey Neave. Successive Prime Ministers, it emerges,
have not been privy to this plot (that does seem unlikely since one of them
would have been killed) but their officials have. How about Dr FitzGerald?


Has Mr Powell any evidence? Only, it seems, that drawn from his own deductions
about the aim of American military strategy; a deduction which no strategist of
standing has supported. The Irish value their neutrality at least as much as
their unity. Of course, if the idea gained credence it would lead to a wave of
anti-Americanism in Ireland (as well as Britain) from which the Official
Unionist party could expect to profit, but that is a conspiracy theory too. Mr
Tam Dalyell is to ask the Home Secretary to investigate. If Mr Powell can offer
more than an untidy syllogism based on shaky premises, Mr Hurd would surely be
fascinated to see it.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 20 1986, Monday

Two Arab suspects deported to Syria

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62593.

LENGTH: 155 words


Two Arabs held in London on suspicion of links with the Abu Nidal terrorist
organization were yesterday deported to Syria. Another three men arrested by
Special Branch officers in a series of London raids earlier this month are being
held pending expulsion.

The two men, described as Iraqi students, left yesterday from Heathrow airport
for Damascus. They chose to be expelled to Syria and the Damascus authorities
agreed to accept them.


They were arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act and then passed over to
the Home Office under immigration regulations. A Tunisian and two Jordanians are
still being held while immigration officers settle their destination.

Originally six men were held. Police found no bombs, arms or signs of any plans
but they believe a man of mixed Swedish and Middle Eastern background arrived in
London to activate the group in terrorist acts either in Britain or Europe.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 20 1986, Monday

Two Arab suspects deported to Syria

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62593.

LENGTH: 155 words


Two Arabs held in London on suspicion of links with the Abu Nidal terrorist
organization were yesterday deported to Syria. Another three men arrested by
Special Branch officers in a series of London raids earlier this month are being
held pending expulsion.

The two men, described as Iraqi students, left yesterday from Heathrow airport
for Damascus. They chose to be expelled to Syria and the Damascus authorities
agreed to accept them.


They were arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act and then passed over to
the Home Office under immigration regulations. A Tunisian and two Jordanians are
still being held while immigration officers settle their destination.

Originally six men were held. Police found no bombs, arms or signs of any plans
but they believe a man of mixed Swedish and Middle Eastern background arrived in
London to activate the group in terrorist acts either in Britain or Europe.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 21 1986, Tuesday

Quinn is flown out of US

BYLINE: From A Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62594.

LENGTH: 182 words


William Quinn, an American held for five years while the British Government
attempted to extradite him, left San Francisco on an RAF aircraft bound for
Britain.

Mr Quinn, aged 39, is wanted in London on a charge of murdering police constable
Stephen Tibble and on a conspiracy charge of belonging to an IRA bomb cell. He
was arrested nearly five years ago in a San Francisco suburb. His return to the
United States in 1979 followed one year spent in prison in Dublin where he was
convicted of membership of the IRA.


PC Tibble was murdered on February 26, 1975, allegedly in connection with the
discovery of a London 'safe house' operated by the IRA.

Lawyers in the US argued that a member of a political organisation who committed
an offence in pursuit of a legitimate civil uprising qualified for a 100 year
old exception to the extradition treaty between Britain and the US.

On October 14 the Supreme Court in Washington cleared the way for Mr Quinn to be
extradited on the murder charge by refusing to consider a last appeal based on
the political exception rule.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 21 1986, Tuesday

Quinn is flown out of US

BYLINE: From A Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62594.

LENGTH: 182 words


William Quinn, an American held for five years while the British Government
attempted to extradite him, left San Francisco on an RAF aircraft bound for
Britain.

Mr Quinn, aged 39, is wanted in London on a charge of murdering police constable
Stephen Tibble and on a conspiracy charge of belonging to an IRA bomb cell. He
was arrested nearly five years ago in a San Francisco suburb. His return to the
United States in 1979 followed one year spent in prison in Dublin where he was
convicted of membership of the IRA.


PC Tibble was murdered on February 26, 1975, allegedly in connection with the
discovery of a London 'safe house' operated by the IRA.

Lawyers in the US argued that a member of a political organisation who committed
an offence in pursuit of a legitimate civil uprising qualified for a 100 year
old exception to the extradition treaty between Britain and the US.

On October 14 the Supreme Court in Washington cleared the way for Mr Quinn to be
extradited on the murder charge by refusing to consider a last appeal based on
the political exception rule.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 22, 1986

Dutch back extraditions / Court says IRA members should be returned to Britain

BYLINE: From DAVID PALLISTER and MARTIN CLEAVER

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE


The Dutch Supreme Court yesterday set a European legal precedent by approving
the extradition to Britain of two IRA members.

Gerard Kelly, aged 32, and Brendan McFarlane, 34, had both escaped from the Maze
prison in Northern Ireland in the mass break-out of September, 1983.


The decision by the six judges, which reverses a ruling in March by the
Amsterdam lower court nod to extradite Kelly, has still to be confirmed by the
Dutch junior justice minister with responsibility for aliens, Mrs Virginia
Korte. If she endorses it, the British Government will have secured a
significant victory. No European country previously has agreed to the
extradition of IRA members.

But after the hearing, the men's lawyer, Mr Willem van Bennekom, disclosed that
the Supreme Court had exceptionally sent a letter to the Minister of Justice, Mr
Korthals-Altes, supporting the men's fears of the risk of harsh treatment in a
British prison. The court urged the minister to contact his British counterpart
- the Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd - to seek guarantees about their
treatment.

The letter also said that the judges only advised extradition on the
understanding that the two men would not have to complete the life sentences
already imposed, and that they would have to stand trial only for the limited
offences for which extradition has now been allowed.

Mr van Bennekom said he was satisfied with the verdict on humanitarian grounds,
but disappointed that the court rejected the men's political defence. He said
that negotiations between the two ministers could take months and that if the
British reneged on any agreement it would cause a 'serious diplomatic conflict.
'

Mrs Korte may also have to consider an extraordinary offer from the Iranian
embassy in The Hague to grant the men political asylum. The offer was made by
telex to the Dutch press on Monday.

Mr van Bennekom, said he was amazed at the offer. 'I don't think my clients
would want to make use of it. '

The two men, who have been in solitary confinement in prisons 130 miles apart,
were not in court to hear the verdict which the Northern Ireland Office in
London described as 'good news. '

The Supreme Court judges did not accede to the entire British case, which in
several respects failed to comply with the terms of the 1898 extradition treaty
between Holland and Britain.

The chairman, Mr Charles Moons, said that only the limited charges against Kelly
of attempted murder of a Maze warder and causing grievous bodily harm on another
were backed by sufficient evidence Charges of unlawfully detaining seven warders
were allowed against both of them.

Both men were serving life sentences: Kelly for the bomb attacks on the Old
Bailey and Scotland Yard in 1973, and McFarlane for a bomb and gun attack on an
Ulster Volunteer Force bar in Belfast in 1975 Kelly was transferred to Northern
Ireland in 1975 after a 213-day hunger strike during which he was force fed.

The Amsterdam court had ruled that the violence during the breakout - one warder
died and another was seriously injured - was not out of proportion to the men's
political aims.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 1986

Britain agrees to curb charges against IRA men / Gerard Kelly and Brendan
McFarlane

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 374 words


The Home Office yesterday confirmed in principle that the two IRA men likely to
be extradited from Holland will only stand trial on the charges which the Dutch
Supreme Court has ruled admissable.

If the extradition is authorised by the justice ministry both men could still be
sentenced to life imprisonment.


Gerard Kelly, aged 32, faces a charge of attempted murder of a prison officer
during the mass breakout from the Maze prison in Belfast in 1983. He was then
serving life for causing explosions, including the car bombing of the Old Bailey
in 1973.

Brendan McFarlane, 34, who also received a life sentence in 1975, can only be
charged with 'unlawfully and injuriously' imprisoning seven prison officers
during the escape.

This is a common law offence, with no maximum penalty laid down.

The Home Office explained that a special rule in extradition treaties stipulates
that an escaper who is only extradited as an accused person on new charges
cannot be imprisoned for the original offence.

The Dutch justice ministry admitted yesterday that a letter sent from the court
to the ministry and leaked by the men's lawyer, was marked secret.

The letter said that the court assumed that the men would only be tried for the
new offences and urged the minister to seek assurances from the British that the
men would be treated fairly in a British prison.

By PAUL BROWN

BELFAST - Unionist councillors in Castlereagh, Northern Ireland, voted yesterday
to rescind all decisions taken by the temporary commissioner who was appointed
by Stormont last week.

The councillors' decision, taken at a meeting chaired by Mr Peter Robinson,
Democratic Unionist MP for East Belfast, who is also mayor of Castlereagh,
represents an escalation of their challenge to the Government as part of the
Unionist opposition to the Anglo-Irish agreement.

The action means in effect that public services will not be able to operate, and
thus offers a challenge to the Government to disqualify the councillors.

Now the Government has the difficult choice of letting local services break down
or putting in a full-time commissioner and giving the Unionists a victory in
their efforts to make the province 'ungovernable. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 23 1986, Thursday

Bonn to allow supergrasses

BYLINE: From JOHN ENGLAND

SECTION: Issue 62596.

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: BONN


Faced with a growing terrorist menace that has already shed blood in Bonn, the
West German Government is to rush through a law that will allow terrorists to
turn 'Crown witness' against their comrades in return for freedom or mild
sentences for themselves.

Fears of terrorist attacks on leading politicians during the federal election
campaign in January are spurring the Government to put the 'supergrass' law into
effect by the end of the year. The law will apply to terrorists only and will
have a life of two to three years.


The move follows the murder by Red Army Faction terrorists of Dr Gerold von
Braunmuhl chief of the Foreign Ministry's political department, outside his home
in Bonn on October 10.

The Government hopes that the law, together with rewards of up to millions of
marks for information leading to the capture of terrorists, will flush Red Army
Faction members from their hiding-places.

The law is one of a package of urgent and tougher measures against the terrorist
threat which was discussed by Herr Freidrich Zimmermann, the Federal Minister of
the Interior, and his state government counterparts in Bonn on Tuesday.

The Government coalition parties' special commission on terrorism, formed after
the killing of Dr von Braunmuhl, approved the proposal yesterday. The Cabinet is
expected to follow suit.

Supporters of the 'supergrass' law, which will be new in German legal history,
say similar systems in Britain, the US and Italy have proved effective against
terrorists.

The Social Democratic (SPD) and Greens opposition parties are against the move.

Dr Alfred Emmerlich, chairman of the SPD parliamentary group's committee on
legal affairs, said yesterday: 'A Crown witness law was debated in Parliament in
the late 1970s, when terrorist activity was also at a peak. We rejected it then,
and we do so now, because we still don't believe it will help.

'We are also against fast political shooting from the hip in the fight against
terrorism. This applies especially to fundamental changes in the law. '

However, with Chancellor Kohl's Conservative-Liberal coalition having a 59-seat
majority in the Bundestag, the Bill will go through.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 23 1986, Thursday

Bonn to allow supergrasses

BYLINE: From JOHN ENGLAND

SECTION: Issue 62596.

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: BONN


Faced with a growing terrorist menace that has already shed blood in Bonn, the
West German Government is to rush through a law that will allow terrorists to
turn 'Crown witness' against their comrades in return for freedom or mild
sentences for themselves.

Fears of terrorist attacks on leading politicians during the federal election
campaign in January are spurring the Government to put the 'supergrass' law into
effect by the end of the year. The law will apply to terrorists only and will
have a life of two to three years.


The move follows the murder by Red Army Faction terrorists of Dr Gerold von
Braunmuhl chief of the Foreign Ministry's political department, outside his home
in Bonn on October 10.

The Government hopes that the law, together with rewards of up to millions of
marks for information leading to the capture of terrorists, will flush Red Army
Faction members from their hiding-places.

The law is one of a package of urgent and tougher measures against the terrorist
threat which was discussed by Herr Freidrich Zimmermann, the Federal Minister of
the Interior, and his state government counterparts in Bonn on Tuesday.

The Government coalition parties' special commission on terrorism, formed after
the killing of Dr von Braunmuhl, approved the proposal yesterday. The Cabinet is
expected to follow suit.

Supporters of the 'supergrass' law, which will be new in German legal history,
say similar systems in Britain, the US and Italy have proved effective against
terrorists.

The Social Democratic (SPD) and Greens opposition parties are against the move.

Dr Alfred Emmerlich, chairman of the SPD parliamentary group's committee on
legal affairs, said yesterday: 'A Crown witness law was debated in Parliament in
the late 1970s, when terrorist activity was also at a peak. We rejected it then,
and we do so now, because we still don't believe it will help.

'We are also against fast political shooting from the hip in the fight against
terrorism. This applies especially to fundamental changes in the law. '

However, with Chancellor Kohl's Conservative-Liberal coalition having a 59-seat
majority in the Bundestag, the Bill will go through.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1986

The front man for Damascus / The role of Nezar Hindawi in the Syrian-inspired El
Al bomb plot

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 2369 words


The first indication of Syrian involvement in last April's plot against the
El-Al jet at Heathrow Airport came with Nezar Hindawi's arrest the following day
at the London Visitors Hotel in Holland Park. Hindawi registered in the name of
Issam Share and was carrying a Syrian passport. But the hotel manager recognised
the passport picture as that of Hindawi, whose photograph had been published in
the morning newspaper.

Police investigations established that the document was a service issue passport
normally given to people on government business. 'Share' had obtained two entry
visas to the UK in 1986 from the British embassy in Damascus: the first as a
Syrian defence procurements officer wanting to buy spare parts for British
Leyland Range Rovers; the second as an accountant with the Syrian foreign
ministry, ostensibly visiting Britain on holiday.


On the evening of Hindawi's arrest, police in Germany raided the West Berlin
apartment of one of his brothers, Ahmed. The two grew up in the north Jordan
village of Baqura, so close to the Israeli border that the Star of David flag
could be seen flying over Jewish settlements on the far side of the River
Jordan. The family is said to have been wealthy at one time and to have moved to
Jordan from Libya after the Italian invasion in 1911. Two uncles were members of
the Jordanian Cabinet in the 1960s and 1970s and one relative is said to have
been involved in an attempted coup against King Hussein about 16 years ago.

But it was terrorism that attracted Ahmed and Nezar. Ahmed will stand trial next
month accused of involvement, also with the help of Syria, in the bombing of the
German-Arab Society in West Berlin last March.

Ahmed is expected to plead guilty but has denied involvement in the Berlin disco
bombing which provoked the US raid on Libya in April. He is believed to have
obtained powerful Czech-made Semptex military plastic explosives for the
German-Arab Society bomb from the Syrian embassy in East Berlin. Ahmed twice
failed to set the bomb off and Nezar is said to have arranged for a Syrian agent
to set it off successfully.

In Ahmed's Berlin flat, police found a document about the so-called Jordanian
Revolutionary Movement for National Salvation. The document outlined the aims
and objectives of the organisation which included the killing of Jews until the
end of the world.

Israeli intelligence sources doubt that the Jordanian Revolutionary Movement
exists as a bona fide organisation. But during his trial, Hindawi maintained
that it was devoted to internal Jordanian politics and the welfare of Jordanian
students abroad. He claimed that as well as being a journalist, he was the
movement's student officer and that he travelled widely in both roles.

Nezar Hindawi's Jordanian passport, which was also found in the Berlin flat,
contained multiple immigration stamps for 1984 and 1985. They indicated that
over the two years he had richocheted between Poland, East and West Berlin,
Romania, Bulgaria, Egypt, Syria, Italy and Britain.

The Berlin flat raid also yielded a Genovese post office box number, CP460,
which it transpired was used by Hindawi's cousin, Awni. Italian police believe
that Awni is closely linked to Abu Nidal, the Palestinian terrorist.

The Hindawis' undoubtedly had serious and highly dangerous intentions.
Anti-terrorist detectives in London regard Nezar Hindawi as 'top drawer' in
their league of terrorists. But the three also had the hallmarks of a group of
misfits, freelance terrorists looking for a sponsor.

Inquiries in Genoa established that in 1985 they went to Libya to offer their
services to Colonel Gadafy. The colonel apparently tried to tutor them in the
theories expounded in his famous Green Book, but the brothers grew bored and
decided to look elsewhere. Early this year, they went to Syria and were taken to
a military camp in the Bekka Valley and trained by Syrian Air Force intelligence
officers.

Almost immediately after Hindawi was arrested in London on April 18, detectives
with Scotland Yard's antiterrorist squad began to interrogate him.

Within a few days, he was describing his opposition to the regime of King
Hussein of Jordan. He was opposed to Hussein because of the King's willingness
to co-exist with Israel and negotiate secure borders with the jewish state.
Hindawi's views led him to make a pact with members of Syrian military
intelligence.

He said that in Damascus in January, he met Brigadier General Mohammad
Al-Khouli, the head of Syrian Air Force intelligence, at his hi-tech office in
the city. There, he said, he was introduced to three lieutenant colonels,
Heithan Said (also known as Abu Ahmed), Mufid A'Kour and Samer Kokash (also
known as Heithem Sheriff).

Said was deputy to Al-Khouli and, as operations and recruiting officer for
activities abroad, was no stranger to terrorism.

What precisely triggered off their combined offensive against El Al remains
unclear. According to Hindawi, the deal was done in January: Al-Khouli and Said
decided to mount an attack on an airliner; Said was to become Hindawi's line
officer for the operation. In exchange for helping the Syrians, Said would help
Hindawi with his attacks on supporters of King Hussein in Jordan.

There is, however, another view. On February 4, Israeli fighters forced down a
Libyan executive jet on its way from Tripoli to Damascus. They were hoping to
catch a clutch of top Damascus-based terrorists.

In the event their only prize was an assistant general secretary of the Syrian
Ba'ath Party and eight political non-entities from Damascus and Beirut. But the
operation, however bungled, was enough to enrage the Syrian leader, President
Assad.

Assad's chief of staff, General Hikmet Shehabi, promised a reply that Israel
would not forget. Syria, he said, would choose the method, time and place.

Israeli intelligence sources in Jerusalem believe that the mid-air explosion
aboard a TWA airliner over Greece in April and the attempt to smuggle a bomb
onto an El Al flight from Madrid in June were the amplification of that threat.
They are convinced that Hindawi's escapade was another front of the same
assault.

On February 9, Hindawi told police Said provided him with a Syrian service
passport, plus dollars 12,000 for expenses. Accompanied by Kokash, Hindawi made
a dry run to London where they met up with Salem Bader, another Syrian agent
whose cover was that he was an engineering student at Sheffield University.

According to Hindawi, when they returned to Damascus, Said taught him how to arm
a bomb detonator which was disguised as a pocket calculator. The detonator
included a circuit board timing device linked to a small amount of explosive
with a blast power equivalent to a hand grenade. Once a battery was inserted
into the back of the calculator, it would detonate exactly five hours, one
minute and one second later.

Said showed Hindawi a bag at the bottom of which plastic explosives could be
concealed. Placed close to the main charge, the detonator would sympathetically
combust the explosives.

He also gave Hindawi a warning: if he was caught, he was to make no mention of
Syrian intelligence but tell the police that he was a drugs smuggler. If he did
not obey, a quarter of his family would be liquidated within 24 hours. He gave
Hindawi his telephone number in Damascus: 336068.

Hindawi returned to London on April 5 and was booked into the Royal Garden Hotel
with Said's brother, Ghassim Said. Both posed as members of a Syrian Arab
Airline crew. The following day, Hindawi was met by Adnam Habib, another Syrian
intelligence officer. Habib gave him the calculator and the bag containing
around three and a half pounds of Semptex, powerful Czech-made mifitary plastic
explosives. The bomb had a blast power equal to about 30 hand grenades.

Hindawi's father, Mr Nawaf Mansour, lived in a flat at Longbridge Road, and
Hindawi decided to leave the bag there for 10 days. He had given his father's
telephone number to Said who passed it to another Syrian agent in Britain, a man
Hindawi said used the name Abdulkader.

Hindawi had by now moved into the Palace Hotel under his false name of Issam
Share. Abdulkader contacted him through Mr Mansour, who was completely unaware
of what was going on. At a meeting outside the Cumberland Hotel in Marble Arch,
Abdulkader gave Hindawi a Browning semi-automatic pistol and two magazines
containing 25 Syrian-made bullets.

Carefully concealing his double existence as 'Share,' Hindawi had by this time
resumed contact with Ann Murphy, his Irish girlfriend. He had not seen her since
November, 1985, when he made her pregnant for the second time. Now, out of the
blue, Hindawi contacted her and suggested marriage and a honeymoon in Israel.
Over dinner at Julie's Pantry fastfood restaurant in Oxford Street, she agreed
to travel alone when Hindawi said he already had a ticket to Jordan because of
his work as a 'journalist. '

A few days later, Hindawi brought her to Superstar travel agents on Regent
Street, a subsidiary of El-Al. He remained outside to make sure that no El-Al
staff saw him while Miss Murphy, five months pregnant and ill, bought the ticket
on her own.

On the morning of April 17, he took her by taxi to Heathrow. On the way, he
activated the detonator by putting a battery into the calculator. Out of sight
of the El-Al check-in desk, he kissed her goodbye and said: 'See you later. '
The bomb she was carrying was due to explode when she and 374 other people were
39,000 feet over south east Europe en route to Tel Aviv.

Hindawi returned to central London, collected his own luggage from the Palace
Hotel and went to the Royal Garden Hotel to hitch a lift back out to Heathrow
with the Syrian air crew and catch the 2 pm flight to Damascus. But shortly
after 9 am, the bomb was discovered and news of it made public. A man called
Mohammed Raja Zidan, who was also travelling as a crew member, gave Hindawi an
unaddressed envelope and told him to go straight to the Syrian Embassy.

There, according to his confession, he was greeted warmly by Dr Loutof Allah
Baydar, the ambassador, who told him that he had done good work. Lt Col Said and
Lt Col Kokash cared for him and would look after him. Dr Haydar telephoned
Damascus and appeared to get instructions. He ordered two embassy officials,
Mounir Mouna and Ahmed Abdul Latif (also known as Abu Heithem), to take Hindawi
out by a secret rear door and hide him in Mouna's flat at 19 Stonor Road, West
London. Hindawi spent the night at the flat and Mouna helped disguise him by
cutting his hair.

At around 5.30am on the next day, Mouna and Zaki Oud, a sinister looking man
from the embassy who was dressed in black and wore dark glasses, returned to
take Hindawi away. Some sources suggest that orders had come through from
Damascus that Hindawi was to be killed. Whatever the truth, Hindawi had become
suspicious. His fears appeared to be confirmed when he said he did not want to
go back to the embassy and Oud grabbed him and tried to bundle him into a car
but Hindawi broke free and ran off. He sought refuge in the Visitors Hotel,
which he happened to know through its proprietor, Niam Al-Oran, a Jordanian.

Al-Oran contacted Hindawi's brother, Mahmood, who had already been in touch with
the police. With the information obtained from Miss Murphy after her arrest on
April 17, Detective Sergeant William Price had been able to speak to Mahmood, an
employee of the Qatar medical centre. Price asked that if Nezar surfaced,
Mahmood contact the anti-terrorist squad. At the Visitors Hotel, Mahmoo and
Al-Oran finally convinced Hindawi to give himself up by saying they would get an
assurance that he would not be handed over to Mossad, Israeli intelligence.

It was two days before the truth began to emerge during police interrogations.
At first Hindawi spun his story about being a drugs smuggler. He said a man
called Khalid Dandesh had put him up to it with a promise of a pounds 250,000
reward.

But his story was woven with lies and half truths And he slipped up when he said
that Dandesh's telephone number in Damascus was 336068 - the number given to him
by Said.

After his confession, he tried to bargain with the police.

Long after he was on remand in Brixton Prison, Hindawi did not give up hope that
his Syrian masters might come to his rescue. From his prison cell he had a
letter smuggled out in May to his cousin in Genoa. Hindawi urged Awni to contact
Said in Damascus to arrange an exchange of prisoners. He wanted himself and
Ahmed, his brother in Berlin, exchanged for four Israeli soldiers being held by
two groups, Hizbollah and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine,
with which Said was in contact. The letter, written on yellowing, non-regulation
paper, suggested that some Britons in Beirut should also be kidnapped and
exchanged with the Israelis.

The letter was addressed to Awni at his student hostel in Genoa. But Awni had
been under surveillance since 1984 when Italian police found his telephone
number with a man and a woman who were suspected members of the Lebanese Armed
Revolutionary Faction and were arrested in Trieste. The letter was intercepted
and Awni was arrested by Italian police

In September detectives from Scotland Yard went to Italy to interview Anwi.
However they were unable to obtain the necessary evidence to link Hindawi to the
letter

Whatever else he was, Hindawi was not a very clever terrorist. He could have
evaded capture easily by taking the next plane out of Heathrow after saying
goodbye to Ann Murphy. And by all accounts, he wasn't much of a journalist
either. According to former colleagues in the Middle East, he was pretentious, a
boaster, and a liar.

Whether there was any basis for his fear about a Syrian plot to kill him - a
fear which led to his panic and eventual arrest - we shall probably never know.
Scotland Yard's request to question the diplomats Mouna, Latif, and Oud was
turned down by Dr Haydar on the grounds of diplomatic immunity, and a few days
after Hindawi's capture they were each given seven days to leave Britain.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1986

Determined Thatcher calls Assad to account / Severance of British relations with
Syria over El Al bomb plot

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK

LENGTH: 966 words


The British Government's decision to break off diplomatic relations with Syria
has not been taken lightly and there is deep foreboding about the political
repercussions and terrorist revenge that it may provoke.

Mrs Thatcher and the Cabinet have been agonising over the question of what to do
with Syria from the moment the investigations into the attempt to blow up the El
Al jumbo jet at Heathrow began. But the Syrian connection was so patent that the
Government knew it had no alternative but to act against President Assad.


The Hindawi trial reinforced earlier suspicions of Syrian involvement in a
series of recent terrorist outrages, including the Berlin bombings that
triggered off US raids against Libya, and the fatal explosions at Vienna and
Rome airports.

Britain is asking all its allies to support it, moves against Syria. The
decision poses a serious dilemma for Israel, West Germany, and the United
States, and possibly also Italy and Austria.

In the past, the evidence against Syria has always been sufficiently
circumstantial to avoid a direct clash with President Assad.

Assad has always been regarded as one of the essential figures in the Arab world
if a peace settlement is forged in the Middle East.

The trial pointed to direct links with Syrian intelligence officers before the
attempt to blow up the El Al jet, as well as the help of the Syrian Ambassador
in London in finding Hindawi a safe house afterwards.

Almost immediately after the attempted bombing, Britain expelled three Syrian
diplomats in London after Damascus refused to waive diplomatic immunity and land
Yard with their enquiries' about the outrage.

In return, three British diplomats were told to leave Syria, leaving the British
Embassy there with only 20 UK-based staff.

As the trial developed, the Government had to set out its options. It could have
limited itself to expelling the Syrian Ambassador; and it certainly looked at
the possibility of banning Syrian Arab Airlines from Britain, without actually
breaking diplomatic relations.

But Mrs Thatcher's commitment to fighting terrorism is so deep that she was
bound to settle for the most drastic action, short of a declaration of war. She
believes that this is a clear case of state-directed terrorism, and in spite of
all the risks to British interests, she felt that Britain was bound to make a
decisive break with Syria.

Presumably security precautions will also be reinforced, not only in London but
in the Middle East, where British subjects are considered vulnerable to
terrorist reprisals.

Britain undoubtedly fears Syrian reactions to the Hindawi trial verdict.
Throughout the trial, the defence warned against the wider risks of finding the
Jordanian guilty, and claimed that the whole affair was an Israeli plot to
discredit Syria.

This argument has failed to gain the slightest credibility. But President
Assad's personal intervention has been taken as a further warning, not only to
London but to Israel and Washington, that very high stakes are involved.

Israel has recognised the dilemma from the moment it became apparent that there
had been high-level Syrian involvement. Used to swift retaliation against its
enemies, Israel has held off so far in this case.

Israel had been quick to support the American bombing raids on Libya earlier
this year on the basis of much flimsier evidence linking the Gadafy regime to
international terrorism. But Damascus is not Tripoli, and the price of similar
retaliation against Syria could be exorbitant.

The most common scenario sketched out by the Israelis for the next round of the
Middle East conflict involves a Syrian thrust against the Golan, and perhaps
southwards through Lebanon's Beka'a valley.

Their analysts predict a war that includes rocket attacks on civilian targets,
chemical weapons, and heavy casualties. Apart from the military risks, even
Israel accepts that there are powerful political arguments against antagonising
President Assad. The idea of a workable Middle East peace process that shuts out
Damascus is absurd.

Israel's broadest and safest option is to join in concerted international
responses to the Hindawi case, rather than undertake its own punitive operation.

That is certainly the advice that has been conveyed to Israel by the US
Administration. President Reagan's gingerly handling of Syria has been in stark
contrast to his actions against Libya. He has virtually ignored evidence
pointing to Syrian as well as Libyan involvement in the Berlin discotheque
bombing which he used to justify the bombing raids against Libya. During recent
Congressional hearings, the Assistant Secretary for Europe and the Middle East
Richards Murphy refused to be pinned terrorist efforts.

Militarily, the US recognises that Syria would not be a push-over: the last time
the US tangled with Syrian anti-aircraft missile batteries, it lost two
aircraft, and the Rev Jesse Jackson had to go to Damascus to retrieve a captured
American pilot.

The Administration also believes that President Assad could be helpful in
gaining the release of American hostages in Lebanon. President Reagan, under
much greater pressure since the Daniloff affair to do more to secure the freedom
of other American 'hostages,' cannot afford, for domestic political reasons, to
antagonise the Syrian leader at present.

If Hindawi's bomb had gone off none of these cautionary arguments could have
stopped Israeli, and perhaps even American retaliation. But with the worst
averted, they are likely to fall in line with British preference for 'necessary
security precautions,' in place of punitive action. Kid gloves are likely to
remain in order in the West's handling of. President Assad and the forces he
controls.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1986

Reagan withdraws ambassador in support of British move / US envoy to Syria
recalled

BYLINE: From MICHAEL WHITE

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Reagan Administration last night gave swift support to Britain in its breach
with Syria by withdrawing its own ambassador to Damascus and promising 'close
consultation' on further steps. But fears for its own hostages in Lebanon and
the danger of war between Syria and Israel will guarantee that American action
falls well short of its rhetoric - unless Congress forces the President's hand.

The American withdrawal of the ambassador, Mr William Eagleton, accompanied the
White House spokesman, Mr Larry Speakes's statement that 'we applaud the
reaction of Her Majesty's Government, we support the British decision. '
Delighted British diplomats praised: 'The robustness of the Administration's
initial reaction'. Mr Speakes also said further measures will be taken.


'In the coming days we will be in close consultation with Her Majesty's
Government and other allies regarding additional steps that we and others will
take,' Mr Speakes said.

After Mr Speakes announced the withdrawal of the ambassador, a senior
Administration official said that the US would send ambassador-at-large Gerald
Bremmer to consult with Britain and other allies.

Mr Bremer is also director of the office of counter-terrorism at the State
Department.

Senior officials admit that the successful detonation of the El Al bomb 'would
probably have seen a war in the region. ' Concern for Syria's military and
diplomatic clout, as well as the effect on American public opinion if anything
happened to its hostages, has produced a deeply ambiguous attitude towards
Damascus. It is sometimes included on President Reagan's list of 'terror
states,' and sometimes not.

But mounting frustration in Congress which resulted in a 'roasting' for
Assistant Secretary of State, Robert Murphy, earlier this month could intensify
pressure once the November 4 elections are out of the way. One hundred
congressmen on both sides recently demanded tough economic sanctions against the
Assad regime. The US has 'no plans to cut off diplomatic ties, and I am not sure
that would serve our interests,' Mr Murphy told the House Middle East
Sub-Committee during the Old Bailey trial. 'Why? Because of the sort of
dialogue, thin as it may appear to be many times, that we have been able to
maintain with the Syrian Government. '

To complicate matters, Administration and intelligence analysts who have watched
the Hindawi trial with close interest remain divided over the apportionment of
blame for recent terrorist attacks - like the Berlin discotheque bombing which
precipitated the raids on Libya.

The State Department is credited with sharing British suspicions of Syria, while
the White House's own National Security Council tends to blame Colonel Gadafy.
And, with most experts puzzled over Syria's motive for an uncharacteristic lapse
into mass terrorism in Europe, intelligence analysts at the National Security
Agency - the American GCHQ - believe it may have been Syria's way of getting at
the United States rather than Israel for unwelcome diplomatic moves last winter.

Middle East analysts here suggest that a fresh squeeze on US-Syrian economic
activity, including a tentative wheat sale agreement, might follow Sir Geoffrey
Howe's move. Restrictions on arms sales, in place since 1979, have been enhanced
periodically, so that sales of some American chemicals and synthetics with
potential military use for Syria have been blocked.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1986

Israel praises action / British severance of diplomatic relations with Syria

BYLINE: From ARIE HASKELL

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Diplomatic sources in Jerusalem saw the severe sentence handed down on Nezar
Hindawi and the prompt action of the British Government in severing British
diplomatic relations with Syria as an important step in the fight of Western
democracies against terror.

They felt that Israel's longstanding protestations that Syria played a key role
in international terror have been borne out.


Because of the Jewish Sabbath official reaction was scant, but the Minister of
Industry and Trade, the former defence Minister, Mr Ariel Sharon, praised the
courage of the British Government, and in particular of Mrs Thatcher. He seized
the opportunity to demand that both Egypt and Jordan be pressed to oust PLO
offices and headquarters from their countries.

In the past, Israel has warned that it might respond militarily if it had
conclusive evidence of Syrian involvement in the attempted April 17 bombing.

'We are waiting to get the entire report. We will not respond until then,' a
Foreign Ministry spokesman said.

Israel has long said it had reason to believe Syria was behind both the London
incident and another attempted bombing of an El Al plane in Madrid on June 26.

Speaking in May, the Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, warned that if Israel
learned conclusively of Syrian involvement in the botched effort to smuggle
bombs aboard the El Al plane in London, it might feel forced to respond
militarily.

'Israel's aim can only be maximum prevention of terror attacks and maximum
damage to anybody who tries to harm it,' Mr Rabin told a conference on
international terrorism at Tel Aviv University.

In the case of the attempted London bombing, he said: 'Israel would have been in
a terrible dilemma had it discovered footsteps leading to whatever country;
would we have gone to war over that, or what would we have done. '

In Moscow, Tass said yesterday that Britain had invented allegations about
Syrian involvement in an attempted bomb attack on an Israeli airliner in order
to justify its decision to cut diplomatic ties.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 25 1986, Saturday

The Hindawi Case: Damascus and the European bombings

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62598.

LENGTH: 481 words


Four times since the violent politics of the Middle East erupted on European
streets the Syrians have been linked to terrorism in Britain.

Syria has been identified by Western intelligence officials as one of a group of
countries practising 'state terrorism', and the Hindawi trial has offered the
firmest evidence to indict them.


In 1978 two Syrians were killed when a bomb destroyed their car on New Year's
Eve as they parked in London's West End. Detectives believe the men died as they
connected a bomb intended for the offices of Egypt's national airline.

In 1982 Mr Shlomo Argov, the Israeli ambassador in London, was shot in the head
in Park Lane. Three men, two Jordanians and an Iraqi, who were linked to the Abu
Nidal organization, then based in Damascus, were given long prison sentences.

After the hearing, the Nidal organization spoke to The Times from the Syrian
capital and admitted the shooting, which launched Israel on its invasion of
southern Lebanon.

Last year four Syrians were expelled from Britain after detectives thwarted what
is thought to have been a plan to attack two leading PLO figures. Last weekend
two men holding Iraqi passports were deported to Syria after being intercepted
by police at the start of what was though to be another Abu Nidal attack.

In an interview last week in Time magazine, President Assad of Syria said: 'We
challenge (Western) intelligence services to prove that Syria was behind a
single terrorist operation anywhere. No terrorist acts are carried out from
Syria by Syrians or by others. ' He said the attempted El Al bombing was the
work of the Israelis.

'If we were convinced that terrorist acts could serve our cause we could carry
them out. But terrorism serves Israel's interests - not ours. '

During the case statements by Hindawi to the police were read out. He said he
went to the embassy after the discovery of the bomb at Heathrow with an envelope
to give to the ambassador and met a diplomat, identified later as Mr Zaki Oud.

When he met the ambassador Hindawi said: 'He came to me and shook hands. It was
a very warm greeting. '

Before reading the message in the envelope the ambassador rang Damascus.
According to Hindawi the ambassador told someone on the other end of the line
that he had got his message.

Hindawi said the ambassador told him to change his clothes and arranged for a
car to take Hindawi to a house.

Hindawi was taken from the embassy in a car driven by Mr Oud and another
diplomat, Mr Mounir Mouna, described by Hindawi as a security official, to a
house in West Kensington.

During his overnight stay there Mr Mouna tried to alter his appearance by
cutting and dyeing his hair. In the morning Mr Mouna and an attache called Mr
Ahmed Abdul Latif came to take him away.

The three were identified by Hindawi from a photograph found in the house.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 25 1986, Saturday

Reagan acts to back Britain / US ambassador withdrawn from Syria

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER WALKER

SECTION: Issue 62598.

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Reagan yesterday withdrew the United States Ambassador from Syria in a
gesture of solidarity with Britain and sent Mr Gerald Bremner, Director of the
Office of Counter Terrorism at the State Department, to Europe for consultations
with the allies on more international moves.

The White House said: 'We applaud the reaction of her Majesty's Government. We
support the British decision. '


Mr Larry Speaks, the White House spokesman, said further measures would be
taken. 'A state that encourages and takes part in terrorism isolates itself from
the civilized world.

The United States will consult and co-operate with others to bring practical
meaning to the isolation. '

The withdrawal of Mr William Eagleton, the US Ambassador to Damascus, amounts to
a downgrading of America's diplomatic mission, since it will now be headed by a
charge d'affaires.

The Reagan Administration has long been frustrated by the lack of conclusive
proof that Syria is engaged in terrorist acts - proof that has now been supplied
by a British court. It is deeply satisfied that such a key ally has acted so
decisively against Damascus, a move it hopes will lead to a tougher stand by
western Europe against Syria and other countries on its list of 'terrorist
countries', particularly Iran and Libya.

If the US could establish firm evidence of Syrian-backed terrorist acts against
American targets it would almost certainly cut diplomatic relations. But for now
those relations have some value, particularly as Syria would be a vital
ingredient in freeing American hostages held in Beirut.

The US does not have the same options for military action against Syria as it
had against Libya. Colonel Gadaffi's regime is widely disliked in the Middle
East and Libya is not a central player in the peace efforts. Libya is militarily
weak, unlike Syria, which has a substantial Soviet presence.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 25 1986, Saturday

The Hindawi Case: Damascus and the European bombings

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62598.

LENGTH: 481 words


Four times since the violent politics of the Middle East erupted on European
streets the Syrians have been linked to terrorism in Britain.

Syria has been identified by Western intelligence officials as one of a group of
countries practising 'state terrorism', and the Hindawi trial has offered the
firmest evidence to indict them.


In 1978 two Syrians were killed when a bomb destroyed their car on New Year's
Eve as they parked in London's West End. Detectives believe the men died as they
connected a bomb intended for the offices of Egypt's national airline.

In 1982 Mr Shlomo Argov, the Israeli ambassador in London, was shot in the head
in Park Lane. Three men, two Jordanians and an Iraqi, who were linked to the Abu
Nidal organization, then based in Damascus, were given long prison sentences.

After the hearing, the Nidal organization spoke to The Times from the Syrian
capital and admitted the shooting, which launched Israel on its invasion of
southern Lebanon.

Last year four Syrians were expelled from Britain after detectives thwarted what
is thought to have been a plan to attack two leading PLO figures. Last weekend
two men holding Iraqi passports were deported to Syria after being intercepted
by police at the start of what was though to be another Abu Nidal attack.

In an interview last week in Time magazine, President Assad of Syria said: 'We
challenge (Western) intelligence services to prove that Syria was behind a
single terrorist operation anywhere. No terrorist acts are carried out from
Syria by Syrians or by others. ' He said the attempted El Al bombing was the
work of the Israelis.

'If we were convinced that terrorist acts could serve our cause we could carry
them out. But terrorism serves Israel's interests - not ours. '

During the case statements by Hindawi to the police were read out. He said he
went to the embassy after the discovery of the bomb at Heathrow with an envelope
to give to the ambassador and met a diplomat, identified later as Mr Zaki Oud.

When he met the ambassador Hindawi said: 'He came to me and shook hands. It was
a very warm greeting. '

Before reading the message in the envelope the ambassador rang Damascus.
According to Hindawi the ambassador told someone on the other end of the line
that he had got his message.

Hindawi said the ambassador told him to change his clothes and arranged for a
car to take Hindawi to a house.

Hindawi was taken from the embassy in a car driven by Mr Oud and another
diplomat, Mr Mounir Mouna, described by Hindawi as a security official, to a
house in West Kensington.

During his overnight stay there Mr Mouna tried to alter his appearance by
cutting and dyeing his hair. In the morning Mr Mouna and an attache called Mr
Ahmed Abdul Latif came to take him away.

The three were identified by Hindawi from a photograph found in the house.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 25 1986, Saturday

Reagan acts to back Britain / US ambassador withdrawn from Syria

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER WALKER

SECTION: Issue 62598.

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Reagan yesterday withdrew the United States Ambassador from Syria in a
gesture of solidarity with Britain and sent Mr Gerald Bremner, Director of the
Office of Counter Terrorism at the State Department, to Europe for consultations
with the allies on more international moves.

The White House said: 'We applaud the reaction of her Majesty's Government. We
support the British decision. '


Mr Larry Speaks, the White House spokesman, said further measures would be
taken. 'A state that encourages and takes part in terrorism isolates itself from
the civilized world.

The United States will consult and co-operate with others to bring practical
meaning to the isolation. '

The withdrawal of Mr William Eagleton, the US Ambassador to Damascus, amounts to
a downgrading of America's diplomatic mission, since it will now be headed by a
charge d'affaires.

The Reagan Administration has long been frustrated by the lack of conclusive
proof that Syria is engaged in terrorist acts - proof that has now been supplied
by a British court. It is deeply satisfied that such a key ally has acted so
decisively against Damascus, a move it hopes will lead to a tougher stand by
western Europe against Syria and other countries on its list of 'terrorist
countries', particularly Iran and Libya.

If the US could establish firm evidence of Syrian-backed terrorist acts against
American targets it would almost certainly cut diplomatic relations. But for now
those relations have some value, particularly as Syria would be a vital
ingredient in freeing American hostages held in Beirut.

The US does not have the same options for military action against Syria as it
had against Libya. Colonel Gadaffi's regime is widely disliked in the Middle
East and Libya is not a central player in the peace efforts. Libya is militarily
weak, unlike Syria, which has a substantial Soviet presence.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 26 1986, Sunday

Britain prepares to face Syrian terror backlash / Aftermath of break in
diplomatic relations

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: Issue 8464.

LENGTH: 468 words


BRITISH embassies and defence bases have been warned to expect terrorist attacks
following the severing of diplomatic relations with Syria. Security has been
increased at all British installations at home and abroad, and additional
measures are being taken at all ports of entry into Britain to prevent
terrorists entering the country.

Special Branch detectives are to increase their monitoring of the activities of
the 1,200 Syrian students in Britain and the 800 Syrian nationals resident here.
Intelligence sources say there is no evidence that any of the people living in
Britain are members of terrorist cells, but there is concern that there may be a
backlash by 'rogue' extermists or pockets of political activists.


Previous experience suggests that a spate of attacks will follow the jailing of
Nazar Hindawi. After Britain jailed the men responsible for the attempted
assassination of the Israeli ambassador to London, Shlomo Argov, in 1982.
British officials were assassinated in India and Greece and there were bomb and
grenade attacks against British targets. All the attacks were aimed at
pressuring the British government to release the jailed terrorists.

Meanwhile Britain yesterday ordered the Syrian ambassador, Dr Loutof Allah
Haydar, and his 21-strong mission to leave within seven days instead of the 14
days originally allowed in the aftermath of the Hindawi bomb case.

Whitehall's angry response came after the retaliatory announcement by the Syrian
government that the British ambassador, Roger Tomkys, and his 18 staff must
leave Damascus by the end of this week.

A British Foreign Office official issued the latest ultimatum to the Syrian
embassy by telephone yesterday morning. The government was so swift in
responding that it did not even summon the Syrians to the Foreign Office to be
told face to face.

Now the Syrians will have to quit Britain by next Friday. A Foreign Office
spokesman said it was not expected that they would outstay their welcome. Cars
loaded with packing cases were arriving at the Syrian embassy in London's
Belgrave Square last night.

Meanwhile in Syria, British diplomats and their families were last night trying
to make hasty arrangements to leave the country before Friday's midnight
expulsion deadline.

With British planes now excluded from Syrian air space, the 18 diplomatic staff
are likely to drive their families to the port of Tartus on Thursday to catch
the one weekly sailing to Greece, though some are expected to fly to London via
Amsterdam with KLM.

Roger Tomkys, the British ambassador, said last night he had three times
received 'a most catagorical assurance' from the Syrian chief-of-protocol,
Hassie Ustwani, that the Syrians 'fully understand and accept their
responsibility for our safety'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 26 1986, Sunday

Fury over new French arms sale to Syria

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: Issue 8464.

LENGTH: 706 words


AS Sir Geoffrey Howe prepared to fly to Luxembourg tomorrow to urge EEC foreign
ministers to join Britian in taking steps against Syria, it emerged last night
that France was on the brink of clinching a new pounds 200m contract to supply
arms to Syria.

Sources in Paris told The Sunday Times that the arms deal was at a 'critical
stage' and that the French government seemed determined to go ahead with it. The
deal, which includes 15 Gazelle helicopters armed with 180 missiles,
surface-to-surface missiles, artillery equipment, night vision sights and armour
plating for tanks, only awaits the approval of the French prime minister,
Jacques Chirac.


Mrs Thatcher is expected to be angered by this news and to seek an explanation
from the French. Downing Street sources said yesterday that they were looking
for strong support from Britain's European partners.

But, as hopes of a concerted European response to Syrian terrorism faded,
Damascus radio warned that Britain 'would pay dearly' for breaking off
diplomatic relations after the revelation that the Syrian embassy in London
helped in a plot to blow up an El Al airliner. It went on to attack Thatcher:
'She has made a grave mistake by joining the anti-Syrian camp. Britain will pay
dearly for these provocative act .. Syria will respond with suitable means,' it
added.

The Foreign Office in London was unmoved by such threats. Yesterday it reduced
the time Syrian diplomats have been given to pack their bags and leave Britain
from 14 to seven days, the same time that the Syrians have allowed British
diplomats to leave Damascus.

The Foreign Office does not expect any EEC country to break off relations with
Syria, but it would like the common market to impose limited measures, such as a
reduction in flights to Damascus and in Syrian embassy staffs in Europe.

But the signs are that the Europeans may baulk at even these ideas. Yesterday
Foreign Office sources were 'not optimistic' that the EEC would adopt such
measures, with France particularly reluctant to take a tough line.

Last month the French promised to 'terrorise the terrorists' in the aftermath of
a wave of bombings in Paris, in which the Syrians were widely suspected to have
had a hand. Chirac, on a visit to Washington, assured the Americans that he
would take a firm line against terrorism and co-operate on international
measures.

But the French seem to have decided that a softly-softly policy is the best way
to deal with Syria. Several French envoys recently have been sent to Damascus to
try to improve relations between the two countries. Aside from trade
considerations, the French are also worried about the effect that sanctions
might have on the fate of eight French hostages held by Syrian-backed groups in
Lebanon.

The official French reaction to the rupture of diplomatic relations between
London and Damascus is that the decision taken by Britain is 'its own
responsibility'. The French foreign minister, Jean-Bernard Raimond, has said
simply that there will be 'an exchange of views on the subject' by the 12 EEC
members in Luxemburg tomorrow and that relations between Paris and Damascus
remain 'normal'.

However, a major domestic political row - as well as strains in Anglo-French
relations - is likely to develop this week in Paris if there is no positive
French backing for Britain. The vice president of the foreign affairs committee
of the French national assembly Jean-Francois Deniau, yesterday accused Syria
and Iran of permitting terrorist attacks to proceed in Paris as well as the
Lebanon.

He said: 'These attacks could not take place without the secret services of
these countries being aware of them. ' He warned that a government that did not
react to this was 'sure to find itself in difficulties'.

But there will be further pressure on the French government to harden its line
on Syria in mid-November, when the brother of the terrorist imprisoned in London
on Friday for 45 years goes on trial in West Berlin. He is accused in connection
with a terrorist attack against the German-Arab friendship association in the
city. Hindawi's brother is alleged to have received explosives from the Syrian
embassy in East Berlin.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 27, 1986

French repeat Syrian arms denial / France denies negotiating sale of weapons

BYLINE: From CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The French Government yesterday stood by a firm on-the-record denial that it was
negotiating arms sales to Syria.

Mr Denis Baudouin, the spokesman for the Prime Minister, Mr Jaques Chirac, said
at a press conference on Thursday: 'Syria has some European armaments. That is
true. And it is equally true that orders given to France, as to other European
countries, have been honoured.


'But there are no negotiations at present for the sale of new French armaments.
I will offer the same categorical denial next week if the same question were to
be put about such contracts. '

Recent press reports here have suggested that Syria wants military supplies
worth as much as pounds 300 million.

Syria already has some French Gazelle helicopters equipped with anti-tank
missiles and some portable anti-tank missiles for infantry use. A contract to
replace 15 helicopters was signed in 1984.

When the Syrian Vice-President, Mr Abdel Halim Khaddam, visited Paris in July
his delegation said it was interested in further military supplies, including
anti-tank helicopters, ground-to-air missile batteries, and artillery.

French arms manufacturers have been in touch with Damascus to assess Syrian
requirements. It seems that the Inter-ministerial Committee on Arms Exports has
been asked to authorise exploration of the market but has not been asked to
approve negotiations or sales.

Press reports here have pointed out that Syria is not on the 'red' or forbidden
list for arms exports, and one newspaper has referred to the danger that arms
sold to Syria might finish in the hands of the Iranians, who are fighting Iraq
in the Gulf War.

Speculation about arms sales will not ease France's delicate task today, as it
tries to reconcile its own complex policy towards Damascus.

The Junior Minister for European Affairs, Mr Bernard Bosson, will represent
France at the crucial meeting of EEC Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg because Mr
Jean-Bernard Raimond, the Foreign Minister, will be accompanying President
Mitterrand and Mr Chirac to a Franco-German summit in Frankfurt.

Questioned in the National Assembly on Friday, the Foreign Minister said that
the British decision to break diplomatic links with Syria had not surprised him.
'The day when we have proof against a third state, we will deal with the
situation,' he said.

Outside the chamber, Mr Raimond said that France would have to take the
necessary measures, including perhaps a break in diplomatic relation, if there
were proof of Syrian involvement in recent terrorist attacks in Paris. At
present, France had no reason for adopting a measure similar to that taken by
Britain.

Commentators here have emphasised that France's Middle East policy, argues for a
careful approach towards Syria. After early references to the possible role of
some states in terrorist attacks in Paris, the Government has settled into a
complex policy of avoiding accusations, maintaining dialogue, and urging Syria
to exercise a benign influence.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 27, 1986

EEC resists action on Syria / Foreign Secretary Howe seeks support for
diplomatic action against Damascus

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 430 words


BRUSSELS

Sir Geoffrey Howe will today try to persuade sceptical EEC colleagues of the
need for united action to follow up Britain's diplomatic rupture with Syria.


As the war of words between London and Damascus intensified over the weekend,
there were diplomatic signals that Britain's Community partners are more
interested in distancing themselves from the quarrel than in taking sides.

France, for one, seems determined to resist any concerted move against Syria,
which is held in Paris to be a key power in the Middle East to be cultivated
rather than antagonised.

Britain is said to be considering further punitive action against Damascus. It
has already cut the time for Syrian diplomats to get out of London from 14 days
to seven, in line with the notice given to British diplomats to leave Damascus.

The Transport Secretary, John Moore, has attacked the Damascus regime's moves to
restrict British passenger flights over Syrian airspace. He said the moves were
in flagrant breach of the 1954 international air agreement.

As both sides set diplomats to work over the weekend to build international
support, Libya announced its solidarity with Syria by banning British
overflights: a symbolic gesture, as there are no such flights.

The Syria question will heavily overshadow today's meeting in Luxembourg. The
official agenda is mainly concerned with a range of disputes between the
Community and its major trading partners, and with sanctions against South
Africa.

Sir Geoffrey the Foreign Secretary, will present his counterparts with
'compelling' evidence of Syria's involvement in terrorism, including the
attempted bombing of the El Al jumbo jet for which Nezar Hindawi was gaoled for
45 years last Friday.

The British Government does not expect its partners to break relations with
Damascus. But, as the current president of the Community's Council of Ministers,
Sir Geoffrey will be sorely disappointed if there is no display of solidarity.

He is likely to suggest that Europe sends a strong signal of disapproval to the
Assad regime. It could take the form of flight restrictions to Damascus or
cutting the size of Syrian diplomatic missions.

Earlier this year, the Community ordered deep cuts in Libyan People's Bureaux -
a precedent on which the Foreign Secretary is likely to dwell today.

The French Foreign Minister, Mr Jean-Bernard Raimond, has responded coolly to
suggestions that the EEC take joint action against Syria. He said simply that
there would be an 'exchange of views' on the issue in Luxembourg.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1986, Monday

UK move on Syria embarrasses Paris / French reaction to break in diplomatic
relations

BYLINE: From SUSAN MACDONALD

SECTION: Issue 62599.

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The news that Britain had broken off diplomatic relations with Syria came just a
few hours after Le Matin had published a front-page story saying France and
Syria were negotiating a 3 billion francs (pounds 320 million) arms deal.

This story followed a similar one in Liberation the day before, which also
stated that the reason for the Prime Minister, M Jacques Chirac's lightning trip
to The Hague earlier this month was to discuss an economic aid package for
Syria.


French feeling now is best summed up in Le Monde's front-page headline
yesterday: 'London's decision embarrasses Paris'.

Inside is a cartoon of a cowed President Assad being seen off the premises by a
determined Mrs Thatcher, while across the street is an empty taxi with M Chirac
at the wheel.

In asking the question on how to deal with today's EEC foreign ministers'
meeting, Le Monde quoted a senior French official as saying: 'The evidence in
London's hands is far more convincing than that put forward by General Walters
(President Reagan's special envoy) when he wanted to convince us of Libyan
involvement in certain terrorist acts'.

At the time of the series of deadly bombings in Paris in September, hard-line
statements by M Chirac hinted at the involvement of a state in terrorism and
promised severe punishment if proof of involvement was found.

However, the Government still maintains that no such proof has been found.

Sources close to the Government say that they are trying the stick-and-carrot
method with regard to Syria, which promises new co-operation with Damascus in
return for Syrian help in providing information on terrorist groups and ending
terrorist bombs in France.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1986, Monday

Syrians rail at Britain / Reaction to allegations of involvement in El Al jet
bomb affair

BYLINE: From ROBERT FISK

SECTION: Issue 62599.

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: CAIRO


Syrian fury at Britain's allegations of the country's involvement in last
April's El Al bomb plot exploded in a series of angry threats from Damascus
yesterday but failed to set off the intended chain reaction of support in the
rest of the Arab world.

Only Libya demanded that other Arab states break off diplomatic relations with
Britain, yet there could be no concealing the wrath with which Syrian radio
called for a boycott of Britain and served warning that it would 'pay the price'
for linking Damascus with the attempted bombing.


British diplomats - indeed, British citizens in general - may now become targets
for many of the extremist Arab groups which receive support from the radical
Middle Eastern states, not least Abu Nidal's Palestinian assassination squad.

Syria would not necessarily be behind such attacks; officials in Dasmascus have
been at pains to promise protection for British residents in the city. But by
adding Britain to that object of familiar hate, the 'US-Zionist conspiracy,'
Arab extremists have ensured that Britons are now almost as much at risk in the
region as Americans.

Mr Roger Tomkys, the British Ambassador in Damascus, was packing yesterday in
preparation for his departure from Syria, while his staff, like their
counterparts in the Syrian Embassy in London, were trying to make arrangements
for a friendly embassy to open an interests section on their behalf. The US and
Canadian ambassadors left Dasmascus for home yesterday.

The stage thus seems set for a period of mutual hostility and distrust between
Syria and Britain, although both countries probably realize that the affair
cannot be pursued much further. The US knows that Syria, for all its sins, is a
power-broker in the Arab world and a party to any future peace treaty.

Diplomats in the region also appear convinced that no Western government would
dare take military action against Syria or try to stage a coup against President
Assad. Syria is not Libya and Soviet support for the Syrians and for Mr Assad is
a good deal more serious than it is for Colonel Gadaffi, not least because
Soviet missile crews are manning the air defences of Damascus.

'The British Government made a big mistake when it joined the American-Israeli
campaign against Syria and the Arabs,' the Syrian state radio said in a
commentary. 'Therefore it will have to pay the price of this hostile step based
on lies, allegations and deliberate provocations. '

The radio added that Syria 'reciprocates friendship with friendship, and answers
to each aggressive act the way it deems fit. ' Britain had produced no proof of
Syria's involvement with the El Al bombing 'for the simple reason that Syria
denounces terrorism and condemns it and does not allow it. '

The theme of Syria's innocence was taken up by Mr Farouk el-Sharaa, the eloquent
Foreign Minister in Damascus, who told a news conference that Syria had 'done
nothing wrong and that the British Government could not bring any evidence to
link Syria with terrorism. '

He rejected the statement by the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe,
that Nezar Hindawi, the Jordanian convicted of the attempted bombing, had
contacted the Syrian Ambassador in London after his scheme misfired.

In Libya, a statement from the Foreign Affairs Bureau referred to the British
breakoff in relations as 'an extension of organized terrorism' and urged all
Arab countries, as well as Iran, to cut diplomatic ties with London and follow
Syria's decision to close its airspace and harbours to British planes and ships.

The Libyans themselves have had no relations with Britain since a British
policewoman was killed outside the Libyan 'People's Bureau' in London.

Outside Syria's few allies in the Middle East, there was scarcely a murmur of
support, a silence which spoke volumes about Syria's reputation in the rest of
the Arab world.

The Kuwaiti Cabinet complained that Israel was exploiting the tension between
London and Damascus but repeated previous assertions that Kuwait has always
'condemned all types of terrorism. '

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1986, Monday

UK move on Syria embarrasses Paris / French reaction to break in diplomatic
relations

BYLINE: From SUSAN MACDONALD

SECTION: Issue 62599.

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The news that Britain had broken off diplomatic relations with Syria came just a
few hours after Le Matin had published a front-page story saying France and
Syria were negotiating a 3 billion francs (pounds 320 million) arms deal.

This story followed a similar one in Liberation the day before, which also
stated that the reason for the Prime Minister, M Jacques Chirac's lightning trip
to The Hague earlier this month was to discuss an economic aid package for
Syria.


French feeling now is best summed up in Le Monde's front-page headline
yesterday: 'London's decision embarrasses Paris'.

Inside is a cartoon of a cowed President Assad being seen off the premises by a
determined Mrs Thatcher, while across the street is an empty taxi with M Chirac
at the wheel.

In asking the question on how to deal with today's EEC foreign ministers'
meeting, Le Monde quoted a senior French official as saying: 'The evidence in
London's hands is far more convincing than that put forward by General Walters
(President Reagan's special envoy) when he wanted to convince us of Libyan
involvement in certain terrorist acts'.

At the time of the series of deadly bombings in Paris in September, hard-line
statements by M Chirac hinted at the involvement of a state in terrorism and
promised severe punishment if proof of involvement was found.

However, the Government still maintains that no such proof has been found.

Sources close to the Government say that they are trying the stick-and-carrot
method with regard to Syria, which promises new co-operation with Damascus in
return for Syrian help in providing information on terrorist groups and ending
terrorist bombs in France.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1986, Monday

Syrians rail at Britain / Reaction to allegations of involvement in El Al jet
bomb affair

BYLINE: From ROBERT FISK

SECTION: Issue 62599.

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: CAIRO


Syrian fury at Britain's allegations of the country's involvement in last
April's El Al bomb plot exploded in a series of angry threats from Damascus
yesterday but failed to set off the intended chain reaction of support in the
rest of the Arab world.

Only Libya demanded that other Arab states break off diplomatic relations with
Britain, yet there could be no concealing the wrath with which Syrian radio
called for a boycott of Britain and served warning that it would 'pay the price'
for linking Damascus with the attempted bombing.


British diplomats - indeed, British citizens in general - may now become targets
for many of the extremist Arab groups which receive support from the radical
Middle Eastern states, not least Abu Nidal's Palestinian assassination squad.

Syria would not necessarily be behind such attacks; officials in Dasmascus have
been at pains to promise protection for British residents in the city. But by
adding Britain to that object of familiar hate, the 'US-Zionist conspiracy,'
Arab extremists have ensured that Britons are now almost as much at risk in the
region as Americans.

Mr Roger Tomkys, the British Ambassador in Damascus, was packing yesterday in
preparation for his departure from Syria, while his staff, like their
counterparts in the Syrian Embassy in London, were trying to make arrangements
for a friendly embassy to open an interests section on their behalf. The US and
Canadian ambassadors left Dasmascus for home yesterday.

The stage thus seems set for a period of mutual hostility and distrust between
Syria and Britain, although both countries probably realize that the affair
cannot be pursued much further. The US knows that Syria, for all its sins, is a
power-broker in the Arab world and a party to any future peace treaty.

Diplomats in the region also appear convinced that no Western government would
dare take military action against Syria or try to stage a coup against President
Assad. Syria is not Libya and Soviet support for the Syrians and for Mr Assad is
a good deal more serious than it is for Colonel Gadaffi, not least because
Soviet missile crews are manning the air defences of Damascus.

'The British Government made a big mistake when it joined the American-Israeli
campaign against Syria and the Arabs,' the Syrian state radio said in a
commentary. 'Therefore it will have to pay the price of this hostile step based
on lies, allegations and deliberate provocations. '

The radio added that Syria 'reciprocates friendship with friendship, and answers
to each aggressive act the way it deems fit. ' Britain had produced no proof of
Syria's involvement with the El Al bombing 'for the simple reason that Syria
denounces terrorism and condemns it and does not allow it. '

The theme of Syria's innocence was taken up by Mr Farouk el-Sharaa, the eloquent
Foreign Minister in Damascus, who told a news conference that Syria had 'done
nothing wrong and that the British Government could not bring any evidence to
link Syria with terrorism. '

He rejected the statement by the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe,
that Nezar Hindawi, the Jordanian convicted of the attempted bombing, had
contacted the Syrian Ambassador in London after his scheme misfired.

In Libya, a statement from the Foreign Affairs Bureau referred to the British
breakoff in relations as 'an extension of organized terrorism' and urged all
Arab countries, as well as Iran, to cut diplomatic ties with London and follow
Syria's decision to close its airspace and harbours to British planes and ships.

The Libyans themselves have had no relations with Britain since a British
policewoman was killed outside the Libyan 'People's Bureau' in London.

Outside Syria's few allies in the Middle East, there was scarcely a murmur of
support, a silence which spoke volumes about Syria's reputation in the rest of
the Arab world.

The Kuwaiti Cabinet complained that Israel was exploiting the tension between
London and Damascus but repeated previous assertions that Kuwait has always
'condemned all types of terrorism. '

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 29, 1986

France hints at new line on terror

BYLINE: From CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: PARIS


President Francois Mitterrand yesterday left the door open for strong and united
European action against Syria. He advocated absolute firmness, and said no
compromise was possible with terrorism or with states which indulged in
terrorism.

The President, interviewed on television the day after the inconclusive meeting
of EEC foreign ministers in Luxembourg, refused to comment on that meeting. But
he clearly regarded it as a stage towards. a conclusive assessment of the
evidence against Syria when EEC foreign ministers meet in London on November 10.


'I would like the 12 countries of the Community on November 10 to exchange
information, open their files, put everything on the table, and examine and
assess in this discussion whether there are some states which support terrorism,
are involved in it, and are genuinely responsible for it,' he said.

That would enable other European countries to decide whether they could share
the British position, or whether the prudence shown at Luxembourg was justified.

Although French politicians and commentators often emphasise France's special
role in the Middle East and the need to remain on good terms with key states,
President Mitterrand said that individual relations between a European state and
a terrorist state would have to yield to the claims of solidarity against
criminal behaviour.

The president was speaking from Frankfurt, where he had been attending a
Franco-German summit. At a press conference there he was asked about possible
French arms sales to Syria and replied that they were out of the question.

An important figure in the ruling coalition, Mr Jean-Claude Gaudin, the leader
of the UDF group in the National Assembly, yesterday said it was a pity that the
Government had not shown greater solidarity with Britain in Luxembourg.

At a press briefing he called for a consensus among Western countries on the
problem of terrorism. 'If France had discovered those responsible for the
terrorist attack in the Rue de Rennes (the last and bloodiest of the recent
series of incidents in Paris), it would have liked to have the backing of other
Western countries,' he said.

Mr Gaudin also aid that he had secured guarantees that there were no current
contracts for arms sales between France and Syria. The last contracts went back
several years and only small amounts of armaments were involved.

Press comment yesterday generally Showed understanding of the British position
in Luxembourg. The left-wing newspaper, Liberation, said Britain could hardly
have embarrassed its 11 EEC partners more than by asking for a clear, collective
signal to Syria.

French policy towards Syria seemed to amount to a carrot-and-stick approach,
with various envoys being sent to meet Syrian leaders. 'It seems that this
amounts to a policy. Unfortunately the British want it decoded and expressed in
plain language. '

Under the title ' Europe discredited,' the pro-Socialist Le Matin said the
British had taken the risk of revealing the community Achilles' heel - its
inability to speak with one voice on serious problems.

An article in the right-wing Le Figaro noted the varying opinions within the
ruling coalition and in the Opposition, and urged them to leave things to the
Government.

In its front-page report on Luxembourg, Le Monde was severe on the role of the
French representative, Mr Bernard Bosson, the Minister for European Affairs. He
had justified the Government's prudence by using the specious argument that the
Syrian side of the case had to be heard. But the day before the meeting the
French Government seemed impressed by the weight of British evidence.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 29 1986, Wednesday

Mitterrand denies arms deal and hints at shift on terror

BYLINE: From DIANA GEDDES

SECTION: Issue 62601.

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: PARIS


France finds itself in a particularly embarrassing situation over the Hindawi
affair. While it would like to show solidarity with Britain, it feels it cannot
risk taking too firm a stand against Damascus at a time when it needs Syrian
support to prevent a new outbreak of terrorist violence in France, in securing
the release of French hostages in Beirut; and in ensuring the security of French
forces serving with the UN peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon.

Hence the somewhat ambiguous and even discordant comments of various French
leaders over the past few days. The Government, which secretly is convinced that
the Syrians were behind the wave of bombings in Paris last month, has
alternately blown hot and cold toward Damascus in its attempts to stop the
violence. It is at present in the middle of a warm phase.


After France's seemingly rather negative attitude towards Britain's request for
support over the Hindawi affair at Luxembourg on Monday, President Mitterrand
offered hope yesterday of a more positive French stance when he called for
'complete firmness and solidarity' towards terrorism.

In a French television interview immediately after the Franco-German summit in
Frankfurt, M Mitterrand said he hoped the 12 Community members would examine
further the involvement of 'certain states' in acts of terrorism at the informal
meeting of EEC foreign ministers in London on November 10.

It might then be possible to see whether the British position could be supported
by others, he said. 'At all events, individual arrangements between a particular
European country and particular state should give way to solidarity against the
crime,' he added.

M Mitterrand strongly denied reports of a French arms deal with the Syrians.
'There is no question of France selling arms (to the Syrians),' he said. M
Jacques Chirac, the Prime Minister, has so far made no official comment on the
Hindawi affair, but M Jacques Toubon, general secretary of the Gaullist RPR
party, was thought to be echoing his master's voice when he said it was
important 'to keep one's calm

While understanding Mrs Thatcher's decision to break off relations with Syria, M
Toubon felt it was essential 'only to take action on the basis of proof'. He
seemed to be saying that the French Government needed proof of direct
implication of the Syrian Government in terrorist acts in France before it would
be willing to give Britain its direct backing.

M Pierre Mehaignerie, the Minister for Housing and Transport and one of the
leaders of the centre-right UDF party, was more explicit about the reasons for
French reticence when he said that nothing should be done to jeopardize France's
negotiations to secure the release of the French hostages and to bring to an end
the terrorist attacks in France.

However, other UDF leaders have criticized the Government's stand. M Jean-Claude
Gaudin, leader of the UDF group in the National Assembly, regretted that the
Government had not shown greater solidarity with Britain.

The former President, M Valery Giscard d'Estaing, also called for France to show
such solidarity.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 29 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Anti-terror meeting attacked by Healey / Foreign affairs

SECTION: Issue 62601.

LENGTH: 279 words


The outcome of the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg
yesterday was deplorable, Mr Denis Healey, chief Opposition spokesman on Foreign
and Commonwealth Affairs, told the Commons when he attacked the response of the
meeting on terrorism.

Conservative backbenchers also strongly criticized the attitude of Britain's
European partners.


Although Community ministers had agreed at earlier meetings to adopt concerted
action against terrorism, half of the foreign ministers had not bothered to turn
up yesterday and none of them had supported the proposals by Sir Geoffrey Howe,
the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Mr Healey said.

In a statement on the meeting, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said he had given his
colleagues a full briefing on the Hindawi case and had presented them with the
conclusive evidence of Syrian official involvement.

'They were both impressed and disturbed. ' With the sole exception of Greece,
'all ministers expressed their collective sense of outrage that the agencies of
a state had been involved in such an incident. They undertook that no partner
would accept as a diplomat any of the Syrians who had been expelled from London.

'Yesterday's proceedings went some way, but by no means as far as the House
would have wished, to send the Syrian Government a clear message that their
behaviour has been intolerable', he said.

Syria was one of the countries for which the Community's Mediterranean Financial
Protocols expired next Saturday. Renewal required unanimity. There could be no
question of the UK agreeing to further financial assistance for Syria in present
circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 29 1986, Wednesday

Mitterrand denies arms deal and hints at shift on terror

BYLINE: From DIANA GEDDES

SECTION: Issue 62601.

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: PARIS


France finds itself in a particularly embarrassing situation over the Hindawi
affair. While it would like to show solidarity with Britain, it feels it cannot
risk taking too firm a stand against Damascus at a time when it needs Syrian
support to prevent a new outbreak of terrorist violence in France, in securing
the release of French hostages in Beirut; and in ensuring the security of French
forces serving with the UN peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon.

Hence the somewhat ambiguous and even discordant comments of various French
leaders over the past few days. The Government, which secretly is convinced that
the Syrians were behind the wave of bombings in Paris last month, has
alternately blown hot and cold toward Damascus in its attempts to stop the
violence. It is at present in the middle of a warm phase.


After France's seemingly rather negative attitude towards Britain's request for
support over the Hindawi affair at Luxembourg on Monday, President Mitterrand
offered hope yesterday of a more positive French stance when he called for
'complete firmness and solidarity' towards terrorism.

In a French television interview immediately after the Franco-German summit in
Frankfurt, M Mitterrand said he hoped the 12 Community members would examine
further the involvement of 'certain states' in acts of terrorism at the informal
meeting of EEC foreign ministers in London on November 10.

It might then be possible to see whether the British position could be supported
by others, he said. 'At all events, individual arrangements between a particular
European country and particular state should give way to solidarity against the
crime,' he added.

M Mitterrand strongly denied reports of a French arms deal with the Syrians.
'There is no question of France selling arms (to the Syrians),' he said. M
Jacques Chirac, the Prime Minister, has so far made no official comment on the
Hindawi affair, but M Jacques Toubon, general secretary of the Gaullist RPR
party, was thought to be echoing his master's voice when he said it was
important 'to keep one's calm

While understanding Mrs Thatcher's decision to break off relations with Syria, M
Toubon felt it was essential 'only to take action on the basis of proof'. He
seemed to be saying that the French Government needed proof of direct
implication of the Syrian Government in terrorist acts in France before it would
be willing to give Britain its direct backing.

M Pierre Mehaignerie, the Minister for Housing and Transport and one of the
leaders of the centre-right UDF party, was more explicit about the reasons for
French reticence when he said that nothing should be done to jeopardize France's
negotiations to secure the release of the French hostages and to bring to an end
the terrorist attacks in France.

However, other UDF leaders have criticized the Government's stand. M Jean-Claude
Gaudin, leader of the UDF group in the National Assembly, regretted that the
Government had not shown greater solidarity with Britain.

The former President, M Valery Giscard d'Estaing, also called for France to show
such solidarity.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 29 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Anti-terror meeting attacked by Healey / Foreign affairs

SECTION: Issue 62601.

LENGTH: 279 words


The outcome of the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg
yesterday was deplorable, Mr Denis Healey, chief Opposition spokesman on Foreign
and Commonwealth Affairs, told the Commons when he attacked the response of the
meeting on terrorism.

Conservative backbenchers also strongly criticized the attitude of Britain's
European partners.


Although Community ministers had agreed at earlier meetings to adopt concerted
action against terrorism, half of the foreign ministers had not bothered to turn
up yesterday and none of them had supported the proposals by Sir Geoffrey Howe,
the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Mr Healey said.

In a statement on the meeting, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said he had given his
colleagues a full briefing on the Hindawi case and had presented them with the
conclusive evidence of Syrian official involvement.

'They were both impressed and disturbed. ' With the sole exception of Greece,
'all ministers expressed their collective sense of outrage that the agencies of
a state had been involved in such an incident. They undertook that no partner
would accept as a diplomat any of the Syrians who had been expelled from London.

'Yesterday's proceedings went some way, but by no means as far as the House
would have wished, to send the Syrian Government a clear message that their
behaviour has been intolerable', he said.

Syria was one of the countries for which the Community's Mediterranean Financial
Protocols expired next Saturday. Renewal required unanimity. There could be no
question of the UK agreeing to further financial assistance for Syria in present
circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 30 1986, Thursday

Bonn seeks Syrian answer to UK dossier / West German reaction to expulsion of
Syrian diplomats from Britain

BYLINE: From JOHN ENGLAND

SECTION: Issue 62602.

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: BONN


The West German Ambassador in Damascus is to present the Syrian Government with
British evidence of its involvement in terrorism and ask for an explanation, a
Foreign Ministry spokesman said here yesterday.

Herr Jurgen Chrobog said Bonn would receive no visits by Syrian government
members until further notice and the activities of the Syrian Embassy here would
be examined. The Syrian Arab Airlines, which at present makes four flights a
week to West Germany, would also be told to reduce its staff here.


Meanwhile, the West German Government yesterday approved new anti-terrorism
measures, including a 'super-grass' law, as security men stepped up their hunt
for terrorists who attacked a senior civil servant in West Berlin on Tuesday.

The extreme left-wing 'Revolutionary Cells' terrorist group, which is close to
the notorious Red Army Faction, later claimed responsibility for the attack.
Earlier on Tuesday, the group had also said it was behind a bomb attack on the
headquarters of the Lufthansa airline in Cologne which caused damage but hurt no
one.

The question of a replacement for Dr Heribert Wockel, the Ambassador, who has
been in Damascus since September, 1981, and is due to return to Bonn soon on the
expiry of his tour of duty, would depend upon the outcome of the trial in West
Berlin of Ahmed Hasi, a brother of Nezar Hindawi, Herr Chrobog added.

Mr Hasi is to go on trial on November 17 charged with a bomb attack on the
German-Arab Society in West Berlin on March 28 this year in which nine people
were injured. He is also suspected of involvement in the bombing of the La Belle
disco in West Berlin on April 6 which killed three people and injured more than
200 others.

Mr Hasi has told police that he obtained the explosives for the attack on the
German-Arab Society from the Syrian Embassy in East Berlin. He also said that
Hindawi had master-minded that bombing and arranged for a Syrian explosives
expert to travel to West Berlin to repair a bomb that had failed twice to
explode.

Herr Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the West German Foreign Minister, said on Tuesday
that Bonn supported all of Britain's calls for effective EEC measures in the
fight against international terrorism.

In Tuesday's Berlin attack, Herr Harald Hollenberg, aged 54, the chief of the
Aliens Office, was shot in the legs as he left his home to go to work. His
attackers, a young man aged about 20 and a dark-haired woman, fled the scene on
bicycles and were then seen getting into an estate car driven by another man. A
short while later, the getaway vehicle was found on fire.

A letter from the terrorists said they had shot Herr Hollenberg because he was a
'man-hunter and desk criminal' who was responsible for the deaths of six Third
World asylum-seekers in a fire in a Berlin prison where they were awaiting
deportation.

Dr Kurt Rebmann, the Federal Public Prosecutor, yesterday took over the
investigation into the attack. Dr Rebmann was also present at the Bonn Cabinet
meeting which approved a package of new and tougher measures to step up the
fight against terrorism.

The measures include a controversial Bill which will allow terrorists to turn
state evidence against their comrades in return for freedom or mild sentences.
The 'super-grass' law will be unique in German legal history, and the Social
Democrats and Greens are against it.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 30 1986, Thursday

Bonn seeks Syrian answer to UK dossier / West German reaction to expulsion of
Syrian diplomats from Britain

BYLINE: From JOHN ENGLAND

SECTION: Issue 62602.

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: BONN


The West German Ambassador in Damascus is to present the Syrian Government with
British evidence of its involvement in terrorism and ask for an explanation, a
Foreign Ministry spokesman said here yesterday.

Herr Jurgen Chrobog said Bonn would receive no visits by Syrian government
members until further notice and the activities of the Syrian Embassy here would
be examined. The Syrian Arab Airlines, which at present makes four flights a
week to West Germany, would also be told to reduce its staff here.


Meanwhile, the West German Government yesterday approved new anti-terrorism
measures, including a 'super-grass' law, as security men stepped up their hunt
for terrorists who attacked a senior civil servant in West Berlin on Tuesday.

The extreme left-wing 'Revolutionary Cells' terrorist group, which is close to
the notorious Red Army Faction, later claimed responsibility for the attack.
Earlier on Tuesday, the group had also said it was behind a bomb attack on the
headquarters of the Lufthansa airline in Cologne which caused damage but hurt no
one.

The question of a replacement for Dr Heribert Wockel, the Ambassador, who has
been in Damascus since September, 1981, and is due to return to Bonn soon on the
expiry of his tour of duty, would depend upon the outcome of the trial in West
Berlin of Ahmed Hasi, a brother of Nezar Hindawi, Herr Chrobog added.

Mr Hasi is to go on trial on November 17 charged with a bomb attack on the
German-Arab Society in West Berlin on March 28 this year in which nine people
were injured. He is also suspected of involvement in the bombing of the La Belle
disco in West Berlin on April 6 which killed three people and injured more than
200 others.

Mr Hasi has told police that he obtained the explosives for the attack on the
German-Arab Society from the Syrian Embassy in East Berlin. He also said that
Hindawi had master-minded that bombing and arranged for a Syrian explosives
expert to travel to West Berlin to repair a bomb that had failed twice to
explode.

Herr Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the West German Foreign Minister, said on Tuesday
that Bonn supported all of Britain's calls for effective EEC measures in the
fight against international terrorism.

In Tuesday's Berlin attack, Herr Harald Hollenberg, aged 54, the chief of the
Aliens Office, was shot in the legs as he left his home to go to work. His
attackers, a young man aged about 20 and a dark-haired woman, fled the scene on
bicycles and were then seen getting into an estate car driven by another man. A
short while later, the getaway vehicle was found on fire.

A letter from the terrorists said they had shot Herr Hollenberg because he was a
'man-hunter and desk criminal' who was responsible for the deaths of six Third
World asylum-seekers in a fire in a Berlin prison where they were awaiting
deportation.

Dr Kurt Rebmann, the Federal Public Prosecutor, yesterday took over the
investigation into the attack. Dr Rebmann was also present at the Bonn Cabinet
meeting which approved a package of new and tougher measures to step up the
fight against terrorism.

The measures include a controversial Bill which will allow terrorists to turn
state evidence against their comrades in return for freedom or mild sentences.
The 'super-grass' law will be unique in German legal history, and the Social
Democrats and Greens are against it.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 1986

Tories castigate BBC for 'flawed editorial line' on Libya raid

BYLINE: By DENNIS BARKER

LENGTH: 1343 words


The Conservative Central office yesterday accused the BBC of not striving,
unlike ITN, to achieve impartial reporting in news bulletins after the American
bombing of Libya last April.

The 'flawed editorial line of the BBC' - that Britons in Libya and at home were
at serious risk because of an unjustified American raid - was not confined to
one or two isolated incidents, but ran consistently through news bulletins, said
Central Office.


Its long-expected analysis of BBC Libyan news coverage was delivered yesterday
to the acting chairman of the BBC, Lord Barnett.

The 21-page complaint, inspired by the party chairman, Mr Norman Tebbit,
examined in detail two bulletins by both the BBC and ITN.

They were on April 15 - the day of the bombing - and April 17, when the BBC
suggested, wrongly, that an attempted terrorist bombing of an El Al plane was a
strike 'against the British people' because of the American raid.

Mr Tebbit, in a letter to Lord Barnett accompanying the complaint, said: 'From
my many years of association with the BBC, I know that most of your staff are
deeply proud of their association with the best known broadcasting operation in
the world.

'I also know that many of them feel that the BBC has lost its way. Perhaps the
news coverage of the Libyan attack is a reflection of this lack of direction. '

Mr Tebbit said the point he was making was to question whether an 'increasingly
subjective and confrontational style of BBC news coverage is appropriate for a
public service broadcasting system, funded by the taxpayer, required to
emphasise impartiality, objectivity and factual reporting. '

'I hope you will agree that this analysis, and criticism which the BBC received
from various other quarters recently, makes it appropriate for you to undertake
a thorough reappraisal of the managerial and editorial standards which are
currently in operation for your TV news coverage. '

The report contrasted the news headlines on April 15.

ITN: 'Mr Gorbachev tells Mr Reagan: 'Our Foreign Ministers can't meet now. ' The
bombs meant for terrorists kill Colonel Gadafy's daughter. President Reagan says
'If necessary we will do it again. ' Mrs Thatcher: 'I agreed last week. ' Mr
Kinnock: 'It will provoke. ' The police are busy with demonstrators in Downing
Street tonight. '

BBC: 'Worldwide condemnation of the American air strike on Libya. Children are
casualties - three from Gadafy's own family. Mrs Thatcher, under fire in the
Commons, defends her decision to allow the use of British bases. Tonight she
shows her critics the proof of Libyan terrorism. '

Central Office said in the complaint: 'The contrast is clear. The BBC gave
particular emphasis to the Libyan case. The BBC made the principal feature of
its news the 'worldwide condemnation' of America - a subjective and emotive
description which is repeated but never substantiated throughout the broadcast.

'The BBC then turned to the civilian casualties of the raid - thus giving
emphasis to one of Libya's major propaganda points - before describing Mrs
Thatcher as being 'under fire in the Commons. '

'Only in the last breath did the BBC make any reference to 'Libyan terrorism,'
in a series of headlines which otherwise tended to support the pro-Libyan
argument. '

The Tory report says that in the section after the headlines, the ITN report
stuck firmly to journalistic facts: the cancelled meeting of the US and USSR
foreign ministers, the Libyan casualties, the Prime Minister's Commons statement
and the Opposition criticism. But the BBC had gone straight into 'alarmist
hyperbole' with: 'The world is waiting to see what Colonel Gadafy is going to do
in response ..'

'It was a phrase which raised the general level of anxiety while doing nothing
to inform the viewer of the facts, and which also established one of the main
strands in the anti-American argument - that the attack would provoke more
violence.

'It was a line which was to dominate and distort much of the final part of their
broadcast. '

Central Office pointed to 'one of the major problems of reporting, especially
film reporting, in countries which exercise tight control over the activities of
journalists. ' The media had ample opportunity to film what was favourable to
the regime and was barred from the rest.

'It is relevant to compare the BBC's activity in the Libyan instance with their
news coverage of South Africa on June 16 1986 (the Soweto anniversary)
immediately following the imposition of tighter reporting restrictions.

'In its first broadcast under these new controls, it mentioned the restrictions
placed by the Government on its news coverage no less than 10 times. Two months
earlier it did not mention Libyan reporting restrictions once. '

Comparison of BBC and ITN suggested that 'two different stories were being
reported'.

'For ITN 'the story' was that the Americans had carried out a raid on Libya,
which they defended as a timely and necessary demonstration that the USA would
not tolerate state terrorism, that the raid had been attacked by many others as
a savage and unjustifiable use of force by a superpower against a small country,
and that by allowing British bases to be used for the raid, the British
government had created a political storm at home,' said the complaint.

'The BBC view of 'the story' appeared to be that the Americans had committed an
act of unjustifiable aggression which had resulted in the deaths of many
innocent civilians, which had attracted world-wide condemnation and which had
greatly increased international sympathy and support for Libya, and that by
supporting the Americans the British Government had put British lives at risk. '

The complaint said that on April 17 ITN used the straight convention of news
reporting to mention the shooting of three (later found to be only two) Britons
held hostage in Lebanon. But the BBC offered a prejudicial and emotive piece of
opinion: 'Good evening. Britain is paying the price for supporting America's
attack on Libya'.

Central Office said: 'This was an inexcusable departure from straightforward
news coverage. It was not an attempt to provide news but to prey on people's
emotions and fears in a fashion which should find no home in any respectable
broadcasting operation. '

Stressing Britain's isolation, the BBC did not mention, as ITN did, the fact
that the French Government had expressed 'firm solidarity' with Britain.

The complaint concluded that BBC coverage represented 'a serious and significant
failure to achieve professional news coverage which can only serve to undermine
the principles of public service broadcasting.

'Isolated instances of error are understandable, but we believe that the BBC's
coverage was riddled with inaccuracy, innuendo and imbalance.

'While some of the examples we have quoted in this analysis are, on their own,
not damning, their cumulative impact is profound, damaging to the American and
British government cases and helpful to that of Libya. '

The BBC did not offer objective evidence so much as a highly flavoured editorial
view. It prompted charges of professional incompetence or, even worse,
prejudice. Given the pressures under which the broadcasters operated, a serious
shortfall in professional and editorial standards was much the easier
alternative to accept.

'But the BBC can no more live with such standards than it could with prejudice,'
said the complaint.

The report also said reporting from the BBC's Tim Sebastian, Christopher Wain,
Michael Sullivan, John Simpson, John Cole, Christopher Morris and Brian Barron
was more fair and balanced, although not without fault.

But, it said, Keith Graves report was more questionable. He said that 'for once
the Arab world is united' in condemning the raid, but supported this claim with
only two weak items - an unattributed quotation saying that it had 'boosted
Gadafy's image,' and an Arab League statement 'speaking for all Arab states'
that the raid was 'unprecedented. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 3 1986, Monday

Britain may get support on Syria

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, Whitehall Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62605.

LENGTH: 330 words


European Community governments may now agree to take firm diplomatic action
against Syria in support of Britain, after studying the British dossier on
Syrian complicity in the plot to blow up an El Al airliner.

Whitehall sources said yesterday that, with the sole exception of Greece, there
had been encouraging 'noises' from EEC capitals and there was some hope that the
majority will agree to a limited set of measures.


In Luxembourg last week, Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, failed to win
support for common EEC action after the British decision to cut diplomatic
relations with Syria. But it was partly due to the absence of six out of 12
foreign ministers at the meeting.

EEC officials will be meeting this week in London to try again to find common
ground, in preparation for another foreign ministers' session on November 10.

Sir Geoffrey wants Britain's partners in Europe to tighten security around
Syrian Arab Airlines, to ban arms sales and to mount close surveillance of
Syrian embassies.

The appeal for EEC support came after the British Government's statement that
Damascus was behind the Heathrow bomb plot, for which Nazar Hindawi was jailed
for 45 years.

The dossier of evidence linking Damascus to Hindawi, some of it supplied by M15,
has apparently persuaded other countries in Europe to back Britain's strong
stand.

The key focus of concern on the British side is the evidence that Syrian
intelligence services are transferring weapons and explosives for terrorist
attacks through Syrian embassies and the state airline, as was the case in the
Hindawi affair.

The M15 evidence provides proof of the Damascus connection, not just because of
the role played by the Syrian Ambassador, Dr Loutouf Allah Haydar, but because
of the vital operational role of two key intelligence officials in Syria,
Brigadier-General Muhammad al-Khouli, head of Air Force Intelligence, and his
deputy, Lieutenant-Colonel Haytham Said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 3 1986, Monday

Britain may get support on Syria

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, Whitehall Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62605.

LENGTH: 330 words


European Community governments may now agree to take firm diplomatic action
against Syria in support of Britain, after studying the British dossier on
Syrian complicity in the plot to blow up an El Al airliner.

Whitehall sources said yesterday that, with the sole exception of Greece, there
had been encouraging 'noises' from EEC capitals and there was some hope that the
majority will agree to a limited set of measures.


In Luxembourg last week, Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, failed to win
support for common EEC action after the British decision to cut diplomatic
relations with Syria. But it was partly due to the absence of six out of 12
foreign ministers at the meeting.

EEC officials will be meeting this week in London to try again to find common
ground, in preparation for another foreign ministers' session on November 10.

Sir Geoffrey wants Britain's partners in Europe to tighten security around
Syrian Arab Airlines, to ban arms sales and to mount close surveillance of
Syrian embassies.

The appeal for EEC support came after the British Government's statement that
Damascus was behind the Heathrow bomb plot, for which Nazar Hindawi was jailed
for 45 years.

The dossier of evidence linking Damascus to Hindawi, some of it supplied by M15,
has apparently persuaded other countries in Europe to back Britain's strong
stand.

The key focus of concern on the British side is the evidence that Syrian
intelligence services are transferring weapons and explosives for terrorist
attacks through Syrian embassies and the state airline, as was the case in the
Hindawi affair.

The M15 evidence provides proof of the Damascus connection, not just because of
the role played by the Syrian Ambassador, Dr Loutouf Allah Haydar, but because
of the vital operational role of two key intelligence officials in Syria,
Brigadier-General Muhammad al-Khouli, head of Air Force Intelligence, and his
deputy, Lieutenant-Colonel Haytham Said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 4 1986, Tuesday

US stays silent about Beirut release details / Freeing of Lebanon hostage Dr
David Jacobsen

BYLINE: From MICHAEL BINYON

SECTION: Issue 62606.

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The White House maintained a determined silence yesterday on the details of the
release of Dr David Jacobsen, saying it would not prejudice the continuing
efforts to free the other American hostages.

Mr. Donald Regan, the chief of staff, said that Syria had played 'a minimal'
role, adding that the French were not part of the deal at all.


On Sunday he strongly attacked Syria for its support of terrorism, and gave a
warning that the US might take military action if Damascus continued this.

'I don't say it will be, but it could be,' he said. 'We can take other steps and
will if they continue to adopt these positions of terrorism. '

He said that the negotiations for the release of the American hostages had been
going on for several months, but he refused to talk about them until all had
been released.

He repeated the White House insistence that the US had not and would not give in
to terrorist demands.

His surprisingly tough statements on Syria, including 'hopes' that the European
Community would give greater support to Britain's call for diplomatic and
related measures against Syria, suggest that Washington does not feel in any way
beholden to President Assad.

The White House mention on Sunday of 'various parties and intermediaries' is
presumed to refer to those who have contacted the Islamic Jihad and other captor
groups whose main loyalty is to Tehran. American criticism of Iran has been
muted in recent months.

The Administration is calling for firmer international backing for Britain's
tough line against Damascus.

Mr George Shultz, the Secretary of State, is expected to take this up with Mr
Eduard Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, in Vienna tomorrow and on
Thursday.

The Soviet Union, which had a treaty of friendship with Syria, has strongly
criticized Britain and the US over Britain's break of diplomatic relations.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 4 1986, Tuesday

US stays silent about Beirut release details / Freeing of Lebanon hostage Dr
David Jacobsen

BYLINE: From MICHAEL BINYON

SECTION: Issue 62606.

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The White House maintained a determined silence yesterday on the details of the
release of Dr David Jacobsen, saying it would not prejudice the continuing
efforts to free the other American hostages.

Mr. Donald Regan, the chief of staff, said that Syria had played 'a minimal'
role, adding that the French were not part of the deal at all.


On Sunday he strongly attacked Syria for its support of terrorism, and gave a
warning that the US might take military action if Damascus continued this.

'I don't say it will be, but it could be,' he said. 'We can take other steps and
will if they continue to adopt these positions of terrorism. '

He said that the negotiations for the release of the American hostages had been
going on for several months, but he refused to talk about them until all had
been released.

He repeated the White House insistence that the US had not and would not give in
to terrorist demands.

His surprisingly tough statements on Syria, including 'hopes' that the European
Community would give greater support to Britain's call for diplomatic and
related measures against Syria, suggest that Washington does not feel in any way
beholden to President Assad.

The White House mention on Sunday of 'various parties and intermediaries' is
presumed to refer to those who have contacted the Islamic Jihad and other captor
groups whose main loyalty is to Tehran. American criticism of Iran has been
muted in recent months.

The Administration is calling for firmer international backing for Britain's
tough line against Damascus.

Mr George Shultz, the Secretary of State, is expected to take this up with Mr
Eduard Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, in Vienna tomorrow and on
Thursday.

The Soviet Union, which had a treaty of friendship with Syria, has strongly
criticized Britain and the US over Britain's break of diplomatic relations.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 8, 1986

France takes soft line on punishing the Syrians / Premier Chirac meets US
Secretary of State Shultz

BYLINE: From PAUL WEBSTER and DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: PARIS and BRUSSELS


France will strongly oppose any attempt to reduce diplomatic relations with
Syria at the European foreign ministers' meeting on Monday, the French Prime
Minister, Mr Jacques Chirac, told the American Secretary of State, Mr George
Shultz, in Paris yesterday.

However, other EEC governments, with the exception of Greece, now seem prepared
to back Britain with a package of limited sanctions against Syria.


After the meeting with Mr Shultz, Mr Chirac denied an American report that he
had been informed that Israel, not Syria, was behind the plot to blow up an El
Al plane in London last April. But he told Mr Shultz that contacts with Syria
were essential to a Middle East settlement.

According to the Washington Times, Mr Chirac dismissed British allegations
against Syria in the affair as implausible. The report said that he haid been
told by the West German Chancellor, Dr Helmut Kohl, that the attempted bombing
was an Israeli provocation intended to bring reprisals on Syria.

During talks with Mr Shultz, the French Prime Minister promised 'solidarity'
with Britain but cleared Syria of terrorism, although the US Secretary of State
said that Britain's proof of Syrian involvement in the affair was 'convincing
and without ambiguity. '

Mr Shultz was 'reassured' when he later met President Francois Mitterrand, who
promised a firm attitude on Middle East terrorism.

The death of a seventh person as a result of a bomb attack in Paris in September
was announced yesterday, bringing the total in the recent bombing wave to 12,
with nearly 200 injured.

At the same time, police said they had more evidence of the alleged complicity
of Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, head of the pro-Syrian Lebanese Armed Revolutionary
Fraction, in an attack on an American consulate in 19S4. Demands for Abdallah's
release from prison were behind the bombing raid.

But Mr Chirac's meeting with Mr Shultz and an interview with the Prime Minister
in the Washington Times added to increasing ambiguity on government policy. Mr
Chirac was implicitly criticised by the former president, Mr Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, who said public opinion was concerned by France's failure to show
solidarity with Britain.

Six weeks ago Mr Chirac indirectly accused Syria of being behind terrorism in
France. Yesterday he repeated to Mr Shultz the French policy on Syria which he
explained to parliament this week. It includes the French view that no country
is behind European terrorism, that France has made no concessions to extremist
movements holding seven French hostages in Syrian-controlled areas of Lebanon
and that no arms sales are planned for Syria as part of a deal to obtain the
hostages' release.

The French leader denied as without foundation the Washington Times story.

The newspaper, which is owned by the Moonie sect and is considered close to the
White House, is standing by its story, which was published after an interview in
Paris. The paper said the conversation had been recorded with Mr Chirac's
agreement, although his replies were not directly quoted.

According to the Washington Times, Mr Chirac referred to information given by Dr
Kohl and the West German Foreign Minister, Mr Hans-Dietrich Genscher, without
saying whether he himself believed that the El Al attack was an Israeli
'provocation' because he had not seen the complete file.

The Israeli intention, according to the West Germans, was to 'embarrass the
Syrian President and cause his regime to fall. '

Measures to be put to EEC foreign ministers in London on Monday include a ban on
arms sales, stricter supervision of Syrian diplomats in Europe, and tighter
security for incoming Syrian Arab Airlines flights.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 11, 1986

Europe backs sanctions against Syria

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Britain's EEC partners yesterday shuffled reluctantly into line to support a
modest package of anti-terrorist measures against Syria.

The agreement by 11 of the 12 foreign ministers to ban arms sales, suspend
high-level visits, 'review the activities' of Syrian diplomats, and tighten
security for incoming Syrian passenger flights, fell a good way short of the
firm response demanded by Sir Geoffrey Howe.


But it was, for the Government, a marginal improvement on the failure by the
same ministers in Luxembourg last week to offer any significant backing to
Britain.

As expected, Greece refused to back the final statement from Sir Geoffrey,
because it implicitly charged Syria with direct involvement in the Hindawi plot
to smuggle a bomb on to an El Al jet at Heathrow.

Mr Teodoros Pangalos, the Greek Deputy Foreign Minister, told reporters that his
government did not accept Syria's guilt. He said that Athens had now examined
evidence from London and Damascus. He was a politician, not a detective, and he
was not prepared to say which version was correct.

'All evidence is convincing when it is published,' he said.

The French Foreign Minister, Mr Jean-Bernard Raimond, said that the official
communique from the British presidency did not explicitly blame the Syrian
Government for the April bomb plot. Nevertheless, he said the facts presented by
Britain were sufficient for the communique to take measures against Syria.

Ignoring the textual nit-picking, Sir Geoffrey presented the meeting as a
further example of EEC resolve to curb terrorism.

'We wish to send Syria the clearest possible message that what has happened is
absolutely unacceptable,' he said.

The official response from Damascus to the charge of involvement had added
nothing to the evidence given in the Hindawi trial last month.

'We shall continue to employ all the political means available to us in order to
persuade the Syrian authorities to translate into concrete action their stated
condemnation of international terrorism. In particular, we call on them to end
all forms of support for those groups which have been clearly involved in
terrorist acts and to deny them all facilities. ' he said.

At the insistence of France and other countries which flatly refused to
contemplate following Britain into a full diplomatic rift with Damascus, the
Foreign Secretary's statement stressed the importance of EEC links with the
Middle East nations.

'We strongly reaffirm our commitment to contribute in every way we can to the
search for just and lasting solutions to the region's problems,' he said.

The Foreign Secretary and other ministers emphatically denied that they had
discussed other Middle East developments, such as the Chirac interview in the
Washington Times, which was distributed in bulk to the sizeable press corps at
the meeting.

Nor were they distracted from the search for an agreed minimalist approach on
Syria by the latest wave of speculation about a US arms deal with Iran in
exchange for the release of American hostages in Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 11 1986, Tuesday

Leading Article: United Front / EEC stance against Syria

SECTION: Issue 62612.

LENGTH: 660 words


When European Community foreign ministers agreed their almost-united stance
against Syria yesterday, they were doing no more than had been expected of them
at their first meeting nearly two weeks ago. Their dilatoriness, however, is no
reason for not applauding the strength of their statement.

Its absolute rejection of terrorism and its sponsors provides the sort of
support the British Government has long requested for its own uncompromising
attitude. The pledge to refrain from new arms sales to Syria is a step in the
right direction, as is the commitment of European governments to closer
observation of Syria's diplomatic activities.


The failure of Greece to append its signature is regretable, but was predicted
and indeed predictable. It should be regarded not so much a loss for the
Community as for Greece itself, which cannot be considered a full member of the
European Community until it has joined a cause which is so clearly in the
interests of all Europe.

In common with most committee documents, the EEC condemnation of Syria has its
limitations. As a statement of principle and intention, it is welcome. As a
defined programme of action, it is less so. All manner of loopholes remain
through which France's deals to free her hostages in Lebanon, arms sales covered
by existing contracts, and dubious but unobtrusive diplomatic conduct will
continue to pass unchecked.

The statements themselves inevitably have a platitudinous ring. Refusal to make
them would, however, have indicated such an infirmity of purpose as positively
to invite terrorist assaults. The value of such statements is always likely to
be more moral than practical. In this respect the EEC's reiteration of its moral
priorities has come not a moment too soon.

Recent, though as yet unconfirmed, reports about behind-the-scenes dealing
between France and Syria and between the United States and Iran have called into
question the determination of both countries to stand up to terrorists and their
sponsors. France, all too ready to call an emergency meeting of European
ministers when Paris was subjected to random bomb attacks, was less than
enthusiastic about endorsing Britain's condemnation of Syria even after Syrian
involvement in the Hindawi case had been so clearly shown in a London court.

The revelations about clandestine US overtures to Iran, a country - or more
particularly, a regime - with which it had pledged to have no dealings because
of its involvement in terrorism, similarly cast doubt on American steadfastness.
Had nerve failed the country which had sought to discourage terrorism by bombing
Libya?

In each case, the impression was created that national economic and diplomatic
interests had been placed above concerted international action against terrorism
- the only sort of action which stands any chance of success. So long as the
European Community was unable even to articulate joint opposition to terrorism,
there was a risk that the British Government would not only lose out
economically and diplomatically to its partners and allies, but suffer isolation
for its stand against terrorism as well.

In that event legitimate questions could have been raised about the wisdom of
occupying the high moral ground. Might there not come a time, it could have been
asked, when our own national interests would require a modification of our
position; when the principle of having no truck with terrorism would have to be
sacrificed so as not to jeopardize Britain's influence or trading position
abroad; when only the careless terrorist caught red-handed need be exhibited and
the others quietly expelled or exchanged for hostages?

Fortunately, that time has not arrived and, if civilised nations maintain some
sort of united front, never will arrive. The benefits of opposing terrorism
still outweigh the risks which attach to that opposition. Yesterday's EEC
statement could not have been more opportune.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 11 1986, Tuesday

Leading Article: United Front / EEC stance against Syria

SECTION: Issue 62612.

LENGTH: 660 words


When European Community foreign ministers agreed their almost-united stance
against Syria yesterday, they were doing no more than had been expected of them
at their first meeting nearly two weeks ago. Their dilatoriness, however, is no
reason for not applauding the strength of their statement.

Its absolute rejection of terrorism and its sponsors provides the sort of
support the British Government has long requested for its own uncompromising
attitude. The pledge to refrain from new arms sales to Syria is a step in the
right direction, as is the commitment of European governments to closer
observation of Syria's diplomatic activities.


The failure of Greece to append its signature is regretable, but was predicted
and indeed predictable. It should be regarded not so much a loss for the
Community as for Greece itself, which cannot be considered a full member of the
European Community until it has joined a cause which is so clearly in the
interests of all Europe.

In common with most committee documents, the EEC condemnation of Syria has its
limitations. As a statement of principle and intention, it is welcome. As a
defined programme of action, it is less so. All manner of loopholes remain
through which France's deals to free her hostages in Lebanon, arms sales covered
by existing contracts, and dubious but unobtrusive diplomatic conduct will
continue to pass unchecked.

The statements themselves inevitably have a platitudinous ring. Refusal to make
them would, however, have indicated such an infirmity of purpose as positively
to invite terrorist assaults. The value of such statements is always likely to
be more moral than practical. In this respect the EEC's reiteration of its moral
priorities has come not a moment too soon.

Recent, though as yet unconfirmed, reports about behind-the-scenes dealing
between France and Syria and between the United States and Iran have called into
question the determination of both countries to stand up to terrorists and their
sponsors. France, all too ready to call an emergency meeting of European
ministers when Paris was subjected to random bomb attacks, was less than
enthusiastic about endorsing Britain's condemnation of Syria even after Syrian
involvement in the Hindawi case had been so clearly shown in a London court.

The revelations about clandestine US overtures to Iran, a country - or more
particularly, a regime - with which it had pledged to have no dealings because
of its involvement in terrorism, similarly cast doubt on American steadfastness.
Had nerve failed the country which had sought to discourage terrorism by bombing
Libya?

In each case, the impression was created that national economic and diplomatic
interests had been placed above concerted international action against terrorism
- the only sort of action which stands any chance of success. So long as the
European Community was unable even to articulate joint opposition to terrorism,
there was a risk that the British Government would not only lose out
economically and diplomatically to its partners and allies, but suffer isolation
for its stand against terrorism as well.

In that event legitimate questions could have been raised about the wisdom of
occupying the high moral ground. Might there not come a time, it could have been
asked, when our own national interests would require a modification of our
position; when the principle of having no truck with terrorism would have to be
sacrificed so as not to jeopardize Britain's influence or trading position
abroad; when only the careless terrorist caught red-handed need be exhibited and
the others quietly expelled or exchanged for hostages?

Fortunately, that time has not arrived and, if civilised nations maintain some
sort of united front, never will arrive. The benefits of opposing terrorism
still outweigh the risks which attach to that opposition. Yesterday's EEC
statement could not have been more opportune.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 12, 1986

Forever England, on edge in the Med / Focus on Britain's sovereign base areas in
Cyprus

BYLINE: By DAVID ROSE

LENGTH: 1395 words


Ten miles west of Limassol, on the Cyprus south coast highway, lies an invisible
frontier. You don't have to show your passport, and at first the change is
limited to cats' eyes on the tarmac and two white lines to prohibit overtaking
instead of one.

But a little farther, amid arid scrubland with a sparkling view over Limassol
bay, lies Surrey in the Med. Not here the charmless concrete now characterising
every Cypriot town, but the best of southern English vernacular architecture:
semidets with gardens, and Metros parked outside; broad avenues called Middlesex
Road, Northampton Street, and Dumfries Path.


There is a stone sign by the roadside, in English only: 'Welcome to Episkopi. '
Here, and in several sister establishments on the island, 4,000 British military
personnel and their 6,000 dependents live and work.

Under the terms of the Treaty of Establishment imposed on President Makarios as
a condition of independence in 1960, two huge chunks of Cypriot territory,
Episcopi and Akrotiri in the west, and Aghios Nikolaus and Dhekelia 40 miles to
the east, were designated British Sovereign Base Areas (SBAs) in perpetuity - 99
square miles where Cyprus law does not apply.

The SBAs, as Major Gordon Birdwood, their public relations officer proudly
explains, have all the trappings of a small protectorate - their own civil
administration, police, prisons, hospital, fire brigade, schools, and churches.

In 'Happy Valley,' set between Episcopi's twin hills, are magnificent sports
facilities: pitches for every ball game, watered to a lush lime green thanks to
irrigation from the SBA sewage farm next door. There is windsurfing,
water-skiing and parascending on the SBA beach - rather more popular at present,
the major sighed apologetically, than the riding stables and polo.

'It's a very popular posting,' Major Birdwood continued. 'Obviously you may get
some people who don't like windsurfing - well, they can do go-karting. If it
hadn't been for the storm this morning I would have skiied between half past
five and half past six. I shall be very sorry to leave. '

The Ministry of Defence, to which everything in the SBAs is directly answerable,
cannot provide an exact total for the sum paid annually for the bases by the
Exchequer: according to a parliamentary answer last month from John Stanley, the
armed forces minister, the figure would cost too much to work out. The net
military cost of the British forces in Cyprus is now pounds 82 million a year, a
sum which leaves out the money spent on the civil aspects of the bases.

My request to the major was simple: to spend a few days on the bases, meeting
the people who work there, officers and other ranks, their spouses and those
from the ancillary staff, to write about their lives and how that money is
spent.

Major Birdwood, on this confident Saturday morning after my arrival, could not
have been more helpful. A full programme could and would be arranged, beginning
on the Monday. On Sunday evening I telephoned him to confirm the arrangement:
there were no problems, the major promised, and he hoped to keep me occupied for
the rest of the week.

We met again at the Military Police guardroom and went to the officers' mess for
coffee: a spacious, airy building where staff were laying tables for a
regimental dinner. We exchanged pleasantries: agreed how sad had been the death
form drugs of Olivia Channon - the major's sister had dined with her only a week
before her demise.

Then he came to the point. There could be no co-operation with the Guardian
after all: 'I'm afraid we're not sure what the purpose of your visit is. You
have not endeared yourself to the powers that be. '

Then, and in a series of increasingly frustrating and bizarre telephone calls, I
tried in vain to pierce the layers of bureaucratic fog which had suddenly
enveloped the project. At first, the major argued that the problem was 'short
notice': so why had he assured me of such generous facilities up to a point 12
hours before they were withdrawn?

He then changed tack: snapshots of a man on a donkey I had taken within the
sovereign British territory, although outside any fenced restricted area, were
viewed by the brass as 'photographs of a military installation. ' He had
received a report that in conversations with servicemen in local bars I had
attempted to probe the secrets of the 9 Signals Regiment, which runs the network
of secret listening posts on Cyprus to gather intelligence on the Middle East
for GCHQ. I protested vehemently. 'Of course I accept what you say,' the major
replied.

Twice, he promised to 'go back to Saturday' and arrange facilities after all.
But later, the promise was revoked. During one heated conversation - 'please
don't get so aggressive,' the major begged - he at last came clean. A decision
had been taken 'up the line. ' In January, he had already disclosed, the
hospitality of the bases would be thrown open Sunday Express. This privilege
could not be extended to the Guardian.

The influence of the men up the line proved to be impressive. On Sunday, I had
attended Communion at the cool stone Anglican church at Dhekelia, where the Rev
Colin Wilson's Mancunian wife gave a sermon on the theme of the Fall - a
particularly apt subject, she said, in view of the airborne troops currently on
the base from the 3rd Battalion, the Parachute Regiment.

Then, the padre had declared himself 'delighted' to see me at any time. Now,
suddenly, his diary had unaccountably become full. He did not, of course, admit
to being told not to see me; but later, my suspicions were confirmed. As a
last-minute concession, Major Birdwood offered to fix me up with an interview
with the Rev Wilson after all.

There are, of course, reasons why the Cyprus bases are 'jumpy' - the major's own
term - at present. There was the trial earlier this year of seven servicemen
acquitted of selling secrets to the Russians. I had arrived, by unlucky
coincidence, on the publication day of the Security Commission's recommendation
that young men in sensitive posts should not be sent to Cyprus, where they might
be led astray in the Filipino nightspots of Larnaca.

In fact, this problem appears already to have been dealt with: several squaddies
said that the clubs had been put out of bounds, albeit on the grounds of 'fire
risk. '

More serious is the vulnerability of the bases to terrorist attack. Main roads
connecting the coastal towns pass through the bases, and lead directly to the
residential avenues - some of which have no guards at all, but only steel
railings arranged like ski slalom gates.

Few cars or trucks are checked on the roads, despite the 'amber' security state
under which the bases have functioned almost continuously since American planes
used Britain for the Libyan raid in April.

The only vehicle I saw stopped belonged to two British girls on holiday. They
duly showed their passports to the military police and supplied the name of
their hotel. Later that day, the policemen 'phoned to ask them out.

In August three men drove into Akrotiri and up a random side street, firing
mortars and small arms at the base's Rowing and Board Sailing Club. No one was
seriously hurt.

In the face of the terrorist threat, sports fixtures are no longer advertised in
the base magazines, while servicemen billeted off-base no longer go to work in
uniform.

'They could do it anywhere, anytime they please,' says Janet, a British woman
married to an NCO. 'The Greek security at Larnaca airport is crap. This is a
small island, everyone knows everyone - and they still can't catch the people
responsible for Akrotiri. '

A Fusilier lance corporal was blunter: 'Syria, Lebanon, Libya: where's Cyprus?
Right in the middle of it. We're in a time bomb zone. It's like Northern
Ireland, but I'd rather be there: at least there you can do something. Here none
of us can fight. So, you tell me, why have the British troops here at all? '

Few people in Cyprus doubt that Nato, and in particular the Americans, treaty or
no treaty, provide the reason why the British bases are still there. Yet even
this justification is becoming less obvious. In the northern part of the island,
occupied by Nato-member Turkey in 1974, the United States is now developing
impressive facilities, including a ne airport.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 12 1986, Wednesday

Britain wants ban on terrorist deals

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62613.

LENGTH: 548 words


The Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary are to step up the search for a
pact between governments not to make deals with terrorist organizations.

After Monday's British-initiated decision by 11 EEC nations to penalize Syria
for sponsoring the Hindawi bomb plot, Whitehall hopes to maintain anti-terrorist
momentum.


Mrs Thatcher and Sir Geoffrey Howe are expected to urge the US and French
governments not to waver from their stated 'no bargains' policies.

Signs that both governments may have sought to buy off state-sponsored Middle
East terrorists or hostage-takers have prompted concern that recent improvements
in inter-government co-operation could be compromised.

Whitehall sources said the Prime Minister will press her view, when she meets
President Reagan at Camp David on Saturday, that such deals play into terrorist
hands. Her summit with President Mitterrand of France on November 21, and a
probable simultaneous meeting between Sir Geoffrey and his French counterpart, M
Jean-Bernard Raimond, could be used to make the same point.

In the longer term, the Government also hopes for a similar understanding with
Moscow. Although not realistic as a goal for the near future, preliminary
soundings will be taken when British and Soviet terrorism experts meet for talks
next month.

Moscow's uncompromising support for Syria, her top ally in the Middle East, is
seen as a barrier to early co-operation. The Kremlin has consistently backed
President Assad's denials of Syrian involvement in the Hindawi attempt to blow
up an El Al airliner. Moscow has denounced Britain's decision to break relations
with Damascus and the measures agreed on Monday by 11 of the 12 EEC nations.

Despite this, Whitehall sources believe it may eventually be possible to work
with Moscow.

The British view is that governments should refuse to deal with terrorist groups
and their government backers, even at the price of civilian casualties. The
recent wave of bombings in Paris, apparently staged in a bid to negotiate the
release from a French jail of Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, leader of the Lebanese
Armed Revolutionary Factions (FARL) is thought to have brought the French
Government to the brink of compromise.

Threats from both Damascus and Tripoli that the measures by the 11 EEC nations
would be met with reprisals are not dismissed lightly by Whitehall sources, but
any suggestion of toning down the British line has been ruled out.

After a day's reflection on an interview given by M Jacques Chirac, the French
Prime Minister, to an American newspaper, sources were moving towards a view
that it was designed to confuse. At first reading, the remarks attributed by The
Washington Times to M Chirac suggested duplicity by the French Government. On
one hand, France was saying that it would back Britain on Syria and would never
negotiate with terrorists; on the other M Chirac suggested that Israeli rather
than Syrian agents could be behind the plot.

The sources did not discourage speculation that M Chirac's motive may have been
no more than to gain a better press for Syria while efforts continued to secure
the release of French hostages and to avoid a resurgence of the Paris bombings.
'It looks like sand in the eyes,' said one source.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 12 1986, Wednesday

Britain wants ban on terrorist deals

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62613.

LENGTH: 548 words


The Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary are to step up the search for a
pact between governments not to make deals with terrorist organizations.

After Monday's British-initiated decision by 11 EEC nations to penalize Syria
for sponsoring the Hindawi bomb plot, Whitehall hopes to maintain anti-terrorist
momentum.


Mrs Thatcher and Sir Geoffrey Howe are expected to urge the US and French
governments not to waver from their stated 'no bargains' policies.

Signs that both governments may have sought to buy off state-sponsored Middle
East terrorists or hostage-takers have prompted concern that recent improvements
in inter-government co-operation could be compromised.

Whitehall sources said the Prime Minister will press her view, when she meets
President Reagan at Camp David on Saturday, that such deals play into terrorist
hands. Her summit with President Mitterrand of France on November 21, and a
probable simultaneous meeting between Sir Geoffrey and his French counterpart, M
Jean-Bernard Raimond, could be used to make the same point.

In the longer term, the Government also hopes for a similar understanding with
Moscow. Although not realistic as a goal for the near future, preliminary
soundings will be taken when British and Soviet terrorism experts meet for talks
next month.

Moscow's uncompromising support for Syria, her top ally in the Middle East, is
seen as a barrier to early co-operation. The Kremlin has consistently backed
President Assad's denials of Syrian involvement in the Hindawi attempt to blow
up an El Al airliner. Moscow has denounced Britain's decision to break relations
with Damascus and the measures agreed on Monday by 11 of the 12 EEC nations.

Despite this, Whitehall sources believe it may eventually be possible to work
with Moscow.

The British view is that governments should refuse to deal with terrorist groups
and their government backers, even at the price of civilian casualties. The
recent wave of bombings in Paris, apparently staged in a bid to negotiate the
release from a French jail of Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, leader of the Lebanese
Armed Revolutionary Factions (FARL) is thought to have brought the French
Government to the brink of compromise.

Threats from both Damascus and Tripoli that the measures by the 11 EEC nations
would be met with reprisals are not dismissed lightly by Whitehall sources, but
any suggestion of toning down the British line has been ruled out.

After a day's reflection on an interview given by M Jacques Chirac, the French
Prime Minister, to an American newspaper, sources were moving towards a view
that it was designed to confuse. At first reading, the remarks attributed by The
Washington Times to M Chirac suggested duplicity by the French Government. On
one hand, France was saying that it would back Britain on Syria and would never
negotiate with terrorists; on the other M Chirac suggested that Israeli rather
than Syrian agents could be behind the plot.

The sources did not discourage speculation that M Chirac's motive may have been
no more than to gain a better press for Syria while efforts continued to secure
the release of French hostages and to avoid a resurgence of the Paris bombings.
'It looks like sand in the eyes,' said one source.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 15, 1986

Israelis were tipped off about El Al bomb plot

BYLINE: By IAN BLACK, Middle East Correspondent

LENGTH: 602 words


Israeli intelligence received an advance general warning, from an Arab source,
of a plot to blow up an Israeli civilian airliner earlier this year. It was this
heightened state of alertness that led to the discovery of the bomb that Nezar
Hindawi's girlfriend was carrying as she tried to board an El Al flight at
Heathrow airport last April.

Hindawi, a Jordanian with a known history of involvement with terrorist
organisations, was sentenced to 45 years' imprisonment at the Old Bailey last
month after a trial in which there emerged apparently incontrovertible evidence
of official Syrian involvement, although the Damascus regime vigorously denies
this.


Immediately after the trial, Britain severed its diplomatic relations with Syria
and persuaded other EEC countries to impose limited sanctions. The British move
provided vindication for the long-standing Israeli position that states
supporting terrorism must be punished and isolated internationally.

Inconsistencies and gaps in Hindawi's evidence, and the highly favourable
results for Israel led many observers to argue that Israel's Mossad secret
service was somehow involved in the affair. In the extreme version, the whole
operation was somehow masterminded by Mossad. Another theory was that Israel had
got wind of the plot and allowed it to run its course - almost until the end -
in order to reap maximum political capital.

But new information from Jerusalam and Damascus this week suggests a far less
conspiratorial - but no less intriguing - explanation for how the plot was
foiled. Had the bomb gone off, and the Israeli plane, a jumbo jet with 375
people on board, crashed over Austria, it would almost certainly have led to a
new Middle East war, initiated by Israel in revenge for Syrian involvement in
the operation.

Intelligence sources now say that early this year Israel received a general
warning, from an unspecified Arab source, of a plot to blow up an El Al plane.
Special security arrangements were enforced and it was the heightened state of
alertness that led an El Al security officer to look carefully at the bag that
Hindawi's girlfriend, Miss Anne Marie Murphy, tried to take aboard the flight.

The sources refuse to say whether the information came from an officer in Syrian
air force intelligence, Lieutenant-Colonel Mufid Akour, who is now reported to
be in detention in Damascus on suspicion of being an Israeli spy.

Colonel Akour, who was mentioned by Hindawi as one of the officers involved in
the mission, is thought to be a deputy to Lieutenant-Colonel Haitham Said, head
of recruitment and foreign operations for air force intelligence in Damascus.

Western diplomats in the Syrian capital were told privately by government
officials last month - shortly before the end of the Hindawi trial and Britain's
dramatic decision to sever relations - that President Assad now knew who was
responsible for the operation and would deal with him when the time was ripe.

Israeli intelligence is now convinced that Assad himself, who is renowned for
his caution and circumspection in the face of a militarily superior enemy, did
not know about the El Al operation and that it was the result of a power
struggle between one or more of the half-dozen security and intelligence
organisations operating in Syria.

It remains unclear, however, whether Colonel Akour is under suspicion as the man
who initiated the London operation without clearance from above, or whether he
warned the Israelis that they should be on their guard in general about a plot
to plant a bomb on an El Al plane.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15 1986, Saturday

Gorbachov tries to rewrite theory of Marxism / Soviet leader attempts to
reconcile theory of communism with the sophistication of modern weaponry

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER WALKER

SECTION: Issue 62616.

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


The official Soviet Communist Party paper Pravda published a major theoretical
article yesterday claiming that the realities of the nuclear age demanded a
radical transformation of Marxism-Leninism, and warning revolutionary groups
around the world to weigh the consequences of violence.

The article, spread across 13 columns, was described by senior diplomats as the
latest attempt by the Kremlin leadership, under Mr Mikhail Gorbachov, to try to
reconcile the theoretical basis of communism with the sophistication of modern
weaponry.


It was also seen as indirect criticism of the more extreme acts of terrorism
which are causing increasing concern in Moscow and have prompted the Soviet
Government to cooperate with a number of Western governments, including Britain
and France, to discuss ways of stamping it out.

'The nuclear era demands from revolutionary forces the utmost care in weighing
decisions about armed struggle, the principled refusal of various manifestations
of ultra-left extremism,' the paper argued in a key passage which seemed to
indicate some re-thinking of Moscow's traditional support of leftist liberation
movements, many of which thrive on Soviet finance, training and weaponry.

Pravda went on to point out that the need for caution arose because the
existence of nuclear arms might transform local conflicts into regional or even
world conflagration. But the author, the Soviet historian Mr E. Plimak,
conveniently left the door open for the continuing support of violence in the
cause of national liberation.

'On the other hand,' he added, 'this era does not deprive us of the necessity to
repulse reactionary and counter-revolutionary forces where they try to use force
to liquidate the democratic and socialist achievements of the people and to turn
back the historical progress. '

One Western Kremlinologist explained: 'The theoreticians in the Kremlin appear
to be arguing that leftist groups can go on fighting but they must be careful
that their struggles do not escalate into a nuclear war. Some people might call
that having your cake and eating it. '

The timing of the article, headlined 'Marxism-Leninism and revolutionary
activity at the end of the 20th century', was seen as part of Mr Gorbachov's
campaign to streamline the communist state's theoretical approach to a number of
issues:

Pravda stated that communist countries had scored sufficient successes to raise
the question of banning force from the world political arena. It went on to
quote Mr Gorbachov as saying that the nuclear era demanded 'deep changes in
political thinking,' a phrase he has often applied to Soviet disarmament
initiatives.

'The demand for 'deep changes' is also applicable to the Marxist theory of class
struggle - it must help find a way out of a critical situation,' added the
article, which appeared set to become the standard text on the subject. 'The
struggle of opposing class forces is not disappearing in the nuclear era. But
our times teach the development and broad practice of compromise forms of
struggle. '

Pravda insisted that such a change did not represent a departure from
revolutionary Marxism.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15 1986, Saturday

Gorbachov tries to rewrite theory of Marxism / Soviet leader attempts to
reconcile theory of communism with the sophistication of modern weaponry

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER WALKER

SECTION: Issue 62616.

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


The official Soviet Communist Party paper Pravda published a major theoretical
article yesterday claiming that the realities of the nuclear age demanded a
radical transformation of Marxism-Leninism, and warning revolutionary groups
around the world to weigh the consequences of violence.

The article, spread across 13 columns, was described by senior diplomats as the
latest attempt by the Kremlin leadership, under Mr Mikhail Gorbachov, to try to
reconcile the theoretical basis of communism with the sophistication of modern
weaponry.


It was also seen as indirect criticism of the more extreme acts of terrorism
which are causing increasing concern in Moscow and have prompted the Soviet
Government to cooperate with a number of Western governments, including Britain
and France, to discuss ways of stamping it out.

'The nuclear era demands from revolutionary forces the utmost care in weighing
decisions about armed struggle, the principled refusal of various manifestations
of ultra-left extremism,' the paper argued in a key passage which seemed to
indicate some re-thinking of Moscow's traditional support of leftist liberation
movements, many of which thrive on Soviet finance, training and weaponry.

Pravda went on to point out that the need for caution arose because the
existence of nuclear arms might transform local conflicts into regional or even
world conflagration. But the author, the Soviet historian Mr E. Plimak,
conveniently left the door open for the continuing support of violence in the
cause of national liberation.

'On the other hand,' he added, 'this era does not deprive us of the necessity to
repulse reactionary and counter-revolutionary forces where they try to use force
to liquidate the democratic and socialist achievements of the people and to turn
back the historical progress. '

One Western Kremlinologist explained: 'The theoreticians in the Kremlin appear
to be arguing that leftist groups can go on fighting but they must be careful
that their struggles do not escalate into a nuclear war. Some people might call
that having your cake and eating it. '

The timing of the article, headlined 'Marxism-Leninism and revolutionary
activity at the end of the 20th century', was seen as part of Mr Gorbachov's
campaign to streamline the communist state's theoretical approach to a number of
issues:

Pravda stated that communist countries had scored sufficient successes to raise
the question of banning force from the world political arena. It went on to
quote Mr Gorbachov as saying that the nuclear era demanded 'deep changes in
political thinking,' a phrase he has often applied to Soviet disarmament
initiatives.

'The demand for 'deep changes' is also applicable to the Marxist theory of class
struggle - it must help find a way out of a critical situation,' added the
article, which appeared set to become the standard text on the subject. 'The
struggle of opposing class forces is not disappearing in the nuclear era. But
our times teach the development and broad practice of compromise forms of
struggle. '

Pravda insisted that such a change did not represent a departure from
revolutionary Marxism.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 17, 1986

Berlin terror trial may implicate Syria / Ahmed Hazi case in West Germany

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: BONN


A West German court will for the first time deal with Syria's alleged
involvement in international terrorism at a trial of two Jordanians that opens
in West Berlin today.

Ahmed Hazi, the brother of Jordanian, Nizar Hindawi, who was sentenced in London
last month to 45 years' imprisonment for trying to plant a bomb on an El Al
jumbo jet, is charged with attempted murder.


He and his alleged accomplice, Faruk Salameh aged 39, are held responsible for a
bomb attack on a German-Arab society in West Berlin last March in which nine
Arabs were injured.

The two defendants are understood to have told police investigators that they
obtained the explosives from the Syrian embassy in East Berlin. The embassy has
denied the accusation.

The government in Bonn, which has gone along with limited Common Market measures
against Syria at Britain's request, has said it would make further punative
steps against Damascus dependent on the outcome of the Berlin trial.

This includes the option of not replacing West Germany's ambassador to Damascus,
whose assignment ends this month.

Hazi, who has lived in West Berlin since 1974, was arrested following a tip from
British police after Hindawi was detained in London.

The West Berlin Public Prosecutors believe that the two defendants were
recruited by Hindawi whom they suspect of having masterminded the attack on the
German-Arab society.

They allege that Hazi and Salameh joined Hindawi for 'ideological training' in
Libya before they moved onto Syria for training.

If the accused confirm their confessions in the courtroom, the trial could last
only three days, with a verdict due on November 24.

Parallel investigations into whether Hazi was also involved in the bombing of La
Belle discotheque in West Berlin in April, in which three people died and 230
were injured, have also been made.

But the La Belle investigations, according to legal sources, have reached a dead
end. Any proof of Syria's involvement in terrorism would be unwelcome for the
west German Government, which only last August revived its relations with
Damascus after a lull of five years and has been keen to bring Syria into the
Middle East peace process.

Bonn resumed development aid payments to Syria in June last year, and only
recently granted Damascus a new loan of pounds 20 million.

President Hafez Al-Assad, of Syria, yesterday proposed formation of an
international committee to 'determine the meaning of terrorism. '

Addressing a trade union conference in Damascus on the 16th anniversary of the
day he took power, President Assad said: 'I propose forming an international
committee which may be Arab-European, European-Arab-American-Soviet or in any
other form to determine the meaning of terrorism. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 1986

Keep Syria ties, official urges / West German minister Moellemann opposes
diplomatic break with Damascus

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: BONN


A leading West German Foreign Ministry official has spoken out against breaking
off diplomatic relations with Syria following the West Berlin terrorist bombing.

Mr Juergen Moellemann, a minister of state and a deputy to the Foreign Minister,
said in an interview in today's masscirculation Bild newspaper: 'A breach of
relations would be damaging and short-sighted. '


There were considerations for keeping diplomatic channels open and using them
when there were problems, he said.

But the views of Mr Moellemann, the ministry's expert on the Middle East and
Gulf states, were strongly opposed by a leading member of Chancellor Helmut
Kohl's Christian Democratic Party. Mr Hans Stercken, chairman of the Bundestag
Foreign Affairs Committee, said that breaking off relations would be inevitable
if proof of Syrian involvement in terrorism emerged at the bombing trial of two
Jordanians in West Berlin.

'In that case, the Bonn Government cannot act differently from Britain,' Mr
Stercken said. He had earlier rejected punitive measures against Syria on
political and economic grounds.

But the two contradictory statements on the trial's implications do not mean
friction within the Conservative-Liberal government coalition.

Mr Moelleman, a Liberal Free Democrat, has an unlikely ally, the right-wing
Bavarian leader, Mr Franz Josef Strauss, a friend of Syria. He has also rejected
breaking diplomatic ties.

The government, which has already agreed to limited EEC measures against Syria
at Britain's request, has said it will await the trial verdict before replacing
its Damascus ambassador.

A verdict is expected on Monday in the trial of Ahmed Hazi and Faruk Salameh,
who are charged with bombing Arab German Friendship Society offices in March.

Hazi is the brother of Nezar Hindawi, sentenced in London last month to 45
years' imprisonment for trying to blow up an Israeli airliner.

Officials have said that Bonn would possibly not appoint a successor to the
ambassador in Damascus, Mr Heribert Woeckel, whose tour ends this month. But
they said the government would probably no break off diplomatic relations.

Bonn resumed relations with Damascus in August after a five-year lull.

The government has also previously taken a clear stand against political and
economic sanctions.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 1986

Syrians in tit-for-tat diplomatic expulsions / Damascus expels three West German
envoys

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: BONN


Syria yesterday responding to Bonn's limited diplomatic measures against
Damascus with tit-for-tat expulsions as the Syrian ambassadors in East and West
Germany denied any Syrian involvement in a terrorist bombing in West Berlin.

Damascus announced that three West german diplomats had been told to leave their
posts within a week. Syria's ambassador to Bonn, Mr Shtwei Seifou, would be
recalled for the time, being.


The measures correspond almost exactly to Bonn's decision to expel four Syrian
diplomats, including two military attaches, and to keep vacant its ambassador's
post in Damascus.

The Government took the measures following a West Berlin court ruling which
accepted Syrian involvement in the bombing of the German-Arab Friendship Society
in the city on March 29.

Mr Seifou yesterday described Bonn's step against Syria as 'grave and
unjustified. ' His government was 'disappointed and concerned that Bonn had
joined a campaign initiated by the United States, Britain.

Mr Seifou said he could rule out Syrian involvement in the bomb attack in which
nine Arabs were injured. 'But if, against our expectations there should be
findings to hte contrary, our government will act,' he said.

His colleague at the embassy in East Berlin, from where the court heard the
explosives for the attack originated, Mr Faisal Sammack, denied any involvement
and said Syria needed no encouragement for its participation in the fight
against terrorism.

The Bonn Government has said it would decide on sending a new ambassador to
Damascus after examination of the Berlin trial verdict. It has thus left open
whether this was a long-term decision or whether a new ambassador may be
appointed soon.

From MARTIN WALKER

MOSCOW - The growing tensio between Britain and the Soviet Union over Arab
terrorism took a new turn last night when the British Ambassador in Moscow
released a letter of complaint which the Soviet press had refused to publish.

The letter, which spells out in detail the British case for breaking off
diplomatic relations with Syria over the conviction of Nexar Hindawi for
attempting to blow up the El-Al airliner, was sent to Izvestia two weeks ago.

'I had expected Izvestia to publish the letter, along with their own commentary
and counterblast. But this would at least have given the Soviet readers the
chance to understand why Britain had taken this action,' Sir Bryan Cartledge,
the British Ambassador in Moscow, said last night.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 30 1986, Sunday

Leading Article: Danger time for the West / The implications of the US-Iran arms
deal

SECTION: Issue 8469.

LENGTH: 929 words


PRESIDENT Reagan's many British critics have been waiting to put the boot in for
six years. They had almost given up hope of laying a finger on him. The economic
consensus in London dismissed his supply-side tax cuts as a fraud. But the
American economy is now in its fifth year of growth, unemployment has tumbled
and inflation is at a 20-year low. The most respectable of political pundits
ralied aginast his intervention in Grenada. But today that island is a peaceful
democracy instead of a bloody marxist dictatorship. And press and politicians
united to savage his raid on Tripoli. But Colonel Gadaffi is now less of a force
for evil and terrorist attacks on Americans have declined by 50%.

The past two weeks, however, have found the Reagan administration in the biggest
crisis of confidence that the United States has faced since President Carter's
helicopters bit the dust of the Iranian desert six years ago. Mr Reagan finds
himself in the wrong (even if he cannot bring himself to admit it) and Britain's
political pygmies have rushed onto TV and radio and into print to crow, carp and
tut-tut on an issue in which, at last, right is on their side. It is profoundly
depressing.


But even the president's friends cannot find much to say in mitigation of a
policy which involved secret gun-running to Iran, arms for hostages and ilicit
money-laundering to the Nicaraguan rebels. Of course it was right to tgry to
improve relations with a country of Iran's strategic importance - but not by
arming it when it is in the middle of a war it is not in the West's interesdts
that it should win. Of course it was right to work hard for the release of
American hostages - but not by paying a ransom of guns which would encourage
terrorists to take even more hostages. And of course President Reagan was within
his rights to want to do more to help the Nicaraguan contras - but not behind
the back of Congress, which, for the sake of democracy and the American
constitution, it was his administration's duty to convince rather than deceive.

Those who like quick and simple analogies see it all as Mr Reagan's Watergate.
But so far thee has been little sign of a Nixon-style cover up. There are
likely, however, to be further casualties at a senior level in his
administration, for it is asking too much to expect people to believe that only
Lt-Col North really knew what was going on.

But even a clear-out of presidential aides would still leave American foreign
policy undermined and Mr Reagan a sadly diminished figure. The world understood,
even if it did not always like, the Reagan that stood for what most Americans
want: deal with the Russians from strength, encourage private enterprise at
home, give no quarter to terrorism. Mr Reagan has articulated better than any
other recent president the instincts of the Man of Main Street, which is why he
has been so popular, and why his fall from grace has been so painful.

Those on this side of the Atlantic prepared to gloat at his discomfort, however,
better think twice for it is not the United States which will suffer most from a
diminished Mr Reagan but the Western Alliance as a whole. The president has
largely implemented his domestic strategy: his tax reforms are in place and the
economy jogs along nicely. But for the rest of us, the world has suddenly become
a more dangerous, less hopeful place.

Mr Mikhail Gorbachov, for example, was prepared to come to the arms-control
table because he knew he was dealing with a strong and popular president who
could deliver whatever was agreed. The prospect for a post-Reykjavik
breakthrough to cut the nuclear arsenals of the superpowers is now further away
than ever, for foreign policy is now in some disarray in Washington and Mr
Gorbachev will not offer as much if he senses he is now dealing with weakness.

The Democrats who now rule both parts of the Congress also sense weakness in the
White House and they have all manner of protectionist schemes which Mr Reagan
may no longer be strong enough to thwart. If Congress has its way the Western
democracies could be on the brink of a trade war which will leave us all the
poorer.

There are dangers too for America's commitment to Europe. As Mr Neil Kinnock
will discover as he tours America this week, there are powerful voices on the
left and the right among the new generation of American politicians who do not
believe that American might should continue to be devoted to the defence of
Western Europe. In President Reagan they had a powerful adversary. They could be
encouraged to press their case for disengagement from Europe now that he might
be less powerful.

One certain casualty is America's strong lead in the battle against terrorism.
After the misguided Iran initiative, American entreaties on that score will no
longer carry the same weight. Those in Europe, such as France, Italy and Greece,
who found a hard anti-terrorist line inconvenient anyway will now be freer to do
their own sordid deals.

This Friday the leaders of the European Community gather in London for a summit.
If there is now the prospect of a vacuum in Washington it would be good for the
West if the Europeans tried to fill the void. But, on past experience, that is a
forlorn hope. The best to expect is that they realise this is a time to be sad,
not smug. While Washington becomes imbroiled in the grubby details of the White
House's foreign intrigues, America's allies will have to face up to the fact
that, on the issues that matter, the going will now be tougher, and more risky.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 5 1986, Friday

Leading Article: Modest Progress / End of Britain's term of office in EEC chair

SECTION: Issue 62633.

LENGTH: 813 words


Britain's term of office in the European Presidency draws to a close at the end
of this month with rather less achieved than the rhetoric might have led one to
hope. The EEC summit starting in London today will have to perform mircales if
it is to reform the Common Agricultural Policy, de-regulate air fares and free
capital movements, to name but three of Britain's objectives. EEC summits are
not fruitful ground for miracle workers.

Viewed against a realistic assessment of the politically possible, however,
Britain's presidency has not been without its rewards. It was never likely that
substantive progress could be made in reforming the CAP just ahead of the German
elections. The Bavarian farming vote is too important. But there has been some
modest progress on removing constraints on markets inside the Community; the
Community's external policies have generally been to Britain's satisfaction; and
co-operation on security has substantially improved.


Perhaps the greatest advance has been made in the attack on terrorism and drugs.
Following the Hindawi trail, Britain secured the agreement of its partners on
banning arms sales to Syria and taking a much close look at the activities of
Syria's so-called diplomatic missions. It is regrettable, to put it mildly, that
at the point when Europe, urged by Mrs Thatcher, seems finally to have accepted
the US view that terrorism must be fought with all the weapons available,
Washington has been exposed as engaged in secret arms deals with Iran.

Britain has got her way on a number of other important issues in the Community's
relations with the rest of the world. Despite the reservations of countries
benefiting most from the CAP, the new GATT round on tariff removal will include
agriculture on its agenda. Trade conflicts with the US on steel and cirtus fruit
have been successfully defused, diminishing the threat of protectionmism which
would hurt this country more than most (though the effect of EEC enlargement of
America's corn growers remains a subject of contention). A satisfactory
agreement on New Zealand butter has also been reached.

On internal affairs Britain has succeeded in removing a total of 30 obstacles to
trade which, for the record, is higher than during any other presidency. The
Prime Minister's personal letter to other heads of government last month may
have helped this process along. Particularly important to this country is the
further liberalization of capital movements agreed at the finance council last
month which will help the City to consolidate its supremacy as a financial
centre with the Community.

Progress on de-regulating air fares has been disappointing, if predictably so.
The Transport Secretary, Mr John Moore, did secure a modest change in the
pernicious practice of capacity sharing on European routes. Airlines will now be
able to enjoy up to 60 per cent of the profits on any particular route according
to their relative commercial success rather than splitting them 50-50 with their
foreign counterparts. But no agreement has been reached on cheaper fares. The
balance of view among the twelve is six for and six against - with France the
key to further progress.

More important, perhaps, than the tally of specific measures agreed is the
gradual shift of opinion in the community on key issues. On the internal market,
for instance, there is now general agreement that progress must be made - even
if France will continue to protect her banks and Germany her insurance industry
as best they can.

Similarly, the enterprise culture has begun to be accepted in Europe as
something more than a slogan. At last month's finance council it was agreed to
make 1,500 million ecus available to small businesses to help them get access to
new technologies. The Commission is also proposing to raise the threshold at
which small businesses have to register for VAT.

On the coure issue of agricultural reform, progress will not be made as a result
of anything so ephemeral as a change in the presidency. But as the cost of the
CAP and the weight of its absurdities grow, attitudes inside the EEC change
substantially. France, originally the main architect of the system, is now the
key to changing it. Whatever the benefits to certain sections of the French
population, the burgeoning cost of the CAP is increasingly seen to be not in the
interests of France as a whole.

Negotiations begin on Monday on quota reductions for milk and beef production.
The price fixing process which starts on January 1 will apply the leverage to
this process that has been lacking during the British presidency. If the
tergiversations of Community politics cannot easily be made to fit the formal
pattern of the six-month presidency, Britain need not feel too disappointed with
the underlying development of events during her period at the helm.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 5 1986, Friday

Leading Article: Modest Progress / End of Britain's term of office in EEC chair

SECTION: Issue 62633.

LENGTH: 813 words


Britain's term of office in the European Presidency draws to a close at the end
of this month with rather less achieved than the rhetoric might have led one to
hope. The EEC summit starting in London today will have to perform mircales if
it is to reform the Common Agricultural Policy, de-regulate air fares and free
capital movements, to name but three of Britain's objectives. EEC summits are
not fruitful ground for miracle workers.

Viewed against a realistic assessment of the politically possible, however,
Britain's presidency has not been without its rewards. It was never likely that
substantive progress could be made in reforming the CAP just ahead of the German
elections. The Bavarian farming vote is too important. But there has been some
modest progress on removing constraints on markets inside the Community; the
Community's external policies have generally been to Britain's satisfaction; and
co-operation on security has substantially improved.


Perhaps the greatest advance has been made in the attack on terrorism and drugs.
Following the Hindawi trail, Britain secured the agreement of its partners on
banning arms sales to Syria and taking a much close look at the activities of
Syria's so-called diplomatic missions. It is regrettable, to put it mildly, that
at the point when Europe, urged by Mrs Thatcher, seems finally to have accepted
the US view that terrorism must be fought with all the weapons available,
Washington has been exposed as engaged in secret arms deals with Iran.

Britain has got her way on a number of other important issues in the Community's
relations with the rest of the world. Despite the reservations of countries
benefiting most from the CAP, the new GATT round on tariff removal will include
agriculture on its agenda. Trade conflicts with the US on steel and cirtus fruit
have been successfully defused, diminishing the threat of protectionmism which
would hurt this country more than most (though the effect of EEC enlargement of
America's corn growers remains a subject of contention). A satisfactory
agreement on New Zealand butter has also been reached.

On internal affairs Britain has succeeded in removing a total of 30 obstacles to
trade which, for the record, is higher than during any other presidency. The
Prime Minister's personal letter to other heads of government last month may
have helped this process along. Particularly important to this country is the
further liberalization of capital movements agreed at the finance council last
month which will help the City to consolidate its supremacy as a financial
centre with the Community.

Progress on de-regulating air fares has been disappointing, if predictably so.
The Transport Secretary, Mr John Moore, did secure a modest change in the
pernicious practice of capacity sharing on European routes. Airlines will now be
able to enjoy up to 60 per cent of the profits on any particular route according
to their relative commercial success rather than splitting them 50-50 with their
foreign counterparts. But no agreement has been reached on cheaper fares. The
balance of view among the twelve is six for and six against - with France the
key to further progress.

More important, perhaps, than the tally of specific measures agreed is the
gradual shift of opinion in the community on key issues. On the internal market,
for instance, there is now general agreement that progress must be made - even
if France will continue to protect her banks and Germany her insurance industry
as best they can.

Similarly, the enterprise culture has begun to be accepted in Europe as
something more than a slogan. At last month's finance council it was agreed to
make 1,500 million ecus available to small businesses to help them get access to
new technologies. The Commission is also proposing to raise the threshold at
which small businesses have to register for VAT.

On the coure issue of agricultural reform, progress will not be made as a result
of anything so ephemeral as a change in the presidency. But as the cost of the
CAP and the weight of its absurdities grow, attitudes inside the EEC change
substantially. France, originally the main architect of the system, is now the
key to changing it. Whatever the benefits to certain sections of the French
population, the burgeoning cost of the CAP is increasingly seen to be not in the
interests of France as a whole.

Negotiations begin on Monday on quota reductions for milk and beef production.
The price fixing process which starts on January 1 will apply the leverage to
this process that has been lacking during the British presidency. If the
tergiversations of Community politics cannot easily be made to fit the formal
pattern of the six-month presidency, Britain need not feel too disappointed with
the underlying development of events during her period at the helm.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 6, 1986

IRA bomber's gaol terms dropped / Extradition of terrorist Gerard Kelly from
Holland to Britain

BYLINE: From DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The sentences Gerard Kelly, the convicted IRA bomber, was serving when he
escaped from the Maze prison in 1983 have been remitted to comply with the
extradition treaty with Holland, the Home Office confirmed yesterday.

Kelly, aged 33, was flown back to Northern Ireland from Amsterdam this week. He
was serving two life sentences for bombing the old Bailey and Ministry of
Agriculture in London in 1973, a 20-year sentence for conspiracy to cause
explosions, and two- and three-year sentences for at least two escape attempts.


The Home Office said that when the offences were committed, convictions for
causing explosions were not covered by the extradition treaty between Holland
and United Kingdom which dates back to 1898, although they have been added
subsequently.

The other Maze escaper, Brendan McFarlane, who was arrested with Kelly by the
Dutch police in Amsterdam on January 15 this year, had been convicted of murder,
an offence which was covered by the treaty.

A spokeswoman for the Home Office said: 'In no sense is Kelly being given a free
pardon. We did this because the offences for which he was convicted were not
extraditable. '

She said that Kelly now had the status of a prisoner on remand. He and McFarlane
are accused of seven counts of unlawfully and injuriously imprisoning six prison
officers and a delivery driver during the Maze escape on September 25, 1983.

Kelly, from West Belfast faces two further charges of attempting to murder and
causing actual bodily harm to a seventh prison officer, John Adams.

Kelly and McFarlane appeared on remand at a special sitting of Belfast
magistrates' court at the top security Crumlin Road courthouse yesterday.

Counsel for the Director of Public prosecutions confirmed that all sentences
Kelly was serving had been remitted.

He said that the deputy governor of the Maze had written to the Dutch
authorities saying that he was entirely satisfied that McFarlane would not be
liable to assault once back in British custody.

Mr Paddy McGrory, for Kelly, said his client had received a solemn undertaking
from the Government that he would not be put with people facing legal
proceedings over the Maze escape, and that he would be returned to the
Republican H-block of the Maze.

Mr McGrory said that Kelly had been told of this undertaking by his lawyer in
Amsterdam, but no-one in Britain seemed to know about it.

Kelly was remanded in custody to appear at Belfast magistrates' court in a
week's time, and McFarlane was remanded to appear before the same court on
December 31.

Three people were detained but later released by police after a demonstration
outside the court in protest against the extradition of the two men.

Mr David Mellor, the Home office minister, last night defended the Government's
decision to remit the sentences on Kelly. Speaking in Norwich, he said: 'It was
the only way we could secure his extradition from the Netherlands. If we had not
agreed to the extradition terms he would have gone scot free. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 19, 1986

Dr Abdel Yassine / Associated Press agrees to pay damages in mistaken identity
case

LENGTH: 321 words


A Palestinian academic's life was endangered, it was said in the High Court
yesterday, after his photograph bearing the name of an Arab terrorist was
distributed by an international news agency.

The Palestinian, Dr Abdel Qader Yassine, who is Director of Research at the Arab
Institute for Socio-economic Studies in Jordan and former visiting professor of
political science at Gothenburg University, Sweden, was identified in the
picture caption, the court heard, as Abu Nidal, regarded as the master mind of
the twin terrorist attacks on Rome and Vienna airports at the end of last year.


The photograph was distributed throughout the world by the agency, Associated
Press Limited, and used in many newspapers throughout the world, including the
Guardian and Times in Britain.

In an agreed settlement announced in the High Court yesterday, Mr Andrew
Caldecott, counsel for Dr Yassine, said the publications had damaged Dr
Yassine's reputation, both personally and as a reputable academic. In addition
he had been put in fear of his life because Abu Nidal was himself under sentence
of death by Yasser Arafat's Al Fatah group. Dr Yassine had also been detained in
various European countries while his identity was checked.

Mr Caldecott said that after it had been drawn to their attention Associated
Press issued a correction to their subscribers and both the Guardian and the
Times had corrected the error. The matter had now been settled with AP agreeing
to pay Dr Yassine substantial damages and the two British newspapers also
agreeing to pay damages. The defendants would also pay Dr Yassine's costs.

Mr Christopher Winder apologised on behalf of AP and Mr Russell sleigh for both
the Times and Guardian. Mr Sleigh said both papers had relied on AP as an
established and reputable source and had published the photograph in good faith.

Leave to withdraw the record was granted by the judge.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 20, 1986

Jury finds two Sikhs guilty of Gandhi plot / Birmingham Crown Court trial over
conspiracy to murder Indian Premier

BYLINE: By PAUL HOYLAND

LENGTH: 432 words


Two Sikhs were found guilty at Birmingham Crown Court yesterday of conspiring to
murder and soliciting others to murder the Indian prime minister, Mr Rajiv
Gandhi, during his visit to Britain last year.

Jarnail Singh Ranuana, aged 46, a company director, and Sukhvinder Singh Gill,
aged 31, a dyer, both of Leicester, will be sentenced today. Ranuana was also
found guilty of possessing a revolver without a firearms certificate and of
supplying heroin.


Mr Justice McCullough said he would consider deportation for Gill, who is an
Indian national. Gill's family have said that his life would be in danger if he
was sent back to India.

A third Sikh, Parmatma Singh Marwaha, aged 44, a factory owner also of
Leicester, was cleared of conspiring to murder and soliciting others to murder
Mr Gandhi at the end of an 11-week trial which is estimated to have cost up to
pounds 500,000.

The jury returned their verdicts after deliberating for three days.

As Marwaha, the British treasurer of the International Sikh Youth Federation,
walked from the court after 14 months in custody he was mobbed by scores of
Sikhs who hugged and congratulated him .

The court heard that when undercover police officers, posing as IRA gunmen,
offered to kill Mr Gandhi for pounds 60,000 Ranuana said the money was 'peanuts'
and volunteered to pay an extra pounds 10,000 if the assassination attempt was
successful.

The officers, who were referred to as Tom B and Ian S, had been introduced to
Ranuana by an informer called John, who had tipped off the police about his plan
to kill the Indian premier. Ranuana and Gill were arrested three days before Mr
Gandhi arrived in London in October, last year.

The undercover officers had played the roles of hardened gunmen, boasting to
Ranuana that they had planted the car bomb which killed Mr Airey Neave, the
Conservative spokesman on Northern Ireland, at the House of Commons in 1979.

Ranuana provided Tom B with a revolver when the undercover officer requested a
gun for his own protection. He also supplied the officer with a sample of heroin
at his request and went to London with Gill to look for a safe house for the
would-be assassins.

The court heard that Gill, a member of the International Sikh Youth Federation,
had stayed in the background before being persuaded to meet Tom B and Ian S at a
late stage in the plot.

Lord Gifford QC, defending, said Marwaha had not thought that the conspiracy was
serious until he met Tom B and Ian S. He then tried to persuade Ranuana and Gill
that the plot must be stopped.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 22 1986, Monday

Detectives defend Gandhi informer

BYLINE: CRAIG SETON

SECTION: Issue 62647.

LENGTH: 243 words


Senior detectives have defended their undercover operation to smash the plot by
two Sikhs who were jailed for conspiring to assassinate Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the
Indian Prime Minister.

Jarnail Ranuana, aged 46, a company director and Sukvinder Gill, aged 30, a
dyer, both of Leicester, were sentenced to 16 years and 14 years imprisonment
respectively at Birmingham Crown Court on Saturday.


They were found guilty of conspiracy to murder Mr Gandhi; and soliciting two
undercover policemen, who pretended to be IRA gunmen, to kill him during his
official visit to Britain 15 months ago.

Ranuana was additionally convicted of possessing a .38 revolver and supplying
heroin. A third man, Mr Parmatma Marwaha, aged 43, a jeans factory owner, also
of Leicester, was acquitted and released.

Mr Justice McCullough said: 'You have brought dishonour on the Sikh population
in the United Kingdom. '

Ranuana and Gill shouted: 'Long live Khalistan' - a reference to Sikh demands
for an independent Sikh state in India - as they were sentenced. Leicestershire
police said that the use of two undercover policemen acting as IRA killers for
hire and an underworld informer who tipped police off about the Sikh plot had
been proper.

Defence counsel had accused the undercover policemen of acting as agents
provocateurs in a plot set up by the police informer, known only as John.

The informer has now, with the help of police, gone into hiding.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 22 1986, Monday

Detectives defend Gandhi informer

BYLINE: CRAIG SETON

SECTION: Issue 62647.

LENGTH: 243 words


Senior detectives have defended their undercover operation to smash the plot by
two Sikhs who were jailed for conspiring to assassinate Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the
Indian Prime Minister.

Jarnail Ranuana, aged 46, a company director and Sukvinder Gill, aged 30, a
dyer, both of Leicester, were sentenced to 16 years and 14 years imprisonment
respectively at Birmingham Crown Court on Saturday.


They were found guilty of conspiracy to murder Mr Gandhi; and soliciting two
undercover policemen, who pretended to be IRA gunmen, to kill him during his
official visit to Britain 15 months ago.

Ranuana was additionally convicted of possessing a .38 revolver and supplying
heroin. A third man, Mr Parmatma Marwaha, aged 43, a jeans factory owner, also
of Leicester, was acquitted and released.

Mr Justice McCullough said: 'You have brought dishonour on the Sikh population
in the United Kingdom. '

Ranuana and Gill shouted: 'Long live Khalistan' - a reference to Sikh demands
for an independent Sikh state in India - as they were sentenced. Leicestershire
police said that the use of two undercover policemen acting as IRA killers for
hire and an underworld informer who tipped police off about the Sikh plot had
been proper.

Defence counsel had accused the undercover policemen of acting as agents
provocateurs in a plot set up by the police informer, known only as John.

The informer has now, with the help of police, gone into hiding.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 31 1986, Wednesday

Spectrum: The Times Review of 1986 .. disaster and royal delight

BYLINE: GEORGE HILL

SECTION: Issue 62653.

LENGTH: 5687 words


Crowds under clouds

If you have been troubled since July 7 (a Monday of course) with a faint sense
of diminished elbow-room, of finding the world too much with you, it has not
been just a freak of the imagination. That was the day on which the computers
calculated that the population of this planet would rise above five billion for
the first time.


It would be heretical to quibble over the oracle's computation. It went on to
predict that the population would double in the lifetime of that day's crop of
babies, and would then perhaps stabilize. Elbows will be worn close to the body
for the foreseeable future, it seems.

In this increasingly cramped tenement, the capacity of the tenants to commit
public nuisances against their neighbours has never been greater. The
inescapable master-image of 1986 was the unseen cloud which ambled across Europe
from the embers of Chernobyl, demonstrating that no part of the continent was
exempt from the risks of technological miscalculation.

The reindeer of Lapland gnawed up contamination from the arctic moss, lambs in
Snowdonia were reprieved from slaughter until their geiger-count fell (it is an
ill wind that blows no lamb any good), and we celebrated May Bank Holiday, with
the usual muggings and Morris dancing, under a thin radioactive drizzle. Later,
as if to reassert the efficacyof conventional toxins, the river Rhine ran
poisoned from Switzerland to the sea.

It is too pat to suppose that Chernobyl shocked the world's leaders into a
keener appreciation of the need to control the arms race. But something did seem
to have changed when Mr Reagan and Mr Gorbachev met at Reykjavik, in the most
enigmatic of summit meetings. The agreement which they almost reached startled
the leaders of Europe into wondering whether they wanted a disarmament after
which war in Europe could be possible without precipitating Armageddon.

President Reagan found himself dragged into the heat of the kitchen after his
attempts to combat world terrorism by a strategy of bombing its promoters and
also selling them arms. The bombs exploding in Libya caused shiverings in
London. The number of American summer visitors to Britain dropped by one-third,
though Prince Andrew's marriage did much to repair the damage.

British politics was in general going through a period of more colour than
substance, with MPs perpetually in a state of pre-election jitters, and
frightfullyexcited over minor helicopter companies, long-dead spies and other
topics of deep unconcern to the public. Mr Michael Heseltine pranced out of the
Cabinet room and departed into oblivion, leaving the Cabinet to send a messenger
to ask if he had made it any clearer to the photographers outside 10 Downing
Street than to them whether he had actually resigned.

Mr Leon Brittan behaved like a gentleman and made the supreme sacrifice to
protect the honour of a lady - or at least that of Mr Bernard Ingham, a figure
less dispensible to Downing Street than any number of Cabinet Ministers. The
Head of the Home Civil Service was engaged in a fracas with a photographer at
Heathrow - an unthinkable event - on his way to endure unthinkable humiliations
in Australia.

In successive masterpieces of paradox, Labour assailed the Tories for skimping
on defence spending and failing to control the crime wave. The Tories at last
grew tired of being blamed for cutting public spending when it had in fact risen
16 per cent in real terms since they came to power, despite all their efforts.

They began instead to claim credit for their failure, leaving the voters
perplexed as to whether they should vote Tory in hopes of further inadvertent
social services spending, or Labour in hopes of fiscal rigour enforced by a run
on the pound. Neil Kinnock laboured valiantly to purge his party of Militants
and multilateralism, with only partial success.

Meanwhile the unemployment rate, paused at its peak and seemed with majestic
gradualness to be about to creep down. The Tories claimed it was on the way down
already, but since the fall on paper was almost exactly the same size as the
number or more or less artificial jobs created by the efforts of the state, the
situation remained tantalisingly unclear.

In the arts, the golden age of British musicals continued, while the long
Hall-Nunn hegemony in the subsidised theatre drew acrimoniously towards its end.
Amis Senior won the Booker, Goldcrest fluttered to earth. Richard Rogers erected
a contrivance of drainpipes and frosted glass in the City, to clothe Lloyd's
with all the glamour of an oil refinery.

England rather surprised themselves by reaching the last eight of the World Cup
before being eliminated by a sublime piece of deceit from Maradona. In cricket,
the most stimulating contests were off the field, between the Pavilion and the
Players, with Boycott, Botham, Richards and Garner losing their wickets. Dancing
Brave romped home in the Arc, and Britain's athletes returned from the European
championships loaded with medals.

Matters went downhill in South Africa with alarming speed: Eminent Persons came
and went, and Big Business washed its hands, leaving the country prey to the
censors, flaming 'necklaces' and the police.

In an emblematic act of betrayal worthy of Dante, Nizar Hindawi at Heathrow
entrusted a parcel to the fiancee who was carrying his child. The last shreds of
civility in European politics seemed to be extinguished when Olof Palme was shot
down in the street.

But the year also saw the Duvaliers hustled out of Haiti, a government worthy of
respect restored in Uganda after many years, and President Marcos fleeing from
the Philippines with his First Lady. The couple took pounds 1 million in unused
notes, but left behind 1,000 pairs of shoes, 30 wigs and 50 bottles of
anti-wrinkle cream. And, appropriately, the year of five billion saw what may
have been the most extensive display of human unanimity in history, when a horde
of 20 million ran, jogged, walked and tottered in the Race Against Time, to
raise funds to combat famine in Africa.

The Space Shuttle fell out of the sky, two Soviet liners went to the bottom, the
price of oil plummeted, and the Stock Exchange moved upstairs. Sid became a
Capitalist, the Queen Mother became a member of the Transport and General
Worker's Union, and Britania steamed on an errand of mercy through a Levantine
war zone, with her band on deck playing medleys from Gilbert and Sullivan. Mr
Jeffrey Archer laid on a scene from one of his own novels at Victoria Station. A
Dutch nurseryman hit on the Philosopher's Stone of horticulture by perfecting a
black tulip and Halley's Commet proved to be black, too.

Mr Shigechiyo Izumi died aged 120, the oldest person reliably attested to have
reached that age. He had given up smoking on medical advice at the age of 116,
but in vain. Deprived of his familiar presence, the planet continued impassively
to spin on through space with its freight of five billion souls, a soaring
population of computers, and one black tulip.

JANUARY

Business 1: US businessmen arrive in Britain to campaign for their Westland
helicopter rescue package. 7: Anglo-European consortium's new pounds 75 million
offer is followed by resignation of Michael Heseltine as Defence Secretary. 13:
Home Secretary Leon Brittan apologizes - and days later resigns - over his
earlier denials of receiving a British Aerospace letter. 20: Go-ahead for a 1993
Channel tunnel rail link.

People 1: Entertainer and famine relief organizer Bob Geldof omitted from New
year's honours list; President Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachov swop TV pledges of
peace.

Weather 1: Britain slips and slithers in 1986 with black ice, snow drifts and
floods. 31: Blizzards hit Europe and state of emergency declared in Turin where
worst weather since 1956 rages.

Crime 1: Provisional IRA makes first attack of new year in Northern Ireland,
killing two policemen. 7: Marquis of Blandford, heir to pounds 50 million
fortune, branded 'a common criminal' and jailed for three months on drugs
offence. 9: Uniformed police appear at Heathrow, carrying firearms for the first
time in public.

Abroad 3: US task force sails from Naples towards Libya as President Reagan
accuses it of being behind December terrorist attacks at Rome and Vienna
airports. 17: Royal yacht Britannia spearheads beach evacuation of foreigners
rom Marzist-captured Aden, 21: Car bomb explodes in busy Christian sector of
Beirut killing 27. 25: Sikh militants smash Golden Temple shrine, Amritsar.

At home 2: Ministry of Defence to place pounds 1,000 million order for torpedoes
and submariens for Navy and Air Force. 9: SDP-Liberal Alliance victory in a
Liverpool by-election hailed as a rejection of city's Militant dominated Labour
council. 30: Jobless total surges to record 3,204,900.

Media 9; News International gives print unions six months' notice of termination
of agreements. 15: TUC urges electricians' union to halt special supplement
printed at the N. Int. east London plant at Wapping. 26: More than 3.5 million
copies of The Times and Sunday Times produced at Wapping.

Sport 2: England B cricket teamhs Bangladesh leg of overseas tour off after row
over four members' South African connections. 7: Cannon (UK) pulls out of
football League.

Science 28: US shuttle Challenger, carrying crew of seven, explodes in a
fireball over the Atlantic.

The arts 28: Cargo of China porcelain from bottom of South China Sea is
conservatively valued at pounds 3 million. 29: London's Sadler's Wells theatre
to close and go into liquidation unless public subsidy is found.

FEBRUARY

Business 10: European Consortium offer for Westland shares fails. 18: Rank
Organization makes unexpected pounds 740 million bid for Granada.

People 6: Helicoptor millionaire Alan Bristow says he was offered a Knighthood
in return for dropping support for the European consortium's Westland rescue
plan. 11: Soviet dissident Anatoly Sharansky walks to freedom across icy
Glienicke bridge, Berlin.

Weather 26: February 1986 confirmed as second coldest this century after 1947

Crime 10: Opening of Italy's biggest trial of 474 Mafia bosses in Palermo. 12:
Police file on Derek Hatton, deputy leader of Liverpool City Council, sent to
the Director of Public Prosecutions. 27: Twelve held after officers
investigating a multi-million VAT gold fraud search records of Johnson Matthey
Bankers. 28: Sweden's Prime Minister Olof Palme Killed by gunmen in Stockholm.

Abroad 4: Israeli aircraft force down an executive jet in an unsuccessful bid to
catch suspected terrorists. 3: Bomb terror in Paris. Two explode, one defused.
7: President-for-life Jean Claude Duvalier flees Haiti. 10: President Morcos of
the Philippines challenges Cory Aquino's claim that she has won the presidential
election. 16: President Marcos quits and flies to sanctuary.

At home 4: Two biggest teachers' unions to take joint action against new GCSE
exam. 5: Conservative backbench revolt over proposd British Leyland sale to
General Motors and Ford. 17: Burke's peerage to be wound up after 160 years with
debts of over pounds 8,000.

Media 2: Rupert Murdoch tells his 5,000 dismissed print workers that he will
never allow traditional print unions into his wapping plant. 10: Sogat '82 fined
pounds 25,000 and pounds 17 million assets seized in High Court after ignoring
court injunction over picketing.

Sport 18: England's cricketers lose by six wickets to West Indies as Mike
Gatting's nose is broken.

Medicine 3: Inquiry opens into allocations of professional incompetence against
London Hospital consultant obstetrician Wendy Savage, but is subsequently halted
by General Medical Council intervention. 11: GMC overturns ruling on Pill
confidentiality for girls under 16.

MARCH

Business 2: Land Rover management submits firm bid for the company under US
takeover threat. 20: Industry minister Geoffrey Pattie clears Guiness pounds 2.4
billion takeover bid for Distillers.

People 4: Dr Kurt Waldheim, Austrian presidential candidate, accused of Nazi SS
involvement. 20: M Jacques Chirac (53) finally appointed Prime Minister of
Finance, two days after beign offered the job.

Crime 3: Riot police take to streets of Northenr Ireland after mob protests
against Anglo-Irish agreement. 12: Dublin Police arrest Evelyn Glenholmes,
wanted in conjunction with the Brighton bombing. Days later she walks free from
a Dublin court over a legal blunder in London.

Abroad 7: south Africa's state of emergency suspended after 229 days and 757
deaths. 9: Hopes fade for superpowers' summit as Washington cuts number of
Soviet diplomats working in New York. 25: Libya threatens to turn the
mediterranean into a 'sea of blood' as US warplanes inflict heavy casualties
around disputed coastal waters.

At home 2: 5,000 miners march through London aiming to win reinstatement for 500
sacked colleagues and to win freedom for 10 still in prison. 7: Formal Labour
Party charges of Militant membership served on Derek hatton and 15 other
Liverpool party workers. 14: Conservative MP Geoffrey Dickens uses parliamentary
privilege to name Essex doctor alleged to have raped a girl of eight 27: Greater
London Council disbanded.

Media 4: Eddy Shah's new national colour tabloid paper, Today, goes on sale. 15:
Iron bars, broken bottles and flame canister found by police at 7,000-strong
demonstration outside News International Wapping plant.

Sport 13: Dawn Run ridden by Jonjo O'Neill becomes first horse to land
Cheltenham Gold Cup double. 21: Mark Hughes, of Manchester United, joins
Barcelona for record pounds 2 million 25: West Indies win third Test match in
Barbados.

Medicine 10: Doctors attack announced 20p prescription rise to pounds 2.20, an
eleven-fold rise from 1979. 29: Martin Guy (18) receives double heart and kidney
transplant at Papworth Hospital.

Royals 19: Engagement is announced between Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson. 31:
Queen visibly shocked as she sees wreckage at Hampton Court Palace after a fire
which killed a general's widow.

APRIL

Business 7: Sir Clive Sinclair is forced to pay his debts in pounds 5 million
patents sell-out. 18: The Johnny Walker whisky and Gordon's Gin drinks group
falls to Guinness.

People 16: Devon's exclusive Dartington Hall school closes after disclosures of
under-age sex and drug-taking. 22: Al Capone keeps the secret of his hidden
fortune as the opening of his Lexington Hotel vault reveals only dust.

Crime 5: Bomb attack on West Berlin discotheque kills two, injures 204. 10:
Jennifer Guinness, wife of a wealthy Dublin banker, kidnapped and held for a
pounds 2 million ransom. She is freed six days later unharmed. 14: Keith White
dies after being struck by a police plastic bullet during Easter Monday rioting
in Portadown. 17: Attempt to blow up an El Al plan from London to Tel Aviv is
foiled after discovery of 10lb bomb in hand luggage of Arab Terrorist's pregnant
Irish girlfriend.

Abroad 2: Four passengers killed after an explosion ripped through an
Athens-bound Boeing TWA airliner. 15: US jets based in Britain kill reported 100
people in series of air attacks on Libya. 17: Extremist Arab groups in Lebanon
kill three British hostages, kidnap a British TV journalist and attack British
Ambassador's Beirut residence in bloody retaliation. 21: EEC toughens sanctions
against Libya, to be followed by British deportion order of 21 Libyan nationals.

At home 9: Mrs Thatcher meets two Ulster Statesmen, amid growing speculation of
Unionist concessions over Anglo-Irish agreements. 11: Labour takes Fulham in
morale boosting by-election victory 29: All-party MPs round on the Government
for failing to give aid to few remaining Cornish tin mines.

Media 4: Print unions offered free gift of News International Gray's Inn Road
Plant in new bid to settle Wapping dispute, plus pounds 15 million compensation
package.

Sport 5: West Tip wins Grand national at Aintree. 6: England cricketer Ian
Botham denies drug abuse allegations made in the News of the World. 20: Oxford
United beat Queens Park Rangers 3-0 to win Milk Cup final.

Science 8: US calls off underground nuclear blast test at Nevada after
Greenpeace protesters enter site. 28: Massive radioactive leak reported at
Chernobyl nuclear power station. 29: Anger mounts at Moscow's failure to warn of
spreading radiation from Chernobyl fire.

Royals 23: Spanish King Juan Carlos becomes first foreign monarch to address
Parliament. 24: The Duchess of Windsor dies at her Paris home, aged 89. She is
later brought home for a simple funeral service before being buried at Frogmore.

MAY

Business 2: ABC cinema chain alls to American-based Cannon group.

People 2: Salvation Army's new international leader and general is Eva Burrows
(56). 21: In the Cabinet, Kenneth Baker takes over education and John Moore,
transport. 23: Mrs Thatcher urges American holidaymakers to come to Britain as
fears of terrorists reprisals cost country millions.

Crime 17: General Galtieri and members of Argentina's former ruling military
junta imprisoned for launching and losing Falklands War. 21: Art treasures
valued at pounds 15 million stolen from Irish Republic country mansion. Some of
the paintings are later found by boys on a fishing trip.

Abroad 3: 14 people killed in Air Lanka plane bomb tragedy. 5: Western leaders
meeting in Tokyo issue six-point plan for tackling state terrorism. 29: Bitter
battle over President Reagan's renunciation of Salt 2 Treaty.

At home 1: Prison officers call off industrial after widespread destruction in
jails. 17: Hippies bundled out from Stonehenge after a High Court writ. 25: Two
RAF officers killed when two vintage planes collide in front of spectators at
Mildenhall Air Show, Suffolk.

Media 3: 175 police officers, 150 demonstrators injured, 81 arrests, in worst
violence outside News International's wapping plant. 26: Rupert Murdoch makes
new final pounds 50 million offer. 30: Cash crisis at Today, 11 weeks after
euphoric launch.

Sport 5: Snooker outsider Joe Johnson beats Steve Davis in Embassy world snooker
championships at Sheffield. 14: Italian Formula 1 racing driver Elio de Angelis
dies during race practice in France. 25: Runners in 30 cities help raise pounds
100 million in the 'Race against Time. ' 29: England allrounder Ian Botham
banned from first-class cricket after he admits taking cannabis.

Science 14: Gorbachov admits Chernobyl disaster figures of 92,000 people
evacuated, nine dead and 299 injured. 29: Chernobyl death toll climbs to 21.

JUNE

People 9: Policeman George Hammond back in uniform 16 months after being
seriously injured as he tried to stop a robbery. 10: Bob Geldof becomes honorary
knight. Marries Paula yates on 21st. 11: Oliva Channon (22), daughter of Cabinet
Minister Paul Channon, found dead after party at Oxford University. 12: Derek
Hatton, Militant's deputy leader of Liverpool City Council, finally expelled
from Labour Party.

Crime 6: Colin Sampson, Chief Constable of West Yorkshire, to take over RUC
alleged shoot to kill policy inquiry from John Stalker, whose conduct he is
investigating. Later, Stalker is officially suspended from duty. 23: Brighton
bomber Patrick Magee jailed for 35 years for planting Provisional IRA bomb at
Conservative conference in Brighton. 23: Paris murder wave of the elderly claims
11th victim.

Abroad 6: World protest at election of Dr Kurt Waldheim as president of Austria.
12: State of emergency declared in South Africa after arrest of hundreds of
dissidents in dawn raids. 24: Denis Healey arrives in Johannesburg on four-day
visit but is barred from seeing imprisoned Nelson Mandela.

At home 5: David Steel warns Dr David Owen that Alliance faces almost certain
disaster at the next General Election unless it can settle nuclear differences.
12: Government confirms dissolution of Northern Ireland Assembly set up in 1982.

Sport 10: David Gower sacked as England cricket captain and replaced by Mike
Gatting. 19: England eliminated from World Cup as Argentina's Diego Maradona
says 'Hand of God' intervened in his first goal. 25: African nations threaten to
boycott Commonwealth Games if Zola Budd and Annette Crowley compete. 29:
Argentina beat West Germany 3-2 in World Cup final. 29: Richard Branson captures
trans-Atlantic Blue Riband.

JULY

People 13: Eduard Shevardnadze, Soviet Foreign Minister, arrives in Britain for
arms limitation talks. 30: Robert Kilroy-Silk, Labour MP for Merseyside Knowsley
North, quits politics claiming he has been driven out by members of Militant
Tendency.

Crime 4: Brian Chester acquitted of unlawful killing of John Shorthouse (5)
during police raid on his parents' Birmingham home. 21: Sidney Noble, notorious
Dr Death who preyed on sick and frail elderly women, given six life sentences.
28: Estate agent Susannah Lamplugh, 25, vanishes after taking 'Mr Kipper' to see
a west London house.

Abroad 4: President Reagan unveils refurbished pounds 171 million Statute of
Liberty. 6: Pope visits Amarmero, Colombo, which vanished in floods and mud
after volcano eruption. 10: Sir Geoffrey Howe sent packing by president Robert
Mugabe of Zimbabwe. 15: President Reagan agrees to Salt 2 talks in Geneva.

At home 20: Clash between No 10 and Buckingham Palace is denied following report
in The Sunday Times. 22: MPs decide by one vote to ban corporal punishment in
state schools.

Sport 6: Boris Becker retains Wimbledon Mens Singles championship, beating Ivan
Lendl. Women's champion is Martina Navratilova. Nigel Mansell wins French Grand
Priz. 13: Nigel Mansell wins British Grand Prix. 20: Boxer Frank Bruno knocked
out in world heavyweight fight with Tim Witherspoon. 27: Greg LeMond becomes
first non-European to win Tour de France cycle race.

Royalty 23: Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson married at Westminster Abbey.
Prince is created Duke of York. 24: Duke of Edinburgh opens Commonwealth Games
with 31 nations absent.

AUGUST

Business 6: Shares suffer record pounds 4 billion one-day drop. 15: Rolls Royce
wins pounds 600 million contract to build engines for Boeing 747s.

People 13: Prime Minister's personal popularity sinks to lowest level since last
General Election. 22: John Stalker, suspended deputy chief constable of Greater
Manchester, reinstated. 28: Mrs Thatcher returns to refurbished Grand Hotel,
Brighton, 22 months after the IRA bomb. 31: US journalist Nicholas Daniloff
arrested by Russians for spying.

Weather 24: Despite popular impression, summer has been about average, say Met.
Office.

Crime 15: Jayne Scott sent to prison for seven years after found guilty of
frenzied attack on her homosexual lover. 20: John Fleming, wanted for
questioning in connection with Brinks Mat gold robbery, held by US emigration
after being deported from Costa Rica.

Abroad 4; Commonwealth summit on South Africa ends in failure with Britain
isolated. British Army dismisses 111 Gurkhas after a brawl in which two senior
officers were injured.

25: Volcanic gas from Lake Nyon in Cameroon kills 1,500, affects another 20,000
and devastates lakeside population. 27: 21 die and 98 injured in feared rent
eviction clashes with police in South Africa. 29: East German family make
dramatic escape to West by driving lorry through checkpoint Charlie in Berlin
Wall.

At home 20: Government agrees to build another lane at cost of pounds 20 million
on busiest section of overcrowded M25. 27: 18 American F1-11 aircraft fly into
Wiltshire as US defence department denies any connection with Libya.

Media 1: Police inquiry into attack on TNT newspaper distribution centre by
200-strong mob who burnt copies of The Times and the Sun. 22: pounds 7 million
campaign launched to increase ailing circulation of Today as Lonrho assume
control.

Sport 3: Wembley turf is invaded by the padded giants of American football, the
Chicago Bears and Dallas Cowboys. 20: Bobby Robson to continue as England's
manager until after World Cup in 1990. 21: In Third Test against New Zealand,
Ian Botham takes three wickets to set world record of 357 wickets in Test
matches.

Medicine 6: Dr William Schroeder, who lived record 620 days with mechanical
heart, dies in US hospital. 7: President Reagan and White House staff submit to
drug tests as part of the administration's war on drugs.

Science 19: Sellafield nuclear reprocessing complex shut after radioactivity is
found to be above government safety limits.

Royals 5: Princess Anne has her first racing victory at Redcar. 7: Prince and
Princesse of Wales and children arrive in Majorca for a non-package holiday as
guests of King and Queen of Spain.

Anniversaries 13: Armed East German border guards and angry West Berliners jeer
across the Berlin Wall, 25 years after the city was split by barbed wire. 18:
Reykjavik, capital of Iceland, celebrates its bicentenary.

SEPTEMBER

Business 9: Bedford trucks announce cut back in production with 1,450 jobs loss.
11: Wall Street share prices tumble in sharpest fall since 1929 Great Crash,
London prices crash in sympathy. 24: TSB share offer ends. 25: Three senior
Austin Rover executives including chairman Harold Musgrove leave Rover Group.
Company loses pounds 200 million in first six months of 1986.

People 8: Archbishop of Canterbury visits Crossroads squatter camp with newly
enthroned Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, the Most Reverend Desmond Tutu. 24:
Mrs Edwina Currie, junior Health Minister, heavily criticzed for telling people
of Newcastle that their ill health was linked to poor diet, smoking and alcohol.

Crime 9: British football supporters linked to Heysel stadium disaster, Belgium,
formally accused of manslaughter at London court. 11: Strong police operation in
Bristol St Paul's area against drug dealing and violent crime erupts into riots
with 75 arrests. 29: Sheffield solicitor Ian Wood wanted in connection with
murder of his pregnant mistress and her young dauther climbs 200 feet up an
Amiens cathedral tower.

Abroad 5: American airliner seized by five gunmen in Karachi who kill 18 of the
400 passengers as plane is stormed by Pakistani commandos. In Istanbul, 21
worshippers are killed in their synagogue; one woman dies and 18 injured in
Paris bomb attack. 7: Soviet Union says journalist Nicholas Daniloff is to be
charged with spying. 16: 177 gold miners killed in fire more than one mile
underground at Kinross mine, Transvaal. 18: French military attache in Beirut is
shot and killed outside French Embassy in east Beirut. 29: Release of Nicholas
Daniloff and two prominent dissident Jews after superpower crisis and expulsion
from New York of American accused spy Gennady Zakharov. Superpower leaders
announces surprise summit in iceland.

At home 4: At TUC congress Neil Kinnock is told unions will fight relentlessly
his policy of winding down nuclear power industry. 8: Mrs Thatcher opens
Japanese car factory plant in Washington, County Durham, Labour Party publishes
plan to take British Telecom and other privatized industries into 'social
ownership. ' 19: Two passenger trains crash head on in Staffordshire, one dies,
many injured. 23: Heathrow swamped by immigrants before British introduction of
visas for passengers from Nigeria, Ghana, Pakistan, India and Bangladesh. 26:
Defiant Liberal leader David Steel vows to keep nuclear deterrent. 28: At Labour
Party conference Neil Kinnock pledges to reject US nuclear cover and to close
down their bases in Britain but defeats Arthur Scargill's attempt to commit
phasing out of nuclear energy within five years.

Sport 14: Australian Greg Norman wins European Open Golf Championship at
Sunningdale and Aston Villa manager Graham Turner is dismissed. 23: Cabinet
anger over Football League expulsion of Luton Town from Littlewoods Cup for
refusing to allow Cardiff City supporters into their ground in a fight against
hooliganism 27: Lloyd Honeyghan of Bermondsey becomes world welterweight boxing
champion.

Medicine 5: Survey reveals British senior executives work stressful 53 hours a
week and a quarter are too tired to make love after a working day. 22:
Ten-week-old Jem Paterson becomes world's youngest heart and lung transplant
patient after London hospital operation, but later dies.

Royals 12: First public engagement together as Duke and Duches of York as couple
visit a County Durham school for disturbed children. 17: Princess of Wales
brings back Fifties nostalgia as she sports swept back 'D A' hair style.

OCTOBER

Business 27: The City's Big Bang turns into a shambles as computer fails.

People 1: PC Philip Olds, shot and paralysed while tackling two gunmen, is found
dead. 19: President Machel of Mozambique and other government members killed
when their aircraft crashes on South African borders. 26: Jeffrey Archer resigns
as deputy chairman of Conservative Party after allegations in a Sunday
newspaper.

Crime 24: Nezer Hindawi, who tried to use his pregnant girlfriend as a human
bomb, sentenced to 45 years. Britain breaks off diplomatic links with Syria. 28:
Jeremy Bamber handed five life sentences for murder of his family at their Essex
farmhouse.

Abroad 10: Earthquakes shake El Salvador. Death toll eventually reaches 890 and
10,000 injured. 11: President Reagan and Mr Gorbachov fail to agree arms control
after two-day summit in Iceland. Followed by retaliatory expulsion of diplomats.

At home 1: Labour Party to phase out nuclear power in decades rather than
months, but votes in favour of a non-nuclear defence policy. 14: Angry parents
withdraw children from a Haringey, London, council primary school over 'gay lib'
policy. 21: Rumours of a marriage rift between the Archbishop of Canterbury and
his wife are condemned by his bishops as 'scurrilous and baseless'. 28: Peace
movement plans to distribute white poppies rather than traditional red for
Remembrance Sunday. 29: Mrs Thatcher opens final sector of M25.

Media 22: Kingsley Amis receives Booker Prize for The Old Devils.

Sport 5: Dancing Brave wins Prix de l'Arcc de Triomphe in record time. Gary
Kasparov retains the world chess championship against Anatoly Karpov. 26: Nigel
Mansell fails top win world formula championship against Anatoly Karpov. 26:
Nigel Mansell fails top win world formula championship when a tyre bursts during
Australian Grand Prix. 17: Birmingham loses to Barcelona in bid to host 1992
Olympics.

Royals 12: The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh visit China. The Duke tells English
students if they stay in China 'slitty-eyed'.

NOVEMBER

Business 23: Barclays announces selling of its interests in South Africa. 26:
More than 250,000 completed application forms arrive for sale of British Gas
shares.

People 17: First day of Australian court hearing to stop former MI5
counter-intelligence officer Peter Wright publishing his memoirs.

Crime 10: John Steed, dubbed the M4 rapist, given four life sentences for
attacks on young women in southern England. 17: Georges Besse, managing director
of Renault, shot dead in Paris.

Abroad 4: Details emerge of US hostage arms deal. Reagan later goes on
television to assume full responsibility for secret US operation. 25: Vice
Admiral John Poindexter, Reagan's national security adviser, North, shadow
military adviser, is sacked over Iran affair.

At home 4: Brent infants' school headteacher Maureen McGoldrick is reinstated
after being suspended for allegedly making racist remarks. 6: 45 oil rig men die
as a Chinook helicopter crashes into the sea in the Shetland Islands. 28:
Education secretary Kenneth Baker publishes his Bill giving him sweeping powers
to determine teachers' pay.

Media 5; Ban on News International papers in three Labour council-run public
libraries are declared unlawful. 12: Michael Lush dies while practising for Noel
Edmonds's Late Late Breakfast Show. 21: Robert Maxwell awarded pounds 55,000
libel damages against satirical magazine Private Eye.

Medicine 21: AIDS cases in Britain reach 512. Government reacts with pounds 20
million shock tactics campaign.

Royals 26: Historian Francis Watson says King George V died pematurely because
his doctor administered injections of cocaine and morphine so that the morning
newspapers, including The Times, would be the frirst to carry his death
announcement.

DECEMBER

Business 19: Government wins its case to scrap GEC's Nimrod spy plane in favour
of American AWACS.

People 12: A doctor is acquitted of raping a girl (8) while she slept at his
home. 20: John Stalker, to quit.

Crime 5: Sebastian Guinness jailed for his part in the death of Olivia Channon
who died of drink and heroin overdose at an Oxford party. 16: Moors murderess
Myra Hindley returns 20 years later to bleak Saddleworth Moor, Yorkshire, to
help search for more bodies.

Aboard 7: French Premier Jacques Chirac withdraws his controversial University
reform Bill student rioting. 11: South Africa imposes sweeping new censorship of
radio, newspaper and TV reporting. 14: 98 die and 310 injured in worst outbreak
of ethnic violence in recent history of Karachi. 19: Soviet Union announces end
to the internal exile of Dr Andrei Sakharov.

At home 7: Left-wing Brent council drops proceedings against Miss McGoldrick.
11: Sellafield nuclear plant threatened with closure unless modifications are
made. 20: Conservatives leap to 8.5 per cent lead over Labour in Gallup survey.

Sport 14: America fails to reach America's Cup final for first time in 135 years
after being beaten by New Zealand. 15: Nigel Short, Britain's top ranked chess
grandmaster, defeats Soviet World champion, Gary Kasparov. 19: Former champion
jockey Lester Piggott accused of making a false tax statement. 27: England
retain Ashes after innings and 14 run-victory.

Medicine 18: Miner's wife Davina Thompson (35) given new heart, lungs and liver
in seven-hour transplant.

Arts 1: Sunlit street scene by Manet becomes most expansive modern painting sold
at auction at pounds 7.7 million.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 31 1986, Wednesday

Spectrum: The Times Review of 1986 .. disaster and royal delight

BYLINE: GEORGE HILL

SECTION: Issue 62653.

LENGTH: 5687 words


Crowds under clouds

If you have been troubled since July 7 (a Monday of course) with a faint sense
of diminished elbow-room, of finding the world too much with you, it has not
been just a freak of the imagination. That was the day on which the computers
calculated that the population of this planet would rise above five billion for
the first time.


It would be heretical to quibble over the oracle's computation. It went on to
predict that the population would double in the lifetime of that day's crop of
babies, and would then perhaps stabilize. Elbows will be worn close to the body
for the foreseeable future, it seems.

In this increasingly cramped tenement, the capacity of the tenants to commit
public nuisances against their neighbours has never been greater. The
inescapable master-image of 1986 was the unseen cloud which ambled across Europe
from the embers of Chernobyl, demonstrating that no part of the continent was
exempt from the risks of technological miscalculation.

The reindeer of Lapland gnawed up contamination from the arctic moss, lambs in
Snowdonia were reprieved from slaughter until their geiger-count fell (it is an
ill wind that blows no lamb any good), and we celebrated May Bank Holiday, with
the usual muggings and Morris dancing, under a thin radioactive drizzle. Later,
as if to reassert the efficacyof conventional toxins, the river Rhine ran
poisoned from Switzerland to the sea.

It is too pat to suppose that Chernobyl shocked the world's leaders into a
keener appreciation of the need to control the arms race. But something did seem
to have changed when Mr Reagan and Mr Gorbachev met at Reykjavik, in the most
enigmatic of summit meetings. The agreement which they almost reached startled
the leaders of Europe into wondering whether they wanted a disarmament after
which war in Europe could be possible without precipitating Armageddon.

President Reagan found himself dragged into the heat of the kitchen after his
attempts to combat world terrorism by a strategy of bombing its promoters and
also selling them arms. The bombs exploding in Libya caused shiverings in
London. The number of American summer visitors to Britain dropped by one-third,
though Prince Andrew's marriage did much to repair the damage.

British politics was in general going through a period of more colour than
substance, with MPs perpetually in a state of pre-election jitters, and
frightfullyexcited over minor helicopter companies, long-dead spies and other
topics of deep unconcern to the public. Mr Michael Heseltine pranced out of the
Cabinet room and departed into oblivion, leaving the Cabinet to send a messenger
to ask if he had made it any clearer to the photographers outside 10 Downing
Street than to them whether he had actually resigned.

Mr Leon Brittan behaved like a gentleman and made the supreme sacrifice to
protect the honour of a lady - or at least that of Mr Bernard Ingham, a figure
less dispensible to Downing Street than any number of Cabinet Ministers. The
Head of the Home Civil Service was engaged in a fracas with a photographer at
Heathrow - an unthinkable event - on his way to endure unthinkable humiliations
in Australia.

In successive masterpieces of paradox, Labour assailed the Tories for skimping
on defence spending and failing to control the crime wave. The Tories at last
grew tired of being blamed for cutting public spending when it had in fact risen
16 per cent in real terms since they came to power, despite all their efforts.

They began instead to claim credit for their failure, leaving the voters
perplexed as to whether they should vote Tory in hopes of further inadvertent
social services spending, or Labour in hopes of fiscal rigour enforced by a run
on the pound. Neil Kinnock laboured valiantly to purge his party of Militants
and multilateralism, with only partial success.

Meanwhile the unemployment rate, paused at its peak and seemed with majestic
gradualness to be about to creep down. The Tories claimed it was on the way down
already, but since the fall on paper was almost exactly the same size as the
number or more or less artificial jobs created by the efforts of the state, the
situation remained tantalisingly unclear.

In the arts, the golden age of British musicals continued, while the long
Hall-Nunn hegemony in the subsidised theatre drew acrimoniously towards its end.
Amis Senior won the Booker, Goldcrest fluttered to earth. Richard Rogers erected
a contrivance of drainpipes and frosted glass in the City, to clothe Lloyd's
with all the glamour of an oil refinery.

England rather surprised themselves by reaching the last eight of the World Cup
before being eliminated by a sublime piece of deceit from Maradona. In cricket,
the most stimulating contests were off the field, between the Pavilion and the
Players, with Boycott, Botham, Richards and Garner losing their wickets. Dancing
Brave romped home in the Arc, and Britain's athletes returned from the European
championships loaded with medals.

Matters went downhill in South Africa with alarming speed: Eminent Persons came
and went, and Big Business washed its hands, leaving the country prey to the
censors, flaming 'necklaces' and the police.

In an emblematic act of betrayal worthy of Dante, Nizar Hindawi at Heathrow
entrusted a parcel to the fiancee who was carrying his child. The last shreds of
civility in European politics seemed to be extinguished when Olof Palme was shot
down in the street.

But the year also saw the Duvaliers hustled out of Haiti, a government worthy of
respect restored in Uganda after many years, and President Marcos fleeing from
the Philippines with his First Lady. The couple took pounds 1 million in unused
notes, but left behind 1,000 pairs of shoes, 30 wigs and 50 bottles of
anti-wrinkle cream. And, appropriately, the year of five billion saw what may
have been the most extensive display of human unanimity in history, when a horde
of 20 million ran, jogged, walked and tottered in the Race Against Time, to
raise funds to combat famine in Africa.

The Space Shuttle fell out of the sky, two Soviet liners went to the bottom, the
price of oil plummeted, and the Stock Exchange moved upstairs. Sid became a
Capitalist, the Queen Mother became a member of the Transport and General
Worker's Union, and Britania steamed on an errand of mercy through a Levantine
war zone, with her band on deck playing medleys from Gilbert and Sullivan. Mr
Jeffrey Archer laid on a scene from one of his own novels at Victoria Station. A
Dutch nurseryman hit on the Philosopher's Stone of horticulture by perfecting a
black tulip and Halley's Commet proved to be black, too.

Mr Shigechiyo Izumi died aged 120, the oldest person reliably attested to have
reached that age. He had given up smoking on medical advice at the age of 116,
but in vain. Deprived of his familiar presence, the planet continued impassively
to spin on through space with its freight of five billion souls, a soaring
population of computers, and one black tulip.

JANUARY

Business 1: US businessmen arrive in Britain to campaign for their Westland
helicopter rescue package. 7: Anglo-European consortium's new pounds 75 million
offer is followed by resignation of Michael Heseltine as Defence Secretary. 13:
Home Secretary Leon Brittan apologizes - and days later resigns - over his
earlier denials of receiving a British Aerospace letter. 20: Go-ahead for a 1993
Channel tunnel rail link.

People 1: Entertainer and famine relief organizer Bob Geldof omitted from New
year's honours list; President Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachov swop TV pledges of
peace.

Weather 1: Britain slips and slithers in 1986 with black ice, snow drifts and
floods. 31: Blizzards hit Europe and state of emergency declared in Turin where
worst weather since 1956 rages.

Crime 1: Provisional IRA makes first attack of new year in Northern Ireland,
killing two policemen. 7: Marquis of Blandford, heir to pounds 50 million
fortune, branded 'a common criminal' and jailed for three months on drugs
offence. 9: Uniformed police appear at Heathrow, carrying firearms for the first
time in public.

Abroad 3: US task force sails from Naples towards Libya as President Reagan
accuses it of being behind December terrorist attacks at Rome and Vienna
airports. 17: Royal yacht Britannia spearheads beach evacuation of foreigners
rom Marzist-captured Aden, 21: Car bomb explodes in busy Christian sector of
Beirut killing 27. 25: Sikh militants smash Golden Temple shrine, Amritsar.

At home 2: Ministry of Defence to place pounds 1,000 million order for torpedoes
and submariens for Navy and Air Force. 9: SDP-Liberal Alliance victory in a
Liverpool by-election hailed as a rejection of city's Militant dominated Labour
council. 30: Jobless total surges to record 3,204,900.

Media 9; News International gives print unions six months' notice of termination
of agreements. 15: TUC urges electricians' union to halt special supplement
printed at the N. Int. east London plant at Wapping. 26: More than 3.5 million
copies of The Times and Sunday Times produced at Wapping.

Sport 2: England B cricket teamhs Bangladesh leg of overseas tour off after row
over four members' South African connections. 7: Cannon (UK) pulls out of
football League.

Science 28: US shuttle Challenger, carrying crew of seven, explodes in a
fireball over the Atlantic.

The arts 28: Cargo of China porcelain from bottom of South China Sea is
conservatively valued at pounds 3 million. 29: London's Sadler's Wells theatre
to close and go into liquidation unless public subsidy is found.

FEBRUARY

Business 10: European Consortium offer for Westland shares fails. 18: Rank
Organization makes unexpected pounds 740 million bid for Granada.

People 6: Helicoptor millionaire Alan Bristow says he was offered a Knighthood
in return for dropping support for the European consortium's Westland rescue
plan. 11: Soviet dissident Anatoly Sharansky walks to freedom across icy
Glienicke bridge, Berlin.

Weather 26: February 1986 confirmed as second coldest this century after 1947

Crime 10: Opening of Italy's biggest trial of 474 Mafia bosses in Palermo. 12:
Police file on Derek Hatton, deputy leader of Liverpool City Council, sent to
the Director of Public Prosecutions. 27: Twelve held after officers
investigating a multi-million VAT gold fraud search records of Johnson Matthey
Bankers. 28: Sweden's Prime Minister Olof Palme Killed by gunmen in Stockholm.

Abroad 4: Israeli aircraft force down an executive jet in an unsuccessful bid to
catch suspected terrorists. 3: Bomb terror in Paris. Two explode, one defused.
7: President-for-life Jean Claude Duvalier flees Haiti. 10: President Morcos of
the Philippines challenges Cory Aquino's claim that she has won the presidential
election. 16: President Marcos quits and flies to sanctuary.

At home 4: Two biggest teachers' unions to take joint action against new GCSE
exam. 5: Conservative backbench revolt over proposd British Leyland sale to
General Motors and Ford. 17: Burke's peerage to be wound up after 160 years with
debts of over pounds 8,000.

Media 2: Rupert Murdoch tells his 5,000 dismissed print workers that he will
never allow traditional print unions into his wapping plant. 10: Sogat '82 fined
pounds 25,000 and pounds 17 million assets seized in High Court after ignoring
court injunction over picketing.

Sport 18: England's cricketers lose by six wickets to West Indies as Mike
Gatting's nose is broken.

Medicine 3: Inquiry opens into allocations of professional incompetence against
London Hospital consultant obstetrician Wendy Savage, but is subsequently halted
by General Medical Council intervention. 11: GMC overturns ruling on Pill
confidentiality for girls under 16.

MARCH

Business 2: Land Rover management submits firm bid for the company under US
takeover threat. 20: Industry minister Geoffrey Pattie clears Guiness pounds 2.4
billion takeover bid for Distillers.

People 4: Dr Kurt Waldheim, Austrian presidential candidate, accused of Nazi SS
involvement. 20: M Jacques Chirac (53) finally appointed Prime Minister of
Finance, two days after beign offered the job.

Crime 3: Riot police take to streets of Northenr Ireland after mob protests
against Anglo-Irish agreement. 12: Dublin Police arrest Evelyn Glenholmes,
wanted in conjunction with the Brighton bombing. Days later she walks free from
a Dublin court over a legal blunder in London.

Abroad 7: south Africa's state of emergency suspended after 229 days and 757
deaths. 9: Hopes fade for superpowers' summit as Washington cuts number of
Soviet diplomats working in New York. 25: Libya threatens to turn the
mediterranean into a 'sea of blood' as US warplanes inflict heavy casualties
around disputed coastal waters.

At home 2: 5,000 miners march through London aiming to win reinstatement for 500
sacked colleagues and to win freedom for 10 still in prison. 7: Formal Labour
Party charges of Militant membership served on Derek hatton and 15 other
Liverpool party workers. 14: Conservative MP Geoffrey Dickens uses parliamentary
privilege to name Essex doctor alleged to have raped a girl of eight 27: Greater
London Council disbanded.

Media 4: Eddy Shah's new national colour tabloid paper, Today, goes on sale. 15:
Iron bars, broken bottles and flame canister found by police at 7,000-strong
demonstration outside News International Wapping plant.

Sport 13: Dawn Run ridden by Jonjo O'Neill becomes first horse to land
Cheltenham Gold Cup double. 21: Mark Hughes, of Manchester United, joins
Barcelona for record pounds 2 million 25: West Indies win third Test match in
Barbados.

Medicine 10: Doctors attack announced 20p prescription rise to pounds 2.20, an
eleven-fold rise from 1979. 29: Martin Guy (18) receives double heart and kidney
transplant at Papworth Hospital.

Royals 19: Engagement is announced between Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson. 31:
Queen visibly shocked as she sees wreckage at Hampton Court Palace after a fire
which killed a general's widow.

APRIL

Business 7: Sir Clive Sinclair is forced to pay his debts in pounds 5 million
patents sell-out. 18: The Johnny Walker whisky and Gordon's Gin drinks group
falls to Guinness.

People 16: Devon's exclusive Dartington Hall school closes after disclosures of
under-age sex and drug-taking. 22: Al Capone keeps the secret of his hidden
fortune as the opening of his Lexington Hotel vault reveals only dust.

Crime 5: Bomb attack on West Berlin discotheque kills two, injures 204. 10:
Jennifer Guinness, wife of a wealthy Dublin banker, kidnapped and held for a
pounds 2 million ransom. She is freed six days later unharmed. 14: Keith White
dies after being struck by a police plastic bullet during Easter Monday rioting
in Portadown. 17: Attempt to blow up an El Al plan from London to Tel Aviv is
foiled after discovery of 10lb bomb in hand luggage of Arab Terrorist's pregnant
Irish girlfriend.

Abroad 2: Four passengers killed after an explosion ripped through an
Athens-bound Boeing TWA airliner. 15: US jets based in Britain kill reported 100
people in series of air attacks on Libya. 17: Extremist Arab groups in Lebanon
kill three British hostages, kidnap a British TV journalist and attack British
Ambassador's Beirut residence in bloody retaliation. 21: EEC toughens sanctions
against Libya, to be followed by British deportion order of 21 Libyan nationals.

At home 9: Mrs Thatcher meets two Ulster Statesmen, amid growing speculation of
Unionist concessions over Anglo-Irish agreements. 11: Labour takes Fulham in
morale boosting by-election victory 29: All-party MPs round on the Government
for failing to give aid to few remaining Cornish tin mines.

Media 4: Print unions offered free gift of News International Gray's Inn Road
Plant in new bid to settle Wapping dispute, plus pounds 15 million compensation
package.

Sport 5: West Tip wins Grand national at Aintree. 6: England cricketer Ian
Botham denies drug abuse allegations made in the News of the World. 20: Oxford
United beat Queens Park Rangers 3-0 to win Milk Cup final.

Science 8: US calls off underground nuclear blast test at Nevada after
Greenpeace protesters enter site. 28: Massive radioactive leak reported at
Chernobyl nuclear power station. 29: Anger mounts at Moscow's failure to warn of
spreading radiation from Chernobyl fire.

Royals 23: Spanish King Juan Carlos becomes first foreign monarch to address
Parliament. 24: The Duchess of Windsor dies at her Paris home, aged 89. She is
later brought home for a simple funeral service before being buried at Frogmore.

MAY

Business 2: ABC cinema chain alls to American-based Cannon group.

People 2: Salvation Army's new international leader and general is Eva Burrows
(56). 21: In the Cabinet, Kenneth Baker takes over education and John Moore,
transport. 23: Mrs Thatcher urges American holidaymakers to come to Britain as
fears of terrorists reprisals cost country millions.

Crime 17: General Galtieri and members of Argentina's former ruling military
junta imprisoned for launching and losing Falklands War. 21: Art treasures
valued at pounds 15 million stolen from Irish Republic country mansion. Some of
the paintings are later found by boys on a fishing trip.

Abroad 3: 14 people killed in Air Lanka plane bomb tragedy. 5: Western leaders
meeting in Tokyo issue six-point plan for tackling state terrorism. 29: Bitter
battle over President Reagan's renunciation of Salt 2 Treaty.

At home 1: Prison officers call off industrial after widespread destruction in
jails. 17: Hippies bundled out from Stonehenge after a High Court writ. 25: Two
RAF officers killed when two vintage planes collide in front of spectators at
Mildenhall Air Show, Suffolk.

Media 3: 175 police officers, 150 demonstrators injured, 81 arrests, in worst
violence outside News International's wapping plant. 26: Rupert Murdoch makes
new final pounds 50 million offer. 30: Cash crisis at Today, 11 weeks after
euphoric launch.

Sport 5: Snooker outsider Joe Johnson beats Steve Davis in Embassy world snooker
championships at Sheffield. 14: Italian Formula 1 racing driver Elio de Angelis
dies during race practice in France. 25: Runners in 30 cities help raise pounds
100 million in the 'Race against Time. ' 29: England allrounder Ian Botham
banned from first-class cricket after he admits taking cannabis.

Science 14: Gorbachov admits Chernobyl disaster figures of 92,000 people
evacuated, nine dead and 299 injured. 29: Chernobyl death toll climbs to 21.

JUNE

People 9: Policeman George Hammond back in uniform 16 months after being
seriously injured as he tried to stop a robbery. 10: Bob Geldof becomes honorary
knight. Marries Paula yates on 21st. 11: Oliva Channon (22), daughter of Cabinet
Minister Paul Channon, found dead after party at Oxford University. 12: Derek
Hatton, Militant's deputy leader of Liverpool City Council, finally expelled
from Labour Party.

Crime 6: Colin Sampson, Chief Constable of West Yorkshire, to take over RUC
alleged shoot to kill policy inquiry from John Stalker, whose conduct he is
investigating. Later, Stalker is officially suspended from duty. 23: Brighton
bomber Patrick Magee jailed for 35 years for planting Provisional IRA bomb at
Conservative conference in Brighton. 23: Paris murder wave of the elderly claims
11th victim.

Abroad 6: World protest at election of Dr Kurt Waldheim as president of Austria.
12: State of emergency declared in South Africa after arrest of hundreds of
dissidents in dawn raids. 24: Denis Healey arrives in Johannesburg on four-day
visit but is barred from seeing imprisoned Nelson Mandela.

At home 5: David Steel warns Dr David Owen that Alliance faces almost certain
disaster at the next General Election unless it can settle nuclear differences.
12: Government confirms dissolution of Northern Ireland Assembly set up in 1982.

Sport 10: David Gower sacked as England cricket captain and replaced by Mike
Gatting. 19: England eliminated from World Cup as Argentina's Diego Maradona
says 'Hand of God' intervened in his first goal. 25: African nations threaten to
boycott Commonwealth Games if Zola Budd and Annette Crowley compete. 29:
Argentina beat West Germany 3-2 in World Cup final. 29: Richard Branson captures
trans-Atlantic Blue Riband.

JULY

People 13: Eduard Shevardnadze, Soviet Foreign Minister, arrives in Britain for
arms limitation talks. 30: Robert Kilroy-Silk, Labour MP for Merseyside Knowsley
North, quits politics claiming he has been driven out by members of Militant
Tendency.

Crime 4: Brian Chester acquitted of unlawful killing of John Shorthouse (5)
during police raid on his parents' Birmingham home. 21: Sidney Noble, notorious
Dr Death who preyed on sick and frail elderly women, given six life sentences.
28: Estate agent Susannah Lamplugh, 25, vanishes after taking 'Mr Kipper' to see
a west London house.

Abroad 4: President Reagan unveils refurbished pounds 171 million Statute of
Liberty. 6: Pope visits Amarmero, Colombo, which vanished in floods and mud
after volcano eruption. 10: Sir Geoffrey Howe sent packing by president Robert
Mugabe of Zimbabwe. 15: President Reagan agrees to Salt 2 talks in Geneva.

At home 20: Clash between No 10 and Buckingham Palace is denied following report
in The Sunday Times. 22: MPs decide by one vote to ban corporal punishment in
state schools.

Sport 6: Boris Becker retains Wimbledon Mens Singles championship, beating Ivan
Lendl. Women's champion is Martina Navratilova. Nigel Mansell wins French Grand
Priz. 13: Nigel Mansell wins British Grand Prix. 20: Boxer Frank Bruno knocked
out in world heavyweight fight with Tim Witherspoon. 27: Greg LeMond becomes
first non-European to win Tour de France cycle race.

Royalty 23: Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson married at Westminster Abbey.
Prince is created Duke of York. 24: Duke of Edinburgh opens Commonwealth Games
with 31 nations absent.

AUGUST

Business 6: Shares suffer record pounds 4 billion one-day drop. 15: Rolls Royce
wins pounds 600 million contract to build engines for Boeing 747s.

People 13: Prime Minister's personal popularity sinks to lowest level since last
General Election. 22: John Stalker, suspended deputy chief constable of Greater
Manchester, reinstated. 28: Mrs Thatcher returns to refurbished Grand Hotel,
Brighton, 22 months after the IRA bomb. 31: US journalist Nicholas Daniloff
arrested by Russians for spying.

Weather 24: Despite popular impression, summer has been about average, say Met.
Office.

Crime 15: Jayne Scott sent to prison for seven years after found guilty of
frenzied attack on her homosexual lover. 20: John Fleming, wanted for
questioning in connection with Brinks Mat gold robbery, held by US emigration
after being deported from Costa Rica.

Abroad 4; Commonwealth summit on South Africa ends in failure with Britain
isolated. British Army dismisses 111 Gurkhas after a brawl in which two senior
officers were injured.

25: Volcanic gas from Lake Nyon in Cameroon kills 1,500, affects another 20,000
and devastates lakeside population. 27: 21 die and 98 injured in feared rent
eviction clashes with police in South Africa. 29: East German family make
dramatic escape to West by driving lorry through checkpoint Charlie in Berlin
Wall.

At home 20: Government agrees to build another lane at cost of pounds 20 million
on busiest section of overcrowded M25. 27: 18 American F1-11 aircraft fly into
Wiltshire as US defence department denies any connection with Libya.

Media 1: Police inquiry into attack on TNT newspaper distribution centre by
200-strong mob who burnt copies of The Times and the Sun. 22: pounds 7 million
campaign launched to increase ailing circulation of Today as Lonrho assume
control.

Sport 3: Wembley turf is invaded by the padded giants of American football, the
Chicago Bears and Dallas Cowboys. 20: Bobby Robson to continue as England's
manager until after World Cup in 1990. 21: In Third Test against New Zealand,
Ian Botham takes three wickets to set world record of 357 wickets in Test
matches.

Medicine 6: Dr William Schroeder, who lived record 620 days with mechanical
heart, dies in US hospital. 7: President Reagan and White House staff submit to
drug tests as part of the administration's war on drugs.

Science 19: Sellafield nuclear reprocessing complex shut after radioactivity is
found to be above government safety limits.

Royals 5: Princess Anne has her first racing victory at Redcar. 7: Prince and
Princesse of Wales and children arrive in Majorca for a non-package holiday as
guests of King and Queen of Spain.

Anniversaries 13: Armed East German border guards and angry West Berliners jeer
across the Berlin Wall, 25 years after the city was split by barbed wire. 18:
Reykjavik, capital of Iceland, celebrates its bicentenary.

SEPTEMBER

Business 9: Bedford trucks announce cut back in production with 1,450 jobs loss.
11: Wall Street share prices tumble in sharpest fall since 1929 Great Crash,
London prices crash in sympathy. 24: TSB share offer ends. 25: Three senior
Austin Rover executives including chairman Harold Musgrove leave Rover Group.
Company loses pounds 200 million in first six months of 1986.

People 8: Archbishop of Canterbury visits Crossroads squatter camp with newly
enthroned Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, the Most Reverend Desmond Tutu. 24:
Mrs Edwina Currie, junior Health Minister, heavily criticzed for telling people
of Newcastle that their ill health was linked to poor diet, smoking and alcohol.

Crime 9: British football supporters linked to Heysel stadium disaster, Belgium,
formally accused of manslaughter at London court. 11: Strong police operation in
Bristol St Paul's area against drug dealing and violent crime erupts into riots
with 75 arrests. 29: Sheffield solicitor Ian Wood wanted in connection with
murder of his pregnant mistress and her young dauther climbs 200 feet up an
Amiens cathedral tower.

Abroad 5: American airliner seized by five gunmen in Karachi who kill 18 of the
400 passengers as plane is stormed by Pakistani commandos. In Istanbul, 21
worshippers are killed in their synagogue; one woman dies and 18 injured in
Paris bomb attack. 7: Soviet Union says journalist Nicholas Daniloff is to be
charged with spying. 16: 177 gold miners killed in fire more than one mile
underground at Kinross mine, Transvaal. 18: French military attache in Beirut is
shot and killed outside French Embassy in east Beirut. 29: Release of Nicholas
Daniloff and two prominent dissident Jews after superpower crisis and expulsion
from New York of American accused spy Gennady Zakharov. Superpower leaders
announces surprise summit in iceland.

At home 4: At TUC congress Neil Kinnock is told unions will fight relentlessly
his policy of winding down nuclear power industry. 8: Mrs Thatcher opens
Japanese car factory plant in Washington, County Durham, Labour Party publishes
plan to take British Telecom and other privatized industries into 'social
ownership. ' 19: Two passenger trains crash head on in Staffordshire, one dies,
many injured. 23: Heathrow swamped by immigrants before British introduction of
visas for passengers from Nigeria, Ghana, Pakistan, India and Bangladesh. 26:
Defiant Liberal leader David Steel vows to keep nuclear deterrent. 28: At Labour
Party conference Neil Kinnock pledges to reject US nuclear cover and to close
down their bases in Britain but defeats Arthur Scargill's attempt to commit
phasing out of nuclear energy within five years.

Sport 14: Australian Greg Norman wins European Open Golf Championship at
Sunningdale and Aston Villa manager Graham Turner is dismissed. 23: Cabinet
anger over Football League expulsion of Luton Town from Littlewoods Cup for
refusing to allow Cardiff City supporters into their ground in a fight against
hooliganism 27: Lloyd Honeyghan of Bermondsey becomes world welterweight boxing
champion.

Medicine 5: Survey reveals British senior executives work stressful 53 hours a
week and a quarter are too tired to make love after a working day. 22:
Ten-week-old Jem Paterson becomes world's youngest heart and lung transplant
patient after London hospital operation, but later dies.

Royals 12: First public engagement together as Duke and Duches of York as couple
visit a County Durham school for disturbed children. 17: Princess of Wales
brings back Fifties nostalgia as she sports swept back 'D A' hair style.

OCTOBER

Business 27: The City's Big Bang turns into a shambles as computer fails.

People 1: PC Philip Olds, shot and paralysed while tackling two gunmen, is found
dead. 19: President Machel of Mozambique and other government members killed
when their aircraft crashes on South African borders. 26: Jeffrey Archer resigns
as deputy chairman of Conservative Party after allegations in a Sunday
newspaper.

Crime 24: Nezer Hindawi, who tried to use his pregnant girlfriend as a human
bomb, sentenced to 45 years. Britain breaks off diplomatic links with Syria. 28:
Jeremy Bamber handed five life sentences for murder of his family at their Essex
farmhouse.

Abroad 10: Earthquakes shake El Salvador. Death toll eventually reaches 890 and
10,000 injured. 11: President Reagan and Mr Gorbachov fail to agree arms control
after two-day summit in Iceland. Followed by retaliatory expulsion of diplomats.

At home 1: Labour Party to phase out nuclear power in decades rather than
months, but votes in favour of a non-nuclear defence policy. 14: Angry parents
withdraw children from a Haringey, London, council primary school over 'gay lib'
policy. 21: Rumours of a marriage rift between the Archbishop of Canterbury and
his wife are condemned by his bishops as 'scurrilous and baseless'. 28: Peace
movement plans to distribute white poppies rather than traditional red for
Remembrance Sunday. 29: Mrs Thatcher opens final sector of M25.

Media 22: Kingsley Amis receives Booker Prize for The Old Devils.

Sport 5: Dancing Brave wins Prix de l'Arcc de Triomphe in record time. Gary
Kasparov retains the world chess championship against Anatoly Karpov. 26: Nigel
Mansell fails top win world formula championship against Anatoly Karpov. 26:
Nigel Mansell fails top win world formula championship when a tyre bursts during
Australian Grand Prix. 17: Birmingham loses to Barcelona in bid to host 1992
Olympics.

Royals 12: The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh visit China. The Duke tells English
students if they stay in China 'slitty-eyed'.

NOVEMBER

Business 23: Barclays announces selling of its interests in South Africa. 26:
More than 250,000 completed application forms arrive for sale of British Gas
shares.

People 17: First day of Australian court hearing to stop former MI5
counter-intelligence officer Peter Wright publishing his memoirs.

Crime 10: John Steed, dubbed the M4 rapist, given four life sentences for
attacks on young women in southern England. 17: Georges Besse, managing director
of Renault, shot dead in Paris.

Abroad 4: Details emerge of US hostage arms deal. Reagan later goes on
television to assume full responsibility for secret US operation. 25: Vice
Admiral John Poindexter, Reagan's national security adviser, North, shadow
military adviser, is sacked over Iran affair.

At home 4: Brent infants' school headteacher Maureen McGoldrick is reinstated
after being suspended for allegedly making racist remarks. 6: 45 oil rig men die
as a Chinook helicopter crashes into the sea in the Shetland Islands. 28:
Education secretary Kenneth Baker publishes his Bill giving him sweeping powers
to determine teachers' pay.

Media 5; Ban on News International papers in three Labour council-run public
libraries are declared unlawful. 12: Michael Lush dies while practising for Noel
Edmonds's Late Late Breakfast Show. 21: Robert Maxwell awarded pounds 55,000
libel damages against satirical magazine Private Eye.

Medicine 21: AIDS cases in Britain reach 512. Government reacts with pounds 20
million shock tactics campaign.

Royals 26: Historian Francis Watson says King George V died pematurely because
his doctor administered injections of cocaine and morphine so that the morning
newspapers, including The Times, would be the frirst to carry his death
announcement.

DECEMBER

Business 19: Government wins its case to scrap GEC's Nimrod spy plane in favour
of American AWACS.

People 12: A doctor is acquitted of raping a girl (8) while she slept at his
home. 20: John Stalker, to quit.

Crime 5: Sebastian Guinness jailed for his part in the death of Olivia Channon
who died of drink and heroin overdose at an Oxford party. 16: Moors murderess
Myra Hindley returns 20 years later to bleak Saddleworth Moor, Yorkshire, to
help search for more bodies.

Aboard 7: French Premier Jacques Chirac withdraws his controversial University
reform Bill student rioting. 11: South Africa imposes sweeping new censorship of
radio, newspaper and TV reporting. 14: 98 die and 310 injured in worst outbreak
of ethnic violence in recent history of Karachi. 19: Soviet Union announces end
to the internal exile of Dr Andrei Sakharov.

At home 7: Left-wing Brent council drops proceedings against Miss McGoldrick.
11: Sellafield nuclear plant threatened with closure unless modifications are
made. 20: Conservatives leap to 8.5 per cent lead over Labour in Gallup survey.

Sport 14: America fails to reach America's Cup final for first time in 135 years
after being beaten by New Zealand. 15: Nigel Short, Britain's top ranked chess
grandmaster, defeats Soviet World champion, Gary Kasparov. 19: Former champion
jockey Lester Piggott accused of making a false tax statement. 27: England
retain Ashes after innings and 14 run-victory.

Medicine 18: Miner's wife Davina Thompson (35) given new heart, lungs and liver
in seven-hour transplant.

Arts 1: Sunlit street scene by Manet becomes most expansive modern painting sold
at auction at pounds 7.7 million.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 6, 1987

High stakes by expensive sea and sun / Euromonitor analysis of the UK travel and
tourism industry

BYLINE: By TONY MAY

LENGTH: 547 words


The holiday industry is busily cranking up its machine. From the time on
Christmas Day when the first holiday advert of the season sent a bronzed torso
across the TV screens of the nation, we have been urged, expensively, to think
of sun and sea rather than slush and drizzle.

The expense is justified as far as the industry is concerned because the stakes
are high. The UK travel and tourism industry is worth about pounds 5.5 billion
to Britain annually, and according to recent analysis by Euromonitor, is set to
grow steadily to the end of the decade.


By 1988, visitors to the UK could be spending pounds 7.5 billion, while domestic
travel and tourism will account for another pounds 7 billion, making this
Britain's largest industry.

Despite the short-term effects of the stay-home by Americans last summer and the
increase in accidents and terrorist incidents, the underlying trend is expected
to remain strong in all aspects of the business.

Although recent bad publicity has cast a shadow over Spain, the number one
charter destination for UK sunlovers, it is still holding off a strong challenge
by Greece which Euromonitor says accounts for a drop of 2 million in Spain's
quota of UK holidaymakers.

Looking at air travel, Euromonitor's report says that charter traffic in general
is lower but scheduled business has more than made up for this. With relaxed
government controls on airlines, UK companies are finding that new business is
looking up, as happened in the US. A greater range of destinations and flights
was offered in 1985 than ever before.

Traffic is climbing and previously-troubled companies are flying back into the
black. Euromonitor detects a mood of optimism amid the competition and says that
the traveller has never had it so good, especially where flying to and from the
UK is concerned.

The sea-travel business has been in the doldrums with little sign of growth
since 1980 and ferry operators are naturally jittery at the prospect of the
Channel Tunnel opening. Until then, however, Euromonitor expects that it will be
business as usual for the cross-Channel ferries.

More buoyant by far is the fly/cruise business which has been taking off quietly
in the past few years. On top of the 13.1 million people who sailed in or out of
the UK in 1985, sea cruises managed to fill an extra 10,000 berths, out of our
ports last year (1986) - an increase of 12 per cent - and this trend is expected
to continue.

All is not well for travel by land however, and the reports picks out the coach
travel business as one in need of attention. Euromonitor says coach travel has
been slowing down over the past five years, again due to bad publicity and 'a
traditionally bad image amongst the travelling public. ' However the reports
says that coach operators are showing signs of optimism and are eager to make up
for missed opportunities.

The report also detects an urgent need for more hotels in the UK, 'especially in
London where the lack of medium-range beds is getting acute. '

Summing up, the report concludes that while there are some hurdles to be
cleared, like a projected rise in the cost of aviation fuel and disastrous
currency fluctuations, the future is challenging but bright for our travel
companies.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 9, 1987

Financial Notebook: The Home Counties might love an equity but you should see
Scarsdale and Akasaka / Comment on stock market surge

BYLINE: Edited by HAMISH McRAE

LENGTH: 1032 words


One side effect of the British Airways float will be to satisfy, to a modest
extent, the global hunger for equities.

Trying to explain the further world-wide surge in equity prices is pretty much
of a mug's game, but the main markets are so inter-linked that it only really
makes sense to talk in global terms.


The really big question is whether we are moving into a period where there will
be a continuing structural shortage of financial assets world-wide, a shortage
akin perhaps to the shortage of housing that has prevailed in most of Western
Europe during much of the post-war period.

You can see, looking at Britain, at least two reasons on the demand side why
such a shortage may continue for some time. One is domography. Our aging
population will increasingly seek to spend any surplus income generated during a
working career on building up financial assets to provide an income.

The other is the intergenerational transfer of wealth, as the surplus assets
(mostly in housing) held by the generation now in retirement is passed to the
children of that group. These assets are now seeking a home in securities,
rather than in housing, for the children in the main already have their own
homes.

Both these points hold to some extent in the US and in Japan, though the US has
yet to generate a surplus of savings, and is relying on Japan to provide that.

On the demand side, you could argue that the world has been lucky, with the US
Government (and the Japanese) providing an extraordinary amount of new fixed
interest debt over the last five or so years. Now they (and of course ourselves
and the French) are providing large wodges of equity in privatised ventures.

These are not new financial assets in the sense that they are merely
substituting gilts for equities. In accounting terms it does not really matter
whether governments issue gilts or sell the shares of nationalised industries.
Both represent borrowings.

But it does give investers greater portfolio choice. And equities, for the other
reasons noted above, seem to be what people want.

Does this amount to a global equity shortage lasting through the rest of this
century? Who knows? But as an issue it matters terribly ..and not just to the
promoters of the BA issue.

Pathfinder

THE STOCK market flotation of British Airways could hardly have come at a better
time for all those involved, with UK share prices at peak levels.

Yesterday's Pathfinder prospectus showed that 720.2 million shares will be put
up for sale on February 6. Dealings should start on February 11.

Although the price, yield and other details will not be published until the end
of this month, it looks as BA shares will be offered for sale at between 115p
and 125p each. This is expected to be around 6 per cent and a similar
price-earnings ratio will value the airline at around pounds 900 million.

Essentially the shares are being aimed at the institutions, here and abroad.
Some 10 per cent is already earmarked for employees and 30 per cent for the
general public. Overseas investors will get up to 20 per cent of the equity. But
the largest single chunk of shares are destined for the institutions.

The minimum investment is 400 shares which on our assumptions would be an outlay
of around pounds 500 for the ordinary investor.

Politically it would be embarrassing to Ministers if Sid and his many relatives
thought all share flotations had a built-in profit. Everyone connected with the
issue is anxious to point out the higher risk and volatility of the airline
business and the marketing effort is being directed heavily at the institutions
who are better equipped to cope with risky and cyclical businesses.

BA itself is currently enduring a very difficult year. Profits will drop by a
third to around pounds 145 million. While profits will probably recover next
year, airlines remain vulnerable to things like terrorist attacks, oil prices
and Government intervention.

As we say, institutions are better equipped to cope with such cyclical
industries and it is fortunate for all concerned that BA is being floated in a
booming market.

Bank harmony

THE harmonisation of bank capital ratios must rank alongside the common
agricultural policy as an issue the importance of which is exceeded only by its
incomprehensibility to the ordinary mortal.

In principle the whole matter is terribly simple, and can be explained in four
short points.

Point one is that banks are invariably short of capital. They don't look it;
indeed if they spent a bit less on tower blocks and the other accoutrements of
wealth they would be less short of capital. But capital is the seed corn of
banking, as banks can only take in deposits and grant loans in proportion to
their capital resources.

Point two is that they have tried over the last few years to develop all sorts
of ways of both economising on capital - most obviously by issuing securities
for companies (which do not figure on balance sheets), instead of lending them
money (which does) - and of finding clever devices for adding to capital - like
perpetual floating rate notes. But they are reaching the limits of what is
possible, and some devices, like those perpetual notes have back-fired, for
these are now virtually untradeable.

Point three is that different countries have different rules over the extent to
which capital has to be set aside against different types of loans and deposits,
and different rules as to how capital is calculated. This gives an unfair
commercial advantage to banks which operate under a liberal regime, though
perhaps puts these banks at greater commercial and prudential risk.

Point four is that to try to make banking competition fair you have to try to
get international agreement on the rules of the game. And that is what
yesterday's agreement between the US and Britain does. Japan please copy.

Ir is also important for another reason. The better the cooperation between
regulatory authorities on the sort of issue the better the hope for agreement on
other big issues in international finance ..like rules on insider dealings and
takeover strategy for a start.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 18 1987, Sunday

A-Z of Britain's warheads on wheels

BYLINE: JANE THYNNE and DAVID WHITE

SECTION: Issue 8476.

LENGTH: 889 words


The movement of nuclear weapons around Britain is a guarded secret which came
under scrutiny last week. JANE THYNNE and DAVID WHITE plot the convoy routes

TRAFFIC on the A303 in Wiltshire last Wednesday was waved to a halt by a force
of police and American servicemen as a cruise missile convoy of 45 vehicles
filed off Salisbury Plain.


The convoy, incapacitated by the weather, was heading for the shelter of RAF
Boscombe Down, in an unprecedented daylight manoeuvre. Peace campaigners noted
the incident and by Thursday Labour MPs had tabled a Commons motion criticising
the handling of nuclear convoys.

The same sharp reaction to a relatively minor incident followed the crash last
weekend of an RAF convoy, which highlighted the risks of transporting nuclear
cargoes by road.

The two Mammoth Major lorries which skidded off an icy road east of Salisbury
are believed to have been carrying nuclear depth charges from Portsmouth to be
reconditioned at the ordnance factory at Burghfield, near Reading. The convoy
was about to stop at Dean Hill, the navy arms depot that serves Portsmouth.

At least one nuclear weapon convoy is on the road in Britain at any time. The
American cruise missile convoys, which have received by far the most attention
from anti-nuclear groups, actually carry no live warheads on their nocturnal
journeys between Greenham Common and Salisbury Plain. However, an estimated
200-300 live British nuclear warheads travel between Burghfield and destinations
in Devon, Cornwall, Hampshire, East Anglia and Scotland.

Britain's nuclear weapons fall into three categories: Chevaline warheads fitted
to the four Polaris submarines; WE-177 lay-down tactical bombs carried by RAF
Tornados; and the anti-submarine depth charges, which can be dropped by plane or
ship.

Radioactive material for the bombs is prepared at the atomic weapons research
establishment at Aldermaston in Berkshire, before going on the short journey to
the ordnance factory at Burghfield where core material is fitted.

From there, depth charges go to naval bases at Plymouth, Portsmouth and Rosyth;
Chevaline warheads to the Coulport naval arms depot which serves the nuclear
submarine base at Faslane, Strathclyde; and the WE-177 bombs to RAF Honington,
Marham and St Mawgan.

Peace groups, such as CND and Polariswatch, estimate that 600 nuclear convoys
travel on main roads and motorways, barely skirting major towns, every year.

Nuclear weapons have a life estimated at between one and two years, after which
the radioactive components begin to decay and give off heat, interfering with
the electronic firing mechanisms.

Half the convoys are composed of old weapons on their way back to Burghfield to
be stripped down. In addition, each week about two convoys carrying weapon core
material travel from Burghfield to Sellafield for reprocessing.

Until 1980 weapons were moved around Britain in civilian trucks, trains or
around the coast in ships. But the risk of terrorist attack led the Ministry of
Defence to begin its own 'in-house' convoy operations, coordinated by a top
secret division known as the Special Safety Organisation.

This force, which is run from RAF Locking at Weston-super-Mare, is composed of
SAS-trained air force troops and marines. A routine convoy like that which
slipped off the road last weekend would comprise 11 vehicles and be accompanied
by more than 25 troops, many of them heavily armed.

Unlike cruise convoys, which always perform their 'dispersion exercises' after
dark, the fully armed nuclear convoys always travel in daylight.

It takes three days for the two Polaris convoys that leave Burghfield every week
to make their way to Coulport. Taking one of three routes, they stop at a base
every four hours. All the conveys vary their journeys.

Although these routes include some country roads, British safety and security
precautions are reckoned by military experts to be the best in the world. The
Americans, who transport their weapons by rail in armoured 'white' trains, admit
to almost 70 accidents involving nuclear convoys since 1960.

The British government, however, refuses to comment on any aspect of the
transport of nuclear weapons. Peace campaigners, on the other hand, claim
convoys have met with some kind of accident on average every six months for the
past five years. Before last weekend, the most serious accident involved a
collision between two weapon-carrying vehicles leaving Coulport in 1985.

Peace campaigners accept that there is no danger of a nuclear bomb being
detonated through an accident during transit. But they cite the American air
force estimate of the worst results of a collision: servicemen are told to
expect contamination of an area 28 miles long and 2.5 miles wide. This would
result from fire melting the plutonium, and probably the uranium in the
warheads, sending out a plume of toxic and radioactive smoke. If an explosion
hit the weapons, particles of radioactive material could be spread even further.

The United States has many times more warheads in this country than the British
forces have, but it hardly ever transports bombs by road. Weapons are
refurbished in America, flying from bases at Upper Heyford and Lakenheath, the
only risk to British civilians being in an air crash.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 21, 1987

Guildford hit / Case of people convicted for 1974 IRA pub bombings in Guildford
and Woolwich

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY and MICHAEL ZANDER

LENGTH: 340 words


The month before the Birmingham explosions the IRA bombing and shooting campaign
on mainland Britain, which lasted through the winter of 1974 and late into 1975,
had killed seven people and injured 92.

On October 5, 1974, two bombs blasted the Horse and Groom and the Seven Stars,
pubs used by British soldiers in Guildford, killing five people. On November 7 a
bomb was thrown through the window of another soldiers' pub, the King's Head in
Woolwich, killing two.


Within a month, four people were arrested Patrick Armstrong, Gerry Conlon, Paul
Hill (all Belfast born) and Carole Richardson, Armstrong's girl friend, were
charged with conspiring 'with persons unknown' to cause explosions at Guildford
Hill and Armstrong were also charged with the Woolwich bombing.

Their trial took place in October 1975. The Crown case was based on their
confessions which all of them repudiated in court.

The four went to prison but the IRA offensive continued for a year. Many of the
later bombings, in particular that of another soldiers' pub at Caterham, bore
the hallmarks of the Guildford bombing.

The bombings stopped suddenly in December 1975 when four members of an IRA
Active Service Unit were arrested after the police siege of a house in Balcombe
Street, London. Three confessed that they were responsible for the Guildford
bombings and two for the Woolwich bombings.

In October 1977, the four people accused of the Guildford and Woolwich bombings
had their case brought to the Appeal Court on the basis that new evidence - that
is the confessions of the Balcombe Street IRA men - had emerged The three Appeal
court judges, while accepting that the Balcombe Street men had been involved in
the Guildford and Woolwich explosions, found there was in sufficient evidence to
overturn the earlier convictions.

In June 1986, serious doubt about the convictions were raised again by a
Yorkshire Television investigation which examined the way in which the four
people had 'confessed' under pressure from the police.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 21, 1987

Outrage in Birmingham / Appeal Court to review case of six Irishmen convicted of
1974 pub bombings

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY and MICHAEL ZANDER

LENGTH: 1803 words


At 8.11 pm on Thursday, November 21, 1974, the IRA announced their most
grotesque murder. 'The code word is Double X,' said the caller, in a calm voice
to the duty telephonist at the Birmingham Post and Mail, 'There is a bomb
planted in the Rotunda and there is a bomb in New Street. '

Six minutes later the first device exploded in the Mulberry Bush, a two-storey
public house in the base of the huge and ugly Rotunda 20-storey tower block
which dominates the centre of Birmingham. A few minutes later there was an
explosion at Tavern in the Town, 300 yards away.


Both pubs were packed. Twenty-one people were killed, and 160 injured. It was
the biggest mass murder in British history. The police were under tremendous
pressure to catch the killers. Within five hours of the bombings six Irishmen
had been arrested, and after three days of police interrogation four of them
signed confessions admitting they had planted the bombs. But the 'confessions'
contradicted each other, and were at odds with evidence from the scene. Forensic
tests were also said to show that at least two of them had recently handled
explosives.

On August 16, 1975, after a 45-day trial at Lancaster Castle, Hugh Callaghan,
Paddy Hill, Gerry Hunter, Dick McIlkenny, Bill Power, and John Walker were
convicted. Each was given 21 live sentences for the bombings.

All the men had lived in Birmingham for a considerable time, and all, except
Callaghan, were arrested as they boarded the boat at Heysham for a short visit
to Ireland. Callaghan had seen them off from Birmingham New Street station, but
did not have enough money to accompany them.

They were on the way to Ireland for the funeral of James McDade, an IRA man who
had blown himself up the previous week when bombing a telephone exchange in
Coventry.

The police investigation into the Birmingham pub bombings was conducted in an
atmosphere of huge anti-Irish feeling - there had been a wave of IRA bombings in
many English cities and towns. The Labour Government rushed through the
Prevention of Terrorism Act which even the then Home Secretary, Roy Jenkins,
described as 'draconian. '

The fact that they were Irish, all born in Northern Ireland, and had been seen
together in Birmingham on the night of the bombing excited the West Midlands
police.

But the six were an up likely group to form an IRA unit. They were aged between
29 and 44 years and all were married with children and had lived in England for
between 11 and 27 years. None were members of Sim Fein, but like many Catholics
from Northern Ireland, some of them had republican sympathies and drank in Irish
pubs in Birmingham. But the IRA denied the six were members, and after their
conviction there was no reason for that organisation to continue with this
denial.

The police case was this the six men had met in New Street station bar, had
distributed bombs among themselves in plastic bags before going off and planting
them. Then they returned to the station, and five boarded the train to Heysham
and the Irish boat.

But there were no identifying witnesses to the New Street meeting and the
passing around of plastic bags, no fingerprints in any incriminating place, no
traces of explosive on the men's clothes, luggage, or in their homes. Nor were
any bomb-making materials.

At the trial, evidence for the Crown was given by Dr Frank Skuse, the Home
Office forensic scientist, who, using a preliminary screening test called the
Griess Test, had taken swabs from the men's hands. He told the trial that Hill
and Power and been in contact with nitroglycerine explosive. Other more
sensitive tests failed to produce any such conclusion.

Dr Hugh Black, a former Home Office chief inspector of explosives, testified for
the defence. He said that contact with such commonplace items as playing cards,
leatherette material, and furniture polish would give identical results. (The
five men had been playing cards on the boat train. ) Dr Black also testified
that a number of other quite common substances would produce the same result in
the Griess test as nitro-glycerine. Moreover, Hill and Power, the two men with
forensic evidence against them, were painters by trade.

During the trial four of the men said they had been savagely beaten by police in
Birmingham during the questioning which led to the 'confessions. '

The six men applied to the Court of Appeal for leave to challenge their
convictions, but in March 1976, Lord Widgery, sitting with two other judges,
said there was nothing 'unsafe or unsatisfactory' about their convictions. In
November 1977 the men tried to sue the police for assaulting them. But their
action was stopped by Lord Denning in the Court of Appeal in January 1980, who
upheld an appeal by West Midlands and Lancashire police against the action.

Lord Denning said: 'If the six men win, it will mean that the police were guilty
of perjury, that they were guilty of violence and threats, that the confessions
were involuntary and were improperly admitted in evidence; and that the
convictions were erroneous. That would mean that the Home Secretary would have
either to recommend that they be pardoned, or he would have to remit the case to
the Court of Appeal. This is such an appalling vista that every sensible person
in the land would say 'It cannot be right that those actions should go any
further. ' They should be struck out. '

The thrust of Lord Denning's surprising statement has been taken by some of the
defence lawyers to mean that he was saying the action should be stopped because
the men might win, and the consequences of this were too 'appalling' to be
allowed to happen.

The Birmingham bombs case was then hauled before the House of Lords, where in
October 1981, Lord Diplock merely confirmed Denning's decision.

In October 1985, 11 years after the bombings, Granada TV's investigatory
programme World in Action commissioned two forensic scientists who, working
independently, confirmed that Dr Skuse's Griess test results could never have
conclusively proved the men had handled explosives. A world authority in
forensic evidence, who examined photographs taken of the six while they were in
police and prison custody, also said in the programme that he was 'completely
confident' that they had been injured before leaving police custody, and had
subsequently sustained further injuries.

Days after the programme, Dr Skuse took early retirement from the Home Office,
and this in turn prompted MPs to ask the Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, last
June whether there had been any investigation of Skuse's handling of the case.
The Home Secretary replied that although a number of Skuse's cases had indeed
been reviewed, 'nothing emerged from these reviews. which cast doubt on the
safety of the convictions in the cases concerned. '

Following the programme, a dossier of the World in Action findings was passed to
the Home Office by Sir John Farr, Conservative MP for Harborough, which includes
Gartree prison where Hill is gaoled. Sir John said the Home Secretary must hold
a retrial on the strength of the fresh evidence.

The Home Secretary then launched a police inquiry into the soundness of the
forensic evidence in the Lancaster trial which, apart from the alleged
confessions, formed the main plank of the prosecution case.

Last December, World in Action revealed further evidence on these two critical
areas of the case. A former Birmingham policeman told how the six Irishmen were
threatened with guns, beaten in police custody, and kept without food and drink.

Mr Chris Mullin, an author and investigative journalist who had researched the
World in Action programme before writing his own book about the case, Error of
Judgement, The Truth About the Birmingham Bombs (Chatto and Windus) was by now
totally convinced that the six men in gaol were innocent.

On June 26, Mr Hurd said in a written Commons reply that he had ordered a police
inquiry into Mullin's claim that he had identified four men, still free, who
took part in the bombings. This inquiry is in the hands of the West Midlands
police, the same force responsible for questioning and charging the six men in
1974.

Hugh Daniel Callaghan: age 56. Born in the Ardoyne district of Belfast, moved to
Birmingham in 1947. Lived with his wife and daughter in a council house in
Erdington. At the time of the bombings he had been out of work with an ulcer for
four years (last worked as a checker for an engineering firm).

Patrick Joseph (Paddyjoe) Hill: age 42. Born in Ardoyne family moved to
Birmingham in 1960. By 1970, Hill had 17 convictions for brawling, breaking and
entering, and violence, mainly against his wife. In 1962 served three months in
detention for safebreaking, and in 1970 served 13 months in prison for stabbing
three night club bouncers. Helped with fund raising for the families of
internees in Northern Ireland. At the crime of the bombings, he had been off
work for a year following in operation, and was on social security.

Robert Gerald Hunter: age 40. From Ardoyne, came to Birmingham in 1963 at the
age of 17 and acquired two minor convictions. Married a Birmingham girl and
worked as an industrial painter at the same firm as Hill, McDade and Power. He
left his job one month before the bombings and claimed social security.

'Captain' Noel Richard McIlkenny: age 53. Left Belfast at 17 to enlist in the
army of the Irish Republic from which he was discharged after three years on
compassionate grounds. Came to Britain in 1956, married an Irish girl and had
five children. Helped organise fund raising in Birmingham for the families of
internees.

William 'Billy' Power: age 41. Emigrated to England in 1963 to escape
unemployment in Belfast. Married an Irish girl and had four children. His father
had been a sergeant major in the British army. Worked as industrial painter in
Birmingham, sometimes with Hunter. Was an obsessive gambler.

John Walker: age 51. Born in Londonderry, came to England at the age of 17. Did
National Service from 1954-1956 with Royal Irish Fuslliers, for a time in Kenya.
Married Irish girl, had six children the eldest of whom, Bernadette, gave
evidence for the prosecution. Was not from a republican background, but was
converted by the Bloody Sunday incident which took place in his native Bogside,
and by being caught in British/IRA crossfire on one of his few visits to
Ireland. In 1973 became treasurer of fund-raising organisation for Prisoners'
Dependents Relief Fund which was based at Sinn Fein headquarters in Dublin. He
was not a member of Sinn Fein, but had many friends who were. Since 1969, he had
been working as a crane driver at Carrington's forging and press-works at
Witton, Birmingham. One of his colleagues was McIlkenny.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 21, 1987

Birmingham six allowed appeal, but Hurd snubs other bombers

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 866 words


The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, confirmed yesterday that he has referred to
the Court of Appeal the cases of six men gaoled for life for the 1974 Birmingham
public house bombings.

He told the Commons he was acting on new information about scientific evidence
and after a former officer had made allegations of police intimidation and
violence in obtaining confessions.


Mr Hurd said that the Griess test for explosives used in the Birmingham case had
been criticised by the defence; he had had it reappraised by the Aldermaston
Forensic Science Laboratory. A different test, the TLC test, had been used on
the Maguire family, and doubts about its validity had been discounted. Mr Hurd
said the Aldermaston report on the Griess test had been placed in the House of
Commons library.

The six were Hugh Callaghan, Patrick Hill, Robert Hunter, Richard McIlkenny,
William Power and John Walker.

The families of the six men rejoiced at the news. Mrs Kate McIlkenny, wife of
Richard, said an Appeal Court hearing was long overdue. 'It's terrific -
absolutely everything has been worthwhile. ' Mrs McIlkenny, who has been in the
forefront of the campaign for a retrial, said: 'We hope and trust in God that
they will come home, and if they don't we will keep on. If we have to fight for
another 12 years we will do. '

But Mr Hurd said that, after another review, he had rejected calls for a
reference to the court of the cases of seven members of the Maguire family,
sentenced to 12 years for making bombs, and of four people convicted of murder
in pub bombings at Guildford, Surrey, and Woolwich, London. The four have been
in prison for 13 years and are serving the longest gaol sentences ever imposed
in Britain - 21 life terms apiece.

He said that in these cases there was no new evidence or consideration of
substance which could give grounds for a reference. The Home Secretary also
announced that Devon and Cornwall Constabulary would further investigate
allegations by Mr Tom Clarke, formerly a Birmingham police constable, that five
of the Birmingham six had been intimidated in police custody and that there had
been signs of injury on them.

Twenty-one people were killed and 160 injured by IRA bombs placed in the
Mulberry Bush pub and the Tavern in the Town in the centre of Birmingham in
November, 1974.

The previous month, bombs planted in public houses crowded with soldiers at
Guildford and Woolwich killed seven people and injured 92.

Since the convictions, a number of television investigations, principally a
programme by Granada's World in Action, have discredited the accuracy of
forensic tests which the Crown used to prove that two of the Birmingham men had
handled explosives. The same programme also discovered the new evidence about
the alleged assaults on the men while they were in police custody.

In addition, a book has been published which contains interviews with IRA men
who claim to have been responsible for the bombings.

Similar doubts about the convictions of the so-called Guildford Four have been
raised by journalistic investigations into the bombings for which they were
convicted. These resolve around the way in which the accused were convicted on
their own confessions which they retracted. Moreover, after the Balcombe Street
siege in Marylebone, central London, three of the people arrested said they had
been involved in the Woolwich and Guildford bombings.

Mr Hurd told MPs that all 17 people concerned in the Birmingham, Guildford and
Woolwich cases 'were found guilty of very serious offences by a jury following
lengthy trials. The verdicts in each case were later upheld on appeal.

'A Home Secretary must consider very carefully in what circumstances if any he
would be justified in interfering with a verdict reached by the courts. '

He said that, over the years, people's view of a case could change as a result
of improvements of police procedures and scientific tests, the publication of
books or television programmes. But he said it would be an abuse of his powers
if he were to act as though he constituted some higher court of law.

Mr Gerald Kaufman, the Shadow Home Secretary, praised Mr Hurd for referring the
Birmingham case to the Court of Appeal. But he said he was disappointed that
similar action had not been taken in the Guildford and Woolwich cases and in
that of the Maguires. 'You should have bitten the bullet on these two cases
also,' he said.

He urged the Home Secretary to set up an inquiry after the Birmingham appeal to
consider the general question of confession evidence and how it should be
handled in the future. 'We ought to consider very carefully whether
uncorroborated confessions should be admissible as evidence.

Ms Gareth Pearce, the solicitor representing Hill, Walker and Callaghan, said
that she had spoken to Hill and Callaghan, who are in Gartree prison, Leicester,
after the Home Secretary's announcement.

'They are both extremely realistic about it. We are cautiously pleased that the
first steps have been taken in terms of getting this case back before a jury,
the only rightful place where a case such as this should be considered.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 22, 1987

Second man in Syria falls from grace / Disappearance of intelligence chief
al-Khouli

BYLINE: By IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 622 words


General Muhammad al-Khouli, the powerful head of Syrian Air Force Intelligence,
and the man said to have ordered Nezar Hindawi to plant a bomb on an Israeli
airliner at Heathrow airport last April, has dropped out of sight and may have
been sacked or even imprisoned by President Hafez el Assad.

According to diplomatic and intelligence sources in Washington, Europe, and the
Middle East, General al-Khouli's quiet disappearance is a clear signal from
President Assad that he is disassociating himself from acts of terrorism
attributed to Syria in recent years.


General al-Khouli, the most influential man in Damascus after the President, has
long been identified by Israeli and Western intelligence services as the man in
charge of Syrian 'special operations' and links with Palestinian organisations
like the notorious Abu Nidal group.

He was named in the old Bailey last october as the man who ordered Hindawi to
plant a bomb on the El Al plane at Heathrow. Two of his subordinates were also
involved in the affair, and there have been reports that one of them, Colonel
Mufid Akour, has been arrested on suspicion of spying for Israel.

Hindawi, a Jordanian of Palestinian origin, was sentenced to 45 years in prison
after giving, a sophisticated bomb to his pregnant Irish girlfriend, Anne Marie
Murphy, shortly befare she boarded the Israeli jumbo. Had the device exploded
and the 375 people on board died, it could have led to a Middle East war.

Britain severed diplomatic relations with Syria after the London trial, and
several other countries recalled their ambassadors from Damascus for indefinite
consultations or imposed limited economic sanctions. The Syrians claim that
Hindawi and they were 'framed' by Israel's Mossad secret service, but the
evidence of official Syrian involvement in the London plot seemed
incontrovertible

Middle East experts have long been puzzled by the bomb attempt, arguing that if
Mr Assad did know about Hindawi, it was uncharacteristic of the normally
cautious president to take a risk that could easily have invited large-scale
Israeli retaliation - despite the obvious difficulty there would have been in
tracing the perpetrators had the operation succeeded.

While some analysts believe that it is inconceivable that General al-Khouli
would have acted without express orders from President Assad, others argue that,
whoever did control Hindawi, did so on his own initiative to assuag the
President's rage over Israel's interception of a Libyan plane carrying Lebanese
and Syrian politicians to Damascus the previous February.

Shortly before the British decision to sever relations, Syrian officials told
western diplomats in Damascus that President Assad knew who was responsible for
the London operation and would 'deal with him' when the time was ripe.

Diplomatic sources say that there have been reports about General al-Khouli
being in trouble for several months at the same time as one of his bitterest
rivals, General Ali Duba, chief of Syrian military intelligence, has become more
prominent and thus better placed in the struggle for succession when Mr Assad,
who has long been in poor health, dies.

According to one source, al-Khouli is now in the notorious Mezze prison, but
others say this is unlikely. 'Al-Khouli is definitely making his way out,' one
Western diplomat said yesterday, 'but I don't see the Syrians doing anything
very dramatic, because it would be an admission that something is wrong with
their intelligence services. '

The general, a career military man in his mid-fifties, has been a close personal
friend and confident of President Assad since the President's stint as commander
of the air force in the 1960s.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 28 1987, Wednesday

Leading Article: Staying on in Lebanon

SECTION: Issue 62677.

LENGTH: 534 words


It is a tribute to the effort and achievement of Mr Terry Waite that concern for
his welfare in Lebanon has spread beyond family and Church to affect a more
universal parish. This concern reflects not just the respect which he has won,
but the environment which he has entered.

Yet within the cauldron of political and religious enmity in modern Lebanon also
live 166 British nationals - the rump of the much larger community that existed
during happier days in the Levant. Only one British subject remains outside
Beirut, while 138 are in the Eastern, mainly Christian half of the city. While
there must be unease for their safety, concern is more naturally focused on the
other 27, comprising 14 families, who remain in the Muslim enclave to the West.


Of 76 foreigners who have been kidnapped in Beirut in recent times, 26 are, as
far is known, still being held. Thirteen of them have been seized by one
extremist grouping or another since Mr Waite began his latest mission to the
country. Is there anything one can do to end this threat?

Kidnapping by ruthless zealots in Beirut is not a new phenomenon. What is
different today is that they seek their hostages among Beirut's dwindling
international community. Securing their release is a difficult and dangerous
business in which success can at best be limited.

In Washington the chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee, a liberal
Democrat, has talked of military action against Lebanon, if that government's
complicity should be proved. This is perhaps unlikely. But a retaliatory attack
on terrorist camps in the Bekaa valley, which the French carried out in 1984 and
which Dr Henry Kissinger has been suggesting this week, cannot be ruled out.

That response might be open to a superpower. Britain, however, has more
restricted options. Whitehall can hardly order British subjects to leave
Lebanon. Indeed, all the families in West Beirut have yet again refused to leave
despite being advised to do so. Some of them have lived all their lives in the
country and have no other home.

But the circumstances are now such that the Government should renew its warning
to them that in the event of their being kidnapped, little can be done to get
them back. This is a fact of life which must be apparent to the people
themselves. But they should also understand that there are no concessions which
this country could or should make on their behalf.

In most circumstances, it is not the practice of the Foreign Office to turn its
back on those who run undue risks. As far as possible, British nationals should
enjoy the protection of the Crown wherever they may be. But a clear restatement
of British policy, which acknowledged the near-impossibility of negotiating the
release of hostages in Lebanon, might be the best service one could perform for
them. It would at least tell those who presecute them that they stand to gain
nothing by their action.

The results of Mr Waite's mission remain yet to be seen. One must hope he will
succeed and come home safely. Should he fail, however, one must question the
wisdom of further expeditions of this kind. They are expeditions to a country at
war with itself.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 17 1987, Tuesday

Howe says no secret Syria deal on Waite

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 62694.

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS


Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, yesterday strongly denied reports that
Britain was prepared to upgrade its relations with Syria as part of a secret
deal to secure the release of Mr Terry Waite, the Archbishop of Canterbury's
special envoy being held in Lebanon. He described the suggestion as astonishing,
saying Britain would have nothing to do with Syria until it stopped supporting
terrorism.

Sir Geoffrey told a meeting of EEC foreign ministers that a Second Secretary in
the British-interest section of the Australian Embassy in Damascus had been
replaced by a First Secretary, but this occured before Mr Waite's disappearance.


Sir Geoffrey said he was 'absolutely astonished' by reports that Britain was
upgrading its ties with Damascus. This was 'totally without foundation. '

He said Britain was in touch with a number of governments and with individuals
in Lebanon to try to free Mr Waite and other British hostages, and was concerned
to obtain information about Mr Waite and see him safe.

'But these contacts do not include Syria .. Our position remains that we will
make no concessions to terrorists. Syria has been shown to be involved in
terrorism. '

Last year the EEC, at Britain's behest, imposed diplomatic and trade sanctions
against Syria on the grounds that it had backed terrorist acts in Europe. Sir
Geoffrey said no improvement in relations was possible until Damascus had proved
it had abandoned such involvement.

The EEC foreign ministers yesterday discussed aid to non-EEC Mediterranean
nations, but excluded Syria from the list of aid recipients. They did not
approve emergency aid to Lebanon, as proposed by the Commission this week.

They also called for a ceasefire in the 'camps war' in Lebanon to allow regular
supplies of food, clothing and medical aid to be taken to the besieged
Palestinian refugees.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 21 1987, Saturday

Two held as Yard foil IRA bombing plan

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER and IAN SMITH

SECTION: Issue 62698.

LENGTH: 601 words


Senior Scotland Yard detectives believe a new Provisional IRA bombing campaign
in mainland Britain has been foiled with the discovery yesterday of explosives
and firearms caches buried in secluded Cheshire woods.

Police also believe they have captured part of an active service unit forming in
Britain for what would have been the first IRA attacks since the Brighton
bombing in October 1984.


The bomb-making equipment would apparently have formed part of a lengthy,
heavyweight campaign, but police do not have any clues to the potential targets.

The discoveries were made at the end of a two-week undercover surveillance
operation by the Yard and Greater Manchester Police, which climaxed with the
ambush and arrest of two men on a quiet Manchester street.

Yesterday the two men were taken to London, questioned at the high security
section of Paddington Green police station and brought before Lambeth
Magistrates Court in south London charged on three counts involving explosives
and arms.

The high explosives haul is one of the largest finds ever made in mainland
Britain, totalling between 100lb and 200lb. The bomb-making materials are said
to be sophisticated and are thought to include timing equipment for setting
long-running devices.

The caches were hidden in Trenta Back Wood - part of Macclesfield Forest within
the Peak District National Park - and in Delamere Forest near Winsford. Both
spots are south of Manchester, either side of the M6 and about 20 miles apart.

Four weapons - rifles and handguns - were found.

The explosives are described as Semtex, which is an eastern European military
variety. This type of explosive was used in the suitcase bomb which Nizar
Hindawi, a Palestinian terrorist, tried to plant on an EL AL jet at Heathrow
last year via his girlfriend.

The police operation began two weeks ago with a tip-off to the Special Branch.
An operation was set up involving an undercover unit keeping watch on a number
of suspect.

On Thursday armed police arrested two men in a confrontation in Manchester.
Wearing battledress and carrying shotguns and pistols, the police team forced a
Ford Sierra car containing two men to slew across Brantingham Road in the
Whalley Grange area.

Both ocupants of the vehicle were pulled out, flung against a wall and shotguns
held at their back as they were searched.

While the arrest took place a second police team raided a house. After the
arrests the men were driven from Manchester under armed police escort.

The arrests in Brantingham Road was witnessed by residents. One, Mr Bob Baron,
said: 'I saw a couple of men in battledress waving pistols as they directed
traffic around the incident. It was unbelievable. '

Another resident, who asked not to be named, said: 'I saw a Ford Sierra slewed
across the road and an unmarked blue police van alongside it. Then I saw a man
pinned against a wall with a pistol in his back.

'The street where all this happened is a quiet suburban road and it was a quite
a shock seeing shotguns and pistols brandished. '

Special Branch officers have discovered three similar caches in recent years,
hidden in Salcey Forest and Annesley Wood in the Midlands and at Pangbourne,
Berkshire.

An RUC officer was injured last night when grenades were fired during an attack
on the north Belfast home of a Roman Catholic judge, currently hearing a
terrorist trial.

The officer was hit in the arms and legs when a permanent security hut in the
grounds of Mr Justice Ian Higgins's home was attacked. His condition was
described as 'not serious'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 22 1987, Sunday

Target Gadaffi: Reagan's secret plot

BYLINE: SEYMOUR HERSH

SECTION: Issue 8481.

LENGTH: 1571 words


When President Reagan ordered the bombing raid on Libyan military targets last
April in retaliation for terrorist attacks. The Sunday Times Insight team
revealed the involvement of more warplanes than the White House would admit: a
secret information of nine F-111 bombers had also taken part in the raid, though
their exact mission was never disclosed. Now, SEYMOUR HERSH, one of America's
top investigative journalists, reports that the nine aircraft, with six flying
in reserve, had a specific target - to assassinate Colonel Muammar Gadaffi. His
relevations are published today exclusively in The Sunday Times and the New York
Times

THE supersonic F-111 bombers took-off from two US Air Force bases in Britain at
6.36pm local time on April 14 last year were repeatedly refuelled in mid-air as
they headed south, skirting France and Portugal before turning into the
Meditterranean for the final approach to their target. The strike was scheduled
for 1am.


It took just 11 minutes for the aircraft to offload their 2,000lb bombs and turn
for home. By the time the president broke the news of the raid to the American
people on a special broadcast on all networks at 9pm American East Coast time,
Europe had already gone to bed.

On American TV the night before, Reagan had described the bombings as 'a series
of strikes againt the headquarters, terrorist facilities and military assets
that support Muammar Gadaffi's subervise activities.

The president won immediate approval from the American public. A poll showed a
massive 77% of Americans backed the bombing. In Britain and Europe those who
agreed were in a distinct minority and the Thatcher government found itself
under especial attack for allowing the American bombers to take off from British
soil.

The fact that some bombs had fallen on a civilian area of Tripoli and others had
hit Gadaffi's own quarters inside a military barracks, prompted inevitable
speculation that Gadaffi himself had been a target.

The US secretary of state, George Shultz, and the defence secretary, Caspar
Weinberger, both moved quickly to rebut the charges. 'We were not targetting him
individually,' said Weinberger. 'We were not going after Gadaffi,' reaffirmed
Shultz.

SINCE then, however, new evidence has emerged to suggest that it was Gadaffi's
death that was planned all along.

Today's issue of the New York Times colour magazine carries a 9,000 word report
by a well-known and well-connected Washington investigative journalist, Seymour
Hersh, alleging that the president himself reluctantly agreed to the
assassination. Hersh bases his article on more than 70 interviews with official
involved in the planning of the US raid on Libya. Though unnamed, it is clear
that many are highly placed.

According to them, President Reagan authorised officials to draw up contingency
plans to kill Gadaffi, using the air-raid on terrorist facilities as a cover
story. Reagan was concerned that the American attack must appear to be a
response to Libyan aggression.

The attempt on Gadaffi's life, according to Hersh. was plotted by a small group
of military and civilian officials in the National Security Council (NSC), the
same men who were orchestrating the arms-for-hostages deal with Iran (and
diverting the proceeds of clandestine arms sales to the Nicaraguan 'contras').

The officials, aware of the political risks, operated with enormous care. A back
channel was set up to limit information to a few inside the government. Similar
steps had been taken to shield the deals with Iran.

Both missions involved the top national security adviser, Admiral John
Poindexter, and the NSC's deputyh director for political-military affairs, Lt
Colonel Oliver North. Both were forced to resign when the Irangate storm broke.

They set up a small group of planners, avoiding the NCS's more informal
situation room. Instead they met in the office of a former navy captain, Rodney
McDnaiel, the NSC's executive secretary.

The ad hoc group, formally known as the Crisis Pre-planning Group, included an
army lieutennant general, John Moellering, of the joint chiefs of staff; Michael
Armacost, an under secretary of state for political affairs; and Richard
Armitage, the assistant secretary of defence for international security affairs.

Most of the planning documents and option papers were assigned to a small
subcommittee, headed by North, that included Howard Teicher, the NSC's near-east
specialist, and a navy captain, James Stark, assigned to the NSC's office of
politicial-military affairs. Only North and a few colleagues worked on the
targeting of Gadaffi. They left no written record to implicate either themselves
or the White House.

A source pointed out: 'There was no executive order to kill and no
administrative director to go after Gadaffi. They covered their tracks
beautifully. '

GADAFFI's home and his camouflaged bedouin tent, where he often worked
throughout the night, were inside the grouns of Babal-Azzizya barracks in
Tripoli.

The idea of targeting Gadaffi's headquarters and his family had originated with
the Cia's intelligence officers for the Middle East, who claimed that in bedouin
culture Gadaffi would be diminished as a leader if he could not protect his
home.

Throughout 1985 Americans had bene the target of an unprecedented number of
terrorist atrocities in Europe; 23 Americans had been murdered, notably during
the hijacking of a TWA jet at Beirut and the Achille Lauro cruise ships, and
bombings at Rome and Vienna airports.

As The Sunday Times revealed last March, the White House had planned to provoke
Gadaffi into attacking the US Sixth fleet in the Mediterranean for months
before, thus allowing Reagan to hit back with military force and silence critics
at home who felt the terrorists were acting with impunity.

As each terrorist act claimed more American lives, the contingency plans to
strike at Libyan terrorist targets moved closer to fruition. So too did the
plans of the secret planning group co-ordinating the logistics for the attack on
Gadaffi himself.

When, at the end of March, Gadaffi ordered his aircraft to attack American
planes patrolling his coastline, it seemed that the White House would get its
opportunity to silence Gadaffi once and for all.

On that occasion, the Sixth Fleet responded, sinking Libyan missile boats and
bombing a radar installation 'in self-defence'. But Gadaffi held back from a
counter-attack which would have given Reagan the excuse to retaliate with F-111
bombers from Britain. A few days later, the US fleet was withdrawn from the
Libyan coast.

As it sailed away, however, American intelligence agencies intercepted signals
from Libya to its agents in East Berlinordering them to 'prepare to carry out
the plan. '

On April 4 an American serviceman was killed when a bomb blasted La Belle
discotheque in West Berlin. Within hours, US intelligence intercepted a second
signal from Berlin to Libya which read 'an event occurred. You will be pleased.

The decoded messages were rushed to the California White House on April 5, where
the president was spending his Easter weekend break. The president had the
excuse he needed now to implement the covert plot under the guise of an air-raid
against terrorist targets. That afternoon, President Reagan ordered the F-111's
to prepare.

IT WAS these messages, Reagan told the nation in his televised address on the
night of the air-raid, which had prompted his decision.

Part of that address, however, was never read out by the president. It had been
drafted in the event that Colonel Gadaffi had been killed during the raid on the
terrorist targets. It appeared on the script in brackets and was carefully
worded to absolve America of premeditation in the event of Gadaffi's death.

The official bombing orders supplied by the White House to the Pentagon did no
cite Gadaffi's home as a target nor the tent where the Libyan leader worked.

The young F-111 pilots and weapons systems officers, who sit side by side in the
cockpit, were specifically briefed and provided with reconnaissance photographs
separately depicting, according to one air force intelligence officer, 'where
Gadaffi was, and where his family was. '

The last fix on Gadaffi's location came at 11.15pm, Libyan time, two hours
before the first bombs fell. He was still at work in his tent.

An air force intelligence question that they were looking for Gadaffi. It was
briefed that way. They were going to kill him. '

IN THE hours following the raid there was excitement in the White House as
initial reports suggested that Gadaffi might have been killed.

But then a CIA operative in Tripoli informed the agency that the Libyan leader
had survived.

Infra-red intelligence photographs showed that the American bombs, guided by the
F-111's sophisticated on-board laser system, left a line of craters from
Gadaffi's two-story stucco house past his tent. Perhaps what saved Gadaffo was
the fact that the laser guidance system on four of the nine F-111s attacking
Gadaffi's quarters broke down eliminating the possibility that at least 16 more
bombs could have stuck. A well-informed air force officer said: 'The fact is
they got into the exact target areas they had planned. It was an ironic set of
circumstances that prevented Gadaffi from being killed. It was just an accident,
a bad day. '

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 25 1987, Wednesday

Parliament: Tighter security after Army HQ bomb blast - NATO Alert

SECTION: Issue 62725.

LENGTH: 1222 words


Security measures at the British military base at Rheindahlen had been
intensified since the car bomb explosion which injured 31 people on Monday
night, Mr John Stanley, Minister of State for the Armed Forces, said in a
statement to the Commons.

He added that security at all UK military establishments was continually under
review because of the potential threat of terrorist attack.


In his statement, Mr Stanley said: At about 10.30 local time last night a car
bomb exploded outside an officers' mess at the joint headquarters of British
Forces Germany at Rheindahlen.

A Nato social function was in progress at the time; 31 people were hurt in the
explosion, 27 German and four British. Seven of them stayed overnight at the RAF
Hospital at Wegberg and all but three have now been discharged. I am glad to say
that no one was seriously injured.

A higher alert state than usual was in operation at the time without which the
consequences of this explosion could well have resulted in much more extensive
injuries. But large open areas crossed by public roads like the Rheindahlen HQ
have self-evident security difficulties. Further security measures are now in
force.

An organization calling itself the National Democratic Front for the Liberation
of West Germany claimed responsibility for the explosion some hours after it
took place. This claim is being examined by the German authorities who are
leading the investigation into the incident and with whom our own security
authorities are in close co-operation.

Our sympathy goes to the British and German Servicemen and civilians and their
wives who were injured in this incident.

Mr Denzil Davies, chief Opposition spokesman on defence and disarmament, said it
was a very serious incident that a terrorist bomb could be exploded at and
inside the British military HQ at Rheindahlen, and the Opposition would like to
be associated with the minister's expressions of sympathy for the injured.

Obviously the German authorities were leading the investigation, but would there
also be an internal investigation by the British authorities to see how security
could be improved?

What was the state of alert at the time of the incident and was it now higher?
Could he confirm press reports of a telephone call made some time before the
explosion to a West German newspaper?

Mr Stanley said the British authorities would of course be conducting their own
internal investigation from a security point of view. He could not go into
details about the level of security alert that applied at the time, but it was
higher than usual and further measures had been taken subsequently.

He understood that no warning was received at Rheindahlen before the explosion.
But a message in English about the bomb was received at the German press
association at Monchengladbach nearby before the explosion. It had not not been
fully understood because of language difficulties. A further warning was
received at Rheindahlen a few minutes after the explosion.

Sir Antony Buck (Colchester North, C) said that it was a matter of grave concern
that an incident could take place at such an important HQ. It might be necessary
to look at other HQs with British and Nato roles to minimize the chances of
anything similar happening there.

Mr Stanley said that the Rheindahlen site was broadly spread and a large number
of public roads passed through it. This incident was taken very seriously and
they would be looking for any lessons that could be learned from it. But it was
immensely difficult to produce total security when Servicemen had to be spread
over such large areas and where normal civilian life was taking place all
around.

Mr John Cartwright (Woolwich, SDP), Alliance spokesman on defence, associating
the Alliance with the expressions of sympathy, said that there were suggestions
of a link between this incident and the murder last week of an Italian Air Force
general. They might both be part of a campaign by a loosely knit group of
terrorist organizations targeting Nato installations and personnel.

Against that background, was the minister satisfied that there was sufficient
international co-operation within Nato to deal with this sort of threat?

Mr Stanley said he was satisfied that there was extremely close co-operation
between the police authorities in the respective countries. Incidents such as
this illustrated the imperative need for such co-operation.

Mr Nicholas Soames (Crawley, C) said that regardless of the very considerable
difficulties there was great dissatisfaction and concern that such an out-rage
could have occurred at such an HQ. He hoped the minister would pursue with very
great vigour all the intelligence reports and resources Nato could give Britain
in its hunt for the people who perpetrated this monstrosity.

Mr Stanley said that it was their primary task to identify those responsible and
to bring them to justice.

Mr Merlyn Rees (Leeds, South and Morley, Lab) said that the minister was right
to make a statement, even though 18 people had been killed in Northern Ireland
since January and another three yesterday, without any statement being made.

Whose job was it to pass on the information about new, middle-class terrorist
groups to the military authorities in Rheindahlen?

Mr Stanley said the basic responsibility for that was taken by the security and
police authorities of the various countries. Britain also had its own internal
arrangements to make certain that every available piece of information which
might suggest vulnerability was passed on.

Mr Derek Conway (Shrewsbury and Atcham, C) said that in view of this incident
and the recent attack in Akrotiri, in Cyprus, perhaps there was a need to
examine the establishment of the units involved to ensure there was no undue
stress placed on their operational training.

Mr Stanley said that the time that must be devoted to security tasks was
inevitably at the expense of training. This was a continuing dilemma but the
highest possible priority must be given to the security of Britain's own Forces.

Mr David Young (Bolton South East, Lab) said that, according to press reports,
the car bomb was placed near an officers' mess where a party was going on. That
suggested a great deal of internal intelligence reaching the terrorists.

Mr Stanley said it would be a high priority to establish who was responsible and
to see how far they had been assisted in carrying out this outrage by any
information they were able to glean about what social functions were taking
place that night.

Sir Kenneth Lewis (Stamford and Spalding, C) said that, while it was right to
react to a situation like this with a full inquiry, it would be a great mistake
to over-react.

Mr Stanley said that he took that point.

Mr Thomas Torney (Bradford South, Lab) said there should be an inquiry into the
security arrangements not only at Rheindahlen but also at British defence
establishments throughout West Germany.

He knew from personal experience how simple it was to walk into these
establishments. There could be a weakness in security if German personnel were
being used on security duties.

Mr Stanley said that there was some employment of local German civilians and he
had confidence in those arrangements.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 28 1987, Saturday

SAS and Russia join forces

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT, Air Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62728.

LENGTH: 264 words


The SAS, Britain's elite anti-terrorist unit, is to combine with its Russian
counterpart in fighting any attack which may be launched on British aircraft in
the Soviet Union.

A new agreement has been reached between the two security organizations on
countering hijacking or terrorism and will be endorsed next week by the Prime
Minister during her Soviet visit.


Under the agreement signed in Moscow yesterday, security services of both
countries will exchange information about any terrorist attacks on aircraft
belonging to either nation and then mount a joint operation to overpower the
attackers. Both sides are agreed that no aircraft which is hijacked will be
allowed to take off and no haven given to any terrorist.

The Russians have been talking directly to Britain and in the international
aviation world for some time about ways of forming a united front against air
terrorism. However, until the recent move towards greater openness within Soviet
society any real co-operation between security services was impossible.

Now, however, it has been agreed that both countries will exchange every
available item of information and then set up a joint operation aimed at
overpowering terrorists.

The agreement was part of a package of measures approved between Sir Bryan
Cartledge, the British Ambassador to Moscow, and the Soviet Civil Aviation
Minister over future aviation co-operation between the two countries.

Their talks followed a deal with Japan allowing British Caledonian and British
Airways to fly non-stop between London and Tokyo.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 11 1987, Saturday

US bans BA drive for 'free Europe' tickets

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT, Air Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62740.

LENGTH: 993 words


A revolutionary British Airways plan to lure American tourists to Britain and
Europe has been torpedoed at the last minute by the US Government.

Under the scheme, which could have become the blueprint for aviation agreements
between Britain and the US and forced Europe to act as a single continent,
British Airways' transatlantic passengers would have been given free tickets to
any of one of 45 cities in Europe from Heathrow Airport.


But a combination of US airline pressure and European refusal to accept
innovation and then led to the proposal being banned by the Department of
Transportation in Washington.

British Airways, which had spent more than a million dollars on advertising the
new fares and had taken several thousands bookings, was last night shocked at
the decision. It said it would appeal to the department to reconsider its
rejection.

British Airways plans to defy the American ruling by carrying those passengers
who have already booked - and risk a fine of up to dollars 1,000 per person.

The air line had planned the campaign, called 'Europe on us', designed to
attract American tourists to Britain during the traditional spring low season.

But late on Wednesday evening the Department of Transportation formally turned
down its fare proposals.

Immediately the British reacted in a retaliatory move by stopping the American
airlines, TWA and Pan Am, from selling tickets to British tourists wanting to
visit other American cities beyond their point of entry for the same fare.

The dispute is bound to lead to a new debate over the 'unfair American aviation
agreement with Britain and to reopen the arguments about Europe becoming one
vast aviation market.

British Airways had been working on its innovative proposals for months. The
idea was to attract American tourists, who had stayed away from Britain last
year in the wake of the spate of terrorist attacks, by offering a round trip to
any of British Airways' 45 European destinations free to anyone who bought a
British Airways ticket to Heathrow.

The airline was convinced that the proposals were in line with both British and
American government policy and began advertising the offer widely in US
newspapers.

Within the first 24 hours of the advertisements appearing the airline had
received more than 1,000 firm bookings. But then it was stunned to receive a
telephone call from the Department of Transportation telling the airline that
the application, formally approved by the British Civil Aviation Authority,
would be turned down.

'British Airways does not believe that the disapproval is justified and we shall
be seeking a review', the airline said last night.

Its view was reinforced last night by Mr Michael Spicer, the Minister for
Aviation, who described the proposal as novel.

'The CAA was prepared to approve it. But unfortunately the Department of
Transportation and some of West European partners were not prepared to follow
their lead', he said.

The newly privatized airline had been encouraged by repeated demands from Mr
Spicer for Europe to be treated as one market rather than as a number of
separate states.

It was further encouraged when, after its application, TWA and Pan Am both
applied for permission to sell tickets to one American gateway airport with a
round trip to another city in the US thrown in.

That, it believed, was exactly what politicans on both sides of the Atlantic had
been seeking: freedom for European airlines to compete fully with the Americans
by treating Europe and America as a complete market.

But it did not realize that the Department of Transportation was coming under
intense lobbying.

The American airlines were privately urging the department to turn down the
British Airways application on the ground that transatlantic passengers would be
attracted to British Airways from their own flights.

European governments, including those of France, Scandinavia, Italy, Spain and
West Germany, were also attacking British Airways' proposal on the ground that
passengers between Heathrow and their cities, who would otherwise have paid full
fare to the 'pool' of airlines operating the route, would now be carried free.

In an effort to overcome European objections British Airways formally cut the
transatlantic fare by the cost of the European fare while, officially, still
charging the full rate for the European leg.

That meant, for example, that a passenger originating in Los Angeles would pay
dollars699 for an Apex flight to Heathrow which would have been cut by pounds
235 had he wanted to fly on to Rome.

That was the same as if he had paid the standard Apex fare across the Atlantic
and paid nothing for the round trip to Rome.

But all the manoeuvrings proved in vain. The Department of Transportation
refused to budge.

Meanwhile Pan Am and TWA had filed their applications with the CAA to take
British passengers to any American gateway for just dollars349, and then fly
them on to any other desgination within the US for free.

'This was a purely reactive fare proposal', Pan Am said. 'British Airways wanted
to take passengers away from airlines who would otherwise have taken them
straignt to Paris, Rome of Frankfurt, for example. The European airlines were
not happy about this and neither were we. So we decided that if they were going
to muddy our waters we would muddy theirs. '

The two airlines spent thousands of pounds advertising the new fares and
attracted hundreds of potential customers.

The fares were certainly attractive to other British airline as British
Caledonian immediately followed the British Airways' initiative by filing an
identical plan for its American passengers - and it too was turned down.

Now that a toe has been put into the water, however, the Government is certain
to want to press more strongly its views that Europe should be treated as a
single entity in aviation matters.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 15 1987, Wednesday

IRA quartermaster is jailed after bomb campaign at resorts

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62743.

LENGTH: 498 words


A member of the Provisional IRA who is thought to have been one of the key men
behind the Brighton bombing was jailed for 16 years yesterday.

Michael McKenny, aged 60, a grandfather, helped to launch a bombing campaign
aimed at resorts all over Britain.


At the Central Criminal Court, Mr Justice Boreham told him: 'I am satisfied that
you are and have been for a long time a dedicated and valued supporter of the
Provisional IRA. '

The public needed to be protected from him, although he was not in the same
class as other IRA figures jailed for the resorts plot and may not have known
where the bombs were destined.

The jury found him guilty of being concerned in the manufacture and testing of
timing devices after four hours' deliberation and a seven-day trial.

The investigation into McKenny's crimes ha led Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad to believe he played a key role in organizing the Brighton bombing, and
acted as quartermaster for many IRA units operating on the mainland.

One of the oldest IRA men put on trial, McKenny, who suffers from high blood
pressure, could spend the rest of his life in prison.

He was a stockman from Dromore, Co. Down, but lived in the Irish Republic, and
so was not used in an active service unit. But he could store devices, buy
components, test them and then organize routes to smuggle them into Britain.

Detectives believe devices have been brought into Britain across the Irish
Channel on small boats such as fishing vessels or hidden on coastal freighters.

The routes and boats are varied and smuggling may only take place once a year,
making naval checks difficult and expensive.

McKenny supplied devices for Patrick Magee, the Brighton bomber, when he and his
unit gathered in Glasgow two years ago to prepare for an assault on seaside
resorts, ports and London hotels.

In the autumn of 1984 Magee and others planted the time bomb which wrecked the
Grand Hotel the Conservative Party conference, killing five people.

The Yard believes it was McKenny who sent the device to the bombers, as he did
for other attacks, possibly including the Hyde Park and Regent's Park bombs in
1982 and the Harrods attack.

McKenny said in court hat he had joined the IRA in the early 1970s. Afer 'Bloody
Sunday' in Londonderry in 1972, when soldiers opened fire and killed 13, he
allowed him farm to be used for storage of arms and equipment.

In 1973 his farm was searched by security forces and he and his brother James
was arrested. He was jailed for 10 years, but James McKenny fled to the Irish
Republic.

In the Maze prison, McKenny's behaviour was exemplary and he earned maximum
remission of 50 per cent in Ulster - unlike the 33 per cent in Britain - and was
released in 1977 after serving five years.

Magee is now serving a recommended minimum of 35 years for the Brighton bombing
and the resorts conspiracy. The other four members of the active service unit
are serving life sentences.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 16 1987, Thursday

General Appointments: The development areas can offer as much in lifestyle
advantages as in economic benefits

BYLINE: JOHN DOWDALL

SECTION: Issue 62744.

LENGTH: 937 words


The unrest has had little effect on Ulster's opportunities

Everyone who is advertising in these pages has a problem. It's a problem that
very many managers would be very pleased to have, but a problem nevertheless -
not enough high-quality employees to service a growing organization.


For business located in the South-East of England the difficulties are familiar
enough. A successful company means more business and this results in more
pressure, increasing salaries, high staff turnover and a real danger of being
unable to service clients and to meet orders. A radical solution is needed and
relocation could well be an easier solution than many people think.

It is fairly well known that development areas such as ours offer substantial
grants to companies planning a move and there is a great temptation for people
in my position to talk only about development grants and the idea of moving to a
development area purely, as it were, on price. But I believe that areas such as
Northern Ireland would be good places in which to locate a business even if
there were no financial inducements at all.

Of course, Northern Ireland does have one special problem. The troubles have
given the region an image of unrest but it is hard to appreciate until you visit
the province that these problems are very localized and have not impinged
significantly on the business environment or the economic opportunity that the
region offers. In fact, at a time when crime rates are rising throughout the UK,
the level of violence and crime in Northern Ireland - which includes terrorist
incidents - is well below the national average.

Then there is the misconception about the nature of unemployed people that
suggests that some of those who are out of work are for some reason
unemployable.

The experience in Ulster, however, would not be untypical of other development
areas. We have the legacy of textile and clothing industries where workers have
a level of skill and dexterity that has adapted particularly well to
high-technology manufacturing. This is a potential labour force with a real
sense of responsibility and a desire to forge a loyal relationship with a good
employer.

All the development areas have a basic surplus of labour. In Northern Ireland,
where unemployment has been particularly high, we have had to pay particular
attention to training workers in those skills most needed by employers and in
having the basic training facilities in place to be able to respond flexibly to
the requirements of incoming employers.

It is particularly significant that we actually have a surplus in computing and
engineering and most of them are keen to stay in Northern Ireland. With a
population of only 1.5 million, we have 17,000 students and every year we
produce 650 graduates in computing and engineering, far in excess of the demand
for local industry.

Many of these graduates do, of course, leave the province for mainland Britain
or even further afield, but Northern Ireland people value their way of life and
prefer to develop a career within their own region.

It is against this background that Beecom, for example, has grown gradually over
the years before being targeted recently by BIS as a strong local company that
was worth investing in. Together they have set up an international company to
develop software for markets around the world. And this is just one of many
examples.

But perhaps the biggest question of all for any firm considering developing its
activities in a new location is whether its key workers will be prepared to move
with their families. The development areas of the UK have just as much to offer
in terms of lifestyle advantages as they can offer by way of cost and
productivity advantages.

Here, too. Northern Ireland is no exception. House prices are less than half
those in the London suburbs but are still rising in a healthy market. This means
that a manager in the Home Counties with a modest semi could typically find
himself living in a substantial detached home with half an acre of land in
pleasant countryside. Still a good investment but a first-class environment for
a family.

And this brings us to the subject of schools. Briefly, the statistics are that
the pupil-teacher ratio is 15-1; 21 per cent of children go on to further or
higher education (the figure is 13 per cent on the mainland); and up to 30 per
cent of children pass the 11-plus, an examination that has been retained.

A region such as Northern Ireland offers marvellously convenient opportunities
for outdoor leisure, especially yachting, fishing and golf, and Belfast itself
has been transformed in recent years with restaurants, shops and a cultural life
every bit as good as you would expect from a major provincial city.

So we think the attractions of development areas such as ours are considerable
before we even raise the subject of financial incentives. But if a financial
reason is also needed we have a package that is better than any other in the UK
and probably the rest of Europe as well - 50 per cent capital grants, 100 per
cent factory rental exemption, no rates on industrial premises and help with
research and development and marketing are just a few of its components.

As the economic recovery in the UK is sustained, more firms will be facing the
question of how best to expand their capacity. We in the development areas will
help a business develop by almost every means possible other than moving
ourselves. We like it too much where we are and think a lot of industrialists
would as well, once they know the real facts.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 18 1987, Saturday

Yard alert on new tactics

SECTION: Issue 62746.

LENGTH: 428 words


A general alert to guard against letter bombs was issued last night as
anti-terrorist squad detectives feared a change in tactics during the latest IRA
campaign.

Five letter bombs packed with high explosives have been found in London this
week, all stamped with the words 'University of Ulster Students' Union' and
directed at senior Civil Servants, including the Prime Minister's chief press
officer.


But Commander Geroge Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, fears people could be caught out if they expect further bombs to come
only in similar packages.

The Yard said yesterday: 'People must be prepared for bombs to come in different
envelopes with different postmarks and aimed at different targets. We ask
everyone to be vigilant and not to make assumptions about what form they will
take. '

The Provisional IRA has claimed responsibility for the bombs sent from Ulster,
all of which were made safe before causing any harm. But the police fear another
small IRA unit operating in Britain could have sent a fresh batch, possibly
aimed at services chiefs.

Another fear is that more bombs from the first batch could be lying on people's
doormats, unopened until they return from an Easter break. That happened on
Thursday to Mr David Hobson, a former adviser to Mrs Margaret Thatcher, who
found a suspicious package when he returned home from a conference in Japan.

The difficulty is that there is no immediate way of telling how many packages
were sent, whether they were posted together, or how long they might take to get
through the postal system.

The Provisional IRA has bowed to pressure from the Roman Catholic Church and
nationalist community by deciding to stop firing shots over the coffins of dead
members in church grounds.

But the paramilitaries will continue to pay their tribute to volunteers by
firing volleys in the district or at a republican monument.

Provisional Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Provisional IRA, denied that
the decision was a result of strong criticism by the Roman Catholic Bishop of
London-derry, Dr Edward Daly, who described the firing of a volley of shots on
church ground during the funeral of a terrorist as desecration.

Dr Daly also banned the bodies of Provisional IRA members from being in any
church in Londonderry during requiem Mass, after the incident during the funeral
of Gerald Logue, the Provisional IRA terrorist, last month.

Dr Daly put the terrorists in a dilemma as families wanted bodies to be in
church for the requiem Mass.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 19 1987, Sunday

Western intelligence net drawn tighter

BYLINE: JAMES ADAMS, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 8489.

LENGTH: 552 words


PRESIDENT Reagan sent planes to bomb Libya a year ago mainly to stop Colonel
Gadaffi bombing other people. But the raid also served notice on America's
European allies that the United States would take firm action against terrorism
if no common policy could be agreed.

One result has been a dramatic improvement in the West's joint intelligence
effort. Immediately after the raid four big terrorist operations planned by
Libya were foiled because of this increased sharing of intelligence.


'For two years prior to the raid we had been trying to get the Europeans to do
something about terrorism and they just wanted business as usual,' said one
State Department source. 'But the raid acted as a catalyst which forced them to
do something. '

In the past year more information on the movement of terrorists has been passed
between countries than ever before. Lists of known suspects and their planned
movements are regularly circulated and the targeting of terrorists and their
known supporters now receives a higher priority from organizations such as GCHQ
in Britain and the American National Security Agency that regularly tap
international telephone calls.

'That co-operation has continued and a lot more acts have been stopped that you
have never heard about,' said one intelligent source. There have also been a
number of arrests of leading terrorists in Europe.

Improved intelligence work and the shock of the raid itself have had a marked
effect on Gadaffi. Although the State Department estimates Gadaffi is
responsible for at most 5% of world terrorism, he has withdrawn his support for
some terror groups since the raid and pulled back some of his own agents around
the world (even though last week he boasted to The Sunday Times that he was
still helping the IRA).

'I think he was shocked at how many of his operations had been blown and how
incompetent his men were,' said one intelligence source. 'He is simply waiting
until he has better-trained people and for the world to stop scrutinising his
every move. Then he will start again. '

If the raid is judged on simple statistics, its effect was limited. The Rand
Corporation, which monitors terrorism around the world, says there were 47
attacks against American targets in the four months before the April raid and 49
in the four months after the raid. In 1985 there were 117 attacks against US
targets in which 27 Americans were killed, and in 1986 the number of attacks
rose to 118, although only 11 people died.

But there have been no major acts of terrorism - apart from the Karachi hijack.
And other state sponsors of terorrism, such as Syria and iran, appear to have
been less keen to support big attacks. Instead, terrorists have concentrated on
small bombings and the occasional assassination.

Even stabilising the growth of terrorism is an achievement. Since the beginning
of the 1980s, terrorist attacks have been increasing at between 5% and 10% a
year and the increase had been expected to continue at that rate.

But terrorism needs publicity to flourish and that can only be achieved through
the spectacular attack which results in heavy loss of life. 'A sophisticated
attack can take two years to plan and execute and we expect one of those any
time,' said one American intelligence source.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 28 1987, Tuesday

IRA bombing campaign: Hint of more Ulster troops

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62754.

LENGTH: 396 words


A stepping-up of security in response to the latest IRA terror campaign and the
murder on Saturday of a senior judge was signalled yesterday by Mr Tom King, the
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

Measures could include the introduction of more troops from Britain, joint
patrols by the Army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and a higher security
presence on the streets of customarily quieter areas.


Mr King indicated such a response in the Commons shortly before flying to
Belfast for a conference with security chiefs.

After making a statement about the murder of Lord Justice Maurice Gibson and his
wife, Cecily, and other recent incidents, Mr King spoke of 'a savage burst of
terrorist violence' and 'a renewed desperation and viciousness in the IRA'.

Mr King said the overall level of violence and suffering was unacceptable.

He told the Commons that at his later meeting with Sir John Hermon, Chief
Constable of the RUC, and Lieutenant-General Sir Robert Pascoe, General Officer
Commanding Northern Ireland, he would be discussing a number of proposals put
forward by Mr Roy Mason, the former Labour Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland.

Mr Mason said the political wing of the IRA had had to give way to a more
militant campaign since its poor showing in elections in the Irish Republic.

Its increased kill-and-bomb campaign was intended to terrorize the whole
province and smash the Anglo-Irish agreement.

Mr Mason said there should be a higher security profile in many previously quiet
areas with more British troops drafted in if need be. Parallel patrols of the
Army and the RUC should be considered, while special forces in the province
should have improved facilities to make 'retaliation and capture' easier.

'He has got to turn the tide and retaliate more effectively against terrorists.

Mr King pleased Conservative MPs by saying that a number of the options
mentioned by Mr Mason were to be considered.

He also confirmed that the travel bookings of Sir Maurice and his wife were made
in their own names through a travel agency in Belfast on December 29, and that
on February 12 a change was made to the date of their return.

The booking form included a description of the car and its registration number.
The road where the explosion occurred carried a tremendous amount of
cross-border traffic

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 2, 1987

Sinn Fein proposals 'height of hypocrisy'

BYLINE: From PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


A Sinn Fein discussion paper containing proposals for the future of Ireland met
with a chorus of disapproval when it was launched in Belfast yesterday. The
paper, A Scenario for Peace, - calls for a constitutional conference of 'all
significant organisations' and proposes resettlement grants for those who do not
like what emerges.

Mr Nicholas Scott, the union Northern Ireland Minister, described the Sinn Fein
initiative as the height of hypocrisy, 'while their brothers in arms, the IRA,
continue to offer their fellow Irishmen and women nothing but a recipe for
death. '


Dr Joe Hendron, of the SDLP, who will oppose the Sinn Fein president and West
Belfast MP, Mr Gerry Adams, at the general election, said that the paper showed
'open contempt for the intelligence of the average person. ' It was like
President Botha claiming to speak for black people in South Africa, he said.

The paper was also condemned by the Workers' Party, which said that the IRA was
the biggest obstacle to peace in Northern Ireland.

The constitutional conference proposed in the paper would be organised after,
'an irreversible declaration of intent' by the British to withdraw from Northern
Ireland. Elections would be held throughout the island and those elected 'would
draw up a new constitution and organise a national system of government. '

The paper says that in a united Ireland, Loyalists would have constitutional
guarantees to protect their minority rights.

It adds: 'Anyone unwilling to accept a united Ireland and wishing to leave
should be offered resettlement grants to permit them to move to Britain or
assist them to move to a country of their choice. '

Mr Adams said that it was purely coincidental that the paper was being launched
amid a wave of IRA violence.

Several families were evacuated from their homes in the centre of Londonderry
early yesterday after the IRA left a 300lb bomb outside an army base in the
city. It was defused shortly before dawn.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 2 1987, Saturday

Ulster - a more active role for the army?

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD

SECTION: Issue 62758.

LENGTH: 1191 words


At 2.30 yesterday morning the stillness of Belfast was shattered by a loud thud.
A few minutes later the sound of a helicopter, its searchlight criss-crossing
the sky, confirmed that the Provisional IRA had struck again. A device had
exploded on the 11th floor of a block of flats in a strongly Republican area and
underneath a permanent army observation post.

A soldier was slightly injured in an attack which reminded senior army officers
of the worst days of the troubles. Much else has occurred in the city to cause
concern to the police and army. For three nights in succession the Provos,
revamped and confident under a new officer commanding, who was released from
prison last year, have attacked RUC stations with bombs and gunfire. It is many
years since each morning's news bulletins have broadcast to a province numbed by
18 years of violence yet another litany of overnight terror. 'You switch the
radio on each morning expecting to hear of another attack. We had forgotten what
it was like,' said one officer.


Few people doubt that the wave of terrorism that has claimed the lives of 32
people - more than half the total of 1986 - in the first four months of this
year is putting the government's whole security strategy under pressure. That
strategy, introduced in 1976, is 'police primacy' and provides a better equipped
and larger RUC with the major responsibility for enforcing law and order. The
army is to be used only in support and only when the chief constable requests
its use for operational reasons.

Putting police in the fornt line against terrorism was aimed at reducing the
amount of khaki on the streets, with a long-term view to removing it completely.
But it has had two effects. It has meant that Irishmen, because most members of
the RUC and UDR are Protestants, and that the once steady stream of soldiers'
coffins returning to the mainland has almost ceased, effectively neutralizing
the 'troops out' movement in Britain and marginalizing the problem of Northern
Ireland.

Recent violence has brought new demands from Unionist politicians and the
chairman of the RUC's Police Federation for additional deployment of troops to
fight the terrorists. Provo tacticians are anxious to encourage such demands as
they recognize that the deaths of members of the RUC and Ulster Defence Regiment
do not receive the same attention in Britain as when soldiers are killed.

A leader in Republican News this week said: 'But even the deployment of more
soldiers or handing over security responsibility in some areas to the British
army is an admission of defeat and is a reversal of Ulsterisation. Because they
have been down these roads before, such punitive measures would represent the
exhaustion of ideas or different approaches. '

The government is unlikely to hand the Provisionals such a propaganda victory by
adding to the 10,200 troops now in the province, though there may be
redeployment within the North and more covert operations. In the aftermath of
the Anglo-Irish Agreement an extra two battalions were sent to the province and
their departure, perhaps later this year, will be a matter of delicate political
and military judgement. Additional troops will also be a tacit admission that
the 12,600-strong RUC cannot control the situation - something Sir John Hermon,
the chief constable, would be loath to admit.

While senior ranks in both the police and the army work closely together and are
totally committed to police primacy, the subordinate role of troops is not
without its problems. During the Loyalist 'marching season' in County Armagh
last year, security force tactics let the RUC deal with the rioting but deployed
troops in large numbers close behind them to ensure that a tough no-nonsense
message was portrayed to Unionist and the wider world. However, it was obvious
that many ordinary soilders were itching to join the RUC in dealing with the
situation but had instead to remain in the background with the finer points of
government policy probably lost on them.

Soliders sent to the province are given special training in, among other things,
its political problems, but most have scant interest in a place they care little
for and understand even less. One young man guarding the border at Killeen on
the night Ian Paisley returned from Dublin earlier this year said: 'He is no
friend of mine. '

Given the difficult role they must play, it is not surprising that criticism
emerges occassionally. A junior army officer recently wrote to The Times
demanding a more overt and professional approach from the RUC towards stamping
out terrorism 'with less time spent idling and celebrating their pay statements.
' The officer said the police were being mollycoddled by the army and had played
safe in failing to meet Lord Justice Sir Maurice Gibson at the border last
weekend. He advocated returning power to the army as a way of securing the
future of the province rather than leaving troops 'with many silly and mundane
tasks as it attempts to fulfil the RUC's every paranoid whim. '

Such views may not be representative and were dismissed by a senior official at
the Ministry of Defence as the words of 'a bloody idiot. ' A force like the RUC,
which has lost 244 officers in the troubles and must live with the terrorist
threat 24 hours a day can hardly be described as 'mollycoddled'. The army's
casualty figure is 387, but since police primacy the mary figure has fallen from
14 deaths in 1976 to two in 1986, while deaths in the RUC have ranged from 23
last year to nine in 1980.

Anxious to stifle any hint of disillusion in the ranks, a statement from army
headquarters in Northern Ireland rejected the young officer's views 'totally and
unequivocally. The RUC is in the front line in every sense, taking the leading
responsibility for security in the province. The fight against terrorism is only
one of the RUC's many tasks but in the last two years it has borne the brunt of
the terrorist attacks . and unlike the regular army, members of the RUC have to
live with the threat of attack throughout their lives. '

On the ground, links between the police and army are said to be good, but
ineivtably young soliders trained to kill and lacking understanding of the
subtleties of government policy must feel frustrated that their role is always
secondary. In addition there is some grumbling about police pay and shift
patterns. A class one private earns approximately pounds 7,300 a year plus a
daily Northern Ireland allowance of pounds 2.60 and, if he is single, free food
and accommodation. An RUC constable's basic pay is pounds 7,752 plus a pounds
2,100 rent allowance and special duty allowance of pounds 1,134, which is often
supplemented by generous amounts of overtime.

Despite these isolated complaints the Chief Constable and General Officer
Commanding, Lt-General Sir Robert Pascoe, have a close working relationship,
which is likely to continue under their successors, particularly as the army has
concluded that there will be no rapid end to the violence, which has lasted
almost four times as long as the Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 4, 1987

Duchess killed in car crash

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 274 words


The Dowager Duchess of Westminster was killed yesterday in a head-on car crash
in Northern Ireland.

Lady Viola's son, the Duke of Westminster, is the richest man in Britain.


Two other people died in the collision and one more was seriously injured. There
is no suggestion that the crash was a terrorist incident.

The Duke, who has a personal fortune of pounds 2 billion, left London last night
and was expected to arrive early today at his mother's home on Ely Island, at
Springfield, Co Fermanagh.

The accident happened shortly after 5 pm as the duchess, who was 74, was
returning from a function near Belfast for the Northern Ireland St John
Ambulance Brigade, of which she was head. Early reports suggested that one car
crashed through the central carriageway near the Dungannon bypass and careered
head-on into another coming in the opposite direction.

The bodies of Lady Viola and the two other victims was taken last night to
Craigavon Hospital. The injured person, who is believed to be a man, underwent
emergency surgery at South Tyrone Hospital.

The duchess was born on June 10, 1912, and married the fifth duke, the late
Lt-Col Robert Grosvenor, in 1946. She served in the WAAF 1939-46, and was
mentioned in dispatches. The duchess was active in numerous charitable
organisations, including the Girl Guides, the NSPCC, the Salvation Army, the
Marriage Guidance Council, the British Legion and the Council for the Protection
of Rural England. From 1979, she was Lord Lieutenant of Fermanagh.

She leaves two daughters and Gerald Cavendish Grosvenor, the sixth duke, who
succeeded to the title in 1979.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 15 1987, Friday

IRA shadow over the poll

BYLINE: TE UTLEY

SECTION: Issue 62769.

LENGTH: 934 words


Oddly enough, there is one respect in which the affairs of Northern Ireland, to
be excluded by common consent from the British election campaign, are quietly
dominating that exercise. I suspect that the precautions now being taken for the
safety of British politicians, as they trundle round the country talking about
everything except Ulster, are more elaborate than ever before. At any rate. I
hope they are.

One does not have to be in an army or the victim of a particularly macabre
imagination to realize that a succesful IRA attack on one or more eminent
participant in election campaign would have an enormous appeal to the godfathers
of republican violence in Ulster. They would not be deterred, as the Brighton
bombing attempt shows, by fears of the ferocious reaction which such an event
might provoke. They have come to believe that the British people are
fundamentally unprovokable in that when you try to kill their leaders the stock
reaction of the political establishement, having duly deplored the atrocity, is
to say that we must not act under the influence of panic of anger.


What constitutes the best protection of the British political establishment
during the next few weeks is the immense efficiency of our police forces and,
above all, the fact that there are few very safe havens in this country from
which Irish terrorists can plot their crimes and in which they can take refuge
when their crimes have been committed.

In other respects, Irish terrorists in Britain have a few things going for them.
The chief of these ios that the majority of the British do not believe
themselves at present to be subjected to any terrorist challenge. The lack,
therefore, a war mentality and the vigilance and militant feeling which such a
mentality inspires. It is natural and inevitable that this should still be so,
for Britons on the mainland have suffered comparatively little from terrorist
assaults.

This is not so, of course, in Ulster, as a recent experience of mine vividly
illustrates. Last weekend I went to the province to address a meeting of the
Friends of the Union, in the company of my much more distinguished colleagues in
that movement, Ian Gow, James Molyneaux and John Biggs-Davison. We met in the
civic centre of Craigavon. Before a solid, middle-class, moderate Unionist
audience, we rehearsed the argument for preserving the union, modifying the
Anglo-Irish agreement and refraining from the negative policies which so
irritate the British. We had said it all before. They had heard it all before,
and they listened with respect and only the slightest evidence of boredom.

Then, just as the meeting was about to end, a message was handed to our chairman
and read out by him. It was to the effect that an attack had just been made on
the police station at Loughgall and that (sic) 'six policemen had been
murdered'. None of us thought to disbelieve it and suspect an error in
transcription. We were all used to the kind of atrocity; it called for a gesture
of respect for the dead, a prompt suspension of the meeting and a particularly
solemn, and therefore outstandingly tuneless rendering of the National Anthem.
Then, as we broke up and chatted in grim voices, the true version of the event
came through. It was not six policemen but eight terrorists who had been killed
(we had heard nothing yet about the innocent passers-by).

Here then, it seemed to us, was an occasion for rejoicing, not mourning. It
seemed to have been a splendid exercise and a brilliant victory for the
intelligence services. Instead of being arrested en route and sent down for a
few years for belonging to the IRA and carrying arms, the enemy had been
trapped, beautifully and brillantly, caught in the very act wiped out. One felt
the same kind of elevation that men of my age did when listening to the tally of
German bombers shot down in the Battle of Britain.

You will say that all this shows how fighting a terrorist war corrupts the
defenders of law and order. Did not every one of these terrorists have a mother?
Were they not courageous though misguided men? Should we not think of the extent
to which they were simply the products of an unhappy history? All this is true,
and there will be a time and place for recording it; but a people confronted by
a direct terrorist challenge must not allow its instinct of self-defence to be
paralysed by such meditations. Warfare even against terrorists should be
confined within the limits of propriety; we should not shoot prisoners as the
IRA does, but we are under no obligation to take special pains to diminish enemy
casualties.

As the book fo Ecclesiastes tells us, there is 'a time to love, and a time to
hate; a time of war, and a time of peace. ' Inducing us to get these times mixed
up is one of the deadliest weapons in the armoury of terrorism, designed as it
is to atropy our instinct for self-preservation. A final warning to the IRA: any
attempt seriously to disrupt our affairs in the next three weeks will revive
that flagging instinct in the British people in the most conspicuous manner.

The response of the Unionist community in Ulster to IRA terrorism is not the
result of some Irish cultural oddity; it is the result of Ulster's having been
subjected to years of sustained and ruthless attack. It is the characteristic
response of the British when under fire. The difference is simply that the
mainland British have not yet been under serious IRA fire and their Patriotism
and imagination does not yet extend, unhappily, to a proper sympathy with the
feelings of loyal Ulstermen.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 16 1987, Saturday

Review (Rock Records): Really out of Africa

BYLINE: DAVID SINCLAIR

SECTION: Issue 62770.

LENGTH: 962 words


Johnny Clegg & Savuka: Third World Child (EMI EMC 3526)
 That Petrol Emotion: Babbie (Polydor TPELP 1)
 Dave Alvin: Every Night About This Time (Demon FIEND 90)
 Various Artists: Square Roots (Folk Roots FROOT 001)
 Various Artists: The Cutting Edge (Cooking Vinyl GRILL 001)

 It would not be altogether surprising if Johnny Clegg's Third World Child
eventually sold more copies than Paul Simon's Graceland Clegg, a citizen of
South Africa, has lived for 20 years in the midst of the music and culture that
Simon had been able to search only retrospectively; while Graceland opened a
window on the world of Mbaqanga/township jive and framed it in a relatively pure
and fragile state. Third World Child showcases such influences fully absorbed
into a rumbustious, popular rock format. The marketing possibilities must be
awe-inspiring.


The fusion is at its most perfect on numbers like 'Are You Ready' and
'Asimbonanga' where Clegg slips easily between English and Zulu and from rock
chorus to spiritual chant. The pan-Africanism of 'Scatterings Of Africa' and
'Great Heart' is built as much on the fondation of a western, FM radio rock
beat, as it is derived from the harmonic and lyrical references to the music of
the motherland.

While Clegg achieves significant success in the building of cultural and musical
bridges, the rock music monster, forever on the lookout for souls to devour,
taps wholeheartedly into this view, potentialy rich vein of inspiration.

In recent years, radical political activisim had become a source of guidance for
many a rock manifesto, usually with dire musical results. (The Redskins,
Conflict, Easterhouse and others). One exception is That Petrol Emotion, the
group from Londonderry. These severe critics of the British presence in Ireland
are currently in Britain to sell us an album called Babble, which is an
exhilarating and disturbing exercise in musical immoderation.

The message in their lyrics is difficult to fanthom, but with a conventional
guitar line-up, they produce the most incredibly driven music it is possible to
imagine. The bug-eyed aggravation of 'Chester Burnette' and the violent, heaving
'Belly Bugs' riff are like musical terrorist attacks. Despite the occasional
moments of melody, clearly detectable on 'For What It's Worth' and 'Big
Decision', this is a grim leader of an album that indicates to the likes of The
Jesus And Mary Chain just who had the hard men really are.

Dave Alvin has left The Blasters, the group he started in LA with his brother
Phil, and his first solo album. Every Night About This Time, is a mixed
collection of original songs which range from the traditional country flavour of
the title track (he is apparently on the verge of singing to a major label in
Nashville) to the flat-out barnstorming of '4th of July', a number covered by
the LA hardcore band, X.

Alvin claims that he left The Blasters to perform songs that he could not do
with them, but as well as including three of that group's catalogue - 'Long
White Cadillac', 'Jubilee Train' and 'Border Radio' - this album mixes most of
the familiar ingredients of country, R'n Rock and rock'n'roll, albeit with more
of a populist slant than that favoured by The Blasters.

With 'Brother', a slow bluesy piece of union folklore abut a labour dispute, and
the universal message of 'Saturday Night', Alvin nudges into the Springsteen
lane, by his untutored voice and as yet unfocused overall vision let him down in
the finishing stretch, where he stumbles at some point between good and great.

The current renaissance in folk music seems to have been inspired as much by the
movement's willingness to become a much broader church than it was before, as by
the influx of new talent. Two compilations albums indicate the extent of the
transformation: The Cutting Edge on Cooking Vinyl, the label that has enjoyed
success with Michelle Shocked and The Oyster Band among others, and Square
Roots, subtitled 'Ah unlikely selection from the pages of Folk Roots magazine'.

'Unlikely, seems fair enough when Square Roots offer Bulgarian yodelling (Nadka
Karadjova's 'Nedelyo Nedelyo'). Balkan dance (The 3 Mustaphas 3's 'Speed The
Traktor') and West African harp music (Dembo Konte & Kausu Kuyateh's 'Solo')
alongside traditional a cappella arrangements such as The Copper Family's 'By
The Green Grove' and 'June Tabor's 'Bird In A Cage', Kathryn Tickell makes a
ghastly wailing noise with some Northumbrian pipes, but Ted Hawkin's version of
'Dock Of The Bay' is a distinctly rewarding experience.

By championing such a cosmopolitan range of music. Folk Roots magazine may take
some credit for revitalizing a folk scene that had become stuck in a parochial,
woolly jumper timewarp: and as The Cutting Edge demonstrates there is now plenty
of modern British folk music that contradicts that stereotype. Edward II & the
Red Hot Polkas play accordion across a reggae beat on 'The Walls of Butlins',
and We Free Kings offer a folk-punk thrash called 'Death of The Wild Colonial
Boy'. The Mekons, who used to be a punk band of sorts, pop up with a tex-mex
flavoured romp called 'Can't Find My Money' and we even find a 'wizard of the
electric zither', Andrew Cronshaw, making a pleasing Chariots of Fire sort of
soundtrack with 'A Debatable Land'.

While such a burst of fresh activity is to be welcomed, a disconcertingly high
proportion of these tracks play on novelty factors. The Oyster Band, who are
featured on both albums, are probably the best that the New Wave of folk has so
far thrown up, and yet they have built their music on firm, traditional
foundations. No doubt time will weed out the less ardent devotees, carried along
for the moment on the current surge of enthusiasm.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 19 1987, Tuesday

Election 87: Thatcher gets RUC protection

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD

SECTION: Issue 62772.

LENGTH: 131 words


RUC police officers are understood to have been drafted in to assist in guarding
the Prime Minister from terrorist attack during the election campaign.

The officers were chosen for expertise in anti-terrorist measures and knowledge
of Republican activists who may attempt to infiltrate crowds surrounding Mrs
Thatcher.


Security forces in Britain are seriously concerned for the safety of the Prime
Minister and leading politicans following the SAS ambush at Loughgall in County
Armagh in which eight Provisional IRA terrorists died. They expect the
Provisional IRA to seek revenge for their colleagues' deaths.

Bomb vigilance: Postboxes around Downing Street were sealed yesterday on the
advice of Scotland Yard, to counter a possible letter-bombing campaign.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 29 1987, Friday

Senior British envoy in Iran is kidnapped - Motorway abduction in front of
family

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: Issue 62781.

LENGTH: 347 words


A senior British diplomat in Tehran was abducted yesterday by a group of six
armed men, the Foreign Office said in London early today.

The kidnappers attacked Mr Edward Chaplin, aged 36, First Secretary and Head of
Chancery at the British Interests Section in Tehran, after forcing his car to
stop on a motorway.


He was driving with this wife Nicola and three-year-old daughter when their car
was forced to pull over.

The kidnappers forced Mr Chaplin to get out of the car before assaulting him and
eventually dragging him off. His wife and child were not hurt.

Mr Chaplin is the effective number two within the British diplomatic base in
Tehran, which has been housed in the former buildings of the Swedish Embassy
since Britain cut off official diplomatic links with Iran after the Iranian
hostages siege in 1980.

A Foreign Office spokesman told The Times early today that Mr Chaplin was badly
beaten in the attack before being overpowered. He said there had been no word
from the kidnappers. Mr Chaplin was not accompanied by a bodyguard at the time.

A spokesman for the British Interests Section in Tehran said that the abduction
happened at 4.30pm local time yesterday.

Britain has 19 staff in Tehran under the control of the Head of the British
Interests Section, Mr Christopher MacRae.

Mr Chapin who was married in 1983, has held his present post since January 1985.
He and his wife have a son as well as their daughter.

He joined the Foreign Office in 1973 and his first posting was to Muscat as a
Third Secretary. Two years later moved with a promotion to be Second Secretary
in Brussels and later served in the Civil Service Department and at the Foreign
Office.

This is the first kidnapping of a British diplomatic of consular official since
the early 1970s. Mr Jasper Cross, the British Trade Commissioner in Montreal,
was abducted by terrorists there in 1970 and held for two months, and Sir
Geoffrey Jackson, British Ambassador to Uruguay, was taken and held by
terrorists for eight months, from January to September 1971.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 10, 1987

Summit backs Reagan on Gulf shipping: Bombs explode at US and British embassies

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER and GEORGE ARMSTRONG

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: VENICE and ROME


President Reagan yesterday won a pledge of support for freedom of navigation in
the Gulf from his summit partners in Venice, but they took the opportunity to
criticise the Americans for their arms for hostages exchanges with Iran.

The summit issued a tough statement on terrorism, on a day when bombs shook US
and British embassies in Rome. The leaders pledged themselves 'to the principle
of making no concessions to terrorists or their sponsors. ' Diplomatic sources
saw this as an indirect criticism of US actions in Tokyo when it supported
condemnation of terrorism at the same time as it was sending missiles to Tehran.


The US also appeared to fall short of its objectives on the Gulf. After a week
of sabre-rattling by American officials including threats of preemptive strikes
against Iranian Silkworm missile silos in the Gulf, the only firm proposal
contained in yesterday's communique from the seven heads of government was
support for a 'just and effective' UN Security Council resolution.

A bomb exploded in a car parked near the US embassy in Rome early yesterday
morning, shattering windows of a hotel. Explosives were thrown over the main
gate of the British embassy at almost the same time and crude grenades were
fired from a hotel balcony at the US mission. All the blasts occurred within 45
minutes.

Police said the attacks were well-planned and timed to coincide with the summit.
No one was injured in the explosions, although cars and buildings near the US
embassy were damaged.

The Interior Ministry said police were looking for an Asian travelling on
Canadian and Thai documents who rented a hotel room used to launch two home-made
grenades against the US mission.

The ministry said a man telephoned international news agencies in London and
Rome to claim responsibility for the attacks on behalf of a group calling itself
the International Anti-Imperialist Brigades. The caller said the attacks were in
response to 'state terrorism and international imperialism led by the United
States. '

Shultz, but was seen as falling short of the resolution with teeth in it which
the US had been calling for. British officials said, however, that 'effective'
was a diplomatic term for firm action. No mention was made of the mandatory
sanctions against the protagonists which the US has urged.

The seven leaders agreed within the context of the UN resolution to reaffirm
'the principle of freedom of navigation in the Gulf' as of 'paramount importance
for us and for others and must be upheld. ' The communique added: 'The free flow
of oil and other traffic through the Strait of Hormuz must continue unimpeded. '

British officials expressed their willingness to introduce more coordination in
the Gulf, but stopped well short of any suggestion of joint commands or
multinational forces. Both ideas had been floated by the Americans.
Nevertheless, the commitment by the big seven to keep the strait open could
cause concern that it might later be interpreted as a carte blanche by the
Americans to take out Silkworm missiles should they be seen as a danger.

The relatively modest steps taken on the Gulf may partly reflect hopes that US
pressure is having some impact on Iran. The Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister, who
has been touring European capitals, has given some indications that the
Silkworms may not be deployed.

Yesterday's terrorism accord, a follow-up to that which caused so much wrangling
in Tokyo when the US and Britain forced Libya into the statement, covers new
ground in three areas. It reiterates that no concessions be made to terrorists,
seeks to strengthen the coverage of international law, and extends the coverage
of hijacking so that commercial flights to countries which refuse extradition or
prosecution of terrorists is automatically stopped.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 13, 1987

Weekend Arts: Master of the art of ideas - The lessons behind the work of Peter
de Francia

BYLINE: By ROBERT MACDONALD

LENGTH: 681 words


As a young artist, in May, 1940, Peter de Francia got on his bike and began
pedalling as though his life depended on it. It did. A British national born in
the Alpes Maritimes in France, he was a student at the Brussels Academy and has
just volunteered for service in an anti-fascist brigade. But the Nazi invasion
of Belgium came too fast for the volunteers to be mobilised, and de Francia set
off for the Belgian coast with a small group of friends including a
Palestine-born Jew.

As the Germans blitzed their way across the Low Countries, the students cycled
on dirt tracks over the fields, avoiding where possible the roads crowded with
more than half a million refugees fleeing south, and with French and British
army units pushing north.


The journey left de Francia with vivid visual memories of the road-sides
littered with abandoned cars and suitcases, and of the circling Stukas
constantly diving from the sky to bomb the confused crowd of troops and
civilians struggling to pass each.

Fifteen years later in Britain he was to paint a memorable canvas, The Bombing
of Sakiet, in protest at the terror bombing of a small Tunisian village by the
French air force during the Algerian war. Some of the nightmare drama of his own
epic trip to the Belgian coast was infused into that painting and other of his
works.

In 1940 he and his companions escaped to England on the last boat out, and he
was to spend the next five years in the British Army.

After the war he continued his studies at the Slade, took museum jobs in North
America and worked briefly on BBC television before beginning his long teaching
career at St Martin's.

From 1972 until his retirement last summer he held one of the most prestigious
posts in the British art school system - professor of painting at the Royal
College. To honour his contribution to painting, as an artist and teacher, the
Camden Arts Centre in London has mounted a major exhibition of Peter de
Francia's drawings and paintings, and work by many of his students. The
exhibition is intended as a celebratation of the fine art side of our art school
system, at a time when this has been under attack.

'In my view, art colleges in the short term are doomed,' de Francia told me when
he retired. 'They will all have to be re-thought, started again from scratch. A
great school can be found and set up by three intelligent people sitting under a
tree! All the infrastructure, the whole absured so-called 'academic' garb with
which they are clothed, is their death shroud.

'The idea was to make schools respectable, which is a particularly British
disease. Deans of study, grades and degrees for fine art students are like
barnacles weighing the whole structure down. The only legitimate activity of
anyone running a school is to teach. A gentleman very active on NAB (the
National Advisory Body for Public Sector Higher Education) is on record as
saying that no design school is viable unless it contains over six hundred
students. The Bauhaus had about 80. And they didn't do so badly. '

With his distinctive bearlike figure de Francia typifies the larger-than-life
generation of artist-teachers who dominated the post-war art school world, now
inherited by business-suited bureaucrats.

De Francia never urged his Marxist political views on his students, but he did
encourage them to think more deeply about the subject matter of their work. This
in itself was a revolutionary approach not so long ago.

'Where some people are concerned,' he remarked to me once, 'teaching ideas is
like peeing in church!'

Recently artistic taste has begun to catch up with de Francia. The Tate Gallery
and the Arts Council have bought works, and an exhibition of his drawings has
been mounted in New York. Public recognition has been slow. 'There is a
satirical and ironic content in his work - a black humour - which people don't
know how to take,' a member of the Arts Council commented. How can serious art
be funny?

Peter de Francia at the Camden Arts Centre, Arkwright Road, London NW3, until
July 26.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 19, 1987

Books: Prying eyes / Review of 'The Origins of the Vigilant State: The London
Metropolitan Police Special Branch before the First World War' by Bernard Porter

BYLINE: By MARTIN KETTLE

LENGTH: 596 words


The Origins of the Vigilant State: the London Metropolitan Police Special Branch
before the First World War by Bernard Porter (Weidenfeld, pounds 15.95).

Even in these suspicious times, it probably comes as a surprise to many that the
Special Branch is already into its second century of activity. But then you
learn that it was first known as the Special Irish Branch and all the
continuities fall neatly into place. In the 1830s, as in the 1980s, Ireland was
the principal dynamic behind the growth of the secret state. The history of
civil liberty in modern Britain is the history of the determination to retain
Ireland.


Beware such beguiling certainties. Ireland is undoubtedly central to the history
of secret policing in this country. But it can be misleading to assume that the
growth of the Branch - and later of the security services - is as logical and
organic as that. And it flies in the face of the evidence of this book.

Bernard Porter is at pains to treat his fascinating subject historically - and
the result is one of the main strengths of his writing. It would do less than
justice to this history of conspiracy theories to insist on cramming it into a
conspiracy theory of history it does not properly fit.

The Branch emerged at a time of extraordinarily threatening political violence
against heads of state. Between 1878 and 1882, there were serious assassination
attempts on the Kaiser (twice), the Kings of Spain (twice) and Italy, the Czar
(successful), the US President (successful), and even Queen Victoria. Not
unreasonable, then, for the state to invest in undercover surveillance.

Yet the early history of the Branch is at least as much about differing
philosophies of policing as it is about a consistent attempt to combat
subversion. Traditionally, Scotland Yard extolled prevention (as it does today),
concentrating on forestalling acts of terror. The arrival of officers with Irish
experience produced a new emphasis on infiltration and arrests. That could mean
allowing conspiracies to develop before moving in. This was a more dangerous
game, but it was successfully played, the early Branch men believed.

Those early officers certainly thought that they saved the nation from the
threats, first of Fenianism, later of anarchism. Nobody can be sure if that was
true or not. The secret world tries not to keep records - and even Mr Porter,
whose detective skills are considerable, admits that the jigsaw is far from
complete.

What is striking about the early Branch in comparison with today is the very
restricted and restrained way it seems to have operated. That reflected the
vigilance of Victorian liberalism against French-style secret police (even the
formation of the CID was greatly opposed). It was also a recognition of the
limits of the political job in hand.

True, the boundaries were pushed back even in the 1890s. Inspector Sweeney of
the Branch infiltrated the Legitimation League, which campaigned for equal
rights for illegitimates, and managed to entrap its secretary into selling him a
copy of Havelock Ellis's Psychology of Sex. A celebrated legal action followed.

Yet, compared with today, the early Special Branch was a pretty strict outfit. A
hundred years later, all that has gone. Its interests are unrestrained. The
Branch today does have this much in common with its predecessor. Protected by
secrecy and the absence of effective accountability, it has been able to expand
its work in its own way and according to its own assessments. Until that
changes, nothing will change.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 25, 1987

Britain holds out against resuming link with Syria

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK, Diplomatic Correspondent

LENGTH: 387 words


Britain does not envisage an early resumption of diplomatic ties with Syria,
despite pressure from its EEC partners and from Damascus to reconsider the
position.

Even though next week's EEC summit is not expected to discuss the issue in
detail, Britain already appears resigned to the probability that its Community
partners will soon abandon the modest package of political and economic
sanctions against Damascus which they reluctantly imposed last autumn in
solidarity with Britain.


But this will not persuade Mrs Thatcher that Britain should also normalise its
relations with President Assad for the sake of its interests in the Middle East.
The view in Downing Street is that Syria has still not adequately divorced
itself from state-sponsored terrorism.

Britain accepts that Abu Nidal a PLO leader whose name is often associated with
terrorist incidents, is no longer in Syria, and that his group's offices in
Damascus are closed. But they are said to be in nearby Bekaa' valley in the
Syrian-controlled part of Lebanon, and Britain is not convinced that Syria has
really distanced itself from Abu Nidel.

But in any case, British officials have indicated that Syria has to do more to
distance itself from terrorism than cut its association with the terrorist
group.

Britain broke off diplomatic relations last October, immediately after the
guilty verdict in the trial of Nezar Hindawi, whose attempt to blow up an
Israeli airliner at Heathrow was foiled.

The Government said it had irrefutable evidence of official Syrian complicity,
and decided that it would resume diplomatic ties only after it had similarly
convincing evidence that Damascus no longer sponsored terrorism.

At the time, Britain looked for support from the EEC countries and the US.

The US withdrew its ambassador. The Community, after shuffling its feet for more
than two weeks, finally decided on a ban on arms sales, suspension of high-level
visits, a review of the activities of Syrian diplomats, and tighter security for
incoming Syrian passenger fiights.

However, neither Paris nor Bonn were enthusiastic, and both believe that full
diplomatic relations with Damascus are essential for them to maintain a lever in
the Lebanon, and secure Syrian help in their efforts to secure the freedom of
hostages.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 8 1987, Wednesday

Livingstone's traitor charge outrages MPs: Tories accused over alleged MI5 role
in Ulster killings

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62815.

LENGTH: 679 words


Mr Ken Livingstone's maiden speech in the Commons ended in uproar last night.

He had claimed that the Prime Minister was one of the main beneficiaries of
alleged assassinations carried out by M15 officers in Ireland in the 1970s.


The new Labour MP for Brent East had said that the late Airey Neave, the former
Conservative MP and close friend of Mrs Margaret Thatcher killed by an Irish
National Liberation Army car bomb at the Commons, had direct links with the
'traitorous' M15 officers.

In an almost unprecedented intervention during an MP's maiden speech, Mr Ian
Gow, Conservative MP for Eastbourne, interrupted Mr Livingstone after his
reference to Mr Neave to say that his remarks about the late MP were 'deeply
offensive'.

The outburst by Mr Livingstone, who has been virtually ostracized by his Labour
colleagues since arriving at the Commons, is not only likely to draw an
immediate response from Mrs Thatcher because of the references to Mr Neave. It
is also likely to infuriate Mr Neil Kinnock and senior Labour leaders.

Last night Mr Livingstone's speech quickly became the key subject of
conversation at Westminster with Labour MPs greeting his remarks with a a
mixture of despair and joy. In the short term they believe it will result in
considerable adverse publicity for the party but in the long term several MPs
were speculating that it will have ended any chance of Mr Livingstone gaining
prominence of supporters within the Parliamentary Labour Party.

Mr Livingstone referred to Britain's involvement in Northern Ireland as a
'colonial situation which was bound to lead to abuses'.

Then, referring to evidence given by Mr Fred Holroyd, a former army officer who
served in Northern Ireland, Mr Livingstone alleged that Captain Robert Nairac,
who was murdered by the IRA while serving in Ulster, has assassinated John
Francis Green, and active IRA member.

The assassination was carried out in 1975 by Captain Nairac with volunteers from
the Ulster Defence Force, Mr Livingstone said.

The former leader of the Greater London Council then raised allegations which he
said were circulating extensively not only in republican circles in Britain but
on Irish radio and television.

There was now clear evidence that Captain Nairac and M15 were behind the murder
of three members of the Miami Showband, innocent musicians with no political
affiliations, in a deliberate attempt to scupper a ceasefire which had been
negotiated between the then Labour Government and the IRA.

To shouts of disgrace from some Tory MPs, Mr Livingstone said there was forensic
science evidence to support the claim.

'The same gun that was used by Captain Nairac on his cross-border trip to
assassinate John Francis Green was then used in the Miami Showband massacre', Mr
Livingstone said.

Calling for an inquiry into his allegations, Mr Livingstone added: 'I do not
believe that these things cold have been going on without members of the party
opposite being kept informed in generality, if not in specific detail. It looks
increasingly likely that Mr Airey Neave was in touch with some of these
officers.

'If these allegations are true they were prepared to murder innocent Catholics
to spark a wave of sectarian killings which would end the truce the Labour
government had negotiated with the IRA. '

Later, Dr Brian Mawhinney, Junior Northern Ireland Minister winding up the
Commons debate, said Mr Livingstone had caused offence to many MPs, 'I reject
his outrageous allegations against the Prime Minister. I reject his conspiracy
theories,' he said.

Captain Nairac was awarded a posthumous George Cross. Mr Maurice Nairac, his
father, said last night he was shocked at Mr Livingstone's speech. 'It is
absolutely ludicrous to think that our son was involved in an assassination
squad. '

Three Provisional IRA gunmen killed Mr William Reynolds, aged 33, a snooker hall
manager yesterday at the Village Pool Club in Ligoniel, north Belfast. Later the
organization claimed he was a member of the Ulster Volunteer Force.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 10 1987, Friday

Arms and the law: 'pink guide' to firearms - Rules tightened for officers

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62817.

LENGTH: 486 words


More than 14,000 policeman are authorized to use firearms out of a total of more
than 120,000 throughout the country.

Nearly a quarter of the trained, qualified officers come from London which faces
the brunt of armed robbery, protection duties and terrorist attacks in mainland
Britain.


In provincial forces officers might be armed for specific operations and three
forces, Nottinghamshire, West Yorkshire and Hampshire, also mount armed mobile
patrols which can be sent to emergencies.

But the number of times police weapons are fired outside of Northern Ireland, is
still small. Last year the police in England and Wales fired one shot with no
deaths or injuries.

Under a reorganization of firearms practice introduced by the Home Office
earlier this year every force in the country mounts a specialist firearms team
on call 24 hours a day.

The team can be brought together from other duties to react to an emergency. In
additional all forces should have a nucleus of qualified marksmen based in all
divisions.

The aim of the change was according to the Home Office intended not to increase
the number of armed officers but to reduce them to a nuclei of trained
specialists working full-time or an call when they are needed.

In London in the wake of the disasters which have befallen police in a number of
operations the number of armed officers has already been reduced from 4,500 to
3,100 at the start of this year.

But much of the specialist firearms work in London, such as yesterday's
operation at Plumstead, south-east London, is falling to a Yard branch called PT
17, better known under its old designation of D 11 or the nickname of the Blue
Berets.

A 10-point Home Office guideline lays down the rules for the use of guns by the
police in operations such as the shooting in Plumstead.

Every police officer trained and authorized to use a gun also carries a 'pink
card', based on the guidelines, setting out his legal position and the rules he
must follow.

The guidelines were withdrawn by a Home Office working party in the wake of the
wounding of Mrs Cherry Groce in Brixton, south London, in 1985 and the death of
John Shorthouse, aged five, in Birmingham.

Other charges had earlier been introduced after the shooting of Stephen Waldorf
in London in 1982.

The guidelines lay down the basic principle that guns can be issued when 'there
is reason to believe that a police officer may have to face a person who is
armed or otherwise so dangerous that he could not safely be restrained without
the use of firearms'.

The guidellines note that 'firearms are to be fired by police as only a last
resort when conventional methods have been tried and failed or must from the
nature of the circumstances obtaining the unlikely to succeed if tried.'

A policman can open for for example, when he cannot otherwise prevent loss or
further loss of life.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 20, 1987

Iranian exiles fear attacks after London bomb

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 511 words


Politically active Iranian exiles in Britain expressed their fears yesterday
that they might become targets for attacks from supporters of the Ayatollah
Khomeini's regime after Saturday's car bomb explosion in west London. Mr Amir
Hossain Amir-Parviz, a leading opponent of the Khomeini government, was
seriously injured in the blast.

Mr Amir-Parviz, aged 63, a former Iranian cabinet minister and now the British
chairman of the National Movement of the Iranian Resistance, was recovering in
St Stephen's Hospital, Fulham, yesterday from an operation to save a finger of
an injured hand. He also suffered a broken leg and cuts and flash burns on his
face.

The bomb, described by Scotland Yard yesterday as 'an improvised device,' was
strapped underneath Mr Amir Parviz's Vauxhall Nova car and exploded as he was
driving past the Royal Kensington Hotel. His car had been parked in the nearby
Bishop King's Road since Thursday morning.

A spokesman at the Yard said yesterday that the police wanted to hear about
anyone seeing a person carrying a parcel or a bag loitering round cars in the
area. The police are also anxious to question the driver of a green saloon car
seen making off from the scene of the explosion.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, the head of the Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said it was still too early to link the car bomb attack with any
previous incident in the capital. Last August another Iranian, Mr Bejan Fazeli,
aged 22, was killed when the Kensington video library owned by his father was
bombed. The library stocked anti-Khomeini material.

After Saturday's explosion a hitherto unknown group calling themselves the
'Guardians of the Islamic Revolution' telephoned the Press Association in London
to claim responsibility for the incident.

Mr Jezjor Teimourian, a London-based Iranian journalist, estimated that there
were possibly some 200 to 300 Muslim extremists in Britain who were ready 'to do
desperate things at the instigation of the Tehran regime. '

The exiled opponents of the Ayatollah Khomeini in Britain are thought to number
some 8,000, of whom some 2,000 are supporters of the National Movement of the
Iranian Resistance. A senior member of the group tho asked not to be named said
he feared further attacks against them.

He said Iranian exiles living in Britain would not be safe unless the Government
stopped flights from Tehran and closed the Iranian Embassy in London. 'These
people will stop at nothing,' he claimed. 'They are quite capable of delivering
what they promise and launching further attacks in Britain. '

The car bomb victim was visited in hospital by his brother-in-law and cousin, Mr
Parviz Amir-Parviz, who is also a member of the anti-Khomeini group. He claimed
that the incident was due to the current political tension between Iran and the
West which has encouraged various factions in Tehran to demonstrate their
revolutionary zeal by launching attacks on European-based opponents in the
exiled Iranian community.

He said his cousin was in good spirits.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 20 1987, Monday

Howe flies to UN vote on Gulf War ceasefire

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: Issue 62825.

LENGTH: 213 words


The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, was due to fly to New York this
morning to add Britain's support to the other four permanent members of the UN
Security Council in pushing through a resolution that will effectively isolate
Iran in its war with Iraq.

The draft resolution, which will be passed by Britain, China, France, the Soviet
Union and the United States, calls for an immediate ceasefire, negotiations to
end the war, withdrawal of troops to internationally-recognized boundaries, an
exchange of prisoners and the deployment of a UN monitoring force.


The Security Council is expected to give the belligerents between four and six
weeks to accept the terms or it threatens to impose an arms embargo on both
sides.

The stalemate between France and Iran continued yesterday with French police
blockading the Iranian Embassy in Paris and Iranian police surrounding the
French Embassy in Tehran.

France broke diplomatic relations with Iran on Friday after Tehran's refusal to
let an embassy interpreter, Mr Wahid Gordji, be questioned about terrorist
attacks.

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs, M Jean-Bernard Raimond, last night
reiterated that the question of Mr Gordji being interviewed by a French
magistrate was not negotiable.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 20 1987, Monday

Tighter security for Iranians in wake of bombing

BYLINE: HAZHIR TEIMOURIAN and NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 62825.

LENGTH: 519 words


Scotland Yard detectives yesterday stepped up security around the Iranian
dissident community in London amid fears that the attempted assassination of a
prominent anti-Khomeini exile on Saturday may herald a spate of terrorist
attacks.

Preliminary inquiries by anti-terrorist squad detectives revealed that the car
bomb attack against Mr Amir-Hussein Amir-Parviz, aged 63, was carried out using
a small improvished heat-activated device placed underneath the vehicle,
probably on Thursday or Friday night.


Mr Amir-Parviz, a former minister under the late Shah who now heads the British
section of the National Movement of Iranian Resistance (Namir), was yesterday
under heavy police protection at St Stephen's Hospital in Chelsea.

Asked why he had been targeted for assassination he told The Times: 'That is the
way of the world - ask Khomeini.'

Police would not let him discuss details of the attack, which left him with a
broken leg, severe injuries to his right hand and facial bruising.

'It is a miracle that I escaped with my life and I hope to be much better in two
or three days' time, ' he said, sitting up in bed and smiling, surrounded by his
family and friends.

Police sources believe the bomb was placed near the exhaust pipe of his red
Vauxhall Nova. It detonated at midday on Saturday 300 yards from his Kensington
home as he was driving to his office in west London.

Scotland Yard has appeared to anyone who might have seen any suspicious activity
around the car, which was parked on Bishop King's Road from Thursday morning
until Saturday, to come forward. It is also keen to question the driver of a
green saloon car seen driving away from the scene of the blast.

A hitherto unknown group calling itself the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution
claimed responsibility for the attack in a call to the Press Association in
London. It is not clear, however, whether detectives have identified the
attackers.

Last year the son of an anti-Khomeini actor was killed in Kensington when a bomb
exploded in his father's video shop. Police are still wanting to question an
Iran Air security guard who disappeared within hours of that attack.

Following Saturday's bombing, Dr Shahpour Bakhtiar, the former Iranian Prime
Minister who is now the Namir leader in Paris, accused 'government-trained
gangsters from Tehran' of carrying out the attack and called on the West to stop
arms sales to Iran.

'As far as Namir is concerned, Khomeini's thugs make a great mistake if they
think they can terrorize us into silence', said Dr Bakhtiar, who accused Tehran
of going 'beyond the pale of the international community'.

In particular, he called on Britain to close down the offices of the National
Iranian Oil Company in Victoria Street, central London, from where 'Khomeini's
men do their international shopping for weapons supplies'.

Special branch detectives were yesterday advising the dissident Iranian
community to be on the lookout for more attacks, while officers were searching
the vehicles and homes of some prominent anti-Khomeini leaders for more bombs.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 21 1987, Tuesday

Yard alert after Iran bomb attacks

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62826.

LENGTH: 239 words


Scotland Yard detectives investigating the bomb attack on an Iranian exile
leader in London are watching for signs from the Continent to show whether the
attack is the first blow in a new campaign against opponents of the Khomeini
regime, or a single punitive strike.

Attacks in other capitals will indicate that Tehran has embarked on a full
campaign against active opponents of the regime.


Since the attack on Mr Amir-Hussein Amir-Parviz, aged 63, in Kensington High
Street, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch has been in contact with other
countries, including France which is in dispute with the Iranians.

There have been reports that another Iranian activist, Reza Chitgar, head of a
resistance movement, was killed last week in Vienna.

Yesterday Mr Amir-Parviz was said to be progressing comfortably under heavy
police protection at St Stephen's Hospital, Fulham. A Yard spokesman said he was
expected to leave hospital next week.

Scotland Yard believes that the core target for further attacks would be a small
group of activists among an exile population in Britain of 25,000 to 30,000.

Police now suspect that the bomb which blew up Mr Amir-Parviz could have been a
device set off by a 'mercury tilt' switch which has been in use by both military
and terrorist operators for many years.

A similar type of device has been used by the Provisional IRA and the Irish
National Liberation Army.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 27 1987, Monday

Praise for crime watchers

SECTION: Issue 62831.

LENGTH: 325 words


Britain's beleaguered neighbourhood watch schemes were praised yesterday by Mr
Peter Imbert, the next Metropolitan Police Commissioner. The schemes have also
won a vote of confidence on Merseyside, according to the Police Review magazine.

The schemes have been criticized in two recent reports. The Cambridge Institute
of Criminology said they had fallen short of expectation and had no discernible
impact on crime detection and the Centre of Criminology at Middlesex Polytechnic
said they would fail because of inadequate funding.


However, Mr Imbert, speaking on BBC Radio 4, days before taking over as
commissioner, said: 'Neighbourhood watches have shown themselves to be a
cohesive measures in society.

'Neighbours have got to know each other, they've reported to each other if
somebody suspicious has been seen hanging around, they've then reported it to
the police. What we are doing is preventing crime before it's taking place.

'There was a recent study of two neighbourhood watches, which claimed they
hadn't reduced burglaries, but we can show many hundreds of them throughout
London where burglaries and street crime have been reduced because of the
attentiveness of the public in those areas'.

The article in Police Review, by Supt Jim Gibson of Merseyside Police, seeks to
analyse the progress on Merseyside of Homewatch.

It says it is too soon to undertake a full-scale evaluation, but adds: 'Members
of the public appear to feel quite positive about being involved in schemes and
it would seem probable that offenders are deterred from committing offences in
areas displaying Homewatch signs'.

Mr Imbert, noted for his anti-terrorist expertise, has also giving a warning
that Britain must not drop its guard against the IRA.

'There is no doubt that the IRA believes that a terrorist incident in London
will have much more political impact than a terrorist incident perhaps in a more
remote area'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 2 1987, Sunday

Sikh 'refugees' spark security fear for Gandhi: British link with mystery of
Canada's Indian boat people

BYLINE: MARK HOSENBALL

GUESTS: TORONTO

SECTION: Issue 8504.

LENGTH: 770 words


AUTHORITIES in India have told security officials in Canada that at least one
suspected Sikh terrorist was among the group of 174 Indian 'boat people' who
landed at a beach in Nova Scotia last month.

There are strong suggestions that he and other extremists may have crossed the
Atlantic in the hope of travelling to Vancouver in time for the Commonwealth
summit meeting in mid-October, which will be attended by Rajiv Ghandi, the
Indian prime minister, and that a terrorist attack on Rajiv was planned.


Six of the illegal immigrants are being detained on security grounds. The rest
have been released.

Canadian and Indian authorities believe that Sikh separatists in Britain and
West Germany organised the boat voyage from northern Europe.

One British Sikh, 36-year-old Jasvir Singh, of Coventry, has already been jailed
for three months by a Canadian court after pleading guilty to helping to smuggle
the Indians into Canada. The Canadian Mounted police have issued a warrant for
the arrest of a second British Sikh, Naranjan Singh Mann, of Wolverhampton, who
is alleged to be one of the principal organisers of the boat journey.

A third British Sikh, Jasbinder Singh Rai, who is head of the British chapter of
the militant International Sikh Youth Federation, was turned back by Canadian
immigration authorities when he arrived at Toronto airport, apparently bound for
Nova Scotia.

Brian Mulroney, the Canadian prime minister, said last week that he was calling
an emergency session of parliament to debate immigration law changes which would
make it more difficult for future boat people to land in Canada.

The Candaian authorities say that most of the 174 people who landed last month
are probably economic refugees who want to settle in Canada because work permits
and good jobs are relatively easy to come by. Several of the others, however,
claim to be members of militant Sikh separatist groups, and security officials
fear that a handful of them could turn to violence when Rajiv arrives for the
meeting of Commonwealth leaders.

Even before the arrival of the boat people, Indian and Canadian authorities were
nervous about security arrangements for Rajiv Gandhi in Vancouver. For months,
police inquiries into the 1985 Air India jumbo jet bombing have focused on Sikh
militants living in Vancouver.

The authorities were particularly alarmed when Talwinder Singh Parmar, leader of
a virulent separatist faction called Babbar Khalsa, who has been questioned by
police about the Air India bombing, turned up in Halifax within 36 hours of the
boat people's arrival, demanding to meet them. In a court case last November,
Canadian prosecutors played wire-tapped telephone conversations in which Parmar
discussed raising money for the families of two Sikhs accused of assaulting
Indira Ghandi, Rajiv's mother, in 1984.

Canadian government sources told The Sunday Times that, in interviews with
officials, some of the illegal immigrants claimed to be members of either Babbar
Khalsa or the All-Indian Sikh Student Federation, an organisation which was
banned by the Indian government for a year after Mrs Ghandi's murder.

Last week, however, 168 of the 174 were released from confinement at a Halifax
military base after Sikh organisations across Canada raised hundreds of
thousands of dollars in sureties.

Although remand hearings have been held in camera, sources said that the six who
are still being held had told Canadian investigators that they would be willing
to use violence to advance the Sikh cause.

At the Sri Guru Singh Sabha temple near Toronto airport, where 90 of the boat
people were taken last Wednesday after their release from custody, Suneet Singh,
Canadian secretary of the International Sikh Youth Federation, denied that his
organisation fomented violence.

But Singh, who sported a Sikh dagger and a button carrying the word 'Khalistan'
- the independent homeland sought by Sikh separatists - said that his
organisation would make its presence felt at the Commonwealth conference.

'We will have people out there voicing our concern,' he said.

The boat trip itself is still the subject of considerable mystery. Canadian
authorities believe most of the boat people had been living in poverty in
Holland and West Germany and were recruited for the voyage while attending
temples run by militant Sikhs in Europe. The boat people themselves, however,
have told Canadian authorities that they travelled directly from India, leaving
in late May and transferring to a second ship off Holland.

Additional reporting by Hillary MacKenzie.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 2 1987, Sunday

A thinking man's copper to cool the hottest beat: The Sunday Times Profile of
Peter Imbert

SECTION: Issue 8504.

LENGTH: 1247 words


WHEN reporters from the BBC's Newsnight programme were researching a profile of
Peter Imbert, they complined that they could not find anybody who could fault
him, either as a policeman or as a person. To their amazement Imbert himself
solved the problem - he passed them the telephone number of a couple of people
he knew disliked him.

'I don't want to be remember as just a bland Mr Plod. I'd rather you had the
complete picture,' said Imbert.


At 9.30am tomorrow he will move into the Metropolitan police commissioner's
eight-floor office at New Scotland Yard and thus reach the pinnacle of an
already distinguished career.

In succeeding Sir Kenneth Newman to the Pounds 60,000-a-year, top position in
the capital's police force after two years as his deputy, the Kent farmer's son
will overnight become Britain's highest-profile policeman, taking control of
London's 45,000 officers of civilian staff and the force's Pounds 925m budget.

The choice of Imbert, a terrorist expert who was chief negotiator with the IRA
during the Balcombe Street siege in 1975, is a striking and popular contrast to
Newman, who many officers believed was too cerebral and cold.

Imbert is billed by colleagues as a 'good-thinking copper' and 'a policemen's
policeman'. It is said his instincts stem from his experience on the beat and
especially from those years he worked for Special Branch. The image is not one
from which this intuitive and skilful communicator shies.

He stresses the importance of both appreciating and understanding the pressures
and difficulties of frontline police work. He keeps in touch with his force at
grassroots level by regularly visiting as many police stations as he can and
adopts an unpretentious attitude towards the lowliest recruit.

One revealing story about his modesty concerns a journey to work during his
tenure as Surrey's deputy chief constable. While on the way in his
chauffeur-driver Jaguar, Imbert picked up a police radio call for help. A
villain was marking a getaway and a young constable needed assistance.

Immediately, Imbert diverted his car to the scene where he jumped out and
cornered the thief in a back garden.

When the regular uniform officers caught up, they witnessed Imbert, dressed in
his civilian clothes, lecturing the captured crook.

'Who are you then?' ventured the senior sergeant as Imbert handed over the
offender.

'Just a passer-by,' he replied.

It is now 34 years since Imbert began his impressive rise through the ranks. He
joined the Metropolitan police iN 1953 at the age of 20 after a short spell of
national service with the Royal Air Force and served as a constable at Bow
Street until transferring to the criminal investigations department three years
later. He then served for a numner of years in Special Branch and was involved
in anti-terrorist operations in Northern Ireland and Britain between 1971 and
1976.

But the one incident which singled him out for rapid promotion was his
successful handling of the Balcombe Street siege. For six days, 12 hours each
day, he used his powers of persuasion to keep four cornered IRS terrorists from
shooting their hostages. 'Mr Cool' was how the press then hailed him.

At the time he was deputy operational head of the Metropolitan police's
anti-terrorist squad but the peaceful conclusion to the siege catapulted him
through the upper echelons. Promoted to detective chief superintendent a year
later, in 1976, he continued his investigations into subversive groups,
including the German Baader-Meinhoff gang. He also studied investigations of the
Molucan terrorist attacks in Holland during the 1970s.

His next promotion was to assistant chief constable of the Surrey force and
within 12 months he was deputy chief constable. He had to wait only two more
years before he was given his own force. In 1979 he was selected by Thames
Valley's police authority and began a controversial six-year reign.

Trouble erupted in 1981 after he allowed the BBC to film a series of five,
fly-on-the-wall documentary programmes. One of the most memorable of these,
which showed a disturbing scene of male officers interviewing a rape victim
unsympathetically, prompted a storm of protest that caused Imbert and other
forces to re-appraise the way they treated rape victims.

There was considerable controversy within his own force as well. Imbert's
explanation that he wanted to foster 'a spirit of openness' weas dismissed by
many officers who felt his action had seriously damaged the reputation of the
police.

Even now there are those who still see the television series as a
public-relations exercise which backfired disastrously. One serving officer
said: 'We are still trying to live that one down.'

However, Imbert is not scared of trackling an issue head-on. He says he still
firmly believes in an opendoor policy: 'I think the public are not only
entitled, but almost have a duty, to know the difficulties of policing.' It is
an echo of the philosophy of Sir Robert Mark, a previous commissioner, who,
along with Newman, Imbert sees as the greatest influence in his career. The
London he inherits from Newman has na appalling and ever-Encreasing crime record
and some detractors suggest he may be too soft for the Herculean clean-up job.

But Imbert staunchly rejects this criticism. He points to his time at Surrey as
evidence of his ability and willingness to bite the bullet: he sacked officers
at the rate of six a year and insists he wants to be remembered for his
integrity, not his popularity. Nevertheless he is a popular figure. He is not
one to stand on ceremony. Once, when he was on his way to an annual inspection
at the Thames Valley police training school at Sulhamstead, near Reading, his
Jaguar staff-car broke down on the M4. Minutes later the trainees were startled
to see their chief road up on the back of a police motorbike which he had
commendeered from an astonished outrider.

His only formal education, after Harvey grammar school at Folkestone in Kent,
comprises shorthand and Russian. The fifth in a family of seven, Imbert is
married with three grown-up children, a son and two daughters.

The report on him when he was trying to become a detective sergeant almost 20
year ago is a credit to the police force's ability to reorganise high fliers at
an early stage:

'On face value this officer is a deceptive character, possesses a dry practical
sense of humour and when to let his hair down this student showed many talents.

'A good practical man with sincere loyalty and affection for the department,
capable and shrewd, he is admirable material to fill the high ranks of the
service.'

Imbert has spoken out strongly against racism and has already threatened harsh
action against those who perpetriate racial harassment or violence in his
jurisdication. He proudly refers to 'six black faces in my family' (his wife's
sister married a black American and his niece is married to a Mauritian).

He is never slow to reforce a point by quoting from John Masefield, Daniel
Defoe, H L Mencken or Gilbert and Sullivan. He summed up his 1983 annual report
with lines by the poet, William Henry Davies:

What is this life if, full of care,

We have no time to stand and stare.

No time to stand beneath the boughs

And stare as long as sheep or cows ..

In one of the toughest and most demanding jobs in Britain, Peter Imbert will
find little time to stand still.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 5 1987, Wednesday

Hotel bombs 'planted by Islamic extremists'

BYLINE: SUSAN MACDONALD

SECTION: Issue 62839.

LENGTH: 496 words


A Muslim foundamentalist group is reported to have been responsible for the
Sunday night bombings of four Tunisian tourist hotels which injured five British
holiday-makers, seven Italians and one local person. Reports in Tunis said the
unnamed group was circulating pamphlets claiming responsibility.

Officially, however, there is no proof as to who planted the home-made devices
which both Government and opposition sources see as being aimed at embarrassing
the Bourguiba regime on the eve of the President's 84th birthday, rather than
having a direct link with the present turbulence in the Middle East.


Yesterday life in Tunis appeared normal with tourists strolling the streets and
taking full advantage of the sun and beaches in Sousse and Monastir where the
bombings ocurred as well as in other resorts.

The Prime Minister, Mr Rashid Sfar and his wife visited the most seriously
injured British tourist, Miss Helen Strochie, in hospital on Monday before she
was flown back to Britain. Miss Strochie had to have a foot amputated following
the explosion in the bar of the Sahara Beach Hotel in Monastir where all five
British holidaymakers were injured.

Some 240 British tourists in the Sahara Beach Hotel decided to cut short their
holiday and flew back to Britain yesterday. But although a bit nervous, most
holidaymakers did not want their holidays ruined and decided to stay.

Security around the four hotels had been discreetly stepped up, and tighter
Security is evident in other hotels. However, at the height of the tourist
season, with the whole off Tunisia's coastline dotted with large luxury hotels,
a check of those entering and leaving is an almost impossible task.

No official advice has been given to the many Italian and French tourists. The
injured Italians were evacuated by a Government aircraft on Monday. French
visitors account for 30 per cent of Tunisia's tourist earnings.

The French Foreign Ministry said yesterday that it was treating the bombings as
isolated incidents and no statement would be issued.

Tourism in Tunisia accounts for 20 per cent of its foreign earnings and this is
the first time that it has become the target of terrorist attacks. Threats
against it and against foreigners who corrupt Tunisian youth have been made by
Islamic fundamentalist groups in the past.

It could be that the severe crackdown on religious extremists by the Government,
with hundreds now in prison, has spawned new more hardline gorups willing to hit
at vital economic interests.

Bombers defied: Britons defied the bombers yesterday as special flights from
Tunisia arrived home with dozens of empty seats while planes leaving Britain
were packed with holidaymakers heading for the resorts hit by terrorist
explosions.

As two of the most seriously injured British women underwent treatment in
British hospitals, eyewitnesses claimed that the aurthorities tried to hush up
the blast at the Sahara Beach Hotel.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 9 1987, Sunday

US convoy braves the Gulf again

BYLINE: MARIE COLVIN, WILL ELLSWORTH-JONES and JAMES ADAMS

GUESTS: KUWAIT

SECTION: Issue 8505.

LENGTH: 993 words


THE UNITED States yesterday showed no sign of backing down in its confrontation
with Iran in the Gulf. In a surprise move, three reflagged Kuwaiti tankers
sailed through the Strait of Hormuz heading for Kuwaiti protected by four
American warships under cover of darkness. Today and tomorrow the convoy will
run a the 550-mile gauntlet of the Gulf despite threats from Iran.

Last night, the convoy was shadowed by an Iranian frigate as it passed the coast
of the United Arab Emirates. The British-made frigate kept a distance of five
miles but made no effort to interfere with the convoy.


Intelligence services throughout the West are on alert for a possible attack by
Iranian terrorists. Yesterday, the Western allies responsible for security in
West Berlin expelleld between 10 and 20 Iranian officials. Sources said the move
was connected with fears of guerilla attacks to protest against US action.

At the same time, the Reagan administration has launched a new diplomatic
campaign to win support for its stand. It has suggested to the six Gulf states
that they should make a direct request for joint Western military assistance to
keep the Guld sea lanes open; it has asked Japan to send minepowers, despite the
Europeans' refusal to help; and together with Britain and France it is seeking
an early vote in the United Nations to impose a world-wide arms embargo on Iran.

The decision that the convoy should sail into the Gulf was kept secret. Early
yesterday the Pentagon said the convoy would not sail for several days, until
eight minesweeping helicopters aboard the USS Guadalcanal had reached the area.
But this appears to have been a bluff to confuse Tehran.

The three reflagged ships weighed anchor off the port of Kawhr Fakkan at 2am
after raising American flaga. They passed without incident through the Strait of
Hormuz, which is in range of Iranian Silkworm missiles. The convoy left only 90
minutes after the end of four days of naval manoeuvres by Iran's Revolutionary
Guards.

Although its course does not pass through Iranian territorial waters, US Navy
officials reckoned that to travel through the strait during the Iranian
manoeouvres would have been an unnecessary risk. Iran had closed its territorial
waters and its airspace to foreign ships and aircraft during the exercises. In
its statements, Iran made clear that the ships were training for attacks on
American ships. 'The Persian Gulf will be the grave of Reagan,' President Ali
Khameini said on Friday.

It is unlikely the Iranians will attack the convoy directly. But during last
week's manoeuvres they tested tactics they might use. The revolutionary guards
practiced 'suicide boat' attacks on naval targets and fired a shore-to-ship
missile.

The American convoy is made up of three tankers - the Gas King, a liquid gas
carrier, and the Ocean City and Sea Isle City, both carriers of refined oil
products. They will sail to Kuwait to load and be escorted back.

Meanwhile, the Reagan administration has launched an intensive diplomatic effort
to win supporot for its policy in the Gulf. As part of it:

American ambassadors in the Middle East have approached the six members of the
Gulf Co-operation Council to ask them to make a joint request for a
multi-national force to join the Americans in policing the Gulf. The hope is
that such a request would encourage the Europeans to send more help.

The Japanese have been approached to see if they will supply minesweepers to
support the American fleet.

Frank Carlucci, the new chief of staff at the White House, has spent the week in
Europe trying to persuade leaders to help more.

There have been intense discussions among the members of the UN Security Council
to try to get the UN to vote this week to impose an arms embargo against Iran.

America, British and France now believe that Iran is defying the recent UN
resolution calling for a ceasefire in the Gulf war. Javier Perez de Cuellar, the
UN secretary-general, has been waiting for a reply from the Iranians since July
20, when the UN passed resolution 589 called for a cresaefire.

The secretary-general will report to the security council early this week on the
progress he has made. If he says that Iran has given a reply, as sources suggest
he will, then the majority in the security council will probably want to give de
Cuellar more time to explore Iran's reply .

If however, he says he has still not heard from iran, the council is likely to
be split. Some members will want to give Iran more time, but Britain will back
an immediate move to give power to resolution 598 - which at the moment has no
teeth - by imposing an arms embargo.

The Russians and Chinese, who both have the power to veto such a resolution,
will be extremely wary of it while countries like Japan, Italy and West Germany
will be cautious, stressing that the only hope of ending the war is a package
which can win the backing of all the Security Council nations.

Mrs Thatcher has been following the UN debate closely in London. Last week she
sent a series of messages to world leaders, urging them to support an embargo on
Iran. She would also like the UN to condemn the placing of mines in the Gulf
shipping lanes by the Iranians.

But she is still adamant that Britain will not send minesweepers to the Gulf.
She has been advised by Admiral Sir John Fieldhouse, the chief of the naval
staff, that the American fleet in the Gulf could not provide adequate protection
for British minesweepers.

Any joint declaration from the six Gulf states is unlikely. Kuwait is the only
Gulf state to have spoken out against Iran. Saudi Arabia has also denounced Iran
in recent days because of Iran's role in provoking a political demonstration
that turned into a riot in Mecca.

But the other Gulf states are tiny and conservative sheikdoms. They know that
should they request foreign help in the Gulf they would antagonise Iran.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 10, 1987

Doubts in Bonn on Iran ban

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: BONN


The barring from West Berlin of up to 20 Iranian officials, including some
diplomats, which was ordered by the three Western Allies at the weekend, was
viewed with unease by the Bonn government yesterday. It hopes to continue its
efforts at playing honest broker in the Gulf conflict.

The foreign ministry in Bonn said it had been informed of the Allied measure,
which lay entirely within the three powers' supreme sovereignty over West
Berlin, and for which the United States, Britain and France 'surely had their
reasons. '

Sources said, however, they hoped that they the Tehran government would realise
that the decision was one taken by the Allies and that 'Iran's anger will not be
directed against us as a result. '

West Germany took over the chair of the United Nations Security Council this
month and the Foreign Minister, Mr Hans Dietrich Genscher, is ready to continue
his meditation efforts once Tehran has passed its verdict on the UN ceasefire
resolution to the Secretary-General.

On Saturday, The US, Britain and France issued a decree, under postwar Allied
rules, barring some diplomats and officials of Iranian Embassy in East Berlin
from entering the western half of the city. At the same time, several employees
of Tehran's consulate-general in West Berlin were expelled and are understood to
have been asked to leave by tomorrow.

A spokesman for the US mission in West Berlin said the measure was linked to
security in the divided city and to fears of guerrilla attacks arising from US
military involvement in the Gulf.

Allied forces in West Berlin, is well as in other European centres, had been on
a high state of alert since US Navy vessels began escorting tankers through the
Gulf.

'We don't take measures like this without believing there's a terrorist danger',
one Allied source said. He recalled the bomb attack 1 1/2 years ago on a
discotheque in West Berlin in which three people were killed and more than 200
were injured.

The La Belle bar was a popular meeting place for members of the 6,000-strong
military contingent in West Berlin, and Washington claimed that the attack had
been engineered by Libyan diplomats in East Berlin.

Meanwhile, Iran's ambassador to East Berlin, Mr Hamid Reza Assefi, yesterday
described the latest Allied action as absurd and said it was part of a global
American plot aimed at stoking conflict with Tehran's leadership.

'In our eyes and in the eyes of a billion other Muslims, the terrorist
government is the Reagan Administration. What they say about us is absolutely
untrue,' he added.

The decree made no specific allegations of guerrilla plans, but security sources
said fears of a bomb attack had grown since Tehran blamed Washington for clashes
in Mecca in which hundreds of Iranian pilgrims were killed.

The Allied officials would not say exactly how many Iranian diplomats from East
Berlin had been barred from entering the West, nor how long the West
Berlin-based officials were given to leave the city.

But they said that controls had been stepped up at the city's crossing points
and at all Allied installations, including social centres and an annual
German-American fair.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 16 1987, Sunday

Mystery solved: Garda's secrets were in the post

BYLINE: CHRIS RYDER and DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: Issue 8506.

LENGTH: 475 words


AN administrative blunder by police is in the west of Ireland is thought to have
been responsible for an internal Garda document going astray, exposing Britain's
ambassador in Dublin to the risk of terrorist attack by revealing his holiday
plans.

An internal memo from the Garda in Tralee, County Kerry, asking for police
divers to check a yacht the ambassador intended to use and requesting a radio
technician to set up a communications link for his escorts, should have been
classified secret and sent to the Garda headquarters in Dublin by police
courier.


Instead, it was put into an envelope, stamped confidential and sent to the
Garda's personnel services department in the ordinary mail.

Yesterday, Garda officers interviewed the man who signed the memo,
Superintendent Dan O'Sullivan, at Tralee. Two sergeants and a Garda civilian
worker were also seen.

O'Sullivan's station covers Sneem, a small seaside village where the British
ambassador, Nicholas Fenn, and his West German counterpart enjoyed a break at
the home of Dermot Kinlen, a prominent Dublin barrister.

It is a remote and tranquil spot where the pace of life is tranquil, and the
realities of modern security precautions rarely intrude. However, it is also an
area where republican sympathies are strong. One of the Balcombe Street bombers
came from nearby.

The memo is alleged to have fallen into the hands of the IRA, giving it 48
hours' advance warning of the ambassador's visit, which lasted from last Sunday
to Wednesday. The Irish prime minister, Charles Haughey, wants a report for a
cabinet meeting on Wednesday.

A Garda officer said yesterday: 'The people concerned in sending the memo
obviously underestimated the security implications. But whether it was actually
intercepted in the mail is still being investigated.'

It is believed that disciplinary action is unlikely if human error is to blame,
although police procedures covering this kind of communication are likely to be
tightened.

The claim that the document had fallen into the hands of terrorists came from a
reporter who saw the memo after it was intercepted. He passed the information to
Eugene Murray, editor of Today Tonight, a current affairs programme on the Irish
television station RTE. Within an hour RTE had informed the Garda.

The disclosure caused a major reappraisal of the visit and extra officers were
drafted in as a precaution.

The Garda asked RTE to ensure no information was disclosed that would put anyone
at risk, and the station held back until after the visit had taken place.

On Thursday, when the story was about to break, the Garda told RTE and other
news organisations that any reporting of what had happened would breach the
Irish Official Secrets Act. Ironically, it was this threat which helped turn the
leak into front page news.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 21 1987, Friday

Leading Article: Dealing With Syria

SECTION: Issue 62853.

LENGTH: 609 words


The United States is returning its ambassador to Damascus from where he was
withdrawn last year following proof of Syria complicity in terrorism. The
decision marks another small step towards the rehabilitation of Syria in the
West. Britain has so far reached with caution. That caution should remain.

Relations between London and Damascus have been fractured since the revelation
of official Syrian involvement in the Heathrow bomb plot against an Israeli
airliner. The United States and most of Britain's European partners demonstrated
their support in various ways - and Syria has suffered accordingly.


Economically it has lost aid at a time when it is saddled with foreign debt.
Diplomatically it has been part-isolated at a moment of great activity in the
Middle East. The effect of the sanctions is suggested by the reaction of
Damascus. The closure of the Abu Nidal offices and the attempt to restore peace
within the Lebanon have been the means by which President Assad has sought to
end the isolation of his regime.

This Syrian effort has not been crowned by consistent achievement. Despite its
presence in Lebanon the Beirut southern suburbs, where most of the hostages are
probably held, have not yet been penetrated by the Syrian army.

Despite claims to the contrary, there is no evidence to suggest that Syrian
soldiers did more than escort the journalist, Mr Charles Glass to safety after
his own, unaided, escape from the armed gang holding him. Even if the troops had
secured Miss Glass's release, it would seem unwise to let the Syrians think that
this lay behind the return of the US ambassador. There must be no deals on
hostages.

The Ambassador's return was, in fact, decided some time ago and is the latest
move in a Western chain reaction to Syria's apparent change of attitude. West
German aid has been resumed. The European powers have agreed to renew high-level
contacts with Damascus. The re-allocation of Community aid is thought to be
imminent.

Britain has stayed in the rear of this rush to rapprochement - and with good
reason. It was Syria's London embassy that was the base for one of the most
flagrant abuses of diplomatic privilege of modern times. Although the Syrians
have since acted against Abu Nidal, they have left other terrorist group0s
unscathed. Nor have they moved against any of those responsible for backing the
Heathrow bomb plot.

How relevant their policy shifts might be to the safety of hostages in Beirut is
a matter for debate. One reason commonly given for encouraging warmer relations
with Assad is the influence he might have upon Tehran as the Ayatollahs' most
important ally. So far there is little evidence to support this.

The offer by Mr Rafsanjani, the Speaker of the Iranian Parliament, to sue his
best offices to secure their release, probably owes as much to political
infighting in Tehran as it does to intervention from outside. His warning that a
reciprocal US gesture would be needed should anyway rule out prospects of a
deal. Rafsanjani would like the Americans to bring pressure to bear on powers
like Israel and Kuwait to release convicted terrorists in exchange. It is
unthinkable that any such bargain could be struck - and doubtful if he could
keep his side of it anyway.

The real reason that relations with Syria cannot be rejected entirely is that
President Assad remains the only conduit of even half-reliable information about
the hostages. Those conduits must be explored - which is why there is an
argument for the return of the US ambassador to Damascus. But nothing more than
is necessary for that purpose should be considered.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 31 1987, Monday

Hilton sale is Allegis' takeover buffer

BYLINE: From NICK GILBERT

SECTION: Issue 62861.

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Monopoly money will buy you a hotel on Park Lane. But the starting price to buy
the London Hilton and the 91 other Hilton International hotels in 43 countries
is around Dollars 1 billion (Pounds 613.5 million).

Hilton International's US owner, the Allegis Corporation, hopes to sell the
chain, plus its Westin hotels and the Hertz car rental business by October in an
increasingly international auction.


Lufthansa is interested in Hilton. So, too, are Mr David and Mr Frederick
Barclay, the entrepreneurial brothers who own the Tolly Cobbold brewery. Mr
Cyril Stein, whose Ladbroke Group has racecourse interests in the US, has also
thrown his hat into the ring.

It also seems likely that Grand Metropolitan, which bought the InterContinental
chain from Beleaguered Pan Am, is looking at Hilton International. The British
hotel giant is a partner with Lufthansa in hotels in West Germany.

Mr Matt Gonring, a spokesman for Allegis, refuses to make any comment about
possible bids. But he maintains: 'There is a good volume of interest in each of
the assets we have put up for sale.'

Apart from the hotels and Hertz, these assets include a half interest in COBIA,
the airline reservation system now wholly-owned by Allegis' main subsidiary,
United Airlines. Wall Street expects Allegis may get Dollars 500 million for the
COBIA system alone.

Profits at Hilton International, which separated from the late Conrad Hilton's
Hilton Hotels Corporation empire in the mid 1960s, have been on a slide. In
1985, the 92 hotels in the chain - 10 owned outright, 39 leased and 43 managed -
turned in pretax profits of Dollars 60 million on revenues of Dollars 694
million.

Last year, when Hilton-loving US tourists shunned Europe because of fears of
terrorist attacks, room rates were cut to drum up business. Despite revenues
rising to Dollars 775 million, profits slumped to Dollars 48 million and have
failed to recover this year, admits Mr Gonring.

But the chain is highly attractive to both British and West German buyers. Its
three attractions in Britain are the Park Lane, Kensington and Gatwick Airport
Hiltons. In West Germany, Hilton has large luxury hotels in Munich and Mainz and
there are others in Rome, Geneva and Paris.

A purchase by Lufthansa, the majority shareholder in the Penta Hotel chain and
the minority shareholder in the West German Avis business, would be a
considerable irony for Allegis.

It sacked chairman, Mr Richard Ferris, built Allegis along the same lines as
Lufthansa by trying to be all things - airline, car rental and hotel chain - to
all travellers. Allegis, then using its more pronounceable title, United
Airlines, bought Hertz in 1985 and completed the purchase of Hilton
International from Transworld for Dollars 980 million in April this year.

Earlier this year, United Airlines' pilots union, backed by Lazard Freres,
proposed that Allegis should sell its hotel and car rental chain and give
shareholders Dollars 70 a share. The pilots would form an alliance with other
United employees and buy the airline, allowing existing public shareholders to
retain 20 per cent.

The Allegis directors turned on Mr Ferris and brought in Mr Frank Olson, the
former Hertz chairman, to run the entire group.

In a dramatic about-face the company decided to try to outflank the pilots by
adopting parts of the union's strategy. By selling all but the airline, Allegis
(which also plans to re-adopt the United name) hopes to raise Dollars 3
billion-plus which will be paid to shareholders as a special dividend estimated
at Dollars 55 to Dollars 70 a share.

The current Hilton International auction represents a vital part of that
anti-takeover arithmetic. If the chain sells for more than Dollars 1 billion,
Allegis shares, currently trading at a 52-week high of Dollars 98, are set to
fly higher.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 8, 1987

Tehran renews Gulf war of words

BYLINE: From JULIE FLINT

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: DUBAI


Iran - despite two days of complete calm in the Gulf before the visit of the UN
secretary-general, Mr Javier Perez de Cuellar - yesterday warned that it will
'continue the war to its final stages' if diplomacy fails and threatened further
attacks on Kuwait if the emirate continued to invite the West into the Gulf.

Amid unconfirmed reports that the first Kuwaiti tanker to carry the Red Ensign
entered the Gulf yesterday at the start of its journey to Kuwait, where
renagging formalities will be completed, the Speaker of the Iranian Parliament,
Mr Hashemi Rafsanjani, was quoted as saying that Iran wanted to renew its
'friendship' with Kuwait, which has expelled five of seven Iranian diplomats
after a Silkworm missile attack narrowly missed an oil refinery south of Kuwait
city.

Iran, Mr Rafsanjani said, does not want to cut itself off from the Arab world.
'But international precedent gives us the right to take revenge on a country
which allies itself with our enemy in war. We will not let Kuwait take advantage
of current tension and tie our hands in the Gulf. If the rulers of Kuwait
continue their policy, they may be slapped in the face.'

If Kuwait declared neutrality, however, Iran would 'forgive' it.

The powerful speaker also warned Washington that the Gulf is not Lebanon, which
US marines fled less than four months after a car bomb destroyed their
headquarters.

'The Americans will sustain great losses . . . It was relatively easy for them
to leave the Lebanon. Leaving the Gulf won't be easy.'

Mr Rafsanjani's warning coincided with a probable expansion of the Western
armada born of Kuwait's decision earlier this year to seek American escorts for
its tankers. Reports from The Hague yesterday said the Dutch government would
'almost certainly' send minesweepers to the Gulf. Britain's junior defence
minister, Mr. Ian Stewart, was discussing with Dutch officials the use of
British facilities in the Gulf.

Of European countries, France and Italy have already decided to send
minesweepers to the Gulf. The departure of the Italian task force has, however,
been delayed by a division of opinion within the Italian Government.

Kuwait showed no sign of grasping the olive branch extended by Mr Rafsanjani.

As the Kuwaiti Foreign Minister, Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, departed for
talks with Jordan's King Hussein at the start of a new round of Arab diplomacy,
the Kuwaiti media blamed Iran directly for past terrorist acts inside Kuwait.

A leading newspaper, Al Rai Al Aam, said the five expelled Iranians had used
their diplomatic status as a 'cover up' for acts of internal sabotage ranging
from car bombs to attacks on tankers.

As the Gulf states closed ranks around Kuwait, appealing to the UN to take
action to protect Kuwait, Saudi Arabia warned that 'any aggression against one
of us is considered as aggression on all.' The failure of Mr De Cuellar's
mission, said the Al Jazira newspaper, would 'force Arab countries to close
ranks and collectively confront Iranian aggression.'

By GEORGE ARMSTRONG

ROME - The head of one of Italy's most prominent industrial families, Mr
Ferdinando Borletti, was interrogated yesterday about his role in illicit arms
sales to Iran.

The Borletti name was found last week with other documents in a suitcase left in
a Bari hotel room, indicating that his arms factory, near Milan, had sold
anti-personnel mines to the suitcase's owner, an intermediary known to be acting
as a purchasing agent for Tehran. Payment was to be made to Mr Borletti's Swiss
account.

The suitcase was abandoned after the Swiss-Italian agent had become suspicious
of the noisy activities of police helicopters and motor launches outside Bari as
a ship, thought to be carrying a cargo of arms to the Middle East, was seized.

The impounded ship has been described as 'a floating arsenal' and 18 of its
officers and crew also are under arrest.

The double scandal came as no surprise to radical and church peace groups who
have been holding their own inquiries into Italy's vast arms exports to the
Middle East and to Africa.

The Communist press had a wry comment: 'A firm, half owned by Fiat, fills the
Gulf with mines and, when they began exploding, it is decided to send
minesweepers that, as it happens, have Fiat engines.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 16 1987, Wednesday

Italy fears Iranian reprisals as Gulf fleet sails

BYLINE: From ROGER BOYES

SECTION: Issue 62875.

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: ROME


The Italian Navy set sail for the Gulf yesterday, equipped with some of the
West's latest minesweeping technology, 3,000 cans of Coca Cola and a row of
James Bond and Sylvester Stallone videos.

'We are well-prepared,' said one of the commanders, as the three frigates, three
minesweepers and two support vessels prepaed to leave southern Italy for more
troubled waters.


Iran has warned Italy that it will strike back and there is much trepidation in
the country. The departure, broadcast live on national television, has captured
some of the excitement of the British fleet's sailing to the Falklands. But
mainly there is anxiety about terrorist reprisals.

The Italian decision has been a long time coming. At first the line of the
Foreign Minister, Signor Giulio Andreotti, set the tone of discussion. He
insisted that peace-keeping in the Gulf was the UN's responsibility and that
Italians should participate only in a multilateral force.

The position was criticized by both the United States and Britain, and then
increasingly by the Italian political parties. The turning point came when a
Iranian speedboat shot at an Italian container vessel in the Gulf earlier this
month.

Within days the Cabinet had decided on independent naval action. But the
decision had first to be put to Parliament, and though the Government secured
votes of approval in both houses - despite Communist opposition - the overall
effect was to slow the dispatch of the Italian ships.

One fear in Italy has been that the country is probably more exposed to
terrorist attack than other West European countries active in the Gulf. The Abu
Nidal attack on Rome airport 18 months ago lingers in the public consciousness.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 24, 1987

Commentary: 59,481 reasons to challenge this act

BYLINE: By HUGO YOUNG

LENGTH: 1414 words


A friend of mine was recently stopped when coming into Britain, and detained
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA). He was later released, but not
before his privacy had been to violated, his briefcase seized and his papers
removed for examination. His story is a cameo from a larger canvas. I do not
believe that more than a handful of people are aware of this picture, or know
how wide is the sweep of the Act in its impact on citizens who never imagined it
would touch them.

Geoffrey Seed, a television journalist, arrived at Holyhead from Dublin at
12.30am on 11 August. As a large throng disembarked, he was ordered to step
aside for a 'police check'. Before he could speak, a plainclothes officer seized
his briefcase and began to go through its contents, asking with great insistence
why he had been to Dublin and whom he visited there.

When Seed protested that this was his private property which the officer had no
right to take, the was led to an interrogation room and told, 'You are being
held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.' The text of the relevant section
was produced which permits the authorities to examine any person and any
material they choose. Seed was left in the locked, windowless room, while his
notebooks and other material were removed and, it is safe to presume, copied.

He was released after just under an hour's detention. At no point was he told
why he had been subjected to this treatment, nor did the officers identify
themselves. Although their manner was civil, the experience was intimidating
even to a fairly hardened journalist. Operating in South Africa or eastern
Europe, one might be ready for this sort of thing. To be officially associated
with terrorism when 90 miles from home is a qualitatively different kind of
shock.

On the face of it, the PTA is administered with surprising restraint. That is
the public story, reinforced by statistics which the Home Office publishes every
quarter. It is a draconian statute, providing the authorities with extensive
powers of search, detention, investigation, exclusion and deportation in respect
of suspected terrorism whether emanating from Northern Ireland or
internationally.

It originated as an emergency measure after the Birmingham pub bombings in
November 1974, when 21 people were killed, but it has since been updated in more
sober circumstances. The current Act was passed in 1984.

The Labour Party, which since 1982 has declined to support the annual vote
required to continue special powers was mercilessly pilloried for this before
and during the election. lt tried rather feebly to argue that, while unalterably
opposed to terrorism, it could not accept either the necessity or the
acceptability of the powers enshrined in the Act. The terrorist threat which we
all live with seems almost to exclude the possibility of that case being taken
seriously.

Nor do the figures seem to define a measure that is being grossly abused. In
1988, 147 people were detained under the Act in connection with Irish terrorism,
and a further 55 in connection with international terrorism. This is not a huge
number, given Britain's location at the cross-roads of the world, not to mention
the open frontiers with Ireland. Although terrorism is not everpresent, the
ruthlessness of its exponents demands certain preventive ruthlessness in return.

One notes, in passing, certain discrepancies. Of the 202 people detained in
1986, only 13 were eventually charged with offences under the PTA. Some others
were excluded from one part of the UK, and a few were deported. But a total of
150 persons were neither charged nor excluded. In other words, 75 per cent of
people detained had no connection with terrorism. Of the 150, many were held for
as long as two days, and a few for several days longer.

The paltry figure for charges compared with detentions begins to tell one more
about the purposes of the PTA than is at first apparent. It has more to do with
intelligence-gathering than the arrest of people who blow up pubs and airliners.
And the conditions of detention, in practice, ignore the protections created by
the Police and Criminal Evidence Act which are themselves, as I wrote on
Tuesday, not invariably available even when they are supposed to be.

However, one must concede that other regimes equipped with the PTA 1984 might
use it more drastically. As well as requiring annual renewal, we have provided
for an annual inspection of the Act's operations by such paragons as Lords
Shackleton and Jellicoe, whose recommendations for adjustments, while often
rejected, have attested to a fairly meticulous process of invigilation.

But that is far from the whole story. There's another category of target of the
PTA, not recorded in the Home Office's quarterly reports - and it is rather more
numerous. In 1985 it amounted to 55,328 people, who were subject to 'searches
under the provisions of the PTA' - but not detained for more than one hour.

This figure has always been excluded from the overtly reassuring accounts of the
PTA's impact. It appears instead, buried among much else, in the annual report
of the Chief inspector of Constabularies.

This year, in fact, a further piece of concealment has been attempted. When I
telephoned the Home Office to discover the figure for 1986, I was told it was
not available. All they could give me was a figure of 59,481, which were the
number of cases in which port officers had requested 'searches of police records
through the National Joint Unit.'

They said they were unable to tell me how many people had been stopped under the
PTA specifically. But this was more than somewhat misleading. The truth is that
gobbledegook about the National Joint Unit has been substituted for an honest
reference to the PTA: a fact which becomes clear when the 1986 report goes on to
remark that this 59,481 is 'an increase of 4,153 over the previous year' - ie
over the 55,328 recorded as PTA cases in 1985.

There has, in fact, been a rising tide of PTA detentions since 1979, when the
figure was 41,936. Because they last less than an hour they are not officially
recorded as 'detentions.' Yet detention is detention, and especially painful
when the inference exists that it is happening because of contamination by
terrorism.

As the Seed case shows, these temporary arrests are not a mere formality. Police
officers do not need to invoke the PTA simply to check entry documents. They
have another purpose, and their powers are almost limitless.

They need have no suspicion that a person is involved in any way with terrorism.
They do not even have to have any grounds for thinking that a person taken for
questioning has information to impart. The officer's instinct, even his whim, is
enough to justify arrest, search, seizure and copying. Only if he wants a
detention for more than 12 hours does he have to cite his own 'reasonable
suspicion' that the subject is in some way involved with terrorism.

Detaining someone under an anti-terrorism statute is a gross violation of their
natural rights. It should not be open-ended, and its enormous impact should not
be concealed. It offers a particular threat to journalists, who may well come
off the Dublin boat after pursuing legitimate inquiries, with lists of names
that any random member of the Special Branch might find randomly interesting.

For such stopping and searching and interrogation to be happening to nearly
60,000 people a year, in an exercise that produced at the last count 13 charges
under the Act, 23 other charges and 16 exclusions or deportations seems a
disproportion sufficient to alarm all but the most obdurate of
anti-libertarians.

Yet another review of the PTA is now in train, prior to its final expiry in
1989. This is in the hands of Lord Colville, barrister and former Home Office
minister. He has interesting credentials. From 1980-83 he was the UK
representative on the UN Human Rights Commission, and later took a special
interest in human rights in Guatemala.

Among British human rights activists, the main interest in the PTA concerns the
exclusion power, which is deeply resented by the few people it affects. But a
wider problem suggests itself. Is it still acceptable for the police to arrest
and interrogate without even being required to have a reasonable suspicion that
their target has knowledge of, connection with or interest in any acts of
terrorism, past, present or future?

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 27 1987, Sunday

Iran arms dealers move to Germany

BYLINE: ANDREW HOGG, PETER HOUNAM and AMIT ROY

SECTION: Issue 8512.

LENGTH: 604 words


AMERICAN intelligence sources believe the Iranian arms procurement office, which
was ordered to close its London operationlast week, plans to re-open for
business in Frankfurt, West Germany.

An Iranian cell is understood to have been active in the city for some time, and
will shortly be joined by the military personnel and Revolutionary Guards who
have been operating out of London.


West Germany has an official embargo on arms deals with Iran, and would be
unlikely to grant ordinary visas to the Iranians. It is expected, however, that
Bonn would be prepared to allow members of the group to have diplomatic status,
and turn a blind eye to subsequent transactions. The West Germans are known to
be anxious to keep relations with Iran cordial.

After the closure or scaling down on a number of Western embassies in Tehran,
West Germany now has one of the largest Western European diplomatic presences in
Iran and its trading links with Iran have prospered. Although the Khomeini
regime says it prefers to do business with islamic and non-aligned countries,
West Germany is now its largest trading partner, supplying quality goods,
including machinery and pharmaceuticals.

While Bonn will not publicly flout any decisions taken by Western governments,
it is believed to be actively assisting the Iranians in their war efforts.
Informed sources said a West German company was helping to make artillery shells
and light armaments at Seman, 175 miles east of Tehran.

A West German official recently admitted to The Sunday Times that the country's
opposition to any bombing of the air and naval base at Bandar Abbas - regarded
by the Americans as a prime target - was partially based on the fact that 'we
have a lot of Germans there'.

It is also believed that the West Germans, who decided against sending
minesweepers to the Gulf, have provided technicians to service and maintain Iran
Air planes. West Germany's Lufthansa is the only Western airline still making
regular flights to Tehran.

Earlier this month, a West German hostage in Beirut, Alfred Schmidt, 47, an
engineer, was released after intervention by Iran and Syria. The kidnappers
claimed certain demands has been met, and a Pounds 1.2m ransom payment was
rumoured, but the British ambassador in Bonn was later assured no deal had taken
place.

Another West German, Rudolf Cordes, an official with Hoechst, the West German
pharmaceutical company, is, still being held.

Last month, the three Western powers responsible for West Berlin - Britain,
France and the United States - ordered the closure of the Iranian consulate
because of tension in the Gulf and fears that the city might become the target
of terrorist attacks.

About a dozen diplomats employed at the consulate in West Berlin's Dahlem
district, and several others accredited to the Iranian embassy in East Berlin
who were spending most of their working hours in West Berlin, were expelled from
the Western sectors.

They are now operating, with the approval of the Bonn government, out of the
Iranian consulate in Hamburg.

Bonn government diplomats yesterday suggested, however, the Iranians might now
have chosen Frankfurt instead because of its large international airport and
closer location to the Iranian embassy in Bonn.

'We are in a tricky position on this one,' said a West German diplomat. 'We are
anxious to get along with Tehran right now'.

Western intelligence agencies are known to regret the closing down of the
Iranian Arms Procurement Office on the sixth floor of the National Iranian Oil
Company at 4 Victoria Street, Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 6, 1987

French armed patrols at Kent Channel station

BYLINE: By ANDREW CORNELIUS, Industrial Correspondent

LENGTH: 426 words


Armed French customs officers will be permanently stationed at Folkestone, in
Kent, when the Anglo-French Channel rail tunnel opens in May 1993.

In certain circumstances armed French police may also be allowed on trains
passing through the tunnel, although officials from both countries have yet to
agree what happens when trains coming from France pass the midpoint in the
Channel and move on to British soil.

The inter-government argument over whether French police can carry firearms
beyond the midpoint of the 31mile tunnel is likely to continue until much closer
to 1983.

However, the proposed system whereby passengers using the tunnel will be able to
drive straight up to the tunnel entrance terminals, buy tickets, and then clear
British and French passport and customs control in 15 minutes is vital to the
success of the project -which is only viable if it can beat air and ferry
services.

British officials are aware of the public pressure for a clampdown on the use of
firearms in the wake of the Hungerford massacre, but French customs officers
traditionally carry guns and are adamant that they will continue to do so for
duties at either end of the tunnel.

Neither side can afford any more hitches in the troubled tunnel project ahead of
next month's pounds 750 million share issue, so Britain has decided to give way
to France on this point.

It has conceded on condition that the French customs officers are only able to
use their weapons with the permission of the Chief Constable of Kent, who would
agree only in exceptional circumstances, such as an attack by terrorists.

Eurotunnel explains in its promotional literature for next month's pounds 750
million share flotation to raise fund for the pounds 4.7 billion project that
passengers will pass both through both British and French frontier formalities
'on this side of the Channel' and shows a picture of a French customs official
directing traffic to the tunne shuttle trains.

One price which the French Government may have to pay for the concession for
customs officers is a tougher deal for French policemen carrying arms through
the tunnel.

British negotiators accept that they cannot prevent armed French police carrying
arms when trains are on the French side of the tunnel, but are looking for ways
to prevent them carrying arms when the trains pass the midpoint.

One way round this would be for an arms room to be included in Channel tunnel
trains, where French police could deposit their firearms as trains reach the
halfway point.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 6 1987, Tuesday

Warship and marine guard for the Tories: Unprecedented anti-terrorist security
for conference delegates

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD and MICHAEL EVANS

SECTION: Issue 62892.

LENGTH: 587 words


A Royal Navy mine-sweeper and a squad of specially-trained Royal Marines
appeared off the coast at Blackpool yesterday to guard the Prime Minister and
her colleagues against possible terrorist attack during the Conservative Party
conference which opens today.

HMS Cuxton, which is armed with one 40mm and two 20mm guns, and equipped with
radar, will watch over the seas off the Lancashire resort. Her shallow draft
will enable her to stay close to the shore.


As Mrs Margaret Thatcher arrived a the Imperial Hotel, the conference
headquarters, the Cuxton could be seen clearly at anchor a few hundred yards off
the promenade, At the same time, the Royal Marines swept the foreshore in two
high speed rubber boats of the type used to great effect during the Falklands
conflict in 1982.

Any boat approaching the shore could be detected on the Cuxton's radar, then
swiftly intercepted by the Royal Marines in their Gemini boats.

It is not known where the Marine detachment is from. However a special squad,
the Commachios, based in Scotland, are experts in counter-terrorist operations
and carry out frequent exercises around Britain's North Sea oil rigs.

The extraordinary precautions were ordered after a special request from the
Chief Constable of Lancashire, who is responsible for security during this
week's conference. It is unprecedented for the Royal Marines to be used in these
circumstances and it underlines the authorities' determination of counter every
possible threat.

The Imperial Hotel has been turned into a virtual fortress for the four-day
conference as part of measures designed to prevent a repetition of the bomb
attack that killed five people at the Grand Hotel in Brighton during the
Conservative Party conference three years ago.

The hotel can be entered only by two people wearing official accreditation and
they must pass through a series of electronic security checks as well as a
personal search. When Mrs Thatcher arrived she passed through the electronic
surveillance equipment but was not subjected to a body search, although her
luggage was checked at another entrance and sent separately into the hotel where
she will stay during the conference.

Security at Blackpool is the tighest ever seen for a party conference and comes
amid fears that terrorists may attempt an attack. Since the Provisional IRA bomb
attack at Brighton, security surroundings all party conferences has increased.
It has been heightened for the Conservatives this year following the charging of
three people for conspiring to murder Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, and because of fears that the Provisionals are anxious for
revenge for the SAS killing of eight of their members at Loughall in County
Armagh earlier this summer.

The Imperial opened yesterday having closed for 48 hours while police with
electronic devices and sniffer dogs carried out a final security check and all
parking within a quarter of a mile of the building has been banned.

At the Winter Gardens, where the main conference debates take place, a team of
officers with sniff dogs checked under the platform where the Prime Minister
will sit today and then searched the whole building.

A team of 88 officers began their security checks last month and during the last
56 hours a comprehensive sweep including searching drains and the roof for
explosives took place. A similar operation will occur each night as part of a
security clampdown costing more than Pounds 1 million.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1987

Prints 'identify IRA bomber'

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 624 words


The terrorist bomb which killed four members of the Household Cavalary in 1982
was made for the Provisional IRA by an electrician from Northern Ireland, an Old
Bailey jury heard yesterday.

Fingerprint evidence also linked the man to an unexploded IRA bomb found in west
London and parts of bomb caches buried in woods in Oxfordshire and Northants, it
was alleged.

The prosecuting counsel, Mr Roy Amlot, QC, said that the most comprehensive
collection of terrorist equipment unearthed in Britain was found by chance in
1983 by forestry workers at Pangbourne in Oxfordshire.

'According to an expert, the items could be used to mount a prolonged and deadly
campaign of violence, involving explosive devices that were radio-controlled,
command wire operated, booby trapped, and short and long-term delayed,' he said.

Gilbert McNamee, aged 26, of Crossmaglen in Co Armagh, has pleaded not guilty to
conspiracy to cause explosions between January, 1982 and January, 1984 in
association with three other men who have since been convicted of terrorist
offences.

The trial is being held amid considerable security, which prompted a complaint
from Mr Seamus Mallon, the SDLP MP for South Armagh, who attended. It was not in
the interest of the accused, jurors or the public that the 'hyped-up activities'
of the police made people feel that such trials were somehow different from
other cases, he said.

Opening the case, Mr Amlot said that items discovered in Pangbourne included
electrical equipment for setting off bombs by remote control, time and power
detonating units, mercury-tilt devices for booby trap bombs, time-delay
switches, command wire for more conventionally detonated bombs, incendiaries,
1221b of explosives made in the Irish Republic, handbooks identifying potential
military targets in Britain, and documents establishing false identities for
buying motorbikes and driving licences. The explosives were deteriorating badly
and were wrapped in newspapers dating back to 1981.

He said that McNamee's fingerprint was found on red tape inside an encoder: a
device tuned precisely to a decoding receiver attached to a bomb, allowing it to
be detonated by remote radio control.

In December, 1983, McNamee's fingerprint was found on a battery used in a bomb
police dismantled at Philimore Gardens in Kensington.

The following month, IRA caches were found at Salcey Wood in Northants and
Annesley Wood in Nottinghamshire.

They were 'a comprehensive collection which could be used to mount a long
campaign of terrorist violence,' said Mr Amlot.

McNamee's fingerprint was on a Salcey decoding receiver which was the same type
as those discovered at Pangbourne.

When forensic experts examined the debris after the attack on the Household
Cavalary near Hyde Park, a circuit board was found with 24 separate similarities
to one found at Salcey.

Turning to the Hyde Park blast in detail, Mr Amlot said a 251b bomb had been put
in the boot of a car parked on the Household Cavalry's route in South Carriage
Road. It was surrounded with nails to 'cause maximum harm to the troopers'.

Mr Amlot said: 'The experts say it comes to this: it was the same original art
work and the same master art work was used to produce these circuit parts .. It
is not suggested that McNamee was present in Hyde Park when the bomb went off.
The crown's case is that he was the bomb-maker.'

When he was arrested in Northern Ireland in August, McNamee told police he
repaired electrical equipment.

'I work with electrical equipment and repair many things. If my fingerprints are
on there, it must have been that I was repairing something,' he was alleged to
have told detectives.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 13 1987, Tuesday

Nail bomb that killed four 'built by young electrician': Hyde Park bomb trial

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62898.

LENGTH: 657 words


The radio-controlled bomb used in the Hyde Park bombing five years ago when four
cavalry soldiers died was made by a young electrician working in Northern
Ireland, the Central Criminal Court was told yesterday.

Gilbert McNamee, aged 26, from Crossmaglen, Co Armagh, was bomb maker for the
Provisional IRA and supplied an active service unit operating in Britain, Mr Roy
Amlot, for the prosecution, alleged.


Mr Amlot, speaking at the start of a trial in which Mr McNamee denies
involvement in an explosives conspiracy, said the Hyde Park bomb had been
detonated by a bomber waiting near by with a piece of radio equipment known as a
transceiver.

The bombing was carried out as a troop of 16 members of the Household Cavalry
made its way on July, 20, 1982 towards Horse Guards Parade.

A radio-controlled bomb packed with nails and 25lb of explosives had been left
in the boot of a parked car.

Mr Amlot said it went off as the standard-beater in the centre of the troop was
passing the car, 'one sure indication this was a radio-controlled bomb'. That
sort of accuracy could not be achieved with short or long term delayed action
bombs, he said.

Debris from the bomb was recovered which could be matched to devices linked to
the defendant. Mr Amlot told the court: 'It is not suggested that the defendant
was in Hyde Park when the bomb went off. He was the bomb maker, probably in
Ireland.'

The court was told Mr McNamee's fingerprints were found on a defused bomb in
Kensington, west London, and on two radio-controlled devices among hauls in two
terrorist caches uncovered by police at Pangbourne, Berkshire, and Salcey
Forest, Northamptonshire.

One of the radio-controlled devices in the Salcey Forest cache contained a part
which had 24 similarities, according to experts, with a portion of the Hyde Park
bomb recovered after the blast.

Mr McNamee pleads not guilty to conspiracy to cause explosions in the United
Kingdom between January 1982 and January 1984 with Paul Kavanagh, Thomas
Quigley, Natalino Vella and persons unknown. Mr Amlot told the jury the other
three men had all been convicted for offences.

One of Mr McNamee's fingerprints had been found on tape on part of a
radio-controlled device in the Pangbourne cache in October 1983 after forestry
workers found two buried dustbins.

The bins contained, Mr Amlot said, one of the most comprehensive collections of
terrorist equipment found in this country.

In December 1983, during an IRA bombing campaign in London, a bomb left in a bag
on the pavement in Phillimore Gardens, off Kensington High Street, was defused.
Mr Amlot said when the bomb was examined the defendant's fingerprint was found
on the top of a battery.

Part of the bomb, a time power unit, was similar to other such units found in
January 1984 in the cache in the Salcey Forest.

Quigley had already been arrested and in Britain police saw Vella meet Kavanagh
and others during trips which took them to Salcey Forest and Annesley Forest in
Nottinghamshire. Searching in Salcey Forest, police found a cache of arms and
esplosives. The equipment for sending and receiving signals to set off two
radio-controlled devices was found.

Mr McNamee's prints were found on one of the receiver units and on a piece of
tape. According to experts, circuitry found at Salcey Forest tied in with the
design and manufacture of the boards receovered from the Hyde Park bomb.

Mr Amlot said Mr McNamee was arrested in Crossmaglen last year. He was told that
his prints had been found in the Salcey Forest cache and he said: 'I work with
electrical equipment a lot and repair many things. If my prints are on it, it
must have been when I was repairing something.'

He was told experts believed that a piece of circuitry linked to him had been
specially made for a detonation. Mr McNamee replied: 'I work with circuitry like
that a lot'.

The case continues today.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 14 1987, Wednesday

Bomb trial told of IRA explosives

SECTION: Issue 62899.

LENGTH: 298 words


An IRA explosives cache containing the fingerprints of Gilbert McNamee, the
alleged Hyde Park bomb maker, was found by chance in a Berkshire Wood, the
Central Criminal Court was told yesterday.

Mr Martin Heslop, for the prosecution, said Mr Timothy Sheldon, an estate
worker, stumbled upon 'one of the most comprehensive collections of terrorist
equipment ever discovered in Britain'.


In a statement, Mr Sheldon described how he and Mr Derek Turner, a colleague,
noticed the lid of a buried plastic dustbin as they cleared woodland at
Pangbourne, Berkshire, in October 1983.

'The first thing I saw was two Adidas bags', he said. 'I removed them and saw a
large coil of wire and a plastic bag which contained cassettes with batteries. I
realized they were some sort of detonating device and returned them. I saw two
walkie-talkie radios wrapped in cotton wool.'

Thames Valley Police were alerted and the Army and Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist squad called in. A second bin containing bomb-making materials
was found near by.

Mr McNamee, aged 26, an electrician, of Crossmaglen, Co Armargh, Northern
Ireland, has denied conspiring to cause explosions in the United Kingdom between
January 1982 and January 1984 - including the Hyde Park attack, which killed
four men of the Household Cavalry on July 20, 1982.

The Irishman is said to have constructed the remote control bomb detonated by
radio as the cavalrymen rode by.

Det Sgt Ian McLeod, of Scotland yard, told the court that two detonating devices
bore Mr McNamee's fingerprints.

An unexploded bomb bearing Mr McNamee's fingerprints was found by a passerby, Mr
James Kearns, on the pavement in Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, on December 13,
1983, the court was told.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 22, 1987

McNamee bomb denial

LENGTH: 163 words


An Irishman accused of constructing a remote-controlled IRA bomb which killed
four Household Cavalrymen in Hyde Park, London, told a jury at the Old Bailey
yesterday: 'I have not done violence to any human being in my life.'

Gilbert McNamee, 27, also described how, as a 14-year-old boy, he helped carry
his fatally-injured father from the debris after a bomb exploded in a public
house in his home town of Crossmaglen, Co Armagh.

McNamee, a physics graduate from Queen's University, Belfast, denies conspiring
to cause explosions in Britain over two years up to 1984.

Accused yesterday by Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, of being a good bomb maker,
McNamee said: 'I have had nothing to do with bombs, nothing at all. If you had
seen the results of bombs as I have seen them, you would not accuse me.'

Mr Amlot alleged McNamee had invented an elaborate story to explain his
fingerprints on adhesive tape in two IRA bomb caches.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1987, Tuesday

Times Diary: Card sharp

BYLINE: PHS

SECTION: Issue 62910.

LENGTH: 154 words


I've heard of using a driving licence for identification to get through European
immigration controls when you forget your passport, but I am intrigued by a
reader's experience with a Harrods account card. Philip Barrow has twice used
one to enter France and Belgium when he arrived without documents. But the white
plastic card, which bears the name, address, signature and number of the holder,
is being replaced by a green and gold computerized credit-card-style one.
Barrow, who reports that negotiations took longer in Brussels than Paris,
despite the fact that he arrived in France during last year's terrorist bomb
attacks, mourns the change. 'I have to say it was touch and go getting back into
Britain. In fact I now have a fail-safe system to remember my passport, but to
destroy my old card would be like losing a trusted travelling companion.' It was
one solution to those go-slows at Petty France.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 1987

IRA's Hyde Park bomb-maker gaoled for 25 years

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 657 words


An Irish physics graduate who denounced violence and the Provisional IRA was
gaoled for 25 years yesterday after an Old Bailey jury unanimously found that he
made the bomb which killed four members of the Household Cavalry in Hyde Park in
1982.

The jury took five hours to convict Gilbert McNamee, aged 27, of conspiring to
cause explosions likely to endanger life in the United Kingdom between January
1982 and January 1984.

Passing sentence, Mr Justice McCowan, who had a bodyguard throughout the trial,
told him: 'I can have no doubt that when you took part in that conspiracy you
knew very well that the pretty well inevitable result of what you did was that
life would be endangered.'

After his conviction, police disclosed that McNamee had provided bombs which
killed up to 19 people in London. They included the two passersby killed when a
nail bomb exploded outside Chelsea barracks, the Scotland Yard bomb disposal
specialist, Mr Ken Howarth, and six people outside Harrods in 1983.

It has also not been ruled out that McNamee made the device which, on the same
day as the Hyde Park explosion, killed six Royal Greenjackets bandsmen in
Regent's Park. Towards the end of the trial, McNamee, from Crossmaglen, Co
Armagh, who described himself as an Irish Nationalist but not a Republican, gave
evidence in his own defence and took the unusual step of attacking the IRA.

He said he could not have been involved in terrorism because his father had died
as a result of an IRA bomb, and Republican gunmen had murdered two of his
cousins. 'I do not agree with violence, whether it comes from the IRA or the RUC
or anyone else .. I have nothing to do with bombs. Nothing at all,' he said.

During the 11-day trial, the jury heard McNamee's fingerprints were found on
fragments of circuit board retrieved from the Hyde Park bomb, on sticky tape on
a coding device found in an IRA bomb cache in Pangbourne Wood, Berkshire, in
October, 1983, and on batteries connected to an unexploded bomb found in west
London two months later.

After he graduated from Queen's University, Belfast, McNamee worked part-time at
Kimble Electronics of Dundalk, 10 miles across the border from Crossmaglen.

The factory was run by two brothers George and James McCann. Last year, George
McCann was convicted in France of smuggling guns.

McNamee claimed his fingerprints were on electronic equipment which he had
innocently repaired but was later used by the IRA. But the explanation had been
used before.

In 1983, Irish police arrested McNamee and another man, Donal Moyna, aged 28, in
a Dundalk hotel and was charged with involvement in bomb-making. However, at a
trial in Dublin in May 1984, Moyna maintained that 17 circuit boards on them
when they were arrested were for gaming machines. He was acquitted and
proceedings against McNamee were dropped.

The Old Bailey heard that McNamee never actually detonated any bombs in Britain
but was an experienced bombmaker for the Provisional IRA. Explosives and
sophisticated electronic equipment found at Pangbourne and at two other woods in
January 1984 - Annesley, Nottinghamshire and Salcey, Northants - were sufficient
for 'a long campaign of terrorist violence,' Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, said.

Three other people linked with the finds, Paul Kavanagh, Thomas Quigley and
Natalino Vella, formed an IRA active service unit in Britain and have since been
convicted.

Police maintain that Evelyn Glenholmes, whose extradiction from the Irish
Republic has failed several times because of flawed warrants, was also involved
in the unit, along with three others whose identities have not been disclosed.

After McNamee's conviction was announced, a Sinn Fein spokesman, the political
wing of the IRA, said: 'He had no connection with the Republican movement. He
never had. This is another example of British justice.'

McNamee's lawyers are now considering an appeal.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 31 1987, Saturday

Hired assassin is jailed for 30 years: Sikh terror plot

BYLINE: MARK ELLIS

SECTION: Issue 62914.

LENGTH: 447 words


Patrick Timlin, a former soldier hired to assassinate Sikh moderates in Britain,
was yesterday jailed for a minimum of 30 years. Mr Justice Mars-Jones told him:
'Contract killers can expect no mercy from the courts of this country'.

At the Central Criminal Court, Gurmail Singh Basra, a fanatical Sikh terrorist
who hired Timlin, was given two life sentences. The Indian High Commission in
London confirmed last night that police in India want to question Basra about
alleged terrorist offences there.


The judge passed four concurrent life sentences on Timlin, aged 25, of
Lillington, Warwickshire, and recommended he serve a minimum of 30 years for
ruthlessly killing a prominent Sikh and trying to murder two more.

Excusing the jury from further service for 15 years after the four-week trail,
the judge said he was satisfied Basra occupied 'a high position in the hierarchy
of a Sikh terrorist organization and had hired Timlin to kill'.

He told Basra he could find no mitigation for his 'barbarous conduct towards
your own kith and kin' and told Timlin: 'The extent of your villainy is
enormous'.

Basra, aged 31, a shopkeeper, of the High Road, Tottenham, north London,
modelled his terrorist cell on the IRA and paid Timlin, a hard-drinking petty
criminal nicknamed the 'cut-price killer', Pounds 6,000 to carry out his
assassination attempts. He was later paid a further Pounds 5,000 for attacks in
Derby. Timlin showed no emotion as he was led away to prison.

His younger brother Trevor, aged 22, who was cleared on Thursday of conspiring
to murder an unknown Sikh, was sentenced to nine and a half years for attacks on
Sikhs in the Midlands for which he was convicted earlier this year at Birmingham
Crown Court. Sentence had been postponed until the latest trial.

The judge told Trevor Timlin: 'You offered violence to individuals who had done
nothing to you personally - you did it purely for money'.

Patrick Timlin and Basra had denied taking part in a murder plot, which left Mr
Tarsem Toor, aged 55, of Southall, west London, dead, and Mr Singtar Singh
Sadhu, aged 48, of Hounslow, west London, partially sighted, last year.

At Birmingham Crown Court last July Patrick Timlin was found guilty of
conspiring to murder Mr Sucha Singh Atwal, a Derby garage owner, who escaped
when a bullet grazed his chest. He was also convicted with his brother and
others of conspiring to wound Mr Baldev Singh Talwar, a Derby jeweller.

As the men left court to begin their sentences, the judge commended Det Supt Guy
Mills of the Anti-Terrorist Squad and Det Supt Ron McAllister of Derby police
and their officers of their painstaking work.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 9, 1987

Leading Article: A time to mourn, but also to listen

LENGTH: 620 words


Mr John Hume, the Nationalist leader in Northern Ireland, described the bomb
which exploded at the cenotaph in Enniskillen yesterday as the most deeply
provocative act to have been committed against the Unionist people.  That is not
an overstatement.  If legitimate targets are to include civilians remembering
their fallen relatives then few people can expect to be given quarter by those
responsible for the bombing. Whether this was an authorised attack by the IRA or
the work of a splinter group anxious to remind the IRA of what it should be
doing is at present speculation. The effect is the same: to try to raise tension
to breaking point.

It may seem sanctimonious advice from the safer side of the water but Unionist
people would do well to reflect on the warning by Dr Conor Cruise O'Brien, who
understands their predicament as well as anyone, against the politics of the
last atrocity. (We in Britain have not been guiltless of that gut response.) The
aim of a terror campaign such as that waged by the IRA, and when the time is
deemed right by the 'loyalist' paramilitaries also, is precisely to fill people
with anger and despair.  They will then, it is assumed, consent to anything
which gets the terrorists off their backs.  To that extent the more offensive to
all human feelings the act of terrorism is, the greater the revulsion and the
more effective it is judged to be in achieving its purpose.  If the Queen and
half the Cabinet had been assassinated in Whitehall yesterday the IRA would have
claimed their targets to be justified as upholders of the British presence in
Ireland, and would have relied on a 'Troops Out' backlash.  Where there is no
politician in the sights but only a few bystanders within bomb range a purely
emotional backlash has to serve.  It would be foolish to go to the other extreme
and say that the outrage in County Fermanagh was a sign of the bombers'
desperation.  It is not.  There is no cause for the IRA and its like to be
desperate.  They have a willing supply of young recruits stretching far into the
future, and despite setbacks, even as grievous as the loss of the Eksund arms
cargo, they will always have the weapons to cause havoc.  The only way to stop
the IRA and its clones is to pull the rug from under their feet by cooperation
between peoples and governments, and in that order people come first.

It is at times like this that the few statesmen in Northern Ireland most need to
be heard.  Mr Hume has been saying for years that the only form of Irish unity
which counts will come from dropping the idea of domination by either side: of
Nationalists by the Unionist majority in the North, and by Nationalists in the
island as a whole.  This advice has not been totally ignored.  It inspired the
idea, and to some extent the report, of the new Ireland Forum, and it was the
spirit behind the Hillsborough Agreement which is now almost two years old.
Frictions between the governments - about the adequacy of security cooperation
in the South, about forms of justice in the North - are bound to surface, and it
isn't always crystal-clear that either side is wholly right.  But these
frictions are subsidiary.  Governments cannot make agreements of that kind
stick.  Only people can do that.  The only threat at present to the existence of
the IRA and other violent forms of republicanism would be the sense among
Nationalists that they have benefited from the agreement and among Unionists
that they have lost nothing of importance.  It requires less effort in Britain
than in Ireland to say so, but if that could be the starting point for meetings
between the parties then the bombers of yesterday would have fewer places to
hide.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 9, 1987

Scars of Enniskillen will remain: The Remembrance Day massacre joins outrages
which stand out amid Ulster's violence

LENGTH: 588 words



   By PETER MURTAGH

 Yesterday's Enniskillen massacre joins a long list of atrocities which have had
an impact that sets them apart from other acts of violence committed in Northern
Ireland in recent years.

The nationalist community has never forgotten the shooting dead of 13 unarmed
people in Derry, when soldiers of the Parachute Regiment opened fire on a march
through the city in January 1972.  Every year since, Bloody Sunday memorial
protests have provided a focus for Republican aggression against the security
forces.

In Belfast in March 1972, an IRA bomb blew up the Abercorn Restaurant, killing
two women and injuring 130 people, many of whom were badly mutilated.  Four
months later, the IRA created Bloody Friday by setting off 26 bombs in Belfast
which killed 11 people, two of them soldiers. Both outrages had a huge and
lasting impact in Northern Ireland, particularly on members of the Protestant
community.

The IRA brought its campaign to Britain with horrific consequences in 1974.
  Twenty-one people died when bombs exploded without warning inside two
 Birmingham pubs.  Six Irishmen sentenced to life imprisonment for the
 outrage are currently appealing against their convictions.

 In January 1976, five Catholics were killed in two separate sectarian attacks
in Co Armagh. The following day in the same county, 10 Protestant workers were
ordered out of a bus driving them to work and shot dead in cold blood as a act
of revenge.  The gunmen let one man go, a Catholic workmate.

The IRA scored an enormous propaganda victory on the day in August 1979 when
they murdered Lord Mountbatten, on holidy in the Irish Republic, and 18
soldiers, who were killed by two separate bombs near Warrenpoint, Co Down.

Five months earlier, the Irish National Liberation Army, an organisation then
little known outside Northern Ireland, showed that the precincts of the Palace
of Westminster were not immune from terrorist violence when Mr Airey Neave, the
Conservative spokesman on the province, was killed by a bomb placed under his
car.

Inla's taste for indiscriminate violence was illustrated in December 1982, when
they blew up the Droppin' Well, a bar-disco in Ballykelly, Co Derry. Sixteen
people, 11 of them soldiers, were killed, and the Irish government reacted by
outlawing Inla.

A year later gunmen describing themselves as the Catholic Reaction Force entered
a tiny gospel hall at Darkley, Co Armagh, and sprayed bullets into the
congregation.  Miraculously, just three people died. The outrage caused huge
revulsion, particularly in the Republic.

In Britain there was similar revulsion in Decmber 1983 after the IRA set off a
car bomb among Christmas shoppers outside Harrods department store in London,
killing five people and wounding 91.

The following October the same organisation planted a bomb at the Grand Hotel in
Brighton, where most members of the Government were staying during the
Conservative Party conference.

The hotel was partly destroyed and five people were killed, but the Cabinet
survived.

The foll suffered over the years by members of the Royal Ulster Constabulary was
brought into sharp focus when in February 1985, IRA mortar bombs landed inside
Newry police station, killing nine officers.

Yesterday's outrage will immediately be compared by Portestants with the Darkley
murders and will stand out for a long time among the acts of violence which the
people of Northern Ireland have had to suffer for 18 years.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 11 1987, Wednesday

Hint of a smile in the front line

BYLINE: Our Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62923.

LENGTH: 161 words


Citizens from the small town of New Galloway became willing victims of a war
scenario yesterday during Exercise Purple Warrior in south-west Scotland (Our
Defence Correspondent writes).

Royal Marines from 40 Commando had arrived to evacuate them because of the
threat of terrorist-style attacks from Orange forces. The men, women and
children, all of whom had volunteered to take part in Purple Warrior, left their
homes clutching personal possessions.


In the exercise, the Galloway area is a group of islands called Kaig, 1,500
miles from Britain. Orange is the hostile neighbouring island. A British task
force of 20,000 men and 39 ships is in the area to carry out the evacuation of
'British nationals.'

The citizens of New Galloway were flown to the British airhead, which had been
established at West Freugh, south of Stranraer, after British forces landed on
Monday. The exercise was watched for the second day by Eastern bloc observers.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 11 1987, Wednesday

Thatcher steps up pressure on extradition: Irish debate anti-IRA moves as the
people of Enniskillen mourn their dead

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER, Chief Political Correspondent and JOHN COONEY

SECTION: Issue 62923.

LENGTH: 1009 words


Mrs Thatcher has sent a clear signal to her Irish counterpart, Mr Charles
Haughey, that she expects agreement on extradition

The Irish Government is facing increasing pressure at home to formalize
extradition arrangements and fight against international terrorism


The youngest victim of the Enniskillen bomb blast, Marie Wilson, aged 20, was
the first to be buried yesterday. About 3,000 people attended

Barely 200 yards from the funeral, Mr Paul Corrigan, hard-line Sinn Fein leader
of the local council, spoke in support of IRA bombings Mrs Margaret Thatcher
sent a clear signal yesterday to Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister,
that she expects him to ratify the new extradition treaty in the wake of the
Enniskillen massacre.

But there will be no bowing in return to Irish demands for changes to the
Northern Ireland judicial system under which the single-judge Diplock courts
would be replaced by three judges.

Mrs Thatcher's words came shortly before a four-hour emergency debate in the
Irish Parliament in which Mr Haughey came under opposition pressure to bring an
extradition Act into effect before the end of the year, and to break off
diplomatic relations with Libya.

Under the pressure due to be enacted in the Dail on December 1, the republic
would ratify the 1977 European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism, which
removes the defence of political motivation for such offences as hostage-taking
and bombing.

At the time of the signing of the Anglo-Irish agreement in 1985, Dr Garret
FitzGerald, then the Irish Prime Minister, indicated he would pass an
extradition act in return for British measures to increase nationalist
confidence in the judicial system in Northern Ireland.

It has been suggested that Mr Haughey might shelve the legislation unless
Britain accepts the demand for three-judge courts. Mrs Thatcher has made clear
that the Northern Ireland courts are not a bargaining factor for the republic.

The Dail debate, on terrorist violence, was in response to public revolution in
the Republic at the Enniskillen bomb outrage.

A comprehensive motion in the Dail also deplored IRA gun-running from Libya and
the kidnapping of Mr John O'Grady, a Dublin dentist.

In the Commons, Mrs Thatcher ruled out the establishment of a joint security
commission with the republic.

After deliberating refraining from public warnings to Mr Haughey over the
extradition treaty, Mrs Thatcher now believes that the Enniskillen bombing has
significantly increased the pressure on him.

She told the Commons: 'I believe that at the moment events themselves are
speaking very loudly to those who have important decisions to make.'

The outrage was again condemned on all sides in the Commons. Mrs Thatcher called
it a vile act and Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, said those who pursued the
so-called joint strategy of the ballot and bullet were guilty of hypocrisy.

He told Mrs Thatcher that even in the wake of the barbarism in Enniskillen she
was right to resist demands for the return of internment.

In reply to a Conservative MP, Mrs Thatcher said she hoped that Labour Party
would support the renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act when it came before
the Commons next year. The Opposition has yet to determine its stance.

Mr Peter Robinson, Democratic Unionist MP for East Belfast, demanded proscrition
of Sinn Fein.

Mrs Thatcher told Mr David Alton, the Liberal spokesman on Northern Ireland,
that she saw no reason for a joint security commission. Security cooperation
should take place through the Anglo-Irish agreement.

She said: 'Every nation should fight terrorism - every single one. I hope people
will consider where the arms are coming from and what action can be taken
between the Irish Republic and the UK Government through the agreement.'

In the Irish emergency debate in the Dail, the main Opposition leader, Mr Alan
Dukes, called on the Irish Government to play its part to suppress international
terrorism.

Mr Dukes, the former Justice Minister who steered the extradition legislation
through Parliament last December, said the new arrangements to formalize
extradition of suspect terrorists to Britain and Northern Ireland was a
'necessary part' of the international fight against terrorism.

Referring to the seizure by the French of the 150-ton shipment of arms,
ammunition and explosives from Libya destined for the IRA, Mr Dukes said there
could be 'absolutely no ambivalence' in Irish attitudes to the terrorists.

Mr Desmond O'Malley, the leader of the Progressive Democrats, the republic's
third largest political party, said that there should be no hiding place for
terrorists, either in Northern Ireland or the Republic.

It was unthinkable that the Irish Government would not improve extradition
arrangements between the republic and Britain.

Mr Dick Spring, leader of the Labour Party and former deputy Prime Minister,
said: 'The enemies of the Protestant people are our enemies.'

The speeches of the three opposition leaders reflect the change in opinion in
the republic towards the Extradition Act since the massacre.

The Extradition Act will come into force unless a motion is tabled in the Irish
Parliament proposing postponement, which Mr Haughey's government has been
expected to do.

Remarkably, the motion was not put to the House for a vote at the end of the
debate, which attracted a low attendance.

Remarkably too, Mr Haughey did not speak.

A Belfast man was given a triple life sentence yesterday for causing an
explosion which killed two schoolboys and a soldier. Martin Paul McElkerney,
aged 25, of Ross Street, Belfast, also admitted causing an explosion and
attempting to murder a second soldier and was given concurrent sentences of 18
years.

Belfast Crown Court was told that McElkerney confessed to detectives in the
Irish Republic in May, 1983, that he had been the bomber's lookout and that he
had fled across the border to escape the anger of the schoolboys' relatives.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 13 1987, Friday

IRA 'tearing itself apart' over Poppy Day bomb

BYLINE: JOHN COONEY

SECTION: Issue 62925.

LENGTH: 473 words


The IRA is tearing itself apart over 'the monumental error' of the Enniskillen
bomb outrage, the organization's weekly newspaper said last night.

Republican News, in an editorial, conceded that the republican movement was
shocked and shaken by the blast which killed 11 people and injured more than 60.
'We do not try to excuse or defend the action which caused the deaths and
injuries inflicted by the IRA bomb.'


It said that the consequences would be with the organization for a long time
'because of our sorrow and because our enemies, the enemies of the Irish people,
are so strong and have been strengthened by it'.

The British Government had revelled secretly in the opportunity the atrocity had
given it to justify its occupation of Northern Ireland, the newspaper said.

It asserted that the position of Republicans had no changed as a result of the
Enniskillen outrage.

'Armed resistance to British rule will bring freedom because it is ultimately
the most necessary political weapon against an armed aggressor and the only one
the aggressor will heed.'

Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, told the Commons yesterday
that he expects the Irish Government to ratify the Extradition treaty with
Britain next month in the wake of terrorist outrages.

Mr King said that there was an absolute compelling priority for the treaty to be
implemented as there had to be the closest co-operation between the two
governments in the fight against terrorism.

Ministers feel the Enniskillen bombing, the ordeal of the kidnap victim Mr John
O'Grady and the seizure of arms abroad the Eksund have resulted in a tide of
opinion that will make ratification difficult for the Irish to resist.

Last night Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, met Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish
Prime Minister, for private talks on the Republic's implementation of the
treaty.

Afterwards, Mr Kinnock said that his discussions with Mr Haughey were dominated
by the aftermath of the Enniskillen bombing and the conveyed to the Irish Prime
Minister the full impack of the horror felt in Britain.

Earlier, Mr Kinnock called on Hackney Council, north London, to withdraw a
speaking invitation to Mr Alex Maskey, Sinn Fein leader at Belfast City Hall.

The last two victims of the Enniskillen bombing were buried yesterday. They were
Billy and Nessie Mullan, both aged in their seventies.

Anthony McNeill, aged 25, of Belfast, appeared before the special criminal court
in Dublin last night charged with falsely imprisoning Mr John O'Grady.

A former Irish cabinet minister today claims that the bomb that killed 11 people
at Enniskillen was not an act of mindless violence.

Dr Conor Cruise O'Brien says in The Times, on page 16, that the explosion was
planned to force Protestants into revenge attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 14, 1987

ANC gets protection pledge: Foreign Office minister defends meetings with exiled
organisation

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 651 words


African National Congress representatives were assured at the Foreign Office
yesterday that they would be protected in this country against criminal
activities, despite the banned South African organisation being branded as
terrorist by the Prime Minister at last month's Commonwealth conference in
Vancouver.

In the Commons, the Foreign Office Minister of State, Mrs Lynda Chalker,
defended the meeting with FO officials and did not rule out further ministerial
meetings with the ANC. She believed that they could be valuable in encouraging
dialogue for peaceful change in South Africa.

In Vancouver Mrs Thatcher had characterised the ANC as an organisation on a par
with the IRA and the Palestine Liberation Organisation whose leaders she would
never meet.

In contrast, Mrs Chalker said yesterday of the ANC: 'I do not believe it is in
the interests of the ANC to be identified with any other three-lettered
organisations like the IRA or ETA.'

Yesterday's meeting was arranged at the request of the ANC who wanted to express
concern at the recent decision to drop charges of alleged plotting to kidnap ANC
officials in Britain.

Mr Solly Smith, head of the ANC London office, said after the meeting: 'The
Foreign Office reported on the Government's opposition to criminal and terrorist
activities. We have been assured that we will be protected from such
activities.'

In the Commons, Mrs Chalker described the meeting as low-key and courteous. She
said that the ANC did not raise the outcome of Vancouver, nor the Prime
Minister's criticism of them, nor sanctions, nor British policy on South Africa.

She understood the anxieties of Conservative MPs but it was right that officials
met the ANC from time to time. Challenged by Mr Robert Adley, the Tory MP for
Christchurch, to back the principle of ministerial meetings with the ANC, Mrs
Chalker said the decision would depend on the facts at the time if a request for
such a meeting was made.

The Prime Minister's stance came under direct attack in the Commons yesterday
from Mr Ivor Stanbrook, Tory MP for Orpington, who said she appeared to damn
sanctions more than she damned apartheid.

Mr Stanbrook argued, during a Commons debate on the Commonwealth and South
Africa, that there was a fundamental difference between the ANC and the IRA.

'In South Africa what has happened is that legitimate representatives of the
African people have been oppressed and driven out. They are unable to make their
voice heard in South Africa. There is no possibility of constitutional
opposition'

When Sir Ian Lloyd, Conservative MP for Havant, said that the ANC was identical
in means and objectives to the IRA, Mr Stanbrook rounded on him declaring: 'They
have been driven to violence and who can condemn them for that? If you cannot
understand that, you cannot understand anything.'

Mr George Gardiner, Tory MP for Reigate, said that the Foreign Office meeting
displayed 'a remarkable degree of insensitivity.' He opposed sanctions and said
that every time he returned from South Africa he brought a case of South African
sheny back and was conscious that this helped the workers whom the sanctions
lobby were seeking to drive into starvation.

Mr Gardiner said he had paid the fare himself only once during his trips to
South Africa and had attended a National Party rally addressed by President
Botha.

This prompted Mr Paul Boateng, the Labour MP for Brent South, to say that a new
species of 'Botha boy' had been discovered on the Conservative benches.

By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

The Director of Public Prosecutions decided last month to drop charges against
three men accused of a plot to kidnap ANC members after consultation with the
security services.

ANC lawyers have issued a writ for damages and conspiracy to kidnap. Police have
undertaken nct to hand over papers to the men's solicitors.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 16 1987, Monday

Haughey in vanguard of protest at the IRA

BYLINE: JOHN COONEY

SECTION: Issue 62927.

LENGTH: 782 words


Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister, led a mass protest against IRA
violence yesterday when he attended a memorial service for the Enniskillen bomb
victims of the Protestant's cathedral of St Patrick's in Dublin.

His opposition to the terrorists will be further underlined today when his
government tells London that it accepts the importance of implementing an
extradition Act on December 1, if the IRA is to be defeated.


Revulsion at the Enniskillen bombing was emphasized again in the republic at 6pm
yesterday when the Irish national broadcasting station went off the air, and
public transport stopped, in a minute's silence for the 11 people who died at
Enniskillen.

Earlier, hundreds of people were turned away from the gates of St Patrick's
because the cathedral was full. At the service, Dr Brian Hannon, the Anglican
Bishop of Clogher, asked Irish Christians to seize an historic opportunity to
end the 18 years of IRA violence.

Twenty books of condolence for the Enniskillen dead, containing more than 50,000
signatures, were on display at the service. Afterwards, Mrs Carmen Hederman, the
mayoress of Dublin, took them to Enniskillen.

Later Mrs Hederman broke down and wept as she met relatives of the dead.

She also visited injured survivors in the Erne hospital in Enniskillen.

The all-Ireland spiritual offensive against the IRA was led by Roman Catholic
priests who read out from pulpits a statement from the bishops condemning
membership and support of the IRA.

At a vigil mass in Enniskillen, Monsignor Sean Cahill said that the immediate
task for Irish Catholics was to say 'Amen to what was being preached to them
about the amorality of IRA violence. The statement was greeted by walkouts from
several churches in the strongly republican district of West Belfast.

However, the mood of revolution against the Enniskillen bombing has also
prepared the way for a settlement between the British and Irish governments on
the issue of extradition after it had appeared virtually inevitable that Dublin
would postpone the introduction of the new Act.

Last Friday, at a meeting of the Cabinet committee on security, Mr Haughey told
his ministers that the climate of opinion had been changed because of the
three-fold manifestation of terrorist violence: the kidnapping of John O'Grady,
a Dublin dentist, the attempt by the IRA to land a massive cargo of arms,
ammunition and explosives from Libya and, above all, the Enniskillen bombing.

But Mr Haughey is to seek safeguards requiring the British legal authorities to
produce advance evidence that wanted terrorists had cases to answer in Britain
and Northern Ireland before extradition took place.

Details will be discussed at a meeting today between Mr Tom King, Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland, and Mr Brian Lenihan, the Irish foreign minister.

Sir John Hermon, head of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, who will attend the
meeting, said on Irish radio yesterday that the IRA posed as great a threat to
the Republic as to the British Government. The IRA was awaiting an opportunity
to win back support for its campaign by carefully planned murders and
spectacularly large bombs.

He said that the IRA had intended to murder civilians in Enniskillen last Sunday
and this would become clear later.

He added that the IRA 'are suffering grievously over that disastrous event in
Enniskillen. But they are waiting quietly to get an opportune moment to turn the
tide, to turn the publicity.'

He said that despite the previous setback of Enniskillen, the IRA in military
terms were still quite strong.

Meanwhile, an opinion poll published in today's Irish Times shows that 46 per
cent of people in the republic want the extradition Act to be implemented on
December 1, if a failure to do so would damage the Anglo-Irish Agreement.

One in three of those interviewed by the Market Research Bureau of Ireland
favoured postponement of the Act. The poll was conducted on the weekend of the
Enniskillen bombing, but two-thirds of the polling was done before news broke of
the murder of 11 civilians.

The Director of Public Prosecutions has considered bringing serious charges
against leaders of the Provisional Sinn Fein over public remarks at Republican
rallies, but on each occasion he has concluced that the evidence was not strong
enough to justify prosecution because of the careful manner in which the
statements have been framed.

The Royal Ulster Constabulary is under pressure from Unionist politicians to
scrutinize public statements by Mr Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein and Mr
Danny Morrison and Mr Martin McGuinness, his close associates.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 17 1987, Tuesday

Leading Article: Whipping Mr Livingstone

SECTION: Issue 62928.

LENGTH: 764 words


Mr Ken Livingstone yesterday chose only the eight day after the Enniskillen
massacre to predict - with a hint of gloat - that Britain would be driven out of
Northern Ireland by the IRA. And, at this of all times, he used the weasel
formula - favoured by his Sinn Fein friends - of including a condemnation of IRA
violence only within a general condemnation of all violence in the Province,
including that of loyalists and 'the British State'.

Mr Livingstone's need to say this kind of thing is a need to satisfy those
emotions which - within himself and within a minority of others - are to be
found at the point where politics and psychology meet. These emotions include
the need to shock the bourgeoisie, to win the acclaim of the disaffected, to
identify (however timidly) with revolutionary violence and struggle.


He knows that such remarks as yesterday's revolt and outrage most other people -
includign most Labour voters and most Labour MPs. But they do not have that
effect on many Labour constituency activists. It is to them he is appealing at
the moment. Anyone who can outrage the majority of the electorate, particularly
the middle-classes, and become a hated figure in the 'Tory media', is all right
with them.

There are plenty of constituency activists who would elect him to anything - the
national executive, the Labour deputy leadership, the leadership itself if they
had the chance. Both he and they have made a start: within four months of
becoming an MP, he was voted on to the party's national executive. They can be
sure of electing him to anything, that is provided it is within the gift of the
Labour constituency parties alone. Electing him to offices which depend on the
franchise of normal peope is far more difficult. Witness the reduced majority he
received on June 11 in his previously safe Labour seat in Brent.

Doubtless, once he has used the votes of fools and fanatics to get himself as
far as such votes can take anyone in the Labour Party, he will betray those
followers. He will depict himself to the wider electorate as a moderate, in the
hope of going on to even greater things. In this tactic, he is unlikely to be
successful.

People as a whole are not easily fooled as Labour activists. History may marvel
at why Mr Kinnock was ever afraid of Mr Livingstone, a man quite able to destroy
himself. It is pefectly safe for the Labour Movement as a whole to assist that
process. Mr Kinnock should therefore join in. But while the rest of the world
waits for Mr Livingstone's end, he can do a certain amount of damage to the
Labour Party and to the cause of decency in politics. In the past, a man doing
such damage to the party would be dealt with by the Labour Chief Whip. At
present, the holder, of that office, Mr Derek Foster, is himself currying favour
with the mob.

'If you think that last week was bad, stick around ..Our people after eight
years are hopping mad, and I'm glad they are hopping mad'. That was another of
thing which is usually said to Labour Chief Whips, not by them.

The big social change is that the Chief Whip is now one of the rowdies. Or at
the very best, he thinks it prudent to be sympathetic to them. Last week a group
of Labour backbenchers filibustered away a whole day's business on account of an
obscure private bill; Mr Dalyell was suspended by the Speaker for calling the
Prime Minister a liar; Labour backbenchers clapped as Mr Dalyell stalked from
the chamber; and five Labour whips took the unprecedented step of voting against
a Speaker's ruling on a suspension - whips being people who are supposed to
assist the Speaker to maintain order.

It was unclear whether Mr Foster condoned all of this. But he did not seem to be
against any of it either. In a recent radio interview with our Political Editor,
he said he thought the present 'bitterness' was understandable because 'I would
personally like to get my hands around the Prime Minister's neck and throttle
her'. A Chief Whip with such homicidal tendencies is surely in the wrong job.
Chief Whips are supposed to be part of the system, not a threat to it.

But what of a Labour Chief Whip dependent on election by the Parliamentary
Labour Party? This is the great change which has overtaken the office in recent
years. An elected Chief Whip is a contradiction in terms - like an elected
headmaster or an elected traffic warden. He is not the man to deal with Mr
Livingstone. So that man has to be Mr Livingstone. So that man has to be Mr
Kinnock - who, while he is about it, should also deal with Mr Foster.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 17 1987, Tuesday

IRA will drive British out, says Livingstone

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62928.

LENGTH: 304 words


Mr Ken Livingstone said yesterday that the Provisional IRA would win its
struggle to drive Britain from Northern Ireland. He promised to redouble his
effort to maintain links with its political wing, Provisional Sinn Fein.

The left-wing Labour Mp for Brent East said that Britain could either flood the
province with troops to crush the Provisionals with acts of brutality
unacceptable in a democracy, or negotiate a settlement as had occurred in 'other
colonial situations'.


But Mr Livingstone warned that to continue with the present policy in Northern
Ireland which had resulted in 20 years of 'bombings, mayhem and slaughter' and a
long, slow bloodbath was the worst of all possible worlds. Asked whether
politicians maintaining links with Provisional Sinn Fein encouraged the Provos
to believe they would win, Mr Livingstone said: 'I don't think anybody seriously
believes they won't eventually get their way. As with all other colonial
situations we have been involved in eventually Britain will go'.

He said that in almost all previous cases there had been violence and that as it
continued Britain eventually got depressed and gave up.

Although Mr Livingstone condemned violence in the province, including that
caused by 'loyalists' and the British State, his remarks will deeply embarrass
the party leadership. Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, has condemned
Provisional Sinn Fein's strategy.

Last night Mr Norman Tebbit, the former chairman of the Conservative Party whose
wife was severely injured in the IRA's Brighton bomb attack, accused Mr
Livingstone of being unable to distinguish between a colony and part of the
United Kingdom.

He added: 'He seeks now to distinguish between the violence of the terrorists
and the violence of the police in seeking to arrest terrorists'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 19 1987, Thursday

Left in snub for Kinnock after speech against IRA

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD and PHILIP WEBSTER

SECTION: Issue 62930.

LENGTH: 560 words


Mr Neil Kinnock yesterday denounced Mr Ken Livingstone and his views on
Irelands, warning Labour MPs that a British withdrawal was a recipe for
spreading slaughter to the mainland.

But the Labour leader was immediately snubbed last night as the hard-left
Campaign Group of MPs backed Mr Livingstone's call for British troops to be
withdrawn, and said that Britain should 'terminate its jurisdication' in the
province.


Only hours after Mr Kinnock had savaged the former GLC leader's suggestion that
the Provisional IRA would succeed in driving Britain from Northern Ireland, Mr
Livingstone's colleagues came to his aid.

About 20 of the 35-strong group met in the Commons for a long debate about
whether to issue a statement defending Mr Livingstone.

Senior Labour sources were dismissing the Campaign Group's move as predictable,
but it was accepted by MPs that it had damaged Mr Kinnock's attempt to portray
Mr Livingstone as a completely isolated figure.

Earlier, at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party not attended by Mr
Livingstone, Mr Kinnock had described the Provisional IRA, the military wing of
Provisional Sinn Fein, with whom the MP for Brent East has links, as 'armed
gangsters, corrupters and racketeers', who ruled by fear because they had guns.

Without actually naming Mr Livingstone once during his speech, Mr Kinnock said:
'You don't negotiate with those people. If you negotiate with the IRA, they
would intensify the violence until they got what they wanted.'

He said it was 'facile' for people to pay Britain should get out to end the
violence and said: 'Deserting Northern Ireland would not stop slaughter. It
would spread slaughter in Northern Ireland, in the Republic and in mainland
Britain. Anyone who really wants to understand the agony should get that
straight, whatever else they get twisted.'

He ridiculed those who made 'a leap of logic' by equating Northern Ireland with
colonialism, saying that they showed a 'fundamental, permafrost' ignorance.

'Anyone would think that the IRA is a liberation army. It is not. They, like the
other paramilitaries, are a few hundred armed gangsters who commit political
atrocities and spend the rest of their time in graft, corruption and protection
rackets, ruling by fear because they have got the guns.'

Mr Kinnock's speech was met with applause and no one at the meeting spoke in
support of Mr Livingstone.

The leader's attack was seen as a further bid by Mr Kinnock to widen the gulf
between the hard and soft left in the party and to force it to face the
consequences of flirting with extremists.

The leadership has been furious at the way in which Labour's reaction to the
bomb attack at Enniskillen has been overshadowed by the controversy surrounding
Mr Livingstone.

Fragments in rubble from the Enniskillen Remembrance Sunday massacre showed that
the Provisional IRA used an electronic timer to trigger the bomb, which exploded
exactly when it was set to do so, the Army said yesterday.

Lt Colonel Hugh Heap, the Army's chief ammunition technical officer in Northern
Ireland, said the fragments has been related to known circuits 'peculiar to the
IRA'.

He said that electronic timers were very accurate. The person who planted the
bomb 'either intended it to explode at 10.45 am, when it did, or he made a
mistake.'

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 21, 1987

Futures: Fright path - Plans are under way to fly 45 tons of military plutonium
to Japan

BYLINE: By WALTER PATTERSON

LENGTH: 1223 words


The plot goes like this. Every few weeks a 747 cargo plane takes off from a
certain airport in Britain or France. On board are a dozen massive shipping
containers, eahc holding three casks, containing in all about 250kg of
plutonium. The plane flies NOrth-west, bound for Japan, crossing over Scotland
and northern CAnada en route before landing in Anchorage, Alaska, to refuel.

The casks are of a design that has failed to meet the crash-resistance standard
laid down by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission; but since the plane is only
in transit through US airspace and ground facilities, the US raises no
objection. Although each planeload comprises enough plutonium to make at least
25 atomic bombs, no one knows what security arrangements are in force. The
British authorities assert, as usual, that any public discussion of security
arrangments for nuclear material will make them less effective. Can you guess
what will happen next?

If you guess 'plane crash and devastating plutonium spill' or 'hijack, nuclear
blackmail and terrorism', or even a combination of the two, you are of course
wrong. Neither can possibly happen. That is why the British, french, Japanese
and American authorities are proceeding with plans for just such flights,
commencing early in the 1990s.

On November 4, the Reagan administration signed an agreement with Japan,
granting the Japanese blanket approval for the next 30 years for international
transfers of plutonium from US-enriched fuel, with no further control by the US.
The agreement, which now awaits a 90-day review by Congress before taking
effect, will expedite plans to ship some 45 tonnes of plutonium from Europe to
Japan by the year 2000. The shipments are the culmination of the contracts under
which British Nuclear Fuels and their French partners Cogema receive and
reprocess spent nuclear fuel from Japanese electrical utilities, in the Thermal
Oxide Reprocessing Plant (THORP) at Sellafield and the UP2 and UP3 plants at Cap
la Hague in France.

In 1977, during the Windscale inquiry into the THORP proposal objectors pressed
repeatedly for information as to how BNFL would return plutonium from Britain to
Japan under the contract with the Japanese. No answer was provided, although the
THORP facility is now nearing the halfway mark of construction.

On October 5, 1984, a shipment of some 250kg of plutonium, separated from
Japanese spent fuel by Cogema at Cap la Hague, left Cherbourg for Japan aboard
the freighter Seishin Maru. During its six-week voyage the shipment was escorted
by the French, British, American and Japanese navies; it was also provided with
air over and satellite surveillance.

Who paid for this military security for a nominally 'commercial' shipment was
never made clear. The exercise nevertheless undoubtedly helped to sway nuclear
industry opinion in favour of air transport for future shipments.

In March 1987, the Nuclear Control Institute, an organisation in Washington, DC,
working to contain the spread of nuclear weapons, published an analysis of the
air-transport option for plutonium shipments between Europe and Japan. The
report's findings were subsequently confirmed by official sources in the US and
Canada. The report pointed out that the only cask thus far certified in the US
as adequately safe for air transport of plutonium were for laboratory-scale
quantities of about 2kg per cask, one cask per aircraft. An industrial-scale
cask, weighing some 2.2 tonnes and holding about 7kg of plutonium, had been
designed by the research organisation Battelle. However, in mid-summer 1986 at
the Sandia National Laboratory, the design had been subjected to the severe
crash test laid down by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission - and had failed
the test.

No other design has thus far been fully tested; and experienced engineers doubt
that any industrial-scale design whatever could meet the NRC criteria, which
include surviving intact after an impact at 288 miles per hour, the maximum
legal airspeed of planes below 10,000 feet. Instead, the shippers could settle
for casks that meet only the far more lenient criteria set by the International
Atomic Energy Agency. These criteria, the same for air transport as for surface
transport, stipulate, for example, an impact velocity of only 30 miles per hour.

In 1966, a US B-52 bomber and a KC-135 tanker plane collided over Palomares in
Spain; two years later another B-52 crashed at Thule air base, in Greenland.
Both crashes scattered plutonium over large areas. Although the areas were
sparsely populated, the drastic clean-up operation entailed costs of Dollars 500
millions at Palomares, and Dollars 300 millions at Thule. Even so, some evidence
suggests that the long-term radiological consequences of the plutonium
contamination are still emerging in those exposed at the time.

On September 23, this year, the Governor of Alaska, Steve Cowper, filed suit
against the US Federal Government to block plutonium shipments via Anchorage.
The suit, now before the courts, declares that there is no way to guarantee safe
air transport of plutonium. Cowper said that his aides had sought for months to
obtain from federal officials a plan 'that convinces me Alaskans and our
environment will be safe if one of these planes comes down nearby. I'm not
satisfied with the platitudes we've received, so I had no choice but to file
this suit.'

The suit declares that the long-term aggreements negotiated between Japan, the
US and Euratom violate the National Environmental Policy Act, by approving 'in
advance long-term shipments of plutonium by air through the United States, and
in particular Alaska, without discussing, considering or analysing the
environmental impacts of their decisions.'

Canadian Government officials too, are reported to have reservations about
airborne plutonium shipments flying over northern Canada. In Britain and France,
however, little information has surfaced about the planned shipments. The
plutonium will be separated at Sellafield and Cap la Hague. What will then
become of it? Into what type of casks will it be packed? Will the casks be able
to survive a crash?

At what British airport will the 747 cargo planes be loaded? Manchester would
appear to be the closest airport to Sellafield able to accomodate the 747s. How
will the plutonium get to Manchester airport, or one even farther away? What
security arrangements will be in effect during the transport between
reprocessing plant and airport, and at the airport itself? Airports are
notoriously vulnerable to terrorist attack; will a civil airport be turned into
an armed fortress once every two weeks to guard a 'civil' plutonium shipment?
What would a SAM-7 missile do to a plane carrying a quarter of a tonne of
plutonium?

These are not frivolous questions. They are deadly serious; and no blanket of
suffocating official secrecy in Britain ought to be allowed to keep the British
public from demanding answers to them. If Britain is to become with France, the
world's largest plutonium exporter, we had better understand at the outset the
sort of business we are getting into. You can't always ward off catastrophe by
whistling in the dark.

Walter C Patterson's books include Nuclear Power (Penguin 1986) and The
Plutonium Business (Paladin 1984).

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 23 1987, Monday

Atrocity can be turning point, says Primate

BYLINE: JOHN COONEY

SECTION: Issue 62933.

LENGTH: 867 words


Mrs Margaret Thatcher unexpectedly travelled to Northern Ireland yesterday to be
among thousands of mourners at a unique Remembrance Sunday service in
Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh. It was held in honour not only of the dead of two
World Wars but also for the 11 people killed a fortnight ago by an IRA bomb.

The Prime Minister heard the Most Rev Robert Eames, Primates of All Ireland and
Archbishop of Armagh, refer to the widespread need felt by ordinary people to
rededicate themselves to the cause of peace, and to make the Enniskillen bomb
atrocity a turning point in the 18-year-long conflict in Northern Ireland.


Despite persistent blustery winds and rain, the town of Enniskillen witnessed a
huge turnout for the re-enactment of the Poppy Day ceremony at the town centre
war memorial so tragically interrupted on November 8 by the IRA bomb.

Relatives and friends of those killed in the bomb blast were joined by thousands
of visitors from all parts of Northern Ireland, from Britain, from the Irish
Republic from overseas.

Like the Prime Minister, they came to share in the grief of the bereaved and to
show their deep appreciation and admiration of the lack of rancour shown by the
people of Enniskillen in their response to the bomb outrage.

Mrs Thatcher, accompanied by her husband and Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, had rearranged an appointment which she was due to keep in
Paris with Mr Jacques Chirac, the French Prime Minister.

There was even tighter security for the Prime Minister's visit than there had
been for last week's visit to the Erne Hospital at the Ulster Defence Regiment
base of the Prince and Princess of Wales.

Police checked all cars on their way into the town and they made a thorough
search of buildings. Armed soldiers in battle gear kept a close watch on the
proceedings both at the war memorial and in the Anglican Cathedral of St
Macartin near by.

Mrs Thatcher joined the ceremony at the war memorial, overlooked by the site of
the demolished St Michael's Community Centre where the IRA bomb had been
planted.

The guard of honour the statue of the unknown soldier was formed by the 4th
Battalion The Irish Rangers, who incorporate the Enniskillen regiments.

Escorted by Mr King, Mrs Thatcher stepped forward to lay a fresh wreath at the
memorial on behalf of the Government. Others to lay wreaths included Mr Raymond
Ferguson for the Fermanagh District Council, Mr James Molyneaux and Mr Kenneth
Maginnis for the Official Unionist Party, Sir John Hermon, the Chief's Constable
of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and officers of the British Legion.

There was no Irish Gpverment representation at the service. But official soruces
in Dublin stressed that no disrespect was intended.

Members of the Dail, the Dublin parliament, represented other Irish
parliamentary parties, including Fine Gael, the Progressive Democrats and Irish
Labour, at Enniskillen.

More than 200 standards fluttered in the wind as the crowd stood in silence and
in defiance of the rain for the bugle playing the Last Post.

The procession through the streets was led by the Ballyrea Silver Band. The 4th
Battalion the Ulster Defence Regiment played 'Garryowen' and the salute was
taken by Lord Erne, Lord Lieutenant of Fermanagh.

On its way the procession passed the pharmacy of Mr James Mullan, the son of
William and Nessie Mullan, pensioners killed in the bomb atrocity.

It also passed the Presbyterian Church where six of the victims of the IRA blast
had been members of the congregation.

Among those in the crowded cathedral were Lord Moyola, formerly Mr James
Chichester-Clark, a Prime Minister of Northern Ireland in the old Stormont
Parliament, and Lord Fitt, a founder and first leader of the Social Democratic
and Labour Party.

Relatives and friends of the dead were seated in the upper gallery. Among them
was Mr Gordon Wilson, the father of Marie, the 20-year-old nurse, whose last
words evoked a worldwide response.

In his sermon Dr Eames spoke of the outstanding example shown by the people of
Enniskillen. There could have been few Remembrance services more significant,
more an occasion for memory and more full of personal meaning than this.

'There have been few Remembrance services when people have been as conscious of
the need to rededicate themselves to the cause of peace', he said.

The recent events were a reminder that if a society became immune to violence,
and if it failed to react, it would lose the battle for civilized values.

A man was yesterday being questioned by police at Castlereagh about the gun
attack on the Ulster 'loyalist', Mr George Seawright, last Thursday.

A republican rally in Machester passed off without incident yesterday when a
300-strong demonstration replaced the annual Manchester Martyrs March which was
banned on the advice of the chief constable, Mr James Anderton.

Mr Samuel Morrison, aged 29, a Roman Catholic, was shot in the stomach, chest
and leg by two gunmen who went to his home in north Belfast last night. He
underwent an emergency operation at the Mater Hospital, where his condition was
later described as serious.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 28 1987, Saturday

IRA's explosives 'made in France'

BYLINE: PHILLIP JACOBSON in Paris and BRIAN JAMES in London

SECTION: Issue 62938.

LENGTH: 679 words


Startling new allegations have linked France's biggest manufacturers of
explosives, one of which is state-owned, with the IRA's bombing campaigns on the
British mainland and in Northern Ireland.

In an article bitterly critical of the conduct of President Francois Mitterrand
and the former Socialist Government, a private newsletter with known contacts in
French intelligence circles claims that 'the greater part' of the explosives
used in IRA operations between 1981 and 1986 originated in French factories.


According to Desinformation, a weekly publication whose recent contributors have
included several very senior French intelligence experts, the IRA has received
quantities of the explosives known as Gelsurite 2000, hydrolite and N40R which
are made in a plant owned by La Societe Nationale de Poudres et Explosifs.

This government-controlled enterprise is known to have been involved in the
large scale supply of explosives for the Iranian armed forces, normally via a
chain of intermediaries, in the mid-1980s. Other French-made explosives which
Desinformation claims have been used by the IRA's bombmakers include the brands
Gomme F15 and Gomme BAM.

According to the magazine, all the explosives in question have simply
'disappeared' from different factories.

These highly sensitive allegations are believed to emanate from past members of
various branches of the French security services. The article in question is
signed to by 'J-FD', the initials of M Joel-Francois Dumont, a defence analyst
Desinformation is used for leaks of information that officials wish to place,
unofficially, into the public domain. It is understood that they are concerned
by what they consider to have been the Socialist Government's deliberate
'overlooking' of a serious threat to one of France's most important allies.

According to one source in Paris, the French intelligence services had received
informal complaints about this explosives traffic from opposite numbers in
Britain. The French Government, it is claimed, was subsequently made aware of
the problem but no action had been taken.

As ever in France, there are significant political ramifications to what could,
if proven, turn into an immensely damaging affaire. As in the scandal of the
Iranian arms shipments, the primary objective behind the allegations is to
damage the standing of M Mitterrand in the run-up to France's presidential
election next spring. The tone of accompanying articles in Desinformation makes
it clear that the magazine reflects a distinctly right-wing political
perspective.

The disclosures brought an immediate delighted reaction from anti-terrorist
officials in Britain. One said last night: 'Obviously all the bombmaking
explosives in Ireland do not come from France. But a lot has; does this mean
that at last the French are starting to own up?'

He confirmed that the explosives named have been identified in bomb attacks in
Britain and Northern Ireland. 'For example, Gelusurite 2000 was the explosive
found in a very large bomb in Chelsea Bridge Road in November 1985, the planting
of which was known to have been the work of the INLA. Another explosive
mentioned in the article, Gomme 15, was the principal component of other bombs
in Ireland around that time, and since.'

'We intensively researched all these finds at the time, and were deeply
suspicious about the ease with which the amounts involved and found their way
into Irish terrorist hands. This was no mere pilfering, this was wholesale.

'There were a commercial version of a classic military explosive, and as such
should have been subject to the most strenuous security. A small amount of any
of these sustances was ideal for booby-trapping cars.

'We were as worried about this, as about the large quantities of explosives
coming from Eire. But whereas you could, perhaps, underdstand the difficulties
of keeping the lid on in southern Ireland we were less patient about this French
source. And the fact is we had little or no co-operation from their security
services.'

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 1987

Tunnel job for terror expert

BYLINE: By ANDREW CORNELIUS

LENGTH: 662 words


The job of protecting the Anglo-French Channel tunnel during its construction
from terrorist attack goes today to Detective Chief Superintendent Basil
Haddrell, the 50-year-old head of the Scotland Yard's Serious Crimes
Investigation Branch.

The threat of terrorist attack is nothing new for Mr Haddrell, whose 30-year
Metropolitan Police career included a long spell as head of CID in London's 'B'
district covering Kensington, Chelsea, and Notting Hill, which includes 72
embassies and consulates, four military barracks, the Earl's Court Exhibition
Centre and Harrods department store.

He is also the last of the Yard detectives who investigated the 1963 Great Train
Robbery to leave the force.

In the early 1970s he led an investigation into a series of shootings and
robberies in Bermuda, including the assassination of the governor of the colony
and its police commissioner by an anti-colonial black power group. The assassins
were hanged.

Mr Haddrell leaves a serious crimes squad that is still on call to help police
forces in Britain, and its few remaining colonies, to investigate any serious
incidents on British ships at sea, and allegations of jury-nobbling.

The last investigation he admits to is a murder inquiry in Gibralter completed
last week. He says his former job 'is not everyone's cup of tea, but a way of
life for those who enjoy it'.

While he leaves with few regrats, he maintains strong views on issues like the
the Notting Hill carnival, which he is convinced should be switched to an open
space like Hyde Park, to ease its policing.

After his vast sharp-end experience the jovial police chief does not
underestimate the possible threats to the tunnel project. 'I am very worried
about terrorism and sabotage,' he says. 'It is my job to protect the project in
the construction stage and hand it over with an inbuilt security system when the
tunnel opens in 1993.'

He is giving few clues about security measures for the tunnel although he says
that the most sophisticated technology will be used.

Transmanche Link, the consortium of construction companies which is building the
tunnel for Eurotunnel, has yet to decide whether to hire outside security
contrators or to train its own staff .

Mr Haddrell plans to leaise closely on this and other issues with Air Commodore
Ian Young, the security chief at Eurotunnel, the Anglo-French group which has
won the concession to operate the tunnel.

But he is adamant that by the time the tunnel opens it will have to employ a
fully-trained security staff, operating along the lines of those at an airport
like Heathrow or a ferry ternimal like Folkestone.

He admits that if money were no object he could make the tunnel completely
security proof. 'But then nothing would move in and out and the tunnel would
never be built.'

Although the most obvious threat to the tunnel workings comes from terrorism,
the day-to-day duties are more likely to involve more routine security problems
facing two of the world's biggest ever construction sites at the tunnel entrance
workings at Sangatte, in northern France, and at Shakespeare Cliff, in Dover and
the two tunnel entrance sites.

Digging at the British end of the tunnel does not begin officially until
tomorrow, when the first of the huge multi-million pound tunnelling machines
will be switched on. However, millions of pounds of diggers, bull-dozers and
tunnelling equipment began work several months ago. A priority will be to
protect equipment and materials from the type of theft which costs the
construction industry tens of millions of pounds each year.

Sophisticated gangs steal huge items of equipment like tractors and JCBs to
export to clients overseas.

Relations with the local community will also be important as hundreds of lorries
begin shifting materials to the tunnel site through the Kent countryside.

TML vehicles have already been daubed with anti-tunnel slogans by locals.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 1 1987, Tuesday

Britain angry at Paris deal with Iranians: Thatcher seethes over freed terror
suspect

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent and ROBIN OAKLEY, Political
Editor

SECTION: Issue 62940.

LENGTH: 672 words


There was controlled anger in Whitehall last night over France's decision to
allow an Iranian terrorist suspect, who had been holed up in his country's
embassy in Paris since July, to return to Tehran 48 hours after two French
hostages had been released by a pro-Iranian group in Lebanon.

From Mrs Thatcher down, the British Goverment was privately seething at what
Ministers believed to have been a French Government deal to secure the release
of its two hostages.


But publicly Ministers were accepting French explanations at face value and
avoiding recriminations.

British officials saw it as part of abarely disguised deal which broke the
spirit, if not the letter, of international agreement to stand firm against
terrorism.

They were angry because they believed that the French actions have placed Mr
Terry Waite, the Archbishop of Canterbury's special envoy who has ben held in
the Lebanon since last January, in greater danger than he has even been.

They also believe that there own carefully laid plans to demonstrate to the
kidnappers that there was not concession to be wrung from the British Government
by his continued detention have been undermined by the French crumbling in the
face of media pressure. European solidarity was essential to the British
strategy.

Officially, Britain accepted French assurances that Mr wahid Gordji was not
traded for a French FIrst Secretary, M Paul Torri, who had been unable to leave
the French Embassy in Tehran. But the offical view was for public appearances
only.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, was said to be furious, and was
constrained from saying so only out of fears that it could make matters worse
for Mr Waite.

Britain's whole strategy for obtaining his release may have been undermined by
what some were calling 'the French cave-in'.

The exchange (though Pairs denied it was that) of Mr Gordji for M Torri ended a
diplomatic impasse in which the French Embassy in Tehran and the Iranian Embassy
in Paris were under the siege for five months.

Mr Gordji, described as an Iranian interpreter without diplomatic status but in
fact Iran's number two in France had been wanted for questioning by a French
judge in connection with a series of terrorist bombings in Paris in September,
1986.

It was his refusal to leave the embassy and Tehran's support of him, by putting
pressure on M Torri, that led France to break relations with Iran.

Mr Gordji was flown from Paris to Karachi, while M Torri travelled from Tehran
to Pakistani city. The two men then returned to their home capitals. Each had
made a brief - and probably token - appearance before the other's judicial
authorities before leaving.

Exasperated British officials saw this as paper-think cover for a deal. They
said it would embolden the captors of Mr Waite.

The strong concern expressed privately contrasted with the cautious diplomatic
language of Britain's official response.

After a breakfast meeting with M Jean-Bernard Raimond, the French Minister of
Foreign Affairs, Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, said he accepted
French assurances.

'It is not for me to comment on the findings of judicial authorities in other
countries,' Sir Geoffrey commented.

'One would nto be questioning the decision of the judicial authorities in one's
own country,' he said.

Sir Geoffrey's words steered clear of the public dispute with Paris in the week
of the European summit in Copenhagen, but the main motivation for the caution
was understood to be certain that speaking out might do Mr Waite more harm than
good.

France now stands all but accused of having broken two international
commitments. At the European summit in London last December the 12, including
France, undertook to make 'no concessions under duress to terrorists or their
sponsors'.

More recently, at the Group of Seven summit in Venice on June 9, France was one
of the signatories to a declaration on terrorism, reaffirming its opposition to
making concessions.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 2 1987, Wednesday

Dispute over freed hostages could wreck EEC summit

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 62941.

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS


To the dismay of EEC diplomats, the painstakingly elaborated EEC policy on
dealing with terrorists - not least Arab- or Iran-backed kidnappers - is falling
apart just as EEC leaders are completing plans for this week's summit meeting.

The Copenhagen summit, already under strain because of disagreements over farm
spending, is in danger of being further weakened by a dispute over the tottering
EEC 'no deals' policy on terrorism. 'The timing could not be worse,' one
diplomat said. 'The fight against terrorism is one of the few European foreign
policy successes.'


The EEC dispute follows the release of French hostages, apparently as the result
of a deal involving aid and loans as well as the exchange of an Iranain in Paris
suspected of terrorism for a French diplomat in Tehran imprisoned as a
bargaining counter.

Mrs Thatcher, who leaves for Copenhagen, tomorrow, is reported to be angry with
France and West Germany on both issues - terrorism and EEC cash. A West German
hostage working for Siemens was released in September in circumstances never
fully explained.

Mrs Thatcher's relations with Chancellor Kohl have become even cooler since
then.

Terrorism is not formally on the Copenhagen agenda, which is almost entirely
devoted to the budget crisis. But officials say that the handling of the
hostages question - together with another topic of the hour. European defences
after the Washington superpower summit meeting - would figure strongly in talks
between Mrs Thatcher and French and German leaders.

Some diplomats yesterday took the view that Britain was being self-righteous.
But Britain has always been in the forefront of the EEC fight against terrorism,
and has always appeared more determined to carry it through. Officials said
yesterday identified the following timetable of anti-terrorist moves in the EEC.

January 1986: Brussels: The EEC imposed an embargo on arms to 'countries clearly
implicated in supporting terrorism'.

Libya was meant, because of terrorist attacaks in Austria and Italy, but was not
named at Greek insistence.

April 1986: The Hague: After the TWA hijacking and the Berlin discotheque
bombing, the EEC invoked diplomatic and economic sanctions against Libya in
solidarity with the US attack on Tripoli, but urged American military restraint.
The other Europeans were critical of Britain's decision to follow the US to use
British bases.

Interior ministers (the Trevi group) reviewed joint anti-terrorist measures.

September 1986: London: Interior ministers toughened measures after bomb attacks
in Paris. Sir Geoffrey Howe vowed to 'rid the world of this 20th-century
plague'.

October 1986: Luxembourg: Britain presented the EEC with a dossier implicating
Syria in terrorism, including the Hindawi affair (an attempt to blow up an El Al
jet at Heathrow), Anti-Syrian sanctions were adopted the following month.

December 1988: London: The EEC summit agreed on the anti-terrorist plan,
including no concessions under duress to terrorists or their sponsors.

February 1987: Brussels: Sir Geoffrey Howe denied that Britain might upgrade its
links with Syria to obtain the release of Mr Terry Waite.

May 1987: Paris: European interior ministers agreed with America, Canada and
Japan on co-operation against terrorism.

July 1987:m Copenhagen: The EEC softened anti-Syrian sanctions by resuming
high-level contacts with Damascus. Britain did not oppose this, but said that it
would not join in until it had firm evidene that Syria had reduced its support
for terrorism. Syria's action in distancing itself from the terrorist leader Abu
Nidal was not enough.

September 1987: Bonn: The West Germans announced the release from Beirut
captivity of Herr Alfred Schmidt, a Siemens engineer, thanking Syria and Iran
for their help. Rumours of a deal involving a ransom were denied, but persisted
in view of the kidnappers' reference to guarantees and promises made by Bonn. A
second German hostage is still held.

Officially, European policy - stemming partly from distaste for the disastrous
American arms for hostages deal in Iran - remains intact.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 2 1987, Wednesday

Thatcher rebukes Haughey

BYLINE: ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor

SECTION: Issue 62941.

LENGTH: 289 words


The Prime Minister yesterday rebuked the Irish Government for its latest moves
on the extradition of terrorist suspects, which, she said, could make it harder
rather than easier to bring them to justice.

It signalled on of the sharpest disputes between the two Governments for many
years.


In a clearly premeditated reply during Commons questions, Mrs Thatcher said the
Irish Government's decision to give the Attorney-General power to interfere in
the extradition process made Britain the least-favoured nation in Europe in
seeking the extraditions from the Republic.

In what were described as 'intense' diplomatic exchanges in recent days the
British Government first tried to dissuade the Irish and then made plain its
disgust at the decision.

Mrs Thatcher plans to vent her feelings again when whe meets Mr Haughey, the
Irish Prime Minister, at the European Council meeting in Copenhagen this
weekend.

She told MPs she will also be expressing her opposition to the 'deeply
distressing' French hostages deal. Replying to a question from Mr Leon Brittan,
the former Home Secretary, she said: 'Treating with terrorists only leads to
more kidnapping and violence and that is why we will not do it'.

Mrs Thatcher, speaking deliberately from a prepared reply, told MPs that the
Irish Government's plan was a 'step backward'.

With the Dail about to reach thd final stages of its four-day debate on the
extradition issue, Mrs Thatcher said: 'There is a risk that extradition could
become more difficult.

Man arrested: Scotland Yard confirmed that a man had been arrested at Heathrow
Airport yesterday and was being held under the Pervention of Terrorism Act.

Sinn Fenn named him as Alex Maskey.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 9 1987, Wednesday

'Mastermind of massacre' named

BYLINE: ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor

SECTION: Issue 62947.

LENGTH: 367 words


The mastermind behind the Provisional IRA's Remembrance Day massacre, in which
11 people died in Enniskillen, was named in the House of Commons yesterday by Mr
Roy Beggs, the Official Unionist MP for East Antrim, as Charles Caulfield, aged
33, who, it was claimed, runs the organization's brigade in Co Fermanagh.

Mr Beggs told the Commons that Mr Caulfield was living openly in Monaghan, in
the Irish Republic, a few miles south of the border.


Mr Beggs asked the Prime Minister whether she raised the question of his
extradition with Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister, at the EEC heads
of government summit in Copenhagen.

In Copenhagen today, Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary will warn fellow
interior ministers that the IRA may be preparing to attack British personnel or
institutions on the Continent as it has done in the past when it has found the
security screen in Britain too difficult to penetrate. It is also believed that
the IRA has more weapons than it has had for some considerable time.

Ministers believe that the IRA arms shipment aboard the Eksund, intercepted by
French, was not the first of its kind.

At the Trevi group meeting of European home office ministers, a regular
gathering at which they exchange confidential information and assess terrorist
threats, Mr Hurd will also make plain Britain's opposition to any attempt by the
European Commission to relax frontier gun controls.

In the main business of today's meeting, Mr Hurd is expected to seek a
commitment from Europe's interior ministers that they will stop shuffling from
one country to another political refugees seeking asylum.

Britain wants all disputed cases to be returned to the European country which
they first entered.

There were only 3,900 asylum seekers in Britain last year, compared with 99,650
in West Germany, 23,400 in France, 14,600 in Sweden 9,300 in Denmark, 8,650 in
Austria and 8,550 in the Netherlands.

The number of non-Europeans seeking asylum in European countries from such
places as Iran, North Africa, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Turkey has been
increasing. In 1984 there were 92,550 but by 1986 that had virtually doubled to
184,250.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 15, 1987

France and UK move closer to joint missile: Defence Ministers sign secret London
agreement

BYLINE: By DAVID FAIRHALL, Defence Correspondent

LENGTH: 657 words


Anglo-French collaboration on an air-launched missile to replace the RAF's
ageing nuclear bombs became increasingly likely yesterday when the two
countries' defence ministers met in London.

The ministers - Mr George Younger and Mr Andre Giraud - also signed a secret
agreement on the military use and defence of the Channel Tunnel.

Announcing 'good progress' in their tasks on the new nuclear missile. Mr Younger
did his best to head off criticism that Britain might be seeking to compensate
for, or even circumvent, the US-Soviet agreement to eliminate medium-range
nuclear missiles just signed in Washington.

He emphasised, as Mrs Thatcher has done, that a stand-off missile for the RAF's
Tornado bombers would be part of a long-term programme of nuclear modernisation
falling outside the superpowers' accord.

'We agreed to take studies further,' he said, 'and discuss if our requirements
are similar and, if so, whether this merits collaboration.' Britain would need
the weapon - to replace the RAF's WE-177 free-fall bomb - around the end of the
century.

The defence ministers' Channel Tunnel agreement set out a framework within which
their military planning staffs can tackle the complex problems of defending such
a vulnerable transport link while making best military use of it - for example
to reinforce the British Army of the Rhine.

Politically, things would be a lot simpler if the continental end of the tunnel
emerged in Belgium or Holland, which already form part of Nato's reinforcement
route from Britain.

France, though a member of the Alliance, is not part of the integrated military
structure. It prefers to keep its strategic options open.

A minor worry for Britain and Nato is the possibility that a commercially
successful rail tunnel, opening in 1993, may eliminate many of the cross-Channel
ferries on which Rhine Army depends to shift heavy vehicles and stores.

As for the tunnel's defence the major concern is probably guerrila or terrorist
attack. While each country is expected to take direct responsibility for the
protection of its own end, a successful defence clearly requires the closest
collaboration, the details of which will now be worked out by military
officials.

As far as France is concerned, the immediate purpose of closer nuclear
collaboration with Britain would be to spread the further development cost of
its ramjet-powered ASMP stand-off missile.

Britain would also fit its own nuclear warhead, on which design work has already
bugun at the Aldermaston Atomic Weapons Establishment in Berkshire. The
scientists there are looking ahead to the end of the Trident submarine missile
programme in the mid-1990s when they would otherwise have no use for their
expensive plutonium handling facilities.

In Nato terms, a stand-off missile for British - and perhaps also West German -
Tornado bombers would be one of the 'adjustments' called for by the Supreme
Allied Commander in the wake of the INF nuclear arms control treaty eliminating
medium-range cruise and Pershing missiles.

To anti-nuclear campaigners it may seem glaringly inappropriate to talk about
new weapons so soon after the INF deal. But the Nato staffs point to the fact
that a programme of nuclear modernisation was agreed in principle as long ago as
1983, at Montebello in Canada, when it was announced that 1,400 obsolescent
weapons would be withdrawn from the European tactical stockpile.

A stand-off missile replacement for the Europeans' free-fall bombs, to give
aircraft like the Tornado a longer reach - perhaps even as far as Moscow - has
been on the Supreme Commander's list since then.

With European governments' anxiety about further denuclearisation evidently in
mind, President Reagan promised yesterday in Washington that the US would not
make further cuts until the Soviet advantage in conventional and non-nuclear
forces and chemical weapons was addressed.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 15 1987, Tuesday

War role for Channel tunnel under scrutiny

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62952.

LENGTH: 279 words


Britain and France are to draw up plans to defend the Channel tunnel against
terrorist attack and conventional warfare, Mr George Younger Secretary of State
for Defence, announced in London yesterday when he and his French counterpart, M
Andre Giraud, signed an agreement.

Senior officials who will work out the defence needs have also been asked to
consider how the three tunnels (two rail and one service tunnel) could best be
used as a transit link for troops reinforcing Europe in time of war.


Mr Younger said the tunnel would provide an important link between two allies.
'We are charged with ensuring a mutual ability to defend the Channel tunnel from
all likely threats.'

Military units such as the SAS and the Special Boat Squadron are likely to be
involved in any plans for dealing with a terrorist attack.

Arrangements will also have to be made to defend the tunnel, in time of
international tension, against possible attack by Soviet 'Spetsnaz' commando
forces. The other key aspect of the study is using the tunnel as a wartime troop
lane to Europe. At present, British forces would have to sail on requisitioned
ferries. During the 'transition to war' period, the tunnel could be taken over
by the military.

Officials from Eurotunnel, the Anglo-French company which is building the
Channel tunnel at a cost of Pounds 6 billion, are expected to be involved in the
security studies. Yesterday, a spokesman said: 'The question of security and
defence is a matter for the two governments'.

The project, which will link Cheriton in Kent with Sangatte, outside Calais, is
scheduled to be completed by 1993. Boring will begin next month.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 24 1987, Thursday

Farmers dealing in smuggled steroids are helping IRA

BYLINE: JOHN GOODBODY and HOWARD FOSTER

SECTION: Issue 62960.

LENGTH: 946 words


A thriving trade in smuggling growth-promoting steroids for farm animals in
Britain has been uncovered in an investigation by The Times, eight days before a
ban on those drugs becomes law throughout the EEC.

The smuggling network, which involves drugs stolen by the IRA to raise money on
the black market for terrorist purposes, began when Britain and the Republic of
Ireland imposed their own ban on the use of animal steroids at the beginning of
1987.


It has led to fears that Britain may now be open to the same widespread
infiltration of dangerous 'steroid cocktails' which are in use on a massive,
illegal scale in other EEC countries.

British farmers used steroid implants to fatten their cattle for more than 15
years before they were banned. Fears were raised by consumer groups that
potentially dangerous substances were entering the human food chain.

Mr Michael Leathes, secretary-general of Fedesa, an animal health association
funded by the European animal drug manufacturers, said: 'All the evidence we
have shows that when you allow the hormones we regard as safe to be used for the
fattening of beef cattle, there is no black market.

'But when you ban them, inevitably, there is. Farmers in Britain are
predominantly honeslt people but they have mouths to feed like everybody else.
The ban will result in the loss of about 10 per cent extra bulk in an animal
that a farmer would expect from using previously legitimate implant steroids -
that effectively kills his profit.'

Mr Gordon Appelbe, head of the investigation branch of the Pharmaceutical
Society of Great Britain, said yesterday: 'Some of the stuff we have found in
this country has no label on it at all. Some has been made by European companies
and some is even counterfeit.'

He said that shortly before the Irish Republic introduced its ban, the IRA
staged a number of robberies at agricultural premises, seizing animal steroids.
The IRA was clearly mindful of a future black market with accompanying high
profits for the racketeers.

Some of those products could have been smuggled into Britain for use by
unscrupulous farmers, who are indirectly helping to fund Irish terrorist acts.

Mr Alan Davidson, deputy head of the pharmaceutical society's law department,
said he knew of a Scottish farmer who travelled from Donegal with boxes of
anabolic steroids placed underneath the floor boards of a lorry containing small
herds of bullocks.

He said: 'Holland is also within easy striking distance of the East Anglian
fens. We are sure there is an influx of steroids there, using light aircraft and
unauthorized airstrips'.

Mr Appelbe said: 'The smuggled steroids arriving in Britain for Holland are a
mixture of genuine manufacturers' products and steroids purporting to come from
Holland. However, there is now evidence of home-made animal steroids being
produced here.

'I am aware from my colleagues in Europe of the 'cocktail steroids'. I would not
rule out the possibility that they are finding their way into this country,
although I have yet to see them.'

In Belgium, unofficial estimates put the total number of beef cattle given
illegal steroid injections as 90 per cent of those slaughtered for food.

To beat the long-standing ban on steroids there, a 'mafia-like' network of
manufacturers, dealers, veterinary surgeons and cattle producers combine in a
multi-million pound trade to inject cattle with chemicals made up in unsterile
conditions using components which could harm to humans eating their meat. One
vet under investigation in Belgium was said to have made Pounds 300,000 from the
illicit trade.

The unscrupulous gangs import chemicals reported to originate in eastern Europe,
including diethylstilbestrol (DES), a steroid banned almost world-wide because
of fears that it could cause cancer in humans.

'There are dangers when long-acting materials are injected into an animal,
particularly when you do not know what chemicals have been used', Professor Eric
Lamming, of the Nottingham University animal physiology department, said.

His committee of 22, appointed by the EEC, found five main hormone groups were
safe when properly administered but his findings were over-ridden by the EEC for
political reasona and a blanket ban was imposed.

Fedesa is taking legal action to reverse the ban.

Mr Edward McMillan-Scott, the Euro MP for York, said there was now 'a
substantial crackdown' on administering the law. Meat was to be tested regularly
at authorized stations, he said.

Anyone found to have given hormone drugs to animals is liable to a Pounds 2,000
fine for the first offence and an unlimited fine for subsequent offences. In
addition, no animal belonging to the farmer at the time of the offence may be
sold and other animals in the region are examined.

The National Farmers' Union said yesterday: 'Initially, we did not want a ban
because of the lack of scientific evidence that there was any harm to humans or
animals. But now we do not want to be any different from the other members of
the EEC because our trade would be hampered.

'We are worried about the possibility that there would be smuggling of drugs,
although we have no evidence of this so far. The worry is that although the
hormone products which used to be sold legally were safe, cocktails that might
be made up could be harmful to animals and humans.'

The Sports Council yesterday called for the 'strongest possible action' to stop
British sportsmen using anabolic steroids intended for animals. Moves by
ministers and MPs to have anabolic steroids included in the Misuse of Drugs Act
'must be supported', the council said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 6, 1988

Nightmare for the judges on 24-hour vigil: The fears and lifestyle of Ulster
legal figures and their families

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 806 words


All judges and key legal figures in Northern Ireland have round-the-clock police
protection. From the moment they are appointed their lives, and those of their
wives and children, are considered to be at risk, in some cases forever.

Some, including Judge Andrew Donaldson, who announced yesterday that he was
resigning from the judiciary because of 'inadequacies' in his security, clearly
believe that the guard is not enough.


A lawyer who fled some years ago to the comparatively safe anonymity of the
English bar, after receiving death threats from the IRA, said last night: 'It
becomes a living nightmare, looking around your shoulder each moment,
considering: Should I do this? Go there? Are the wife and children safe to take
that picnic on the beach this afternoon?

'You get tense, knowing the moment you relax and don't take simple precautions,
like looking underneath your car before you get into it, could be fata. In the
end some, like myself, say life's just not worth living like that.'

Some judges have recently adopted an idea which would be fanciful, if not
unimaginable, on mainland Britain. Many attacks have come at night, with
terrorists breaking into a house and holding its occupants to ransom. Now a room
adjacent to the main bedroom is lined with armour-plated walls and a strong-room
door, making it to an extent bomb-proof.

These miniature fortresses, known in the security industry as keeps - after the
safest part of medieval castles - have emergency rations, spare clothing and a
cellular telephone.

Since 1973, when the attakcs on the judiciary first began, five of its members
have been assassinated, and a wife and a young daughter murdered in cold blood.

The IRA has demonstrated total disregard for those related to judges, saying
when it has claimed responsibility for the deaths that they are 'serving the
British war machine.'

The first to die was Mr William Staunton, a Belfast magistrat, who was shot
through the head in 1973 as he collected his young daughter from St Dominic's
college in the Falls Road. The murderer escaped on a motor cycle.

The following year another magistrate, Mr Martin McBirney, was shot in his front
room in east Belfast, and Judge Rory Conahan was similarly assassinated in his
Belfast home.

A few months later Mr William Travers, another Belfast magistrate, and his young
daughter were shot as they left the church after Mass one Sunday. Mr Travers
survived, but his daugher was fatally wounded in the head.

In 1976 Judge William Doyle was also shot dead coming out of a Belfast church.

Last April Lord Justice Maurice Gibson and his wife, Lady Cecily, were killed as
their car passed a car loaded with explosives on the Irish border.

They were returning home after a touring on the Continent. On the advice of the
RUC Speical Branch they had not gone on holiday in their own car, but had been
given the use of a Ford Escort.

They had also ignored the far more convenient Liverpool-to-Belfast ferry and had
returned via Holyhead to Dun Laoghaire.

But Lord Justice Gibson had booked his holiday with an Irish travel firm, using
his own name and address, which apparently provided his assassins with all they
needed to know.

When the bomb exploded the Gibson's car was unescorted because the Irish Garda
had ended their duties at the border, and the RUC escort was waiting up the road
in their own territory.

Several judges carry their own protection in the form of hand guns, whatever
police vigil is assigned to them when they become what the Special Branch
describes as frontline targets. Members of the legal profession come into this
category as soon as they prosecute or sentence an IRA man.

The late Judge Auberon McGonigal, a fearless former member of Montgomery's Long
Range Desert Patrol, was fearful enough to carry a Derringer up the sleeve of
his robes at Belfast trials, and even put it about (falsely) that he flew to
London each evening, to lessen the threat of murder. He died peacefully in bed.

The police who provide the 24-hour guard on judges and senior legal figures
these days are armed with Heckler and Koch machine guns, the fastest firing
weapon, to meet the increasing fire power of the IRA.

TV scanners are monitored from a guard house if the judge lives in a large house
with extensive grounds - as many do in Northern Ireland.

The judges change their cars often, and their routes between their offices and
court, trying never to establish a routine. These restrictions automatically
apply to their family and often their servants.

But as Mr Tony Slinn, editor of International Security Review, said: 'You may
change your route to work each day, but when you drive out of your front gate,
you've got to turn either right or left, and the terrorist knows this too.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             January 8 1988, Friday

Thatcher's children see unsettled and bleak future

BYLINE: RUTH GLEDHILL

SECTION: Issue 62972.

LENGTH: 732 words


The children of the Thatcher revolution are pessimistic about the future and
cynical about the present. Most young people aged 12 to 18 envisage a future
with more terrorism, riots and civil disturbances and more than half are willing
to break the law.

Adolescents in Britain today believe our banks, nationalized industries and
other institutions are well run. But they have less respect for the Royal Family
than adults do and one in 10 believes the monarchy should be abolished.


The findings of a national survey of Dr Adrian Furnham, a social psychologist
and lecturer in psychology at London University, are published today in New
Society.

Dr Furnham and his colleague, Barrie Gunter, tried to discover whether
'Thatcher's children', those whose school life has been lived entirely within
the period of the present Prime Minister, feel more or less alienated from
society and its institutions than adults.

They questioned 500 young people about their trust in public and private
institutions, their views on the problems facing Britain, on the monarchy,
nuclear defence and the law.

Using the same questions and comparing the results with those of two other
researchers who surveyed British social attitudes, Dr Furnham discovered that
'youths' optimism is now confined more to personal ambitions and aspirations
than to the way they perceive the future of their homeland'.

The results, which will be published in full by Methuen in July in Dr Furnham's
forthcoming book, Anatomy of Adolescents, show that twice as many adolescents as
adults believe nationalized industries are well run. More young people than
adults believe large institutions, banks and nationalized industries and also
well run.

The are pessimistic about the future on the terrorism and law and orders fronts,
but most believe that a world war involving Britain or the overthrow of the
Government is unlikely.

Girls believed all institutions except the press and prisons to be better run
than boys did, and were more in favour of the monarchy, the status quo and
nuclear weapons that were boys.

Respect for the law was lower among young people than among adults. Fifty-three
per cent of adults and 36 per cent of adolescents said they would obey the law
without exception. More than half the adolescents in the sample would be
prepared to break the law to follow their conscience.

More than two thirds of young people believe a world war involving Britain and
Europe is unlikely, but twice as many adolescents as adults believe acts of
terrorism in Britain will become more common.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
 FAITH IN INSTITUTIONS
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Table 1: Listed are some of Britain's
 institutions. From what you know or have
 heard about each one can you say whether,
 on the whole, you think it is well run?

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Youth      Adults
                             %         %
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Banks  ..............     91        85
 The Police  .........     74        72
 Independent TV/radio       76        69
 The BBC  ............     69        67
 The Press  ..........     50        49
 The NHS  ............     42        49
 Prisons  ............     42        46
 Manufacturing
  industry  ..........     54        40
 The Civil Service  ...     57        40
 Local Government  ...     41        33
 Trade Unions  .......     36        27
 Nationalised
  industries  ........     51        20
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------

 THE MONARCHY
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Table 3: How about the monarchy or the Royal
 Family in Britain. How important or
 unimportant do you think it is for
 Britain to continue to have a monarchy?
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Youth   Adult
                           %        %
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Very important .......... 37      65
 Quite important ......... 32      21
 Not very important ...... 17       8
 Not at all important ....  4       3
 Should be abolished ..... 10       3

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 9, 1988

Drug runners had shopping-list of IRA arms needs: The bizarre background to the
case in which four men were gaoled for smuggling cannabis

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 2043 words


Security sources believe that the three Israeli army reservists and the former
Angry Brigade member gaoled yesterday for drug smuggling charges were involved
in a 'drugs for arms' deal intended to provide the IRA with surface to air
missiles and other weapons.

The four began prison sentences totalling 36 years after they had admitted to an
Old Bailey judge that they had smuggled a vast quantity of premier quality
Lebanese Gold cannabis resin, worth some Pounds 5 million, into Britian.


Another former Angry Brigade man believed to have been involved is still on the
run.

Ishack Zachik Ferman, aged 32, 'an export agent', Asher Sivan, aged 31,
'television producer', and Moshe Ahron Shtrowise, aged 34, 'motor dealer', have
remained resolutely silent since their arrest in London 20 months ago.

Customs special investigators charged them with an audacious plan to bring 1,800
kilos of cannabis into the country, hidden in a consignment of cheap Italian
furniture, and carried out with the authorisation of Lebanese Christian
Phalangists.

But James Greenfield, also gaoled yesterday, who once served 10 years for
bombing plots in Britain - he is now, according to his defence lawyer yesterday,
'extremely interested in the welfare of his fellow human beings' - informed on
the rest of the drug smuggling gang, and signed a full confession implicating
them.

He is now under constant threat of death and his wife and daughter have been
moved to a secret address.

Greenfield, aged 38, who studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, with Prince
Charles, was said by his barrister yesterday to have already 'served his debt to
society for a cause he no longer believed in.'

The alleged job descriptions of the four accused, read out in Court 16
yesterday, bore no resemblance to their real occupations. For never before has a
drug smuggling team been discovered with a second 'shopping list' which included
surface to air missiles, much in demand by the IRA who want them to attack
British army helicopters.

Moshe Shtrowise, for instance, is a former member of Mossad, the Israeli
intelligence agency. And all four men have been held in a top security prison
since the American FBI warned the Home Office in July 1986 of an escape plot to
lift the three Israelis by helicopter from Norwich gaol.

The 'shopping list' bears a striking similarity to items in the cargo of arms
bound for the IRA found aboard the Panamanian-registered freighter Eksund, which
was seized by French customs off Brest in Brittany last November. Five Irishmen
have been charged in Paris with transporting weapons for terrorist purposes and
detained in France in connection with that incident.

But HM Customs' Operation Chubby, which followed information gleaned from an
earlier drugs seizure in Bristol (code-named Broccoli) may have happened upon an
aberration deep inside the body of Mossad, which is acknowledged as one of the
world's most efficient, secure and ruthless secret services.

For Ferman and Sivan are also believed to be renegade members of Mossad, which
is known more usually to deal with defectors by means not of legal injunctions
but of explosive-tipped bullets.

And it is understood that the first information which led to capture of the
drugs smugglers came from within Mossad itself.

How the three Israelis escaped summary execution may never be known: Mossad
talks neither of successes or failures.

But the facts are that the three Israeli drugs smugglers and their English
cohorts - apart from Greenfield, another Englishman, John Barker, has escaped to
Greece - operated in a professional way seldom encountered by HM Customs, who
admit that a secret tip-off led to the success of Operation Chubby.

Ferman, Sivan and Shtrowise were obviously experts in counter-surveillance. They
were also Israeli ex-soldiers who had served in Beirut, original source of the
cannabis. The drugs are known to have come from the Christian area of Beirut,
where the Israelis have mounted a consistent effort to support a tangible
Phalangist force against the Shiites.

One theory suggests that the four men were part of a plot to sell the cannabis
in Europe in order to supply money to Israel's friends in the Lebanon, and that
the team had broken loose and were about to profit from private supply to the
IRA.

Customs investigators found the 'shopping list' of arms in ring leader Ferman's
briefcase. On a narrow strip of paper four items had been written in English:
'50 M20 3 (or 8) grenade launchers, 10 Picket rocket launchers or similar,
maximum fighting range 500p metres (300 rockets); five . 50 Browning machine
guns; SAM 7B.'

According to Jane's Defence Weekly, those weapons would cost around Pounds
200,000 to purchase on the black market and 'possibly much more, depending on
who you are - Iranian, Abu Nidal etc.' Picket rocket launchers are impossible to
obtain because the weapons, developed in Israel, have never gone into
production.

Certainly Greenfield, and the fifth man John Barker, another Angry Brigade
bomber who served 10 years, but who has so far escaped capture by Customs, are
believed to have had connections with the IRA, established in the days of their
extremist activities.

The short history of the Angry Brigade in the late 60s and early 70s led to what
was then the longest trial in British criminal history, 109 days at the Old
Bailey, and the gaoling of four of the leaders, including Greenfield.

The trial followed a series of bomb explosions, including three at the homes of
Conservative ministers in the Heath Cabinet. After conducting much of their own
defence, explaining their anarchist philosphy and the targetting of bombs at
property rather than people, each was sentenced to 10 years in prison.

There was an outcry in some areas when the two women convicted, former Essex
University students Anna Mendleson and Hilary Creek, were paroled after serving
less than half their sentences.

It was in the summer of 1985 that Customs first received information that a
large quantity of cannabis resin had already been successfully smuggled into
Britain the previous year in a container loaded with Italian-made pine
furniture.

This had happened in the Suffolk port of Felixstowe. Long and laborious computer
examination of all UK importers pointed to Ferman as the man who brought in the
Italian furniture. He was put under close surveillance, and in a classic example
of the hard slog of 'targetting,' Ferman led the way to Greenfield, who in turn
led to Sivan and Shtrowise. The Israelis had in 1986 been given temporary
residence in Britain.

An accommodation address in Kensington was identified as having been used by
Greenfield.

All five suspects were put under 24-hour watch by members of a team of 20
Customs investigators. In March 1986, Sivan and Shtrowise kept a rendezvous with
a Lebanese drug supplier in Cyprus, who was by this time known to be a contact
fo Ferman.

Customs men then saw Greenfield trying to hire a warehouse in the Trafford Park
industrial estate in Manchester. While he was in a meeting, the officers noticed
a piece of paper trapped in the door of his car and saw it bore the name
Pramaglow Ltd, with Greenfield's accommodation address in Kensington. It was a
reassuring lead.

On May 18, 1987, all the men met at Greenfield's flat in Streatham, south
London, and four days later, the MV Calymnos arrived at Felixstowe. The
freighter had come from Beirut via Salerno in Italy, although Customs
documentation showed that its consignment of pine furniture had been packed on
Salerno at a much later date.

In the middle of the night, Customs examined a container and discovered, not
much to their surprise, that it was two feet shorter inside than on the outside.
Cutting it open with oxyacetelene torches, they discovered 1,800 kilos of top
quality Lebanese Gold in the false compartment.

The container was sealed up again, with bags of sand, shale and rubble replacing
the cannibis, and left on the quayside.

Greenfield by now had hired a warehouse in Trafford Park, but then came the
first step in an elaborate counter-surveillance plan.

Greenfield arranged for the container to be removed from Felixstowe by a firm of
hauliers who were completely innocent, to a their yard near Sheffield. There it
was stored for a week, while the drug smugglers kept watch on anyone watching
it. Then it was moved by another haulage firm to Manchester, via Glossop,
Derbyshire, where the lorry was also to collect a consignment of paint.

Greenfield had visited Felixstowe looking for vantage points from where he could
secretly watch the container leave the docks to see if it was being followed. As
it moved on June 3, Greenfield was noticed at various points along the route
checking that the container was unaccompanied and ensuring that the padlock on
it was intact. John Barker was also noticed around Sheffield, making similar
anti-surveillance checks.

During the next few days, all five men were seen together in Manchester, driving
hired cars which they regularly changed.

Ferman then made arrangements for yet another transport firm in Hounslow,
Middlesex, to move the container from Manchester to Brentford, Middlesex. He
specified that the container must be collected at 6 am on June 10.

As it began its journey south, Customs investigators noticed a high-powered
motorcycle, a 1,000cc top of the range GRS R100 Suzuki capable of 150 mph.
crawling behind the transporter lorry in pouring rain. At Toddington service
station on the M1 in Bedfordshire, the leather-clad rider was revealed as Sivan
as he met Strovise in the cafeteria.

The convoy continued, and as the transporter lorry drove into the London
traffic, Sivan weaved his Suzuki in and out of other vehicle lanes at traffic
lights, looking into cars for signs of police or customs.

Eventually the convoy arrived at Brentford, where Ferman had arranged storage
facilites. By this time the investigators were so impressed by the
counter-surveillance techniques employed by the team that they were uncertain as
to whether they had themselves been spotted.

When it was discovered that Sivan and Ferman were leaving Heathrow for Paris on
June 11, 1986, Customs immediately went to arrest them. Sivan was arrested at
the airport. Ferman saw what was happening and escaped but was later arrested at
home.

Greenfield and Shtrowise were arrested at addresses in London later the same
day, but Barker had fled to Greece, where he remains. Although Greece is now a
memeber of the EEC, extradition agreements are not retrospective.

Customs later went to a warehouse in Battersea which had been rented by Ferman
under a false name. There they found a container which they believed to be the
fone used to smuggle cannabis in 1984. A similar false bulkhead revealed traces
of cannabis resin. That consignment alone is understood to have been worth
Pounds 5 million on the streets - and the cannabis is understood to have been
sold into the British and Continental markets.

Customs sources say that the three Israelis had all done military service in
Israel, and were stationed for a time in the Lebanon, where they had made
contacts. At the time of Ferman's arrest he was carrying a sheet of paper which
was apparently a shopping list of surface to air missiles and machine guns.
No-one can say for sure who the prospective customers were.

Four weeks after Customs officers arrested the gang, the FBI in Philadelphia
arrested another Israeli, Rami Abronovich, aged 31, for allegedly attempting to
recruit a US helicopter pilot to come to Britain to fly out the prisoners.

Abronovich was accused of offering Pounds 35,000 to a pilot at Philadelphia's
North East airport. Abronovich was prosecuted, but was freed last year after the
defence sucessfully argued that a US court had no jurisdiction over an alleged
conspiracy intended in Britain.

However, last month two dangerous criminals were successfully lifted to freedom
by helicopter from Gartree prison in Leicestershire. It may be that at least one
part of the carefully drawn plan, which in the main went so badly wrong, proved
in the end viable to someone else.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 26 1988, Tuesday

News Roundup: Bombings verdict

SECTION: Issue 62987.

LENGTH: 90 words


Six Irishmen convicted for the Birmingham public house bombings 14 years ago
will learn on Thursday whether their appeals against conviction for the worst
mass murder in British legal history are successful.

The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Lane, and two other appeal judges will deliver
their written judgements at the Central Criminal Court.


The court retired on December 9 after the longest and most expensive criminal
appeal in Britain. The men are serving life for IRA bombings in which 21 died
and 160 were injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 27, 1988

Society Tomorrow: Diversions on the nuclear express - Alarms over the trains
which carry waste through suburbia

BYLINE: By ANNE KARPF

LENGTH: 1120 words


While Wales waits to see if the Trawsfynydd nuclear power station will overheat,
the British nuclear debate is itself hotting up. In Exeter, Islington, Yorkshire
and Humberside, Camden and Cheltenham, people are monitoring and speaking out
against the transportation of nuclear waste by train.

In these places and many more, groups have been forming as individuals'
post-Chernobyl relief that they don't live next to a nuclear power station is
terminated by the realisation that nuclear waste regularly passes by their back
garden. The groups are leafletting, making videos, organising petitions. In
Yorkshire and Humberside, they're planning a conference for May, and Cheltenham
is organising a Day of Action together with other places up and down the line.


The groups have either come together specially, or are off-shoots of Greenpeace,
Friends of the Earth, CND, or all three. For many individuals, this is their
first political action. But after Chernobyl (and Zeebrugge and King's Cross)
corporate reassurances of safety are sounding rather hollow. The campaigners
compare Britain unfavourably with the United State, where spent fuel from
nuclear power stations is rarely reprocessed and so is stored on site, and where
the Three Mile Island accident put an effective halt to the commissioning of new
stations. They cite the example of Sweden, committed to phasing out nuclear
energy. Britian is increasingly seen as the dirty country of Europe, as the
details emerge of the cover-up of the 1957 Windscale fire and Trawsfynydd
prepares to cut off its gas coolants.

Radioactive waste snakes its way over Britain by train, three or four nuclear
trains coming through London alone every week. In huge white flasks, usually on
Thursday or Friday nights, they carry about 10 tonnes of radioactive waste along
the North London line, through Hampstead, to Willesden Junction, en route to
Sellafield. Trains of spent fuel also pass through Leeds, Bradford, and the Aire
Valley, and from Gloucester via Cheltenham to Sellafield, and through hundreds
of other villages and towns over the country.

The flasks - sealed steel boxes with thick walls - are carried on wagons on
special trains. The irradiated spent fuel rods, containing re-usable uranium and
plutonium, come from nuclear power stations to be reprocessed at Sellafield, the
plutonium to be sold or used for nuclear weapons. The authorities insist that
the trains are quite safe. Critics say that although the risks of an accident
are low, the consequences could be devastating: if only 10 per cent of the
contents escaped, in a fire lasting two hours or more at a temperature above 800
degrees Centigrade, many people would get cancer.

ALARM (Alert Against Radioactive Materials) stepped up their activity in May
1986, after Chernobyl. Their coordinator Penny Abraham felt that 'the only way I
could deal with Chernobyl was to jump in and do something about it. The nuclear
train touches people where it hurts - it goes past their doors. ALARM is made up
of ordinary people trying to take a hold on their lives. We're trying to
demystify the scientific jargon, and we can call on a network of 'alternative
scientists'. People have felt reassured by being involved in the campaign - less
helpless.'

The Central Electricity Generating Board (CEGB) maintains that 'we've shown
through tests and our experience that these things are very robust. You wouldn't
find a major industrialised industry running a con.' Their spokesman Mike Green
himself lives near the North London line with his children. 'If I had any doubts
whatsoever, I wouldn't continue living there.' Proof, says the CEGB, was the
crash they organised in 1984 at British Rail's test track near Melton Mowbray,
when a flask survived intact after a 100mph diesel crashed into it.

ALARM doesn't feel so sanguine. There was a serious derailment of a goods train
on the North London line last April. Had it occurred 48 hours later, it could
have been the nuclear waste train. As a result, ALARM commissioned Dr Charles
Wakstein, an engineer with experience of the nuclear industry, to study the
likely effects of a magnox flask accident at Parliament Hill in North London, in
various weather conditions. His report, published last summer, is the first
using up-to-date computer programmes to have been made public.

Wakstein concludes that worse accidents than the CEGB's crash could happen if
the rods' cooling water was lost, or there was s serious fire, or terrorists
attacked the flasks. A small release of casesium from the magnox fuel in good
weather conditions wouldn't be serious. But a large release in fresh, gusty
winds could cause over 2,000 deaths and require the evacuation of Kentish Town
and Tufnell Park for decades.

Some see Wakstein as a maverick. But even among those who are out of sympathy
with him, many are worried about the potential effects of a railway fire, their
fears heightened by recent revelations about the 1957 fire at Windscale. The
temperature has also been raised by last week's reports that trains carrying
spent fuel from Trawsfynydd run through Blaenau Ffestiniog on tracks supported
by rotted wooden sleepers, and with loose bolts, and that explosives are loaded
only a mile away. Many, too, agree with Wakstein's argument that 'no accident
yet is certainly no guarantee of no accidents to come.'

What particularly irks the campaigners is that the CEGB and the Department of
Transport won't release the safety case studies showing that the risks have been
evaluated and found acceptable. Last year, aided by trainspotters, Cheltenham
Railwatch monitored the town's rail traffic for a period. They discovered a
minor derailment of a nuclear train at Gloucester, nuclear trains hanging around
Gloucester marshalling yard for a day, railmen leaning on a flask wagon
chatting, and on at least one occasion the flasks parked alongside a train of
tankers marked 'highly inflammable.' Jeremy Kirkwood, at 14, the youngest member
of Cheltenham Railwatch, did the 6-9 am shift from his bedroom window. 'Living
next to the line, I feel that it affects me, and quite a lot of my schoolfriends
also think it shouldn't be coming through here.'

Are the protesters being alarmist? 'It may be that there really is no risk,'
says Roy Hickey, of Cheltenham Railwatch, who works for the Countryside
Commission. 'But the distressing thing is that there is no independent objective
voice. All we ask, because this stuff is so dangerous and its effects so
long-term, is that there be an independent way of evaluating it.'

ALARM is c/o Camden Peace Groups, Box 34, London NW5 2QF. Report: Pounds 2.50
including postage, summary 50p.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 27, 1988

IRA backlash deepens sullen mood: There was sympathy in the Catholic Falls Road
for the police victims of a terrorist grenade attack, but little for the force

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 667 words


Five hours after the Attorney-General, Sir Patrick Mayhew, announced that eight
Royal Ulster Constabulary officers accused of conspiring to pervert the course
of justice will not be prosecuted, two armour-piercing grenades were thrown from
a derelict building on to two RUC Land-Rovers patrolling the Falls Road outside
the Royal Victoria Hospital.

One exploded on the roof of the second Land-Rover, killing one policeman and
blowing the hands off another.


It was visiting time at the post-natal ward of the Royal Maternity Hospital,
inside the RVH complex, and everyone rushed to the windows.

When told that a 'peeler' - a word still used to describe the RUC - had been
killed, they looked away in quiet resignation. There was sympathy for the
victim, but little for the force. The memories of being shot at by men in RUC
and B-Special uniforms during the 1969 loyalist attacks - when Catholics had
nothing to defend themselves with but hurley sticks - die hard.

Even among those who would describe themselves as constitutional nationalists
the feeling of sullen resignation yesterday about the outcome of the
Stalker/Sampson inquiry was overwhelming.

One man summed up the mood of many Social Democratic and Labour Party voters in
west Belfast, by saying: 'The Brits must have just decided that it did not
matter if everybody in Ireland complained for a few days. They could just
weather it out. And the sad thing is that they are right.

The significance of the decision to draw a veil over the events of two winter
months in 1982 is its effect on the standard of policing in 1988. Since the
signing of the Anglo-Irish agreement, the determination of the RUC to enforce
public order during the Orange marches, to crack down on loyalist paramilitary
murders, arms buying and racketeering, has had an effect on nationalist
attitudes towards them.

However, it has not reached the top of the SDLP, which has so far refused an
invitation to nominate two seats on the Northern Ireland Police Authority. The
SDLP leader, Mr John Hume's position to support the police in 'impartially
upholding the law' leaves his party an important caveat, when nationalists think
that they do not.

But SDLP workers and councillors, Catholic priests and community workers are
co-operating with the RUC, and its uniformed branch is making strenuous efforts
in north and west Belfast to reply in kind.

The progress made since 1985 is reflected in crude terms in the clear-up rate of
crime in B Division, which covers most of west Belfast. In 1985 only 1,400
crimes out of 6,600 were cleared up. A year later that figure had risen to 2,600
for the same level of crime.

It is because of this that the Irish Republic puts so much emphasis on articles
7 and 8 of the Anglo-Irish agreement. The first binds Britain to agreeing to a
programme of 'special measures in Northern Ireland to improve relations between
the security forces and the community, with the object of making the security
forces more readily accepted by the nationalist community.' The second binds
Britain to agree on 'the importance of the public administration of justice.'

On this agenda, the feeling is rapidly gaining ground in Dublin that the two
Irish governments that have been in power since the agreement was signed have
got nowhere on central demands for Diplock courts with three judges, and for a
full inquiry into the allegations of an RUC shoot-to-kill policy.

If the appeal of the Birmingham Six fails tomorrow, the cumulataive weight of
what is seen on this side of the Irish Sea as a cynical British display of force
majeure will become hard for the Government to resist.

In giving reasons of national security for the decision not to prosecute senior
officers of the RUC for actions of MI5 and MI6 in 1982, the Government may have
provoked a security crisis in 1988, when the threat to the RUC is not from
Armalites or armour-piercing grenades, but from anit-aircraft guns and Sam-7
missles.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 27, 1988

Dublin outrage poses new Irish security threat: Ministerial meeting on
Stalker-Sampson findings

BYLINE: By JOE JOYCE, DAVID HEARST and PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 946 words


Extreme anger in Dublin over the outcome of the Stalker-Sampson inquiry has led
the Irish Government to call for a meeting next week of British and Irish
ministers.

The Irish want the British to explain their decision not to prosecute RUC
officers, despite evidence that they perverted the course of justice and
obstructed inquiries into their conduct.


Dublin's reaction to the decision, announced in the Commons on Monday by Sir
Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney General, has posed a potential new threat to
security cooperation between Britain and Ireland, just when it had become better
than ever.

In a terse statement after a Cabinet meeting, the Irish government said a
meeting of the Anglo-Irish Conference had been sought 'because of the serious
implications of (the) statement for public confidence in the administration of
justice in Northern Ireland and for cross-border security cooperation.'

The decision not to prosecute any RUC officers was greeted with universal
outrage in the Republic and near despair by politicians most committted to the
Anglo-Irish Agreement. The agreement includes a commitment to measures designed
to encourage confidence among Nationalists in the administration of justice in
Northern Ireland.

Today in the Dail, the Taoiseach, Mr Charles Haughey, will face demands for a
tough response.

An Irish government source gave warning yesterday: 'Confidence in the
administration of justice works both ways. We need to be confident as well.'

The IRA delivered its response to the decison yesterday when it exploded a
250-pound car bomb near a police station in Dunmurry, east Belfast, after a
half-hour warning. The blast injured three policement and several civilians and
wrecked the perimeter wall of the station.

On Monday night, an RUC constable, Colin James Gilmore, aged 27, was killed when
the IRA dropped an armour-piercing grenade on to a police Land-Rover in West
Belfast. The grenade, developed by the IRA last year, uses commercial high
explosives and a copper cone to melt armour plate. Constable Gilmore was its
first victim.

One of the architects of the Anglo-irish Agreement, the former Irish foreign
minister, mr Peter Barry, voiced his disillusionment at Sir Patrick's
announcement yesterday: 'In matters like this, the British suit themsleves. We
should have known that after so many hundreds of years.'

More significantly, Mr Barry declared he now had to reconsider his advice to
Northern Catholics to join the RUC.

When the Northern Ireland Secretary, Mr Tom King, meets the Irish foreign
minister, Mr Brian Lenihan, he is expected to defend the independence of the
office of the Attorney General, a point that will not be lost on Dublin.

Ireland recently was criticised by Mrs Thatcher when it insisted on the
independence of its Attorney General in inspecting extradition warrants from
Britain and Northern Ireland.

But Mr King will come under increasing pressure before the meeting to disclose
the contents of the third part of the Stalker-Sampson report, which deals with
the RUC's organisation and management. He will be pressed hard for a statement
tomorrow during Northern Ireland question time in the House of Commons.

Apart from details of the Stalker-Sampson report and an explanation of the
issues of 'national security' which contributed to Sir Patrick's decision, the
Irish governement will want to know what structural changes have been made
within the RUC since the killing of the six men in 1982 which led to the
Stalker-Sampson inquiry.

The contentious question of covert operations in the Republic by the Northern
security forces, which emerged as part of the inquiries into the alleged 'shoot
to kill' policy, is also likely to be raised.

Last week, Mr King received the results of an investigation into the RUC's
management structures from Mr Charles McLachlan, a member of the Inspectorate of
Constabulary. Mr King ordered the investigation last year as a result of the
third part of the Stalker-Sampson report.

RUC sources maintain that the McLachlan report clears the RUC chief constable,
Sir John Hermon, of allegations that he obstructed Mr Stalker.

The sources also maintain that the force has changed the command control of the
Special Branch, the section in charge of the unit involved in the six killings.
Sources say that command of special operations is now organised by three
Tactical Co-ordinating Groups, one for each of three RUC regions in the
province. These groups are chaired by the RUC but include representatives of the
British Army and the security services.

Before covert operations are launched there is also the provision for
confidential briefings with law officers, who advise on the legality of the
actions being considered.

However, before Mr King can make a statement about the Stalker-Sampson report he
will want to have some indication from Sir John about what disciplinary
proceedings, if any, he intends to take against the eight officers who were
accused of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.

The decision effectively reopens a whole range of mutual suspicions that had
been eased by the operation of the agreement in recent years, and which may be
further complicated by tomorrow's judgement in the Birmingham Six case, whose
outcome will influence Mr Haughey. The combination of factors could lead to a
rapid deterioration in Anglo-Irish relations.

Leaders of the two main Unionist parties in Northern Ireland met Mr King
yesterday to present their proposals for political movement in the province.
Afterwards, neither Mr James Molyneaux nor the Rev Ian Paisley would comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 28 1988, Thursday

British airlines face US threat

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT, Air Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62989.

LENGTH: 471 words


Britain's airlines could be banned from flying to America within five years
unless they fit a new anti-collision device.

The Federal Aviation Authority is to make the equipment - known as Traffic
Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) - mandatory for all domestic US airlines in
four years and for all international airlines within five. Each kit costs about
Pounds 55,000 to buy and so far only two main manufacturers are producing them.


Mr T. Allan McArtor, the new administrator of the authority, said in Seattle
that he was bringing forward the introduction of the device to improve safety.

He added: 'There are a number of concerns we have about foreign carriers flying
into the United States. As well as TCAS we are also anxious to monitor their own
security programmes and we are looking a their capability of overcoming
windshear.'

Windshear is a phenomenon usually encountered in the central US in which fierce
blasts of strong downwind can smash an aircraft into the ground as it takes off
or lands. Many US airlines are fitting windshear warning systems and training
their pilots in ways of coping with it. European airlines may object to having
to fit the windshear devices.

In Britain the Civil Aviation Authority is worried that if pilots used TCAS in
the crowded airways near Gatwick or Heathrow airports they could constantly be
getting signals telling them to take immediate avoiding action which would only
put them into even worse danger.

Mr McArtor said: 'We have invited the CAA to come to the States and see for
themselves. We were sceptical at first as we have many equally busy airports but
we now believe it is essential.'

TCAS consist of a radar, which picks up all other aircraft in the vicinity and
displays them as blips on a screen in front of the pilot. An on-board computer
then works out instantly their approach speeds and positions and if any
represents a danger a mechanical voic tells the pilot how to get out of the way.

The system is being tested by Piedmont Airways on a Boeing 727 operating from
Charlotte, Virginia.

More than a quarter of the 1,167 airline deaths last year were cause by
terrorism, a report has disclosed.

Flight International magazine's annual safety review said 333 people died in
eight terrorist incident, although two of those - the Korean Airline explosion
and the South African Airways loss - had only strong circumstantial evidence to
suggest sabotage. In 1986 seven such incidents caused 219 deaths.

The tartan uniform of the British Caledonian stewardesses is to fly on, British
Airways promised yesterday.

The assurance was given after reports that BA was burning the uniforms of its
partner in an attempt to wipe out B-Cal's identifty. The tartan will be worn
this summer by 500 cabin crew on Caledonian Airways.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 31 1988, Sunday

Freedom at a fatal price: By dealing with terrorists, West Germany has merely
encouraged the kidnappers

BYLINE: JAMES ADAMS

SECTION: Issue 8529.

LENGTH: 1202 words


THE nightmare is back. Terrorists in Beirut kidnapped West German businessman
Ralf Schray last Wednesday as he was walking to work. This brings to 18 the
number of hostages currently held by gunmen in Beirut, but Schray is more than a
simple statistic. He is the latest and clearest example that talking with
terrorists does not pay.

The West German has kidnapped 24 hours after a senior government official
admitted that Bonn had surrendered to terrorist threats last year in an attempt
to save the lives of two other businessmen being held in Beirut.


The official defended the decision, arguing that subsequently one of the
hostages, Alfred Schmidt, was released in September. But at what price?

No formal announcement has ever been made, but it is widely believed that the
West German government agreed to pay at least Pounds 1m and pledge to impose
very lenient sentences on two terrorists being tried in West Germany for
kidnapping and murder. In addition, the West Germans refused an American request
for the extradition of one of the terrorists, who was suspected of involvement
in the killing of Robert Dean Stetham, a US Navy driver, during the 1985
hijacking of a TWA aircraft in Beirut.

The result of that underhand agreement, sealed despite repeated West German
promises not to deal with terrorists, was last week's kidnapping of Schray and a
widespread perception among international terrorists that the West German
government is an easy mark.

There is a curious irony in all this. It was West Germany that showed other
European governments how to fight Middle East and local terrorism. The West
German police and intelligence services took an exceptionally tough line with
the Baader-Meinhof group and sent a hit squad to Africa to kill or capture
aircraft hijackers at Mogadishu in 1976.

Bonn has also played a central role in uniting European governments to fight the
new wave of terrorists that emerged in 1982, when an anti-Nato alliance brought
together terrorists in France, Belgium, West German, Italy and Portugal. That
organisation has been destroyed, with many of the terrorists either artrested or
dead. Even nationalist movements have been hard hit, with ETA, the Basque
separatist movement, calling for a ceasefire with the Spanish government last
week.

The successors in Europe can be attributed to a combination of solid police
work, innovative techniques and, above all, a coherent and common
counter-terrorist policy. In the past, terrorists have always been able to
exploit divisions between countries, either because of long-standing political
differences or poor communications. That situation has changed dramatically.

New computers have been devised that can speak to each other across national
boundaries; police counter-terrorist experts from one country are permanently
based in another and there has been a new emphasis on better gathering and
analysis of useful intelligence. In Britain, for example, the Security Service
now places counter-terrorism ahead of counter subversion in its list of
priorities and the new Director General is an expert in counter terrorism.

According to the US State Department, preliminary figures show that terrorist
attacks in Europe declined from 218 in 1985 to 137 last year.

But, if Europe has surrended itself with high-technology security systems and a
common, touch, counter-terrorist policy, the same cannot be said for the way
individual countries have handled the terrorist threat outside their own
borders.

International summits of the key industrialised nations in Bonn, Venice, Ottawa,
London and Tokyo, as well as meetings of European security ministers, have all
publicly agreed that there will be no dealing with terrorists.

At the Venice summit in June last year, the seven national leaders agreed to
'reaffirm the commitment of each of us to the principle of making no concessions
to terrorists and their sponsors.'

This laudable promise has since been broken repeatedly by both France and West
Germany. It has made a mokcery of any concerted Western effort to unite to meet
and defeat the threat.

France allowed the release of an Iranian held on suspicion of planning bombings
in France which killed 13 people and injured 150. The government has also paid
millions of pounds in ransom to free Frenchmen held in Beirut and, according to
some reports, has even agreed to supply arms to Iran in return for Tehran
forcing its terrorism surrogates to release French kidnapping victims.

This has been a disgraceful display of weakness that has undermined British and
American efforts to put some muscle behind Western efforts to stand firm. The
statistics support this. In Europe, terrorism has declined while in the Middle
East, terrorism has increased from 357 acts in 1985 to 394 last year.

The Americans have played a prominent role in uniting the allies, particuarly
since the collapse of the naive and ill-conceived attempt to trade arms with
Iran in exchange for hostages. The Iran affair was in part caused by President
Reagan falling victim to appeals for action from the hostage families, a
temptation that all governments face with the frequent public and political
perception that not negotiating is a passive policy. On the contrary, it is the
most effective method of dealing with a long-term problem.

Since the Iran affair, the Americans have used FBI agents to lure a terrorist,
suspected of hijacking a Jordanian airliner, into international waters on board
a yacht, where he was arrested. He is currently on trial in the United States.

More importantly, the US embarked on a risky confrontation with Iran in the
Persian Gulf. Eight American citizens are held in Beirut by terrorists who are
armed, financed and in some cases directed by Iran. There was a high risk that
the hostages would be killed if the US Navy attacked Iran. This has not
happened, a clear demonstration that toughness can pay. Even if the hostages had
been killed, that would have been a small, painful, but necessary sacrifice.

Britain too had held to its commitments. Despite the anguish felt by the family
and friends of the Archbishop of Canterbury's special envoy, Terry Waite, as he
enters his second year as a hostage victim, there has been no attempt to
negotiate with the terrorists holding him.

Even if the unthinkable did happen and Waite was killed by his captors, the
government's decision to stand firm must be right.

As in any war, it is the few who have to sacrifice for the good of the many. In
the case of the terrorist war, it is frequently the families of kidnap victims
who suffer, as governments stand firm against the demands of terrorists. However
painful that sacrifice, it is necessary. If governments are not tough,
terrorists will be encouraged.

The joy of a family whose relative is released is soon replaced by the agony of
the families of each new hostage. Each capitulation to the terrorists can lead
to only greater acts of violence against ever larger numbers of people.

James Adams is the author of The Financing of Terror. His latest book, Secret
Armies, a study of covert warfare is published by Hutchinson this week.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 15 1988, Monday

Clamour to block plutonium flights

BYLINE: NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 63003.

LENGTH: 315 words


A joint project by the United States and Japan to fly high-grade plutonium from
Britain and France to Japan in the next decade is coming under growing criticism
for being unnecessarily hazardous.

A motion tabled by Mr Paddy Ashdown, the Liberal MP for Yeovil, will go before
the House of Commons this week asking the Government to ban all plutonimum
flights until a 'scientific review' of the plan can assess the risks involved.


The move follows similar objections to the European Parliament, the European
Commission and the EEC Council of Ministers, where it has been suggested that
consideration be given to the effects of a plutonium leak from a US plane crash
in Greenland 20 years ago, and the vulnerability of such flights to terrorist
attacks.

The project, agreed last year, envisages the transporting from Japan of 'spent
nuclear fuel' for separation at the British Nuclear Fuels plant at Sellafield
and in France.

Once the plutonium 239 is separated from the nuclear wastse, it would be flown
bck to Japan.

Two committees in the US Congress have refused to ratify the agreement; the
Governor of Alaska, Mr Stephen Cowper, is filing a lawsuit against the federal
Government to ban flights carrying plutonium; and the US Defence Department has
raised objections as well.

The project is also likely to come under criticism from Denmark and Canada.

The main controversy centres on the possibility of an accident in flight and a
leak of plutonium similar to the crash in 1968 of a US Air Force B52 bomber
which came down in Thule, Greenland, carrying 35lb of plutonium.

'After the Greenland accident 800 Danish men and women were involved in the
clear-up operation, of which 500 became ill and 90 contracted cancer,' said Mr
Ashdown.

The proposed flights would carry a quarter of a tonne of plutonium in 36
fortified casks, each weighing 15lb.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 16, 1988

Constable 'Identified murderer secretly'

BYLINE: By ANGELLA JOHNSON

LENGTH: 602 words


A young policeman who saw PC Stephen Tibble shot in a London street 13 years
ago, immediately identified the man suspected of the murder three months later,
an Old Bailey jury heard yesterday.

PC Adrian Blackledge had flown to the Republic of Ireland where he secretly
identified William Quinn, an Irish American accused of the shooting.


Mr John Mathew, prosecuting, said PC Blackledge's reaction on seeing Quinn had
been 'instant and immediate'. There was no doubt in the constable's mind that
Quinn was the man who fired three shots at PC Tibble on February 26 1975.

Mr Mathew was summing up the Crown's case against Quinn, 13 years after the
shooting in Barons Court, west London. Quinn has denied murder.

The court heard that on May 12, PC Blackledge had been awoken early in the
morning and told by a Scotland Yard that he would have to fly to Dublin that day
and identify a man believed to be the killer of PC Tibble. At the Special
Criminal court, where Quine was being held for other offences, PC Blackledge
instantly pointed him out as the killer.

That the identification was secret and under 'exceptional- circumstances' was
justified, Mr Mathew said. Quinn had initially refused to take part in a formal
identification parade and the police did not want him to know he was being
investigated for the murder.

Quinn was suspected of being involved with a spate of bombings in England and
Northern Ireland, Mr Mathew said, and the police were hoping he would return to
England and lead them to his accomplices.

'If it had become known that Quinn was a suspect for the shooting, or that he
had been identified for the shooting, how might others under inquiries in London
have reacted if they thought the bomb squad may have been getting on their tail
and keeping them under surveillance?' he said.

After the court appearance in 1975 Quinn was convicted of an offence in Ireland
and on his release on January 2, kept under surveillance. He vanished until 1981
when he was arrested in San Francisco and extradition procedures began to return
him to Britain.

No attem(t had been made to have Quinn extradited from Ireland to Britain
because no formal agreement existed between the two countries, Mr Mathew told
the jury. He said Quinn had shot PC Tibble to protect a bomb factory being used
by terrorists operating from Fairholme Street in west London.

The group, known as the Balcombe Street bombers, were arrested in December 1975
and the murder weapon - a Browning pistol - was found in their possession.

Mr Michael Mansfield, defending, said the prosecution was trying to have it both
ways by arguing Quinn's prejudicial 'dock identification' had been justified
because he had refused to co-operate and the police wanted to protect inquiries.

He said PC Blackledge's identification of Quinn had been motivated by a desire
to get someone for the killing of his colleague. Mr Mansfield suggested he had
been 'an enthusiastic and young officer who having witnessed a fellow officer
writhing on the pavement in agony, was anxious to see a person identified'.

Mr Mansfield told the court PC Balkledge had also been influenced by his
superiors who told him they believed the man arrested in Dublin had been the man
he had chased through Hammersmith and who had shot PC Tibble, who was off-duty
at the time. 'it is a conditioning process so by the time he walks into the
courtroom he is hardly likely to say no.'

He said it was unfair and impossible for the jury to be asked to convict Quinn
after such a time.

The defence summing up continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 16 1988, Tuesday

Hurd aiming to make terrorism Act permanent

BYLINE: MARTIN FLETCHER, Political Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63004.

LENGTH: 332 words


The Government will announce today that it is to make the Prevention of
Terrorism Act permanent.

It is a move that will further exacerbate relations between Dublin and London
which have already been severely strained in recent weeks by the Stalker affair
and the failure of the appeal of the Birmingham public house bombers.


The main provisions of the Act, introduced as a temporary measure after the 1974
Birmingham bombings, allows the police to hold suspects without charge for up to
seven days with the agreement of the Home Secretary, enables terrorist suspects
to be excluded from travelling to mainland Britain and proscribes the IRA and
the INLA.

At present the Act has to be renewed annually by Parliament and is redrafted
every five years. In recent years it has been strenuously opposed by Labour on
the grounds that it is an infringment of civil liberties.

Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, will tell MPs during tonight's annual
renewal of the Act that he has accepted the recommendation of Lord Colville,
made in his review published in December, that the Act should be made permanent.

Lord Colville said in his report: 'The temporary nature of the present controls
serves only to fuel the unnecessary controversy that surrounds them'.

Mr Hurd has rejected another of Lord Colville's suggestions that exclusion
orders should be abolished.

Since the Act was introduced there have been more than 6,200 arrests under its
provisions. In 1986 more than 200 people were detained, of whom only 13 were
charged. Thousands of others have been searched and questioned.

Mr Roy Hattersley, the Shadow Home Secretary, said last night that the
Government's move 'would give the IRA a propaganda coup which they would welcome
and exploit'.

Mr Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the mainly Catholic Social Democratic and
Labour Party, said the Government was making 'a dreadful mistake which would be
counter-productive in the fight against terrorism'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 17, 1988

Stretching the law: Temporary Act that looks here to stay

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


No act passed by Westminster in the last 15 years has caused more controversy in
Britain and Ireland than the Prevention of Terorism (Temporary Provision) Act of
1974. Passed in the aftermath of the Birmingham bombings which killed 21 people,
it was described by Roy Jenkins, then Home Secretary, as draconian and the label
has stuck.

Since 1974 a total of 7,645 people have been detained under the act in Northern
Ireland for periods of between one hour and one week. A further 2,975 have been
detained in Great Britain since 1979, the Home Office said yesterday. The sweep
of the legislation goes considerably wider than that, however. According to the
latest available annual report of the Chief Inspector of Constabulary, a total
of 59,481 were stopped and searched at British ports in 1986 for periods of less
than one hour.


These are cases where port officers request searches of police records through
the National Joint Unit. They are not officially classed as detentions under the
Act but they are inextricably part of the Special Branch trawl for information
that has become the central feature of PTA practice. Over 4,000 more searches
were made at ports in 1986 than the year before, and there is no reason to
suppose that that trend has not continued in 1987.

With up to 200 tons of battlefield weapons from Libya stored away in bunkers for
the IRA in the Republic (including RPG-7 rocket launchers, general purpose
machine-guns, AK-47 assault rifles and Semtex high explosive) the security
forces in Northern Ireland argue that the PTA powers have never been needed. If
the Irish Republic is horrified that the PTA will be made permanent, they argue,
they only have to stop and think what would have happened in Dublin if Loyalist
paramilitaries had successed in two major explosives and arms import operations
planned from Scotland and the Middle East via a Scottish port in the last two
years.

Of the three major reviews carried out on the Act since 1974, that conducted
last year by Lord Colville QC was the only one that recommended that the
temporary provisions, previously renewable every year for a fixed term of up to
five years, should be enshrined in permanent legislation.

Lord Colville's reasoning was straightforward: the PTA should be permanent
because terrorism, particularly international terrorism, was not going to
disappear. He found there was no substitute in ordinary criminal law for the
power to arrest on reasonable suspicion of terrorist activities, therefore the
PTA was here to stay.

However Lord Colville, a former representative on the United Nations Human
Rights Commission, found the Act's exclusion orders (which give the Government
power effectively to deport people from and to Northern Ireland) unacceptable
and recommended that they should be scrapped. He said they divided families and
could make it difficult for reformed terrorists to get away from former
associates.

There are 23 exclusion orders current in Northern Ireland and 112 in Great
Britain. Lord Colville said that at the very least exclusion order should not be
made permanent. The Home Office rejected this finding.

Nevertheless, police in Britain and Northern Ireland exercise those powers at a
cost. Only 33 per cent of those arrested under the PTA in Northern Ireland have
been charged, while in Britain it is only 8.2 per cent.

Mr Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party,
argues that the effect of the police's unlimited powers of stop and search on
Irish nationalists is to convince them they have no constitutional role to play
in the British state.

'The powers of exclusion, detention, search and arrest which exist under the PTA
are draconian laws indeed and to make them permanent is to break with any
attempt to instil normality in Ireland,' he says.

'The Anglo-Irish Agreement is an attempt to find a political solution to the
Irish problem. This appears to be going along the lines of a quasi-militarist
solution based on bad law. It will not work; it has not worked; and it will play
into the hands of the IRA.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 17, 1988

The Day in Politics: Irish in Britain are 'living in fear of anti-terrorism act'

BYLINE: By PATRICK WINTOUR

LENGTH: 261 words


The Irish community in Britain lived in fear of the Prevention of Terrorism Act,
a co-alition of groups and politicians favouring Irish unification argued
yesterday at a press conference.

Mr Jim Marshall, a Labour Northern Ireland spokesman, said the continuance of
the Act represented a propaganda victory for the IRA and a defeat for civil
liberties.


He said: 'There is no real evidence that the PTA has assisted police to fight
terrorism in a way that other laws are unable to do.

'The number of charges brought under the PTA is very, very small and immigration
officers are using their powers to do general fishing trips amongst the Irish
community.'

Ms Clare Short, Labour MP for Birmingham, Ladywood, said: 'The PTA creates
alienation amongst the Irish community. All Irish people in Britain are affected
by it. Everyone is aware of it, everyone fears it. Everyone who makes a journey
to Ireland knows they can be stopped and detained.'

Mr Pat Reynolds from the Irish in Britain Representation Group said statistics
showed the PTA was aimed at innocent members of the Irish community. 'Over 6,000
Irish people have been dragged out of bed, from airports, or ports into custody
for seven days, very often without their next of kin being notified or access to
a solicitor.'

In a foreword to a Labour Committee on Ireland pamphlet on the Act released at
the press conference Mr Kevin McNamara, Labour's chief Northern Ireland
spokesman, said the Act should be retitled 'the collection of information act'.
Labour would repeal it.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 17, 1988

King plea to South on border policing: Authoritarianism warning as permanent
terrorism act is confirmed

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST, JOE JOYCE and JOHN CARVEL

LENGTH: 742 words


Mr Tom King, the Northern Ireland Secretary, launched a rear-guard action in
Belfast yesterday to stop Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish Premier, cutting back on
cross-border security after the Stalker affair. He sought to repair damage done
to Anglo-Irish relations by leaked reports that the Prevention of Terrorism Act
was to be made permanent.

During a four and a half hour meeting of the Anglo-Irish conference at Stormont
between Mr King and Mr Gerry Collins, the Irish Justice Minister, the British
were said to have sought and been given assurances that arrangements between the
Garda Siochana and the Royal Ulster Constabulary would not be altered by Dublin
as a result of a refusal to prosecute RUC officers named by Mr John Stalker in
his inquiry into shoot-to-kill allegations.


Before the conference Mr King moved to deflect Irish anger over the terrorism
act. At a joint press conference he interrupted Mr Collins, who was expressing
his Government's 'strong feelings', to say that press reports were not accurate.

The House of Lords was told last night that the act will be permanent but with
an annual review.

Other British sources were stressing that the Government was anxious to maintain
the Anglo-Irish agreement, contrary to the Irish belief that decisions over
Stalker, the Birmingham Six and the terrorism act reflected a British wish to
end it.

The existing terrorism act expires in March 1989 and Viscount Colville
recommended permanent legislation in December.

The Government's move brought strong Opposition reaction at Westminster
yesterday. Mr Roy Hattersley, the deputy Labour leader, argued that a permanent
act was wrong in principle, damaging to civil liberties and counter-productive
in its encouragement of support for the IRA.

The Liberal leader, Mr David Steel, said: 'I am seriously concerned that this
Conservative Government is sliding into authoritarianism.'

In return for the cross border security concession Mr King indicated at the
meeting that Sir Patrick Mayhew, the British Attorney General, was reconsidering
sending his Irish counterpart, Mr John Murray, evidence with extradition
warrants. His failure to do so since the new Irish extradition legilsation was
introduced in December has stopped all extradition proceedings.

Mr King agreed to hold a third meeting at official level to resolve the dispute.

On the substantive issue of the Stalker affair, Britain appeared ready to ride
out any measures that Mr Haughey will announce to the Dail in Dublin today.

A statement issued after the meeting said that Mr King gave his 'considered
replies' to the proposals put forward by the Irish two weeks ago.

The Irish Government was last night holding its fire in advance of the special
eight hour debate in the Dail today on an innocuous motion noting the current
state of affairs. All parties will use the opportunity to condemn the British
decisions which are blamed in Dublin for bringing relations to a critical point.

Mr Collins, and the Energy Minister, Mr Ray Burke, who was also in Belfast,
briefed their cabinet colleagues on the outcome of their meeting with Mr King.
But a government spokesman said there would be no comment until the debate.

Britain's intention to effectively make the terrorism act permanent caused shock
and dismay in Dublin and prompted Irish politicians to wonder if Britain was
deliberately trying to damage the Anglo-Irish agreement. The Opposition leader,
Mr Alan Dukes, said the decision was 'an unnecessary provocation' and Mr Des
O'Malley, leader of the Progressive Democrats, wondered if the British
Government had suffered 'some kind of brain-storm'.

He added: 'I would ask if the British Government was setting out deliberately to
polarise Anglo-Irish relations'

Mr Dick Spring, the Labour Party leader, described the act as the most serious
arbitrary restriction on personal liberties and human rights in these islands.

In spite of the uniformity of opinion in Dublin, there is less agreement on how
the Irish Government should respond.

The six men convicted of the Birmingham pub bombings, who lost fresh appeals
against conviction last month, are to seek leave on Thursday to take their cases
to the House of Lords. Lawyers for the six will have to satisfy the Court of
Appeal that the case raises a point of law of general public importance fit for
consideration by the Lord Lords.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 17 1988, Wednesday

Fanatical terrorist from US with convert's zeal

SECTION: Issue 63005.

LENGTH: 423 words


William Quinn became an IRA terrorist with the fanatical zeal of a convert after
immersing himself in the cause of Irish republicanism.

The son of Irish-Americans living in San Francisco, he learnt Gaelic at school,
turned his bedroom into a shrine to Ireland and had links with IRA fund-raising
groups.


In 1971 Quinn, then aged 23, left his job as a US postal clerk to go to his
spiritual homeland of Ireland, where he affected an Irish accent. He was trained
for a leading role in the biggest terrorist campaign in mainland Britain.

His fingerprints were found on three of 28 bombs sent through the post in 1974
and 1975. The bombing campaign led to a massive security clampdown.

Police found a death list with more than 300 names of potential targets at a
flat in Fairholme Road. Hammersmith, west London, which Quinn visited. The list
included Mrs Margaret Thatcher.

Fingerprints were found on road maps in two other IRA safe houses used for
bomb-making by the four IRA men involved in the Balcombe Street siege in 1975,
which linked Quinn with that IRA cell.

The Gang's outrages included the murders of Mr Gordon Hamilton-Fairley, a cancer
specialist, Mr Ross McWhirter and a series of bombings. They also claimed
responsibility for the Guildford public house bombing, for which several people
are serving life sentences.

Scotland Yard detectives believe some members of that gang are still at liberty,
but suspect Quinn played an influential part in organizing one of the most
intense periods of terrorist activity ever seen in the country.

After the murder of PC Tibble, Quinn fled to Ireland. In May 1975 he was
convicted of membership of the Provisional IRA at the Special Criminal Court in
Dublin. He served a year in prison, returning to San Francisco in 1979. He was
arrested by the FBI two years later.

After failing to have Quinn extradited from Ireland because of long-running
disputes between London and Dublin, the British authorities pursued Quinn down
the same legal path in America.

Lawyers argued that as a member of a political organization who committed an
offence in pursuit of a legitimate civil uprising, Quinn qualified for a
100-year-old exception to the Anglo-American extradition treaty.

Judges eventually ruled against the plea. To speed the extradition proceedings,
serious charges of terrorism against Quinn were dropped.

Five years after his arrest, Quinn was taken in handcuffs and flown by the RAF
to England to stand trial for the murder of PC Tibble.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 17 1988, Wednesday

IRA gunman given life term for murder of PC 13 years ago

BYLINE: MARK ELLIS

SECTION: Issue 63005.

LENGTH: 567 words


An IRA gunman was jailed for life at the Central Criminal Court yesterday for
what the judge called the 'appalling and cold-blooded' killing of an off-duty
policeman in a London street 13 years ago.

William Quinn, aged 40, an American citizen, was the first IRA man to be
successfully extradited from the United States.


Mr Justice Rose said the shooting of Police Constable Stephen Tibble, aged 21,
at point-blank range was 'untinged by any remorse on your part, motivated I
don't doubt by the terrorist activity at which time you were engaged'.

The judge told Tibble: 'You shot repeatedly and at point-blank range a man who
was in fact a police officer, though you could not have known he was other than
an ordinary member of the public'.

The jury of 11 men and a woman took just under three hours to find Quinn guilty
of murder after a week-long trial.

Quinn, a convicted member of the Provinsional IRA, was closely linked with a
gang responsible for some of the worst terrorist atrocities committed in
Britain.

Fingerprints linked him with the gang arrested in the Balcombe Street siege of
1975, in which the present Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Mr Peter Imbert,
played a key role by persuading the men to give themselves up.

It was only after lengthy extradition proceedings that Quinn was brought to
justice for the killing on February 26, 1975.

Mr Justice Rose made no recommendation as to the minimum length of the sentence
after hearing a submission from Mr Michael Mansfield, for the defence, that
Quinn had been held in a small cell for most of the time since his arrest in the
US in 1981.

The court heard how plain clothes detectives saw a man, later identified as
Quinn, acting suspiciously as they patrolled an area of Hammersmith, west
London, where there had been a spate of burglaries.

The man appeared agitated when he was questioned and gave his name as William
Rogers; the court was told that consisted of one of his own names and his
mother's maiden name.

After producing a wad of Irish Pounds 5 notes from his pocket, Quinn ran off
with a policeman in pursuit, who radioed for help. When PC Tibble, driving a
motorcycle, saw the chase, he joined in.

Mr John Mathew, QC, for the prosecution, said; 'He passed Quinn on his
motorcycle, and then jumped off and stood on the pavement, spreading out his
hands to block the suspect's way.

'Three shots immediately rang out. Two bullets hit PC Tibble in the chest and a
third nicked him and was found in the doorway of a house nearby.'

PC Tibble, who was married and had been in the police force for only six months,
died later in hospital from a severed aorta.

After the shooting police lost sight of Quinn over the brow of a hill and he was
not seen again until he was in Ireland.

There, Quinn was arrested for Provinsional IRA membership was identified when he
appeared in Dublin Special Criminal Court by the policeman who had stopped him
in Hammersmith.

A search of a basement flat at 39 Fairholme Road, Hammersmith, where Quinn had
been seen, uncovered a vast haul of bomb-making equipment and Quinn's
fingerprints. His fingerprints were found on a plate, a knife, an ashtray and a
road map. Police described the basement falt as 'an IRA school for bombers'.

Police also found Quinn's fingerprints in two other IRA safe houses in London
and the murder weapon.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 17 1988, Wednesday

Protests in Commons on terror Act ruling

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63005.

LENGTH: 689 words


The Government was accused last night of playing into the hands of Provisional
IRA propagandists by proposing to make permanent the Prevention of Terrorism
Act.

The Labour Party attacked the 'inept timing' of an announcement made at a time
when Anglo-Irish relations are under considerable strain because of controversy
surrounding the Stalker-Sampson inquiry.


Mr Roy Hattersley, the Shadow Home Secretary, said the timing and the
performance of Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, would do
little to help the resumption of normal relations between Dublin and London.

He criticized the way in which the decision to make permanent the Prevention of
Terrorism Act had been leaked 24 hours before the House was due to debate the
Act's renewal. Mr Hattersley said: 'Terrorism in Northern Ireland will only be
defeated when the law abiding majority are totally convinced that they must
reject and expose terrorists.

'The announcement today, the inept timing and the nature of the announcement and
the extraordinary performance of the Northern Ireland Secretary of State: all
these things are bound to play into the hands of IRA propagandists'.

By making the Act permanent, the Government will avoid having to introduce fresh
legislation every five years as occurs under the present law.

But Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, said the powers in the Act would be
renewed annually in the light of the prevailing terrorist threat.

He said it was inevitable that powers needed to check and crush terrorism would
occasionally bear on innocent people but they were not aimed at them but at the
terrorists.

The move, which has further strained relations between London and Dublin, was
announced in the House of Lords by Lord Ferrers, Minister of State, Home Office,
only hours before Mr Hurd told the Commons.

MPs voted 261-162 to renew the Act for a further year.

Lord Ferrers accepted that the power under the Act to exclude terrorists
suspects from mainland Britain was a 'severe power' which restricted the free
movement of people within their own country.

It was not used lightly 'but until an alternative means is found of giving the
public the degree of protection which is currently provided by exclusion, the
Government believes that the power must stay'.

Lord Mishcon, for Labour, said tempers had been unnecessarily inflamed in Dublin
as a result of recent decisions by the Government not to hold a public inquiry
into offences quite obviously committed by a small minority of the RUC. He said
the latest announcement was either supreme tactlessness or an act of supreme
lack of diplomacy.

Lord Mason, who, as Mr Roy Mason, was a Secretary of State for Northern Ireland,
said the timing of the decision was particularly insensitive.

Mr David Steel, the liberal leader, said his party and the Social Democrats
could not support making the Act premanent.

'We will not tolerate a permanent removal of civil liberties', he said. The
Government proposal was 'politically crass' and coming on top of the decision
not to prosecute RUC offices and the smothering of the Stalker inquiry, it would
sadden Britain's friends in Ireland and delight the gunmen and terrorists.

The decision to make the Act permanent was bitterly criticized by nationalist
politicians on both sides of the Ulster border. Mr Peter Barry, who as Minister
for Foreign Affairs was involved in negotiations leading to the Anglo-Irish
agreement, said the decision caused resentment among the many Irish people
living in Britain.

But he said that although the agreement was under strain as a result of recent
British decisions, they were far away from breaking point.

Whitehall made it clear last night that the Prime Minister remains fully
committed to the agreement.

The differences between London and Dublin remained unresolved after the resumed
meeting of the Anglo-Irish ministerial conference yesterday.

The only detail made public after the meeting in Belfast was that Britain had
asked for a meeting of officials to resolve difficulties over new extradition
procedures.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              March 7 1988, Monday

IRA terrorists shot dead in Gibraltar

BYLINE: DOMINIQUE SEARLE in Gibraltar, ANDREW MCEWEN in London and RICHARD WIGG
in Madrid

SECTION: Issue 63022.

LENGTH: 921 words


Three IRA terrorists were shot dead by British forces in Gibraltar yesterday
when their plan to plant a car bomb near the Governor's home was thwarted.

The Ministry of Defence in London confirmed that troops had fired the shots
which killed two men and a woman, although witnesses said the fatal shots were
fired by men in civilian clothes. The ministry declined to comment on whether a
Special Air Services unit was involved.


Last night British troops evacuated about 600 people from an area covering a
third of the central town while military explosive experts tried to defuse a car
bomb using a robot.

The IRA later admitted that the three dead people were members 'on active
service', but claimed they were unarmed at the time of the shooting.

Republican sources in Belfast named them as Mairead Farrell, Donal McCann and
Sean Savage. All are thought to have been in their twenties and, according to
the Provisional IRA's formal statement, all came from west Belfast.

Farrell joined 22 Republican prisoners in Armagh high security prison on a
hunger strike in November 1980. At the time she was 23 and serving 14 years for
blowing up a hotel. The next year she was put up as a candidate for the
Dublin-based National H Block Committee which co-ordinated support for
Republican hunger strikers.

In Dublin, security forces said the three were born in Northern Ireland but
carried Irish passports.

Other sources said the shooting was the culmination of an operation by the
security forces that tracked the gang across part of western Europe. The Royal
Ulster Constabulary was saying nothing last night about the degree of its
involvement, but police sources in Belfast privately left little doubt that it
was largely dependent on intelligence furnished from Belfast.

The shooting occurred after police had cornered the three people at a petrol
station in Winston Churchill Avenue, leading to the Spanish border at La Linea,
about 600 yards from the airport, which has to be crossed to reach the border
with Spain.

Witnesses said men in plain clothes jumped out of a car and shot a man and a
woman dead, one in the head and the other in the chest. Moments later another
man was shot, apparently as he ran towards the town.

The 500lb car bomb was found 500 yards from the rear of the residence of the
Governor, Sir Peter Terry, who was thought to have been at home at the time. The
car was Spanish-registered and had been parked behind a government theatre and a
branch of Hambros Bank.

Officials in Gibraltar said they believed the bomb had been timed to go off on
Tuesday when men of the Royal Anglian Regiment take part in the weekly changing
of the guard ceremony just yards from where the car was parked. The regiment has
just completed a tour in Ulster.

Speculation was rife in the colony as to who carried out the shooting operation.
Mr James Boseno, manager of the Rock Hotel, told reporters that seven men and
four women, who had checked in over recent weeks, appeared to belong to the
British police or armed services. They all checked out of the hotel within five
hours of the shooting.

'They were all middle-aged, respectable people who booked in separately and were
not seen together at all,' he said. 'They all checked out individually and left
separately and we just assumed that they were worried about the situation.'

There was also speculation as to whether the Spanish Basque separatist group Eta
may have helped the IRA terrorists. It was thought the car was most likely to
have entered Gibraltar overland from Spain.

The IRA and Eta have had links for years. It is believed the two terrorist
groups exchanged arms and information in the 1970s and Eta representatives have
regularly addressed the Sinn Fein conferences in Dublin.

Gibraltar, which covers just 2.25 square miles on the southern tip of Spain, has
a population of 29,000, but receives more than two million visitors a year.

The colony's border with Spain was reopened on February 4, 1985, after a
long-standing dispute with Spain. A general election is due to be held in
Gibraltar on March 24.

Four years ago a mock Ulster village was built in Gibraltar for anti-IRA
training operations. Hidden away in one of the largest caverns inside the Rock,
the village, made of wood, includes one main street, four side streets, two
shops, one of them called Tom's Chippie, a Roman Catholic church called St
Malachy's, a women's lavatory and St Trinian's School.

Just under 2,000 British servicemen are based at Gibraltar. The Army has 744
troops at the garrison, consisting of one infantry battalion, one engineering
team and an artillery surveillance unit. The Royal Navy and Royal Marines have
766 servicemen and the RAF has 405.

In London last night, Conservative MPs were appalled by the news of the apparent
attempt by the IRA to take their campaign outside mainland Britain.

Mr Henry Bellingham, secretary of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland Committee,
said: 'Obviously I am extremely relieved that this attempted terrorist attack
did not succeed'.

Mr Jim Marshall, a Labour Northern Ireland spokesman, said he would expect the
Government to make a comprehensive statement in the Commons today.

Irish MPs demanded the immediate release of six people detained in London under
the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

The six were visited during the weekend by Irish Embassy officials. Scotland
Yard refused to comment on the detentions or to name those being held.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 8 1988, Tuesday

How the Spanish police and SAS kept track of suspects

BYLINE: TONY DAWE and MICHAEL EVANS, RICHARD WIGG and HARRY DEBELIUS

SECTION: Issue 63023.

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: GIBRALTRA


The counter-terrorist unit from the Special Air Service which shot dead three
leading members of the IRA in Gibraltar on Sunday had been on alert on the Rock
for at least 10 days, it emerged yesterday.

A decision was taken to call in the SAS after a special request from the police
commissioner in Gibraltar for military help after positive evidence from the
Spanish authorities that an IRA active service unit was preparing a bomb attack
against British troops stationed there.


The first warning of a spectacular terrorist operation is believed to have come
far earlier from a high-level informant inside the IRA hierarchy. As soon as
Mairead Farrell - one of the IRA's most senior woman operatives, jailed for 14
years for a hotel bombing and said to be at least an adviser to the IRA's
seven-strong ruling council - and her colleagues, Daniel McCann and Sean Savage,
left Belfast in January, British security services were alerted.

Such senior terrorists are under constant watch in the north and south of
Ireland and their movements noted by the intelligence services.

Since the SAS ambush of eight terrorists at Loughgall police station in May last
year, the IRA army council had vowed to avenge their deaths. The disappearance
of such senior IRA members from their normal haunts in wet Belfast was the first
indication that an active service unit could have been formed.

Police forces in Britain and Europe were asked to look out for the unit. A new
computerized communications network, based on a secure facsimile system and
linking all police forces in Europe, may have been used to provide details of
the suspects.

The Spanish police, whose dealings with Eta, the Basque terrorist organization,
have made them well used to the importance of intelligence work, first spotted
three of the wanted terrorists in Malaga about a month ago and immediately
informed the British authorities.

At Britain's request, the Spanish kept the two men and one woman under 24-hour
surveillance until they left Malaga two weeks ago. A Spanish security spokesman
in Madrid said yesterday that the three changed their address 'two or three
times' during their stay on the coast.

At one stage they visited a 'third country' - the Spanish police refused to
elaborate - before returning to Spain. The British authorities were informed of
their leaving and may have followed.

It was clear to British intelligence that the IRA activity in Spain was aimed at
preparing an attack on the British troops guarding Gibraltar. British tourists
in Spain were not thought to be at risk because the IRA wanted to hit a military
target following the Loughgall ambush.

Military sources in Belfast believed Gibraltar was selected because of the
presence of British troops. The current garrison force is the 1st Battalion The
Royal Anglian Regiment, which finished a relatively quiet two-year tour of duty
in Ulster in January last year. They left the province before the Loughgall
ambush.

With Gibraltar an obvious target, top-level discussions took place between
Britain and the territory, which led to a formal request from the police
commissioner for 'military assistance'. The Ministry of Defence promptly ordered
an SAS team to Gibraltar.

They were keyed up for action on the Rock for several days before the Spanish
reported a fresh sighting of the IRA unit. Last late week a fourth IRA man was
seen crossing the border into Gibraltar and was watched as he carried out
reconnaissance. Spanish security forces kept track of three cars used by the IRA
squad and passed on the information to the British.

On the Rock, the SAS team watched on Sunday afternoon as a terrorist went across
the border in a white Renault 5, parking it near where the Royal Anglian
Regimental Band would assemble for the changing-the-guard ceremony today. His
two accomplices were then spotted crossing the border on foot at 3pm. The three
joined up and spent some minutes in the car before getting out and walking back
towards the border. They were then challenged by the SAS. Gibraltar Radio
yesterday broadcast a witness's account of the shooting.

'A chap rushed past me and I noticed he obviously had a large pistol shoved down
the back of his jeans and within seconds the firing started 100 yards away,' the
witness said. One of the terrorists 'fell back after some five to six shots
fired very rapidly. They were face to face. The person shot did not appear to
have a gun.

'The chap who rushed past actually said: 'Excuse me,' as he went by with a very
obviously English accent,' the witness said, referring to the gunman.

Mairead Farrell was shot dead at the same time, but the third terrorist
staggered on down the road before collapsing. None of the three was armed, it
was confirmed.

Across the border, the Spanish Civil Guard found a Ford Fiesta with Malaga
licence plates parked in the Spanish town of La Linea. They said it had been
used by the terrorists and was probably intended for use as a getaway car.

The fact that only three false passports were found in the car indicated that
the member of the cell still at large had another means of escape.

Although the counter-terrorist operation did not produce either a bomb or
weapons, military sources emphasized that the whole exercise had been
successful. The security authorities were also privately pleased that the IRA
confirmed it had sent an active service unit to Gibraltar. One security source
said: 'The IRA can hardly accuse us of shooting three innocent Irish tourists.'

The Gibraltar coroner, Mr Felix Pizzarello, will now have to hear the evidence
of the shooting and decide whether the SAS action amounted to 'lawful killing'.
Three officers from Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad have arrived in
Gibraltar to help with the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 8 1988, Tuesday

Hunt for fourth IRA terrorist: Howe says bombers planned 'dreadful attack on
troops'

BYLINE: MARTIN FLETCHER, Political Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63023.

LENGTH: 767 words


Sir Geoffrey Howe told MPs that had the IRA bomb plot in Gibraltar not been
foiled, more than 100 people could have been killed or maimed.

He revealed that there was no bomb in the car parked by the three shot
terrorists, but bomb-making gear was found in another car near the border.


The SAS counter-terrorist unit had been on operational alert at the Rock for at
least 10 days at the request of Gibraltar's police commissioner.

Spanish police spotted three of the wanted terrorists in Malaga about a month
ago and kept them under a 24-hour watch at Britain's request

A hundred people could have been killed or maimed if the IRA bomb plot in
Gibraltar had not been foiled, sir Geoffrey Howe told the Commons yesterday.

The Foreign Secretary, who disclosed that a fourth IRA man was at large,
surprised MPs by disclosing that there was no bomb in the car parked by the
three terrorists who were shot.

However he confirmed that bomb-making equipment was found in a second car parked
on the Spanish side of the border.  A search was on in Spain in Gibraltar for a
third car and for explosives.

The Foreign Secretary left MPs in no doubt that despite failing to find a bomb
on Sunday, the terrorists were planning a 'dreadful' attack on British troops in
the colony that would also have killed and maimed civilians, including children
and old people. Casualties could have reached three figures, he said.

Sir Geoffrey scorned the 'cynical hypocrisy' of the IRA, reminding MPs of the
terrorist organization's apology' for civilian deaths in the Poppy Day massacre
in Enniskillen.

Although Sir Geoffrey's statement left important questions, such as who shot the
IRA team, unanswered, he won almost unanimous support from all sides of the
House when he praised the security services, thanked the Spanish authorities for
their help, and condemned 'the reckless willingness of the IRA to disregard
human life'.

The IRA had admitted that the woman and two men shot were members of an active
service unit.

Sir Geoffrey defended the shooting of the unarmed terrorists.

When challenged the terrorists, Danny McCann, Mairead Farrell and Sean Savage,
had made movements - they apparently span round - which caused the 'military
personnel' involved to believe 'their own lives and the lives of others were
under threat', he said.

However he said he was not in a position to comment on the possible involvement
of Libya or the Basque terrorist organization, Eta, in the attempt,

He also failed to answer a question from Mr George Robertson, Labour's foreign
affairs spokesman, seeking a definitive statement on alleged Special Branch or
SAS participation in the shootings.

Sir Geoffrey told MPs that the Gibraltar police had first been alerted, and that
the police commissioner had sought 'military assistance', when a known IRA
terrorist under surveillance by the Spanish authorities recently crossed into
the colony and apparently carried out reconnaissance for a terrorist act.

Shortly before 1pm on Sunday a different IRA terrorist drove a white Renault car
into Gibraltar and parked it in the area where 50 members of the the Royal
Anglian Regiment, which had recently served in Northern Ireland, would today be
performing the Guard Mounting ceremony.  This was alongside a school and an old
peoples' home.

Before leaving the car the terrorist 'was seen to spend some time making
adjustments in the vehicle'. Shortly before 3pm two other terrorists crossed
into Gibraltar on foot and joined their accomplice in the town.

'Their presence and action near the car gave rise to strong bomb, which appeared
to be corroborated by a rapid technical examination of the car',

At about 3.30pm the three started walking back towards the border. They were
challenged, made movements and were shot. They were found to be unarmed, and a
military bomb disposal team established that there was no bomb in the car.

However keys on one of the bodies fitted a Ford Fiesta car on the Spanish side
of the border which contained three false passports, insulating tape, electrical
screwdrivers, pairs of gloves, wire and an alarm clock. Keys were also found for
a third car.

'Had a bomb exploded in the area, not only the 50 soldiers involved in the
parade, but also a large number of civilians might well have been killed or
injured,' Sir Geoffrey said. A 'dreadful terrorist act' had been prevented.

Mr Robertson praised the Spanish authorities and said this was 'an excellent
example of the co-ordinated international action required against terrorism'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 9, 1988

Primed bomb found in IRA missing car

BYLINE: By MAEV KENNEDY, DAVID HEARST and PAUL BROWN

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: GIBRALTAR AND BELFAST


The missing third car used by the IRA bombers shot dead in Gibraltar was found
in the Spanish resort town of Marbella last night loaded with Czech-made high
powered Semtex explosives and a device timed to explode at 11.20 am.

Security officials believe that the three bombers shot dead in Gibraltar last
Sunday had planned to set off the car bomb yesterday during the changing of the
guard ceremony at the colony which started at 11 am.


Earlier, Mr Felix Pizzarello, the Gibraltar coroner, said he intended to call
the British military personnel who shot dead the three unarmed IRA members to be
witnesses at this months's public inquest.

Mr Pizzarello said he is demanding that police today formally identify to him
Mairead Farrell, Daniel McCann, and Sean Savage. So far, they have only been
identified to him by their aliases which meant that their bodies could not be
released yesterday to the Gibraltar undertaker who is ready to fly them home for
burial.

Whitehall and Gibraltar have both refused to confirm to the coroner that the men
who carried out the shootings were flown in at the request of the Gibraltar
police.

Mr Pizzarello will consult colleagues in Britain about the appropriate verdicts
that are possible. He said that he presumed if the three were shot by military
personnel in the course of their duty 'the verdict must be justifiable homicide,
but I don't know.' On whether he would be calling eyewitnesses, he said: 'I will
want to see their evidence on paper and then decide whether it is worthwhile
calling them; we will call 100 if we need to.'

He acknowledged that considerable pressure may be brought on grounds of national
security if he calls military personnel. 'You do not know what is going to
happen here - two days ago we had a 500lb bomb here, now we have no bomb,' he
said.

The Ministry of Defence in London said that it was normal practice for serving
military personnel to give evidence at inquests where required. Security
problems and the indentity of those involved might be a difficulty.

In the Commons, Mrs Thatcher expressed relief that the Gibraltar events had not
ended in a tragic bombing. She refused to be drawn on criticisms from Dublin,
the Common Market, and Dr David Owen, the leader of the Social Democrats.

Dr Owen referred to eyewitness reports that the man who killed the terrorists
had bent down to pump bullets into them after they had been shot and were
already on the ground.

He said that there should be a formal inquiry. 'Just because they are known
terrorists it does not mean the security forces have carte blanche to do
anything they like.

'It does not mean we suspend all critical judgment; there must be curbs on the
excessive use of force.'

But a Downing Street spokesman declared: 'There will be no inquiry. I am very
surprised to hear people talking about an inquiry.'

The coroner expects that the bodies will be formally identified today by
forensic evidence and photographs in police records.

He does not expect to call in any members of the families.

The undertaker who is arranging the repatriation of the bodies, Mr Lionel
Codali, said last night it might be possible to get them on to a flight to
London on Friday if they are released today.

In Belfast, Sinn Fein yesterday began to mobilise a demonstration of nationalist
support for the three dead IRA members.

As Mr Terry Farrell, the brother of Mairead, flew out last night to Gibraltar
under strict instructions to bring the bodies home via Dublin, avoiding a
British port, the IRA issued a statement calling on nationalist youths to
demonstrate their 'justifiable anger' by attending the funerals.

The Belfast Brigade of the IRA called on youths to discipline their reaction and
stop the rioting which left 30 vehicles burned out on the roads of North
Belfast.

The return of the bodies via Dublin, possibly through Malaga in Spain or Lisbon
in Portugal, will ensure the maximum level of support from nationalists in the
Republic as well as providing the maximum embarrassment to Mr Charles Haughey,
the Irish Prime Minister.

The funeral cortege from Dublin will be a potent magnet for republican
sympathisers.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 10 1988, Thursday

SAS squad will testify at inquest in Gibraltar

BYLINE: RICHARD WIGG, Gibraltar, MICHAEL EVANS, TONY DAWE and RICHARD FORD

SECTION: Issue 63025.

LENGTH: 546 words


The SAS team which shot dead three IRA terrorists in Gibraltar will give
evidence at the inquest if the coroner insists, Ministry of Defence sources said
last night.

In Gibraltar, Mr Felix Pizzarello, the coroner, confirmed that he wanted to call
the men. But the MoD will insist that their identities are kept secret at the
inquest, which is not expected to be held until May.


The men are certain to be questioned closely about the operation, in which the
unarmed terrorists were shot several times.

The Ministry would prefer the men to be spared appearing at the inquest, but has
decided to co-operate with the coroner subject to certain conditions. 'We want
to do what we can to help the coroner,' said a source,' especially as he seems
well aware of the security implications.'

Mr Pizzarello said that he did not expect 'any impediment' after remarks by Mrs
Thatcher in the Commons. But he added: 'I have as yet to identify the people
responsible. The Press talk of the SAS but the Foreign Secretary has referred to
'military personnel'.'

He said it would be the duty of his officials to locate them and report if there
were any difficulties. 'If I call these people who allegedly did the shooting
their presence will have to be safeguarded, as well as my own safety and that of
everyone else in court.'

He said he would call a jury of eight people, who could bring in findings
ranging from misadventure through manslaughter and murder to an open verdict.

After Tuesday night's discovery of the explosives in a car in Marbella. Spanish
police seemed convinced yesterday that no other terrorists were involved in the
planned attack. The car had been hired by a woman calling herself Cathleen
Smith, thought to be an alias of the gang's leader, Mairead Farrell.

Police in both Spain and Gibraltar revealed yesterday that the search for an IRA
team had centred on the 29,000-strong British colony on the Costa del Sol,
especially round Torremolinos.

A Spanish Interior Ministry spokesman said yesterday that police were
investigating how the explosives entered Spain, and whether they could have
reached Marbella aboard a yacht which called at one of the Costa del Sol's
marinas.

The bodies of the three terrorists are expected to be flown directly to Dublin
later this week. Relatives arrived in Gibraltar last night and after they have
identified the dead the bodies are expected to be released by the coroner.

The Irish Prime Minister yesterday strongly defended his Government's operation
of the Anglo-Irish agreement after a series of controversies which have soured
relations between London and Dublin (Richard Ford writes).

Mr Charles Haughey questioned whether Britain had met its obligation under the
accord during a statement in the Dail designed to leave himself with maximum
room for manoeuvre.

Although Mr Haughey pledged that his Government would work the machinery of the
agreement, he failed to satisfy the opposition that he fully backed it, and,
significantly, he failed to wholeheartedly endorse devolution within Northern
Ireland.

He told the Dail: 'The agreement is not written in stone and therefore to that
extent I don't think we should be talking specifically of what might or might
not happen'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 11, 1988

In Irish eyes: Irish attitudes to Sunday's incident in Gibraltar and to its
perpetrators

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 864 words


There are times when a newspaper can reflect the thoughts of its readers only
too starkly. For British readers, the front page of Wednesday's Irish Press, the
newspaper closest to the Fianna Fail Republican tradition, would have made
interesting reading.

The lead story 'Bomb Car found in Spain' had curious bedfellows. On its left, by
a caption 'Welcome Home Daddy' was a picture of Patrick Shanahan, the brother of
Martina, kissing his son at Dublin Airport after a 'frightening experience' in
the hands of British police who detained him under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act.


On its right was an introduction which read: 'As speculation intensified last
night that British intelligence had committed a massive blunder in summarily
executing three Irish people ..' Between the two was a straight account of the
discovery of the white Ford Fiesta which contained 140lbs of plastic explosive
rigged as a fragmentation bomb.

A British reader could have justifiably thought that Dublin had great difficulty
deciding about whom they were talking. Were the three, or four, people who
walked into Gibraltar on Sunday an 'IRA active service unit' intent on repeating
the events of Enniskillen to even deadlier effect on the Rock? Or were they
three Irish citizens who happened to be called Mairead Farrell, Danny McCann and
Sean Savage, whose rights to a fair trial were cruelly obviated by the SAS?

The answer that a constitutional Irish nationalist would give is that they were
both of those things. No one in Dublin doubted that the joint operation mounted
with the Spanish police aveted a major scene of carnage, but that did not stop
the feeling that what the SAS did to the IRA only reflected British attitudes to
the Irish in general. Hence the cartoon that appeared in the Irish Times
depicting Mrs Thatcher's head as the rock of Gibraltar with the message
'Official attitudes to Ireland' scrawled over it. As an aside it said: 'If they
(the British) did not exist, the Provos would have to invent them.'

To the British, the identification between the gunmen that the Irish state
reviles and the cause of Irish citizens which it protects is an recurring
nightmare. Would the Republic have said the same of its security forces had
intercepted a UDA team about to deliver a massive blow to the centre of Dublin?
Were any such qualms expressed when Irish police shot at the car containing the
INLA gunman Dessie O'Hare, killing the driver who had allegedly driven through a
'police roadblock'?

The answer lies in the fundamentally different perceptions that the British and
Irish states continue to have about each other. In Gibraltar on Sunday Britian
and the officer who acted in her name saw themselves as under attack from a
foreign terrorist group. Whatever qualms may be expressed about the way the SAS
acted, the overwhelming feeling was that if those three foreign tourists wanted
to avoid getting shot, they should have left the 140lbs of Semtex they brought
with them at home. The Irish Republic, however, does not have the luxury of such
a view.

To the Irish, 'home' could be Birmingham, Boston or Belfast. It is more likely
to be a place where the sovereign Dail has no jurisdiction. Impotence is a
reality of Irish political life. He who rules part of Ireland as part of Britain
sees the IRA as an external threat, whereas the country which is genuinely a
foreign power to the part of the island where the IRA operates sees it as a
domestic threat.

This is not just a problem for Fianna Fail. Both Mr Peter Barry, the former Fine
Gael foreign affairs minister, and Mr Desmond O'Malley, leader of the
Progressive Democrats, vied with each other in expressing concern about the
'rule of law' in Gibraltar. It was Mr O'Malley who used the term 'summary
execution' first.

At the heart of their concern for 'the rule of law' is the need to differentiate
themselves from the men with the smoking Armalites who share the same political
objectives.

Each time Britain demonstrates its apparent lack of concern for the methods
which it uses for dealing with the men of violence, constitutional nationalists
feel challenged. Even though the shoppers along O'Connell Street in Dublin paid
scant attention to a lonely group of 400 protesting members of Sinn Fein
marching on Wednesday night the fact that they were there at all was a powerful
irritant.

The funeral cortege bearing the bodies of the IRA 'active service unit' through
Dublin will have the same effect. Three years of the Anglo-Irish Agreement, of
slow painstaking reform for Catholics in the North, will be as nothing to three
coffins, moving slowly through the streets of Dublin. The links between those
bodies and the Irish state they challenge are too close for comfort. The uncle
of Mairead Farrel, one of the IRA team, was a respected Fianna Fail TD.

The nation will want to turn its back on that cortege and the Gardai will
doubtless be instructed to get it moved as quickly as possible to the border.
But that will not stop all Irish eyes from being glued to their TV sets, once it
is no longer their problem and the RUC take over.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 11 1988, Friday

Security alert for IRA unit's funerals: Aftermath of Gibraltar killings

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, RICHARD WIGG, HARRY DEBELIUS and TONY DAWE

SECTION: Issue 63026.

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


A huge security operation was being planned on both sides of the Irish border
last night to prepare for the return tomorrow of the bodies of the three IRA
terrorists shot dead in Gibraltar on Sunday by the SAS.

The Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Garda are expecting the IRA to orchestrate
three days of demonstrations beginning in Dublin tomorrow, when the bodies will
arrive on board a direct scheduled flight from Malaga, in southern Spain.


Police and security forces in Britain are also on the alert during what officers
describe as a 'high-risk period' when the IRA will be seeking to strike at key
targets.

As arrangements were being made for next Monday's funerals in west Belfast,
police throughout Europe hunted for the accomplice of the three terrorists who
had planned to detonate a bomb in Gibraltar last Tuesday, She has been named as
Mary Parkin, thought to be one of several aliases used by the IRA active service
unit,

The tension in Ireland was increased by claims in Republican News, a Provisional
IRA propaganda sheet, that the terrorists were 'dedicated soldiers in a people's
army with limited resources, and totally dependent for succour and moral support
on the Irish working class',

Plans for Monday's funerals in Belfast, which the IRA is certain to attempt to
turn into a paramilitary occasion, were going ahead yesterday after a relative
of one of the dead and a Sinn Fein official visited Gibraltar.

Mr Terrence Farrell, the brother of Mairead Farrell, the woman who led the IRA
unit, and Mr Joe Austin identified the bodies in the Royal Naval Hospital
mortuary.

They insisted that the bodies should not touch down on British soil, so they
will be driven to Malaga airport for the direct flight to Dublin.

Spanish police have identified at least three separate sets of aliases used by
the gang during the four-month operation leading up to Sunday's shooting. The
police were first alerted early last November when British intelligence
monitored a Irishman with IRA connections entering Spain.

The Spanish authorities sifted through details of 89,000 Britons living in Spain
to determine whether any of them might be a target for an IRA attack. Police
paid special attention to Britons such as politicians, diplomats and writers who
might have annoyed Irish nationalists.

By November 15, when a 'Mr Reilly' and a 'Mr Coyne' left Spain by air after
flying from Malaga to Madrid, their true identities were established, with the
help of British police, as Daniel McCann and Sean Savage, members of the IRA.

Police discovered that they intended to return to Spain, and advised the British
authorities, who requested that discreet surveillance be maintained on the
Spanish coast to discover what was being planned.

The terrorists eventually gave away their objective. Spanish detectives observed
that the woman carrying documents in the name of Mary Parkin left her hotel on
the Costa del Sol every Tuesday to visit Gibraltar.

British authorities, quickly put two and two together and realized that the
target must be the changing of the guard ceremony held on Tuesdays by the Royal
Anglian Regiment, which had recently served in Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 16 1988, Wednesday

Ayatollah's critics invited their killers into home

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63030.

LENGTH: 468 words


Two Iranian opponents of the Ayatollah Khomeini's regime were killed in their
home in London by a professional assassin sent from Tehran armed with a
miniature, silenced sub-machine-gun, an inquest was told yesterday.

Mr Ali Tavakoli-Nabavi, aged 52, a retired architect, and his son, Nadir, aged
22, a waiter, were shot repeatedly in the head by the gunman in an attack last
October in Wembley, north-west London.


A detective from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch told the inquest that the
dead men may have let their killer and accomplices into their home believing
they were meeting a refugee like themselves seeking help.

Dr David Paul, the north London coroner sitting at Hornsey, returned a verdict
of unlawful killing. He was told the murder weapon was a Czech or Yugoslav-made
765mm Skorpion.

The gun was said not to have been used in Britain before. It is similar to the
American Ingram miniature sub-machine-gun which can easily be hidden, and had
been used in terrorist attacks in Italy and West Germany.

Giving his verdicts, Dr Paul said: 'These two men have been murdered by persons
unknown and it is not a great step to believe they have been murdered by a
person professionally oriented to murder by the regime they were critics of.
Unfortunately trouble and political problems in other countries spill over on to
the streets of this country.'

During the inquest Mr Nasser Tavakoli-Nabavi described how he came home from
work and found his brother lying on a bed. He thought he was asleep and then saw
a bullet wound in his head. In the living room his father was also dead, sitting
in a chair.

Mr Tavakoli-Nabavi told the inquest the family 'had not received any sort of
threat that would make us take serious measures'. The family went to rallies at
Hyde Park where general threats were made by opponents.

His father and brother were each shot three or four times by the same gun.

Det Chief Insp Roger Newton from Scotland Yard told the coroner police had no
identity for the murderer or murderers. Mr Newton said Mr Tavakoli-Nabavi,
senior, produced pamphlets and held meetings for Iranian exiles who shared his
support for the Iranian monarchy.

The detective told the court there were no sign of forced entry at the family's
flat at Bluebird Walk on the Chalk Farm estate.

The detective said: 'It would appear the father in particular helped a number of
fellow Iranians, particularly in matters like immigration and it was not unusual
for him to receive visitors at home whilst helping them'.

Mr Newton told the coroner he believed the two dead men had indeed let their
killer into the flat.

After the inquest Mr Nasser Tavakoli-Nabavi said the deaths would not make
people opposed to the Khomeini regime stop their campaigning.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 17, 1988

Politicians and church unite to condemn killing

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST and JOE JOYCE

LENGTH: 680 words


Politicians and church leaders in Britain and Ireland were united yesterday in
horrified condemnation of the killings in Belfast and in appeals for calm.

In the House of Commons, Mr Seamas Mallon, the SDLP MP for Newry and Armagh, won
sympathy although his call for an emergency debate and the banning of the Ulster
Defence Association was turned down.


Mr Mallon said that MPs had seen many examples of the obscenity of violence but
that this incident, involving the desecration of consecrated ground, was the
worst. He said the 'sacrilegious incident must revolt every single person who is
aware of the enormity of the type of crimes we have seen.'

'We have over the past 20 years become the killing fields of Europe and yet on
public television on the first day of this week, the UDA, which is not banned or
proscribed, clearly announced to the people of the North of Ireland they were
stepping up their campaign against the Catholic people.' He called for it to be
proscribed forthwith.

The Speaker, Mr Bernard Weatherill, said he had listened to Mr Mallon's request
for an emergency debate with 'great concern and respect and sympathy.'

But he said his sole duty was to determine whether the request met the
conditions for taking precedence over other business on the order paper and he
regretted that it had not.

Also in the Commons, Mr Merlyn Rees, the Labour former Northern Ireland
secretary, asked the Secretary of State, Mr Tom King, to 'use channels' to tell
the heads of the Protestant and Catholic paramilitary organisations 'that they
must assert control or the bloodshed will go on for weeks.' Revenge killings
could last for weeks unless the Government warned the paramilitary leaders to
stop them, he said.

The Prime Minister, Mrs Thatcher, was 'appalled' and the Northern Ireland
secretary, Mr King said: 'My simple message tonight is the utter pointlessness
and futility of violence, and that killing achieves nothing but more misery,
sadness and heartache for so many.

'Anybody, anywhere, in any position of responsibility or influence in the
Province has a duty to see they play their part in preventing retaliation,
revenge, further violence and deciding once and for all that violence is
finished and that it has part to play.'

The Labour leader, Mr Neil Kinnock said: 'Northern Ireland has enough agonies
without this dreadful atrocity. The decent majority there and everywhere else
must combine to stop the gunmen wherever they come from.'

The SDLP leader Mr John Hume described the attack as an act of deep provocation.
Burial of the dead was sacred, he said. 'For anybody or for any organisation to
disrupt that with death in their minds and hearts and with instruments of death
with them is simply appalling.'

Asked if he believed there was a connection between the attack and a recent
threat to Catholics by the para-military Ulster Freedom Fighters, he replied:
'All I know is that a heavily armed individual with explosives and weaponry went
into a crowd of people who were mourning at three gravesides and committed
terrible acts of murder.'

The Irish Prime Minister, Mr Charles Haughey, appealed directly to nationalists
in Belfast to respond with calm. 'I have no doubt that this desecration of
funeral ceremonies will appal all decent Irishmen and women of every political
belief,' he said. 'The anger which this savage attack will cause should not lead
to further violence and I appeal to the nationalist people of Belfast and to all
the people of Northern Ireland to respond with calm to this outrage.'

The Irish Opposition leader, Mr Alan Dukes, said violence would never produce
anything worthwhile for Northern Ireland. 'This savage attack should strengthen
our resolve to deal with terrorism of any kind north or south.'

The Anglican primate of Ireland, the Archbishop of Armagh, Dr Robin Eames
appealled for calm as did the Irish Catholic bishops, in a statement issued
after a regular meeting at Maynooth, near Dublin. They expressed shock and
revulsion at the 'murderous attack.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 23 1988, Wednesday

Last rites for Hillsborough

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: Issue 63036.

LENGTH: 1095 words


The IRA is good at exploiting military reverses for propaganda purposes. It's
the martyr syndrome, and funerals are a prime vehicle, in the Irish Republican
tradition: if the police interfere, that is good propaganda in itself; if they
refrain from interfering, that can be represented as a victory; if the absence
of the police results in violence, that can be blamed on the police.

Last week the IRA collected large propaganda dividends along those lines, though
Saturday's killing of two British soldiers, partly witnessed on television, was
a propaganda setback because it revealed the elemental and bloody hatred behind
the facade of the mourning for those martyrs.


It is too early to assess the fuller impact of Saturday's events. Up to then,
the IRA's propaganda campaign had been going great guns in the Republic, with no
small assistance from Mr Haughey's government and a significant section of the
media.

Two days earlier Padraig Flynn, a Haughey minister representing the government
at the St Patrick's Day festivities in the United States, said that in his view
the 1985 Hillsborough Agreement was not going anywhere.

Haughey, it is said in Dublin, is displeased with Flynn's statement. I don't
believe that Haughey is in the least displeased. For a subordinate to blurt the
anti-Brits stuff, and for the Boss then to simulate mild displeasure, is a
rather characteristic Haughey ploy, and well suited to his present dilemma.

Mr Haughey would like the agreement to collapse, provided he could be sure that
middle-of-the-road Irish electors, who like the agreement, would not blame the
collapse on him. If it could be seen to collapse in such a way that almost all
Irish people put the blame on the Brits, that would be fine.

The result of Mr Haughey's dilemma is that he finds himself whipping up
anti-British hysteria, fuelled by the Gibraltar shooting of the three IRA
bombers, to get off the hook of the agreement. In these circumstances the
agreement becomes an engine for making Anglo-Irish relations worse, not better.

That the agreement has failed, as applied to Northern Ireland, has long been
obvious except to determined wishful thinkers - of whom, however, there is no
shortage. The hope so fulsomely expressed that the agreement would lead to
'reconciliation between the two traditions' looks like a sick joke after more
than two years' experience.

The related hope that the agreement would reduce violence wilts in the face of
the statistics: victims of political violence up 75 per cent since the end of
1985. Before the agreement violence had been declining. The current state of
relations between the two communities in Northern Ireland was symbolized by the
horror of last week.

In its systematic murder campaign against Protestants over the past 20 years the
IRA has hoped to provoke a major Protestant backlash, thus allowing the IRA to
emerge in its role of 'defender of the people'.

So far it has had only sporadic success. But the death of three people in the
pistol and grenade attack on the crowd at the Gibraltar bombers' funeral on
Wednesday is a good example of the kind of thing the IRA has been hoping to
stimulate and use for tigerish 'reprisals' - as by those 'mourners' on the two
soldiers on Saturday. They hope also that if the Protestants turn really nasty,
the British may decide to quit and leave the locals to fight it out, as they did
in Palestine 40 years ago.

The net results of the agreement inside Northern Ireland were judiciously summed
up by Sir Charles Carter on its second anniversary last year: it had 'alienated
the majority without reconciling the minority.'

The failure of the agreement, and its effects on Northern Ireland, are obvious;
although, in Irish affairs, the obvious has often a knack of becoming invisible.
But there was, until recently, one area where the agreement did seem to be
having benign effects. It seemed to be producing better relations between London
and Dublin. And it did mean that in countries where it mattered - principally
the United States - British and Irish diplomats could work together, rather than
against one another. Now even that has collapsed.

Mr Haughey's government is sending signals to its friends in America and
elsewhere that John Bull is up to his old tricks. Britain is not honouring its
side of the Anglo-Irish Agreement. The agreement is turning into just another
grievance.

This is not just a case of pique, caprice or emotional stress. There is a
structural problem of Irish politics here: an iceberg of which Mr Haughey is the
tip.

Most Irish people arre not anti-British. But a significant minority, somewhere
around 20 per cent, are. That minority generally votes Fianna Fail, so that the
anti-British minority in Fianna Fail is a lot higher than 20 per cent. And it
was the anti-British section of his party that did most to help Mr Haughey in
his rise to power, and also to defend his leadership when it was under, threat.
He simply cannot afford to lose these people; he has to anticipate their
reactions and sound sufficiently anti-British not to let them down; while not
sounding so anti-British as to put off the mass of ordinary voters.

This has always been a difficult role to sustain, and Mr Haughey has sustained
it only passably well. Hillsborough has made it even harder: by accepting the
agreement when in office, after denoucning it when in opposition, he forfeited
some of his charisma.

To compensate for this he must be seen to stand up to the Brits, and not look
tied by the agreement. Then, to hold the ordinary voters, he must stimulate the
anti-British tendencies of the media, significantly most anti-British than the
population as a whole.

So the Anglo-Irish Agreement, always counter-productive in Northern Ireland, is
now counter-producive in the field of Anglo-Irish relations generally. Is there
any good reason for keeping the thing alive?

'Security co-operation', some will say. But security co-operation between the
two governments was not created by the agreement. Security co-operation rests on
the solid base of mutual interest. It does not required this new-fangled and
ill-starred Anglo-Irish Agreement.

It is true that a section of Mr Haughey's followers would like the Irish
government to be, at best, neutral between the British and the IRA. But a
Taoiseach who went on that tack would not be re-elected.

If Mr Haughey wants to wreck the agreement, let him. The sky will not fall. Mr
Haughey might.

Copyright Times Newspapers, 1988

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 26, 1988

Pulpits of faith and fury: The mounting pressures on Ulster churchmen

BYLINE: By ALAN RUSBRIDGER

LENGTH: 1275 words


Last week in Belfast will be rememb ered as the week of funerals. The savagery
that erupted at two of them has tended to eclipse the sermons that were preached
there. But now the bloodshed has subsided, for the time being, there are those
who are suggesting a link between the savagery and the sermons.

Sir John Biggs-Davison, one of the most prominent Catholic MPs in the Commons,
did not go quite that far last week. But he did break with convention and name
one of the priests - Father Raymond Murray - while attacking his comments at the
mass for Mairead Farrell, one of the IRA acative service unit killed in
Gibraltar.


Father Murray, a former chaplain to the women prisoners at Armagh and co-author
of The British Army And Special Branch Brutality, told mourners that Ms Farrell
had been 'done to death in a barbarous assassination by a gunman as she walked
on a Sunday afternoon.' He likened her death to that of Christ.

The next day, at the mass for the other two members of the Gibraltar unit.
Father Tom Toner voiced anger at the lies that had been told about the killings,
anger about the treatment of Irish people by Britain and anger 'about people in
high places gloating over these murders.' The next day again it was the turn of
Father Aidan Denny at the funeral of IRA gunman Kevin McCracken.

Father Denny told the packed congregation in his modern, barn-like church in
Turf Lodge that McCracken had grown up in a world without hope. Young people in
the area were constantly abused, harassed and humiliated by the forces of law
and order. 'Is it any wonder that some of them turn in desperation and
frustration to throwing stones and petrol bombs, hijacking and burning vehicles
- or even joining the IRA?' he asked.

Father Denny also referred to the Gibraltar killings as murder. 'Christians
cannot condone murder no matter by whom it was done, but it has an even more
sinister dimention when it is done by the State security forces or approved by
the State ..Is it not a greater wrong than has been committed by people without
power?'

None of the priests made any mention of the Gibraltar unit's mission, nor of the
deceased's records (in some cases quite impressive) of violence. On the same
afternoon as McCracken's funeral, Father Des Wilson shared a platform with Sinn
Fein's Gerry Adams in addressing a mass St Patrick's Day rally in honour of the
Birmingham Six. He damanded that no clergyman in Northern Ireland should 'get a
halfpenny' unless he pledged himself to two aims - the immediate relase of all
Irish prisoners in British gaols and the complete British withdrawal from the
province once and for all.

It was homilies such as those which were interpreted by Lord Fitt as the
'language of consolation ..which could also carry the seeds of provocation' and
which led to further calls in the Commons this week for Cardinal Tomas O'Fiaich
to ban priests from officiating at republican funerals with para-military
overtones.

John Bach, a University of Ulster criminologist and Belfast Newsletter
columnist, wrote this week: 'The sad reality is that, for many, the Churches
have as much credibility as the politicians ..because the Churches are perceived
as having compromised their moral and spiritual integrity in order to gain the
security of political patronage. Far from being part of the 'answer', too often
the Churches have been seen as part of the 'problem.''

Perhaps in response to the accumulated impression given off by the priests'
statements last week, Dr Cahal Daly, Bishop of Down and Connor, delivered on
Tuesday one of the longest, most detailed and stinging denunciations of the IRA
by a prominent Irish churchman, which was re-printed verbatim in the three main
newspapers in Belfast the following day.

In it he repeated the oft-declared position of the Church that there is no
possible theological justification for violence against the British authorities
in Northern Ireland. 'Condemnation of the IRA is not a political matter, it is a
spiritual one. The IRA constitutes a grave spiritual danger for sections of the
Catholic community .. The Activities of the Ira are killing the soul of those
involved in it or actively supporting it ..It is sinful to join organisations
committed to violence or to remain in them.'

But while the hierarchy of the Catholic Church in the province has maintained a
fairly consistent line in condemning the activities of the Provisionals, the
position in individual parishes is often much more ambiguous. 'It is often very
difficult for priests in rural areas or in the more republican areas of West
Belfast,' said Dr Sidney Elliott of Queen's University. 'Sinn Fein often works
extremely hard for people in those areas. It all comes down to how much daylight
the individual priest is prepared to see between Sinn Fein and the IRA.

It comes down, in other words, to getting one's religion from Rome and one's
politics from home. It is, of course, an ambiguity perfectly familiar to
Protestant clergy as well. 'It is almost impossible in Ireland to separate one's
politics from one's religion,' says the Rev Sam Burch, a Methodist minister
involved in an ecumenical initiative on Springfield Road, West Belfast - the
front line between some of the most rundown Catholic areas and the loyalist
estates already boasting grafitti dedicated to the alleged Milltown gunman
Michael Stone ('Fuck the Blarney, Kiss the Michael, Stone'). 'There are one or
two pietistic communities who try to opt out. But to be in the traditional
churches is to be up to your ears in politics.'

'The problem is parochialism,' according to John Bach. 'Commendable care for
parishioners is one thing; mindless siding with the prevailing
political/paramilitary climate is quite another. In political, as much in
doctrinal matters, a cleric's care for his flock must always be secondary to,
and derivative from, his service of God.'

There appears to be a wide consensus that excommunicating known terrorists or
refusing to officiate at their funerals would have little effect. Dr O'Fiaich
himself has written a scholarly account of the support priests gave to the
independence struggle in the South which demonstrated the ineffectiveness of the
excommunication threat against the IRA by the Bishop of Cork in 1920.

Mr Burch agrees. 'People roar and shout for excommunication, but it's not very
realistic. You also have a wider duty to the deceased's family. Excommunication
is not going to stop one bullet flying.' Even over on the other side of town, on
Upper Newtonards Road, Archdeacon William MacCourt of the Church of Ireland,
thinks little would be achieved. 'Sometimes at funerals one tends to paint one's
geese as swans.'

The roll call of priests who are closest to Sinn Fein is well known in the
province. The more moderate ones serve a useful function of acting as a discreet
and unofficial channel between the Northern Ireland Office and Sinn Fein. In the
late Seventies, according to recent studies, the influence of the priests was
acknowledged by the fashion in which they were approached by some of the more
sophisticated elements of British Intelligence.

It was the priests who helped negotiate the end of the Hunger Strikes. It was
the priests who gave assurances last week that there would be no paramilitary
displays at the funerals and who helped - for better or worse - negotiate the
absence of the RUC. Sources say there has been a lot of contact this week 'to
help guage the mood of West Belfast.' This sort of influence is likely to be of
more lasting significance than odd bursts of graveside rhetoric.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 29 1988, Tuesday

King calls talks after Hume sees the Provos

BYLINE: JOHN COONEY and DAVID NICHOLSON-LORD

SECTION: Issue 63041.

LENGTH: 502 words


A fresh attempt to break the deadlock among Northern Ireland's mainstream
political parties will be made today in Belfast by Mr Tom King, Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland.

Mr King will meet a delegation from the Social Democratic and Labour Party, the
constitutional nationalist party, headed by Mr John Hume.


As pressure continued to mount on the Government yesterday to regain the
initiative from the paramilitaries, it was disclosed that Mr Hume held further
talks last week with Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA.

It was confirmed yesterday that the SDLP-Sinn Fein 'summit' was last Wednesday,
four days after the killing of Sinn Fein, said it would be misleading to connect
his party's talks with Mr Hume to the SDLP's discussions with Mr King.

Mr Adams said that the only way in which Mr King could play a constructive role
in talks was 'to organize the British Government to leave Ireland'.

Mr Hume has also reacted positively to a weekend gesture from Mr James
Molyneaux, the leader of the Official Unionists, for a wider political debate
outside the context of the Anglo-Irish agreement.

Mr Hume described as encouraging the new fluidity of politics in Northern
Ireland. Mr Molyneaux had said Unionists wanted an end to the ancient quarrel
between Britain and Ireland.

The strongest criticism, however, of Mr Hume's continuation of talks with Sinn
Fein came from Mr Peter Robinson, the deputy leader of the more hardline
Democratic Unionists, who said Mr Hume was engaged in a rescue mission of the
IRA which had lost credibility.

Last night, a group of leading Ulster Unionists launched a campaign for a
devolved parliament and government in Northern Ireland with provision for a Bill
of Rights, a referendum, and involvement of the Roman Catholic community at
ministerial level.

A key feature is the creation of a regional Ulster government.

Backers of the proposals include Mr Harry West, the former Unionist leader, and
Mr John Gorman, former chairman of the Northern Ireland Housing Executive.

Mr Peter McLachlan, a Belfast charity director and chairman of the group,
condemned 'recent acts of carnage and savagery done in the name of political
objectives'.

Both Irish unity and integration with the UK were passports to 'perpetual
political violence', he said.

Two men arrested on Saturday were being questioned last night about the killing
of Corporal Derek Wood and Corporal David Howes.

Left-wing leaders of a branch of Nalgo, the local government union, are refusing
to rescind a letter of sympathy sent to the families of the three IRA bombers
killed in Gibraltar.

Moderate members of the union's branch in Hammersmith, west London, voted at an
extraordinary meeting last week to withdraw the letter, which condemned what it
called the Government's 'tyranny and oppression'.

The executive does not propose to discuss the issue until after Easter. Union
members predicted mass resignations unless action was taken.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 6 1988, Wednesday

IRA arsenal: Bomb, gun and box

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: Issue 63048.

LENGTH: 1179 words


Whenever there is an atrocity in Ulster the protaganists appear on television of
the situation. Should spokesmen for terrorist organizations be allowed to
broadcast? They are so allowed in Britain: in mainland Britain, occasionally; in
Northern Ireland, quite frequently, in the opinion of many people who live
there.

In the Irish Republic, spokesmen for terrorist organizations, including Sinn
Fein, are not allowed access to the national broadcasting system, RTE. The
legislation was drafted by me when I was a member of the Cosgrave coalition
government of 1973-77.


Soon after the shooting of the three IRA bombers in Gibraltar, and the
subsequentd televised murder scenes at their Belfast funeral, Radio Ulster asked
me whether I would recommend the introduction of similiar restrictions in the
United Kingdom, including Northern Ireland. I understood the question to be
prompted by the horror of local people on witnessing that grisly television
footage.

I said I would recommend - and had recommended - the introduction of similar
restrictions, but that in fact the legal restrictions in the Republic would not
affect the screening of such news events, which was a matter left to the
judgement of the broadcasting authorities, as in Britain.

The manner in which the Republic's broadcasting laws differ from those now in
force in Britain concerns a specific matter: the treatment of interviews with
spokesmen for terrorist organizations. In Britain, the broadcasting authorities
are free to decide whether to broadcast any such interviews. In the Republic,
they cannot broadcast any such interviews. Nor can they decide for themselves
which organizations may or may not be terrorist in character or purpose. The
prohibited organizations are named in government directives.

Let us consider first the case for not introducing into the United Kingdom
restrictions similar to those in the Republic. The case against, as I have heard
it over the years, consists mainly of the following arguments:

Their introduction would erode the autonomy of the British broadcasting
services: and autonomy which has servedd the British public well, and stands in
high repute throughout the world. To accept the principle of government
censorship, even if only in relation to spokesmen for terrorism, would open the
door to government censorship of broadcasting, and tend to place it under the
control of the government of the day.

The broadcasting authorities can be relied on to ensure that terrorist
organizations do not benefit from the any access to broadcasting by their
spokesmen, since skilled professional broadcasters can be relied on to show up
the weeknesses in the case of the terrorist spokesmen help to educate the public
about the nature of the problem.

Of these arguments, only the first - 'eroding autonomy' - seems to me to
possessed real weight. I agree that the autonomy of the broadcasting services
should not be encroached on without graved reasons. The question is: are the
advantages which terrorists derive from access to broadcasting in the United
Kimgdon grave enough to justify a specific encroachment? In short, if the
broadcasting authorities insist on leaving the door open to terrorists, may not
the Government have the right and the duty to close that door, for the
protection of citizens?

Experience in the Republic does not bear out the argument about 'opening the
door' to other forms of government censorship. The 1975 legislation actually
narrowed the possibilities of government intervention, previously unrestricted
in law, specifically to the area of terrorist propaganda. Nobody in the Republic
sees the legislation as in any way disadvantageous to the legal opposition, or
extending control over broadcasting by the government of the day.

'Broadcasting authorities can be relied upon, etc'. No, they cannot.
Broadcasting authorities have been conditioned to assume that the highest
manifestation of virtue on their part is to leave broadcasting to the
broadcasters. And broadcasters are apt to find that interviews with terrorist
spokesmen make good broadcasting, and good television, in particular. So as long
as the final judgement is left to the broadcasters, in practice, the door will
still be open to the terrorists.

'Skilled professional broadcasters ..showing up the terrorist ..' I don't know
if you heard Danny Morrison, of Sinn Fein/IRA, being interviewed on BBC Radio
soon after the Gibraltar killings. If you did, I think you will agree that
Morrison danced rings round his interlocutor. Today's terrorist spokesmen are
more professional, in relation to their chosen subject, than the broadcasters
are. So every time the terrorists are allowed access to broadcasting, the
terrorist cause gains. That means more people get killed.

'Terrorist interviews ..educating the public.' That is cant. What is involved
here is not a branch of public education. It is a mater of propaganda, by
skilled hands, for a variety of purposes, all supportive of terrorism in action.

The BBC believes that the IRA does not benefit from access to broadcasting. The
IRA believes that it does. On this particular matter I attach more weight to the
opinion of the IRA than to that of the BBC.

The IRA bitterly resents its exclusion from the airwaves of the Republic, but
realizes that this is largely offset by its access in the United Kingdom,
through which it can reach most of the broadcasting audience in the Republic
also.

The IRA values access to broadcasting not so much to convey specific propaganda
messages, though that can be quite useful, but for general purposes of morale,
status and perceived legitimacy for its movement. In those respects the access
to the media is itself the message. 'You have arrived: they can't ignore you. If
the BBC and ITN have to talk with you today, the British government will have to
talk to you tomorrow.'

This bandwagon effect is extremely helpful in building up morale or checking its
decline among the IRA rank and file. It is a form of recognition accorded to the
work of the rank and file - that is, to the impact of the gun and the bomb.

Everyone knows that it is the killing, and that alone, that gets the spokesmen
for the killers on the box. The killers themselves see the presence of their
spokesmen on the television screen as registering their own achievements with
the gun and the bomb. That being so, each broadcast by an IRA spokesman conveys
to its members one simple message: Keep it up!

British broadcasters, in opposing the denial of the airwavesd to terrorists,
invariably argue in terms of general broadcasting principles, and in relation to
the general broadcasting public. Thus their argument ignores the heart of the
matter: which is the morale-boosting effect of access to broadcasting on the
terrorists themselves.

For these reasons, I believe that laws preventing all broadcast interviews with
spokesmen for terrorist organizations should be made part of the Prevention of
Terrorism Code in the United Kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 6 1988, Wednesday

Challenge to Sunni dynasty's hard line over jailed terrorists

BYLINE: ANDREW McEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63048.

LENGTH: 627 words


The Kuwaiti airline hijacking was last night being seen as the latest in a long
series of Shia Muslim challenges to one of the great Sunni Muslim ruling
families of the Gulf.

For all practical purposes the Kuwaiti Government is the al-Sabah family, which
has provided immovable in the face of repeated attacks by extreme Shia elements
and has won praise from the British Government for its resolute stand.


The hijacking was described by diplomatic sourcs as a carbon copy of one in
1984.

Both aimed to secure the release of 17 Shias arrested after a wave of bomb
attacks in Kuwait in 1983. An attempt on the life of the Emir in 1985 had the
same purpose. But the Government and family have always refused to make deals.

The vast, wealthy and extremely powerful al-Sabah family runs nearly everything
that matters in Kuwait and has done so for generations.

They dominated the country before Britain gained control of its foreign policy
in 1899 and retained the important tiles through the colonial period, which
ended in 1961. The Emir, Sheikh Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, leads a country
dominated in every sphere by his relatives.

The Prime Minister, Crown Prince Sheikh Saad al-Abdullah, is the most senior
member of another branch of the family in the Cabinet, and many of his ministers
are related.

There are estimated to be 1,200 members of the family, many of them prominent in
industry and business.

All the adult males can call themselves Sheikh, an honorary title of respect.

Three relatively junior members of the family were on the passenger list of the
hijacked plane. Kuwaiti sources named them as Mr Anwar Khalid al-Shalid his
sister Ebstesam Khalid al-Sabah, and a Mr Fedel al-Sabah.

An official said that they were distantly related to the Emir but held no
official position. Mr Anwar Khalid al-Sabah was described as a businessman.
Although not of high importance in Kuwaiti terms, it was recognized that they
could be regarded as prize hostages by hijackers.

Anyone carrying the al-Sabah name in Kuwait enjoys status by association. They
are also related to the man whose overall responsibility for Kuwait's handling
of the crisis could determine their fate: Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Jaber, the
Foreign Minister.

No one was surprised in Kuwait by the firm line taken by his ministry yesterday.
The al-Sabahs have always been tough negotiators and Kuwait has a stated
'no-deals' policy.

The Foreign Ministry urged the Iranian authorities not to allow the airliner to
leave Mashhad but to settle the matter quickly and effectively.

That plea almost certainly mean that the Kuwaitis were willing to contemplate
the airliner being stormed by Iranian troops, even if it led to loss of life.
The fact that the lives of relatives could be a risk made no difference.

'Even if thy had been members of the Government it would not have any
difference. We will not even discuss a deal, no matter how important the people
are,' the official said.

In the almost identical incident in December, 1984, four men seeking the release
of the same 17 Arabs hijacked a Kuwaiti airliner to Tehran and shot dead two
American passengers before Iranian security guards stormed the plane and seized
them.

An attempt was made to assassinate the Emir in May, 1985, by an Iraqi who drove
a car bomb into a royal procession. That, too, was seen as an attempt to
increase presure for the release of the 17.

There have been suspicions - never proved - that the Shia extremists were linked
to Tehran's Shia Government. But although relations between Iran and Kuwait have
come under severe strain because of the Emirate's support for Baghadad in the
Gulf War, no such connection is taken for granted in Kuwait.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 12 1988, Tuesday

To storm or not to storm?: The chances of an SAS rescue attack at Larnaca

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN

SECTION: Issue 63053.

LENGTH: 961 words


The possible use of the SAS, one of the world's most efficient counter-terrorist
organizaations, to storm the hijacked Kuwait Airways jet has been carefully
weighed in Whitehall since the plane landed at Larnaca airport on Friday -
though they would be sent in only at the specific request of both the Kuwaiti
and Cyprus governments.

From the start it was hoped that exhustion might lead the hijackers to accept a
negotiated solution which concessions on key issues. But contingency plans have
been drawn up on the assumption that further killings would necessitate the use
of force.


After the first cold-blooded killing on Saturday, the chances grew that Kuwait
and Cyprus would seek British help. With sovereign military bases in Cyprus,
Britian could send men and equipment to the island unnoticed. Cyprus is a
Commonwealth country and Britain has a close relationship with Kuwait. So, in
the event of a request for help, the British government could resonably be
expected to say 'yes'.

It became clear yesterday that Mrs Thatcher decided early on that she would not
refuse if a request came from both governments. But it cannot have been an easy
decision. British intervention could cost the lives of Terry Waite and John
McCarthy, the British hostages held in Beirut by groups believed to be
sympathetic to the hijackers' aims. Britain could increasingly be portrayed as
hostile to the spread of Shia extremism in the Middle East. Critics at home
could argue that it would be an unwarranted use of military muscle, given that
no direct British interest has been at stake since the British plassengers were
released on Thursday, aircraft and interests to attack.

Mrs Thatcher will have taken all these factors into account, but they will have
been outweighed by the same consideration that led her to allow President Regan
to use US airbases in Britain for the bombing of Tripoli two years ago: those
who take a firm line with terrorists and their sponsors may pay a short-term
price (two British hostages were murdered in Lebanon non immediately after the
Libya bombing), but will be treated with greater respect in future.

The British public has always supported her when she took decisions that other
countries interpreted as aggressive: the despatch of the task force to recapture
the Falklands in 1982; the diplomic break with Libya after the murder of Yvonne
Fletcher in 1984 and the break with Syria in 1986 after Nezar Hindawi's attempt
to blow up an El Al airliner at Heathrow.

More than any other Western leader, Mrs Thatcher has persuaded her own voters
that it pays to be tough. She showed herself willing to gamble on that rection
last month when the SAS shot dead three IRA terrorists before they could plant a
car bomb in Gibraltar.

She views the al-Sabah ruling family of Kuwait as a kindred spirit for its
refusal to make concessions, in spite of a similar hijacking in 1984, a car-bomb
attempt on the Emir's life in 1985 and a series of industrial sabotage
operations.

As Mrs Thatcher never tires of saying, every concession to terrism encourages
further attacks. It is because she has established that point that there has
been so little public agitation to do a deal with Iran and Syria to free Terry
Waite and John McCarthy. The French, West German and US governments have all
been under far greater pressure from their electorates over their own hostages,
and all have made damaging concessions. None more so than Washington, with its
bungled attempt to trade hostages for weapons.

One might wonder why Mr George Vassiliou, the new president of Cyprus, elected
partly with communist support, should turn to Britain. The Greek Cypriots are,
all, noted for military ruthlessness and might be expected to storm the plane
themselves. But a small country like Cyprus could not be expected to maintain a
force as specialized as the SAS.

The use of troops not specifically trained for the task can lead to a bloodbath.
This was shown in 1985 when an Egyptian attack on a hijacked aircraft at Malta
left 60 dead and, a year later, when Pakistani special forces were too late to
prevent 16 people being killed and 78 injured aboard a Pan American 747 at
Karachi airport.

If a foreign unit is used at Larnaca, it has to be the SAS Israeli troops match
their ruthless effeciency, but Kuwait could never seek their help. The US
anti-terrorist Delta forces are also highly trained but neither Kuwait nor
Cyprus would wish to involve a superpower. West Germany's GSG/9 has directly
relevant experience, but Bonn would be unlikely to welcome a request for help.

The most celebrated SAS rescue came in May 1980, when 20 men burst into the
Iranian embassy in London after terrorists had shot dead two hostages. They
rescued 19 other hostages and killed four of the gunmen.

But they have been involved in storming only one aircraft. That was in October
1977 when two SAS men helped GSG/9 to rescue 86 hostages on board a hijacked
Lufthansa jet at Mogadishu, in Somalia.

The GSG/9 squad blasted open the aircraft's doors with dynamite and hurled six
stun grenades, supplied by the SAS, into the cabin. The grenades momentarily
immobilized the hijackers without seriously harming the passengers, and the
Germans opened fire, killing one terrorist instantly, mortally wounding two and
seriously wounding two and seriously wounding a fourth. Three members of the
Baader-Meinhof gang committed suicide in their cells in west Germany on hearing
the news.

A five-man SAS groups was sent to RAF Akrotiri to stand by after the hijacking
of a TWA jet from Athens to Beirut in June 1985, but was not use.

After the murder of a second hostage at Larnaca, the SAS could have a rescue
operation all their own.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 13, 1988

Fear of flying: The complex questions raised by the seizure of the Kuwaiti
airliner and the long agony of the hostages

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 827 words


As soon as Whitehall learnt that a Kuwaiti jumbo jet had been hijacked with 22
Britons aboard, the Foreign Office opened its round-the-clock underground
emergency operations unit. Inevitably, a picture began to be painted - and
yesterday still was - of a counter-terrorist SAS group storming the aircraft,
putting into practice the tactics it has learnt with a mock fuselage at SAS
headquarters in Hereford.

But the hijackers released, first the women, then all the non-Arab passengers.
Some of the Britons who were released were quoted as saying that Mrs Thatcher
should still send in the SAS. They were echoing what seems to be popular
enthusiasm for a 'quick end' to hijacks. There is little doubt that is the
Kuwait Airways jet had been full of Britons while it was standing on the Larnaca
tarmac public (and media) pressure on the Government to send in the SAS quickly
would have been intense.


But of the attempts so far to attack hijackers by force, only two have been
successful in that they did not lead to a loss of innocent lives. The first, in
June 1976, was the Israeli raid on Entebbe (where hostages were held in an
airport lounge). The second - the only one in which SAS men have so far been
involved - was the attack on a hijacked Lufthansa aircraft at Mogadishu,
Somalia, in October 1977. Two SAS men were on hand to help the operation by West
Germany's GSG/9 squad.

The prevailing view has been that it is better to keep hijackers talking. 'While
there is talking, there is always hope, and the hopelessness of the hijackers'
situation becomes evident.' Mr John Brindley, spokesman of the International Air
Transport Association (IATA) said yesterday. But he conceded what others already
have - the hijackers of the Kuwaiti jet, believed to be Lebanese supporters of
the pro-Iranian Hezbollah (Party of God), are different.

They have demonstrated they are not prone to panic, as other hijackers have bee.
They have clearly spelled out their demands, they have been patient, in their
conversations with negotiators at Larnaca's control tower they have explained in
detail such technical problems as the state of the plane's air conditioning
system, and calmly saying they are prepared to die. They have made calculated
decisions about which passengers to shoot, and how many.

They released the non-Arab passengers to concentrate on  their stated aim,
 the freeing of 17 prisoners in Kuwait, most of them Iraqi Shi'ites but
 including  some Lebanese, convicted of terrorist attacks in Kuwait in  1983.
The campaign to release the 17 has involved previous hijackings,  including
 that of a Kuwait Airways airbus in December 1984 (when Iranian commandos
 stormed the plane at Tehran), a spate of other terrorist attacks in Kuwait,
 as well as in Paris and Spain, and the hijacking of an American TWA plane to
 Beirut in June 1985. Their fate has also played a role in the kidnapping of
  Western hostages, including Terry Waite, the Archbishop of Canterbury's
 envoy, in January last year.

 There are reports that the hijackers of the Kuwaiti airliner last week wanted
to embarrass Tehran for excluding the case of the 17 from negotiations with
Paris for the release of three French hostages held by the Islamic Jihad, the
movement which has close links with Hezbollah. British diplomats have repeatedly
expressed concern about the willingness of Britain's European allies, notably
France and West Germany, as well as - in the past - the United States, to hold
secret talks with Iran over hostages in breach of the EEC's 'no deals' policy.

The FO's emergency unit is still functioning, its main purpose to keep in close
and constant touch with the Kuwaiti and Cypriot authorities. The Government's
message to Kuwait is to keep firm, a policy the Kuwaiti Government has so far
maintained. It is widely assumed that Mrs Thatcher would respond positively to a
request from Kuwait or Cyprus to send in the SAS.

Some observers yesterday were saying that the international dimension to the
crisis, involving as it does, the Cypriot authorities, the Kuwaiti Government
and the PLO, was a useful, rather than an unhelpful, complicating, factor. IATA
believes that some kind of international corps with the special task of
negotiating with hijackers should be set up.

But it pointed to one immediate problem: the lack of security and control on
airfields. Airlines and airport authorities, it said, had probably mastered the
screening of passengers.  The weak point, it said, was the security around the
airfield and what and who could get to a plane without going through the
terminals.

Although the Thai authorities have denied it, security around Bangkok airfield,
where the Kuwaiti jet started its flight, is said to be weak. And there are
accusations, notably by Kuwait, that other hijackers and ammunition got on to
the plane at Mashhad.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 18 1988, Monday

Monday Page: Not better, but different - More than 500 women in Britain are
widowed every day, but it takes a special sort of courage to build a new life -
and start a special school

BYLINE: JULIA ORANGE

SECTION: Issue 63058.

LENGTH: 1001 words


'I hope you will not have some awful glum photo of me to go with this article,'
Daphne Hamilton-Fairley says. 'I'm very tired of looking tragic.'

She has an impetuous smile, and, at 57, strides briskly down the corridors of
the school she founded and runs for dyslexic children in London. The school,
Fairley House, is named in honour of her husband, Gordon Hamilton-Fairley, the
eminent cancer specialist killed 12 years ago by an IRA car bomb while walking
his dog. Police said later that the bomb was probably meant for his MP
neighbour, Sir Hugh Fraser.


The appalling story will be told again on Thursday as part of a television
documentary on widows called 'Women in Black', produced by Colleen Toomey. After
that Daphne Hamilton-Fairley hopes to pull down the curtain on her appearances
as a widow.

She is ambivalent about publicity - 'does this really help other widows? Or do
other people watch this sort of thing as soap opera?' - but consented to be
interviewed in the hope that her experiences might help one or two of the 500
women in this country who become widows each day.

She offers no part formula for coping with widowhood, but she is sure that the
grief of relatives of victims of terrorist bombs, or of sudden and arbitrary
events like the Zeebrugge ferry disaster, is consistently misunderstood. 'You
are often give a time limit - 'you'll feel much better in x amount of months or
years'. For us this did not apply.'

She thinks that what made her husband's death so difficult for herself and her
four children, who were then in their early teens, was 'its suddenness, its
futility. One of the hardest things was that there was nobody for us to look at
or to mourn, even to have seen a piece of him would have made it more real'.

At first the weight of practical problems wore her out and often baffled her.

Their marriage had been a traditional one. She met him when she was 15, while
skiing, and at 20 they married. Although she was trained as a speech therapist
she retired after her children were born to run the house full-time. Gordon was
a successful, peripatetic man and the first professor of oncology at Bart's and
the Royal Marsden Hospital.

She heard the news of her husband's death when she was in China with the Friends
of the Tate Gallery. 'At first I could not take it in at all; when I did, the
horror was compounded by the fact that I didn't know whether my eldest daughter,
Diana, who was living at home, had been killed as well.'

She arrived back in England to find herself the subject of 'intense and
immensley intrusive media attention. This left an enormous scar on me and on my
children, for we had no time at all to give way to private grief and it held us
all back. I found 18 months after Gordon's death I felt worse, and the hurt went
on'.

She has found it helped to see widowhood not as a state from which the
strong-minded recover and the feeble give in, but as a series of crossroads,
setbacks and challenges. The first big step forward for her was in 1982, when
she started a school at her house for dyslexic children. The school, now based
in Prince's Gate in London, has 80 pupils and a specialist staff of speech
therapists and teachers. The progress they have made has attracted attention
from all over the world. The school now runs teacher training and research
operations.

Accomplishing this, has, she says, given enormous pleasure but the work is
exhausting. 'I could never have done this when Gordon was alive,' she admits,
'and at the beginning it was hard on my children, having a working mother plus
hordes of people in our house every day. But I think it was best for them to see
me slogging my guts out than crying into the kitchen sink.

'It also gave other people something to talk to me about. People were so
uncomfortable about what had happened to us - they really did cross the street
to avoid talking.'

Another source of strength was a rehearsal for death the family had in 1965,
when Gordon thought he might die from cancer. 'The children were very young at
the time, and my first reaction was anger. Not poor you, but poor me left alone
with four children. He dealt with this quite remarkable by saying: 'You are
right and it's time now to start your independence training'. He sent me off on
holiday on my own - you must remember that up until then I had never even stayed
in a hotel by myself. He taught me how to organize banking and so forth. Even
today I still find slips from him written in my files saying 'get television
licence' or 'car insurance - pay six monthly'.'

Inspite of bold efforts to forget the past and her plans for the future - which
are to spend more time with her grandchildren, to slow down, to paint and to
paint and to write a novel - there has been no cure as such.

'I still think about him more than is probably health. I can still hear him
saying 'tsk tsk' if I get the accounts wrong. I still get angry that now the
children are older and we could have done so much together, I've been done out
of the divvies. No, you don't get better, you get different.'

A sort of turning point came in 1984, went climbing in the Himalayas with her
daughter. 'The hunt at the time was almost more than I could bear and when I saw
this advertisement in the paper, I thought: 'That's it, we'll go'. It wasn't
done as an intentional test, but the combination of getting away, the hardness
of the climb, the pushing oneself to extremes and of seeing local people so
happy with so little, gave me the feeling that I was going forward, and that I
was finished with looking back, and was free now spiritually. And yet the oddest
thing is, if he were to walk into this room today, I would still look at him and
say: 'What took you so long?'

Copyright Times Newspapers Ltd 1988

'Aomen in Black', a 40 minutes documentary, will be shown on BBC2 on Thursday at
9.30-10.10 pm.

'Women in Black', a 40 Minutes documentary, will be shown on BBC2 on Thursday

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1988

Hurd aims to cut off terror funds

BYLINE: By PATRICK WINTOUR

LENGTH: 630 words


Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, yesterday announced that he plans to extend
the Prevention of Terrorism Act to make it a criminal offence for international
terrorists to canvass for funds or arms in Britain.

Mr Hurd is also considering taking powers to freeze bank accounts if they are
being used by terrorists or terrorist organisations.


The proposals stem from recommendations by Viscount Colville in his review of
the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA). But the announcement so soon after the
release of the airline hijackers in Algeria is clearly designed to show the
world that the Government is not going to relax its war on terrorism.

The PTA is due to be redrafted next March when it will have completed its
five-year life.

Speaking at a conference on terrorism in Oxfordshire, Mr Hurd said: 'Terrorists
in the modern world depend on money to keep them going and we need to consider
any means open to us to choke off their flow of funds. Where necessary we should
be ready to change the law.

'A relentless attack on terrorist funds has to accompany the pursuit of
individual terrorists if we are to prevent the rebuilding of terrorist empires,
and avert misery for generations to come.'

Mr Hurd's chief proposal is to prevent collection of funds or arms by
international terrorists operating in Britain. At present, the collection of
funds by terrorists is only banned in Northern Ireland under Section 10 of the
PTA.

Lord Colville, in his review  published in December, admitted  that there
 might be problems  for a British government  distinguishing a terrorist from
 a freedom fighter. He pointed  out: 'There is much to be said  for not
 placing the United Kingdom  courts in the position of having to make
 judgments on  the nature of political movements  or parties overseas.'

 The effect, he said, might be that fund-raising or shopping trips would become
criminal offences for innocent visitors and their suppliers or agents.

Nevertheless, on balance, he felt that 'where there is evidence of canvassing or
supply of funds or arms on behalf of an overseas faction for use against its
opponents within the United Kingdom, I can see no reason why the criminal law
should not apply to protect those opponents who are in the country and are
entitled to the benefits of our judicial system.'

Mr Hurd said yesterday that he was also taking seriously Lord Colville's
suggestion that stops should be placed on the bank accounts of foreign
terrorists operating in England and Wales.

The Drug Trafficking Act 1986 already enables the police to freeze funds
knowingly laundered from drug traffickers.  The act also gives powers to appoint
a receiver to the funds, and gives the police new investigative powers,
including the right to demand the production of confidential material, even if
it is contained on a computer.

Lord Colville accepted in his report that the extension of similar powers to
terrorism contained major implications for international banking practices where
rules of confidentiality have been paramount. However, he said he found 'the
prospect of legislation to disclose terrorist funds and block their transfer an
attractive proposition.'

Mr Hurd said yesterday that the comparison between the seizure of funds due to
drug trafficking and the freezing of bank accounts of potential terrorists could
not be exact.

He stressed that the details of  the proposals needed further  work, but he
 warned: 'We intend  in our forthcoming legislation  to broaden and
 strengthen  our attack on terrorist funding. We have already raised with
 our EC partners the importance  of interrupting the funds of terrorists.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 23 1988, Saturday

Hurd moves to block terror funds

BYLINE: PETER EVANS, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63063.

LENGTH: 386 words


Tough new action against terrorist finance was promised yesterday by Mr Douglas
Hurd, the Home Secretary. The Government intends to legislate to 'broaden and
strengthen an attack on terrorist funding', he said.

The measures are expected to be introduced in a new Prevention of Terrorism Bill
to come into force next spring. The Home Office is talking about powers to
freeze terrortist assets but not yet to seize them, though that has not been
ruled out.


Mr Hurd's announcement was made in the knowledge that international terrorist
groups have used Britain for laundering funds. He is aware of evidence that
funds have been raised in Britain by groups of buy arms and explosives. The
accumulation of cash could help terrorists to put down deep roots in society, Mr
Hurd said.

Existing legislation penalizes the giving and receiving of funds for Ulster
terrorists. Ministers are examining a proposal that the law should be widened to
cover international terrorism. The Government is also considering methods to
enforce disclosure of funds for terrorism held in British banks, so that a
transfer could be blocked.

Mr Hurd, opening a conference on the rule of law and control of terrorism, saw a
parallel between the finances of drug trafficking and terrorism. The Drug
Trafficking Offences Act 1986 holds that it is an offence knowingly to 'launder'
funds of drug traffickers.

'The Act, which is already proving its worth, enables the police to obtain a
court order requiring the production of material relating to possible drugs
offences,' he said. 'It also provides powers to obtain the restraint, or
freezing, of drug traffickers' assets and confiscation in the event of an
offence being proved.'

In his report on the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Lord Colville of Culross
recommended that the Government examine whether the provisions of the Drug
Trafficking Offences Act could be applied more widely to the campaign against
terrorist funding, Mr Hurd said. There were important differences. 'We are here
talking not usually about funds generated by crime, but funds needed to commit
crime.'

An anti-terrorist exercise to test plans to deal with a plane hijack was held in
Dorset last night, involving an aircraft with hostages' on board landing at Hurn
airport, Bournemouth.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 25, 1988

Agenda: Are peers democrats? - Should the House of Lords intervene in the poll
tax row?

BYLINE: By TONY BENN

LENGTH: 956 words


Two more nails  were being hammered  into the coffin  of Parliamentary
 democracy  in Britain last week. The first was the  decision by the House of
Commons, with the full support of  both front benches, to expel  Ron Brown
 from the House for  an offence which was more symbolic than real - dropping
  the Mace on the floor in a fit of anger.

 It was certainly a serious  breach of the rules of the club but was treated
 as if it was  almost an act of terrorism  directed against the fabric of
 our society, and the denunciations  of him reached peaks of frenzy which
 made the Commons  look more like a lynch mob than the High Court of
 Parliament.


 But the second threat was more insidious and it came from the suggestion,
widely canvassed across the political spectrum, that the House of Lords should
use its power to amend or defeat the Government's poll tax Bill.

Indeed this idea seemed to find favour even from those who protested most loudly
at their commitment to parliamentary democracy, whilst at the same time calling
on an assembly made up of hereditary legislators, and the beneficiaries of the
patronage of successive Prime Ministers, to overturn the decision of an elected
House of Commons.

In saying this I am not supporting the poll tax, which is yet another example of
the vicious and brutal legislation which is being forced through by a government
unhappily given a large majority by the electors last summer.

But if we were to try to bypass the ballot box by appealing to the privileged to
give us justice we would inflict a far greater damage on our society even than
the poll tax itself.

For if the people of this country are assured that whoever they elect to
Parliament, they can rely on the House of Lords to save them from their fate,
why should they bother to vote in elections at all, and wouldn't their time be
better spent writing pleading letters to any peers they happen to know, or lobby
the Lords instead of the Commons with petitions asking for fair play?

it could be worse than that, because some think that the recent speeches of the
Prince of Wales indicate what a Good King he is going to be, with his concern
for the environment and the poor and his anxiety about unemployment and the
inner cities.

Like the Archbishop of Canterbury the Prince of Wales is being criticised by
Tories who don't want anyone to oppose them however blue their blood, or
spiritual their role.

Maybe if the Lords let us down, a Good King could come to our rescue and I
wonder how long it will be before someone will suggest that the Crown should
refuse the Royal Assent to 'nasty bills' passed by both Houses of Parliament.

Then we can all be Royalists again, waving our Union Jacks outside Buckingham
Palace confident that the smiling Prince who is waving at us from the balcony
will see that the housing crisis ends, and that all schools offer every child an
equal opportunity, and the NHS (with the help of the Queen Mother) will be safe
in his hands and pensioners will be kept cosy in the winter.

That is exactly what the British  Establishment would like to  see happen,
 burying all the  nonsense about voting for our  government and turning us
 back to a simple faith in aristocracy  and Monarchy and in that sense of
 duty which goes automatically with privilege,  especially if you have had a
  public school education.

 And of course with the full turn of that circle will be easier to understand
why Ron Brown had to be expelled from the House - because he had the effrontery
to put his hands on the Mace, which is the symbol of Royal authority, the very
essence of Monarchic power, an act so treacherous and impudent that elected
Members of Parliament had no option but to throw him out for his disloyalty.

In a few weeks time we shall be invited, again with the support of all parties,
to celebrate the 'Glorious Revolution' of 1688 which, we are told, was the real
birth of Parliamentary democracy, when Parliament invited William of Orange to
come and be our King, to repress the Irish and the Catholics and set the scene
for the flowering of the British system of government which is so admired all
over the world.

For as every schoolchild  knows, the poor benighted foreigners  look to the
 Mother of  Parliaments as a glowing example  to which they would all like
 to aspire, if only they had a  chance of modelling themselves on us.

 We know in our hearts that the Americans would rather have the Queen than poor
old President Reagan and Charles III would have won every primary if only he had
been on the ballot paper, leaving Jesse Jackson with his vulgar Christianity
trailing behind as an extremist.

It won't be long before the Prime Minister will be suggesting that 'perestroika'
in the Soviet Union lacks only the stability of a hereditary element in the
Supreme Soviet and that Mikhail Gorbachev's son, if only he was allowed to
succeed his good father, could restore the Tsarist regime with all the benefits
that brought to the Russian people before the unhappy events of 1917.

But when the Crown and the Mace and the ermine-clad peers are presented to us,
and accepted by us, as the guardians of our freedom, on that day we bury the
radical democratic and libertarian inheritance that has given us all the
progress we have ever made over the centuries and it will pave the way for
tyranny, dictatorship and slavery.

By then alas it will be too late and now is the time to speak up for democracy
against privilage and hypocrisy.

Tony Benn is Labour MP for Chesterfield.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 29 1988, Friday

'Trial by TV' row over IRA killings film: Howe fails in attempt to delay 'death
on the rock' documentary

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS and RICHARD FORD in London and DOMINIQUE SEARLE in
Gibraltar

SECTION: Issue 63068.

LENGTH: 873 words


The screening of the Thames Television documentary Death on the Rock provoked a
storm of controversy in the Commons last night with Conservative MPs joining Mr
Tom King, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, in condemning it as
'trial by television'.

The programme, which suggested that two of the three IRA bombers shot by the SAS
in Gibraltar were trying to surrender when they were killed, was shown last
night in spite of strong government pressure to postpone it.


Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, appealed to Lord Thompson of
Monifieth, chairman of the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA), to delay
showing the This Week Special on the ground that it could prejudice the inquest
into the deaths of the IRA squad.

However, after taking legal advice and previewing the programme, Lord Thompson
decided yesterday that it should go ahead. He denied it would prejudice the
inquest, and argued that to postpone the programme would give the IRA more
'oxygen of publicity'.

The documentary featured an interview with a translator, named in the film as
Carmen Proetta, who witnessed the shootings on March 6. She claims that Mairead
Farrell and Danny McCann, two of the IRA bombers, had their hand raised in the
air as if 'giving themselves up' when they were shot.

Her version of the event would appear to conflict with the statement given to
the Commons by Sir Geoffrey after the Gibraltar incident. He told MPs that the
bombers made suspicious movement led British 'military personnel' to believe
their lives and others could be at risk.

The new evidence is likely further to strain relations between London and
Dublin. Mr Peter Barry, the former Irish Justice Minister, said yesterday that
the Britain Government must bring those responsible to justice. 'The actions of
the security forces makes it very difficult for those of us who believe in the
rule of law and who preach respect for it.'

While Mr King said the 50-minute programme would prejudice the rights of
witnesses at the inquest, Opposition MPs led by Mr Kevin McNamara, Labour's
Northern Ireland spokesman, described government attempts to postpone the
broadcast as a further example of 'ministerial arm twisting' against the press
and media.

A spokesman for Downing Street said that the Prime Minister was disappointed at
the decision, but both Downing Street and the Foreign Office were making it
clear that they did not object to what was in the programme but the timing of
its transmission.

Sir Geoffrey spoke to Lord Thompson on Tuesday and talked to another senior IBA
official yesterday, but last night the IBA put out a statement justifying its
decision.

'The IBA considers that the programme is a responsibly made documentary, which
assesses and analyses the role of the terrorists and the SAS in a thorough
manner. 'The IBA has taken the advice of counsel and has been told that
transmission of the programme is not in contempt of court.

'The programme makes clear the full horror of the crimes committed by the IRA
terrorists. The events of the Gibraltar shooting have already been the subject
of wide journalistic investigation, The IBA believes that it would be
unreasonable to deny further reporting of them to television.

'The IBA believes that the material in this programme is unlikely to prejudice
the outcome of the inquest. Such material will be made available to the inquest.

'The IBA believes that to postpone the programme until after the inquest which
is still apparently a long time away would give the IRA more 'oxygen of
publicity', and would certainly not prevent it being shown elsewhere, for
example in Parliament to interested MPs, or its contents being widely reported.'

Although the Foreign Office last night criticized the IBA decision as
'irresponsible', it ruled out seeking an injunction to prevent the documentary
being broadcast, because legal action was not possible against a programme being
shown in Britain which might prejudice an inquest being held abroad.

Gibraltar Television, a government-subsidized independent station, showed a
brief excerpt of the documentary last night on its evening news programme. It
showed Miss Proetta saying she thought the IRA men were trying to surrender.

The evidence given by Miss Proetta in the programme is also included in a
separate affidavit lodged with a lawyer in Gibraltar, who said last night he
would be making copies of this and other affidavits available to Mr Felix
Pizzarello, the corner who is scheduled to open the inquest towards the end of
June.

Certain assurances are expected to be given to the people of Gibraltar, possibly
in the form of an indication from the Provisional IRA that there will be no
interference with the inquest.

Mr Eric Thistlewaite, Gibraltar's Attorney-General, appealed yesterday for
witnesses of the incident to come forward with any evidence.

Miss Proetta, who lives in the tower block overlooking the petrol station where
the shooting took place, has a panoramic view from her kitchen of the area where
the killings occurred.

Scores of viewers telephoned Thames Television after last night's programme,
with about 60 per cent complaining it had been shown.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 2, 1988

Lure of Dutch bars and discos made airmen an easy target for attack

BYLINE: By DAVID FAIRHALL, Defence Correspondent and DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


Off-duty airmen enjoying a night out many miles from their bases in West
Germany, relaxing in Dutch bars and discos, are among the softest targets the
IRA could have attacked.

Since last year's IRA car bombing at the Rheindahlen headquarters of the British
forces in Germany - an attack where most of the injured were German and which
was also claimed, unconvincingly, by a rightwing German group - military
personnel have regularly been reminded of the risks.


They were reminded again after yesterday's incident, in a forces' broadcast
warning those visiting the Netherlands to be vigilant and to check their cars.

In the Netherlands this weekend they have been celebrating Queen Juliana's
birthday. Apart from that it is normal for British servicemen wanting a change
from their garrison town in Germany to drive down the motorway to the
Netherlands.

Their voices would mark them out and their car number plates would confirm their
military identity.

As airmen rather than soldiers they are unlikely to have served in Northern
Ireland, where military personnel are trained to check their cars and be aware
of the danger.

British military bases in Germany operate three systems of graduated alert: one
national, another for Nato, and the third - the colour-coded Bikini alert system
- to guard against terrorist attacks.

Any incident such as the recent Gibraltar killings will increase the alert
state, but there is a point at which security must be relaxed so normal training
and domestic life can continue.

It would be relatively easy for members of an IRA active service unit to enter
the Netherlands. There are roundabout routes and the confusion on cross-channel
ferry services has probably reduced the risk of detection.

Getting out with the border police on full alert is another matter.

There is close co-ordination between the security services' anti-terrorist
squads in Britain, the Netherlands and Germany.

In the past IRA men have based themselves in Amsterdam and that could turn out
to be the case here.

Of all European countries, the Netherlands has the strongest links with the
Republican movement in Belfast and Dublin.

Since 1972 Sinn Fein has cultivated links with radical groups in the
Netherlands, strengthened by a small community of Irish expatriates. An Irish
information group was set up to publicise the work of Sinn Fein and campaign
against the British military presence in Ulster.

Apart from Amsterdam, support has been strong in the border town of Nijmegen, in
the province of Limburg, close to the Rhine border with West Germany. Nijmegen
is home to a number of Dutch separatist and radical groups.

Last year Brendan Macfarlane and Gerard Kelly, the IRA men who masterminded the
break-out of 38 prisoners from the Maze in 1983, were extradited from Amsterdam
after an eight-month court battle, which attracted a stream of British and Irish
Republican sympathisers.

Macfarlane and Kelly had been arrested in a flat in Amsterdam in January 1986
after a top-off from MI6 to the Dutch security services. They had been on the
Continent for several months on what was assumed to be an arms-buying mission.

Arrangements to fly relatives of those injured in yesterday's attacks to the
Netherlands are being made through the RAF's central casualty section at
Insworth, near Gloucester, telephone 0452 857000.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 2, 1988

Alert IRA kills 3: Servicemen die in Netherlands gun and bomb attacks

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 951 words

DATELINE: ROERMOND


Police throughout central Europe were last night searching for a car believed to
have been used as a getaway vehicle after the IRA murdered three British
servicemen in the Netherlands and seriously injured three others in two separate
attacks early yesterday.

All British bases in West Germany close to the Dutch border were placed on black
alert yesterday. A notice at the Dutch-German border post on the main road from
Rheindahlen, where British forces in Germany have their headquarters, to
Roermond, where one of the servicement was shot dead, advised all British forces
personnel to stay out of Holland.


Throughout the day, the British Forces Broadcasting Service was issuing warnings
to soldiers and airmen, hundreds of whom were on weekend leave and out of
contact with their bases. The broadcasts said: 'Terrorists only look at you for
one reason. Be alert. Stay alive.'

It was learned last night that Dutch police, 40 of whom are investigating the
two attacks, were looking for a brown Corvette car with the registration number
SH 71 VR.

It is understood that the automatic weapon used in the Roermond attack jammed
after firing 23 shots which killed Seniopr Aircraftsman Ian Shinner, aged 20.
The jamming almost certainly saved the lives of his two colleagues, Ifan Lewis,
aged 19, and Richard 'Jim' Garth, aged 22, who were also Senior Aircraftsmen at
the same base as him, RAF Wildenrath in Germany.

The two servicemen who died in the car bombing at Nieuw Bergen, about 35 miles
north of Roermond, have yet to be identified because their bodies were so
savagely mutilated. The servicemen with them who survived was in no state
yesterday to help Dutch police inquiries.

The two attacks signal a renewed determination by the IRA to strike against
British military targets - particularly 'soft' ones like off-duty servicement -
outside Britain and Ireland. In March last year, an IRA car bomb at Rheidahlen
exploded outside an officers' mess but killed no one.

The Provisionals will inevitably portray yesterday's attacks as revenge for the
killing of three people in the IRA's so-called active service unit in Gibraltar.
In a statement issued from Dublin they said they had a simple message for Mrs
Thatcher. 'Disengage from Ireland and there will be peace.'

In a self-conscious echo of Mrs Thatcher's own words, the IRA said there would
be no haven for Britain's military personnel and Mrs Thatcher would be regularly
at airports awaiting her dead.

This is a reference to th arrival home of the coffins of Corporal Derek Wood and
David Howes, who were killed by the IRA after being mistaken firstly for
Loyalists and then SAS attackers at an IRA funeral in the Andersontown Road last
month.

Although the mobbing and gruesome deaths of the two servicement who had driven
at speed at the funeral procession had been disastrous for the IRA, the effect
on British public opinion of two more coffin arriving home had not been lost on
the Provisionals.

The Roermond shooting happened just after Dutch time when the three RAF men were
returning to their Volkswagen Golf with British forces registration plates,
apparently after drinking with friends, also on weekend leave, in the King
George public house in the centre of town.

Like almost every other Dutch town on Saqturday, Roermond was crowded with
people celebrating the Queen Mother, Queen Juliana's birthday and the May Day
holiday weekend.

The RAF men's car was parked between two others outside the Oranjarie, a
municipal culture centre near the town's railway station. It appears that all
three men had just got inside the car when the IRA gunman appeared from the
shadows and approached the vehicle from the righthand side. He sprayed it with
automatic fire. Bullets shattered the side and front window and some passed
straight through the Golf as well as the car parked beside it.

Senior Aircraftsman Shinner was sitting in the front passenger seat of the
lefhand drive car and caught the full force of the shooting.

After the initial burst the gun is believed to have jammed and the attacjer fled
in the brown car after attempting to fire two more bullets. Yesterday police
were unable to say if any other people took part in the attack. However, it is
assumed that such an operation could not have been mounted by just one member of
the IRA.

The two survivors of the shooting were in a local hospital yesterday under
intensive care but their lives were described as not being in danger. One is
believed to have been shot in the shoulder and the other in his stomach and
legs.

The explosion at Nieuw Bergen happened 15 to 20 minutes later - too soon for the
gunman and his presumed accomplice to have travelled the distance to set off the
bomb. It is thought that the car was booby-trapped sometime before the Roermond
attack.

The two servicemen killed in the blast had been at a disco and had just reached
their car - also with British forces registration plates - when it exploded.
This suggests that opening one of the doors, rocking the vehicle or turning the
ignition key triggered the bomb.

The force of the blast injred a third serviceman as he walked towards his
friends and threw the car out of the car park onto a grass verge, ripping it
apart and reducing it to a crumpled, buckled mass which then caught fire. It was
difficult yesterday to tell what sort of car it had been but it was similar to a
Ford Sierra or Fiesta.

Dutch bomb disposal experts blew open another British forces car in the same car
park yesterday fearing that it contained another booby-trap bomb. In Roermond,
the VW Golf was also blown open and a suitcase in the boot checked.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 3, 1988

Hurt airmen still seriously ill as relatives visit hospital

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: ROERMOND


Relatives of the three survivors of the IRA bullet and bomb attack on airmen in
the Netherlands visited them in hospital yesterday.

Doctors at the RAF hospital in Wegberg, West Germany, operated on Senior
Aircraftman (SAC) Ifan Lewis, aged 19, for four hours but were unable to save
his left foot, which was amputated. 'He is likely to undergo further surgery
this week, and his condition is still very seriously ill,' a spokesman said last
night.


He and a colleague, SAC Richard Garth, aged 22, survived the shooting attack on
their car in Roermond early on Sunday in which their friend, SAC Ian Shinner,
aged 21, was killed.

The men were transferred yesterday by RAF ambulances from the hospital in
Roemond to Wegberg. SAC Andrew Kelly, aged 21, who survived the Nieuw Bergen
bombing in which SACs John Baxter, aged 21, and John Reid, aged 22, died,
remained at Venray hospital in the Netherlands too ill to move.

Wing Commander Martyn Ward, a surgeon at Wegberg, said SAC Lewis had been hit by
at least three of the 23 bullets sprayed at the car in which he and his two
friends were sitting in Roemond after drinking in a pub.

SAC Lewis's mother and father flew to Dortmund yesterday and saw him in
hospital.

Wing Commander Ward escribed SAC Garth's condition as 'entirely satisfactory'.
He was hit once in the shoulder but the bullet had been removed.

Earlier SAC Garth spoke to his fianceee, Miss Lee Gascoigne, who is a Senior
Aircraftwomen. She and SAC Garth's brother, Paul, also in the RAF, flew to
Germany late Sunday night.

The condition of SAC Kelly is continuing to cause concern although yesterday he
was said to be in a stable condition. Wing Commander Ward said he was 'very
seriously ill from blast injuries'.

SAC Kelly is thought to have been close to his colleagues' car when a booby trap
bomb went off killing them instantly. He survived with the help of someone from
the nearby disco who dragged him clear of the blazing wreck.

Yesterday, he was visited in hospital by his parents. SACs Baxter and Reid, were
stationed at RAF Laarbruch in West Germany, could only be identified with the
help of their service dental records.

A post mortem was carried out yesterday on SAC Shinner and others are expected
today on the remains of SACs Baxter and Reid. The RAF said plans had yet to be
made to fly them home to Britain for burial.

In London, the Ministry of Defence said it would be reviewing the use of special
and easily identifiable car number plates by British servicemen in West Germany.

Yesterday British service cars continued to stream into the Netherlands from
West Germany despite border warnings.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3 1988, Tuesday

Leading Article: Europe against terrorism

SECTION: Issue 63071.

LENGTH: 863 words


Three RAF servicemen resident in West Germany are murdered in the Netherlands.
They were killed as a result of a terrorist campaign in a third country,
Britain. The morally empty 'justification' for their deaths apparently concerns
an incident in a fourth location, Gibraltar. There could be no more graphic
illustration of the vital necessity for all European countries to bind and
harmonize their anti-terrorist policies more closely.

Experts in counter-terrorism have been calling for serious international
co-ordination on these matters for years, knowing as they did so that few
politicians or statesmen were paying serious attention to the problem and that,
even if they were, progress would be slow. The distance yet to be travelled
towards effective trans-European security against mobile terrorists would be
important enough for its own sake. But it is especially criticam in view of the
dismantling of customs regulations and immigration procedures which will be part
of the EEC single market measures due to be completed by the end of 1992.


The countries with which Britain has established the most successful security
co-operation are those which have faced terrorists inside their own borders:
Germany, France and Spain. The governments and populations of smaller countries,
such as the Netherlands, might be tempted to believe that the IRA is not their
problem. Unfortunately, it is everyone's problem.

Nearly two decades ago, when the IRA reawakened in Northern Ireland, many people
outside Britain believed that terrorism would subside if only the British
Government would enact political reform. The events of those 20 years have
undermined that view and helped to educate the world outside in some of the
complications and contradictions of Irish history.

It should now be clear that the original equation can be stood on its head.
Political reforms, derided as insufficient by extremists but nevertheless real,
have been made. But acts of terrorism perpetrated by a few hundred extremists
still cast a long shadow over 1,500,000 people who strive to be governed by the
rule of law. If terrorism is not broken, the chances of political movement in
any direction - whether by government or anyone else - are slim.

Against this background, the British Government needs to press its case for
closer coordination across borders. This is less a matter of grand exhortation
at ministerial gatherings in Brussels (although this may be necessary to create
a better political climate) and more a matter of establishing working
partnerships between police forces. The precise nature of border monitoring - or
the lack of it - after 1992 remains to be settled. But sophisticated terrorists
will be able to move much more freely - needles in a haystack of 300 million
people.

To compensate for this, policemen must be able to increase their own freedom of
manoeuvre. The surveillance operation which preceded the Gibraltar shootings is
an example of what can be achieved. Successful cooperation requires, above all,
willingness to share intelligence and to exchange important items affecting
another country quickly.

Police forces need to plan and train for this new foreign dimension. National
police forces need to know enough about each other to establish the trust which
is essential to exchanging intelligence. Technical skills can also be exchanged
to advantage. The greatest prize of all - and the most difficult to achieve - is
for one police force to be able to conduct surveillance on the territory of
another. These changes will not happen thoroughly enough or fast enough unless
driven by determined political will from the top.

It is also time that public figures outside Britain who should know better
stopped promoting the myth that wanted IRA men are martyrs who deserve asylum
from the cruel reach of the British state. At least one Dutch judge has offered
a foolishly generous interpretation of a 'political offence' in favour of an IRA
fugitive in an extradition case brought by the British Government. No Dutch
citizen should be deceived by the fallacious equivalence, which will be claimed
by someone sooner or later, between the Gibraltar shootings and the events of
the past weekend.

It is a condition of all improved security cooperation that the British security
forces should be seen to act within the law. The Attorney General's leniency
towards the RUC men who obstructed the Stalker investigation will be quoted
against Britain for years to come. The evidence given at the inquest in
Gibraltar will have an important bearing on attitudes abroad.

Some will argue against enhancing international cooperation on the grounds that
the result will be endless bureaucratic entanglements. They would prefer
terrorists to be pursued with lethal force wherever they are. This would make
sense only if the same policy were followed in Northern Ireland itself. It
should not be. This would contradict every value which the Government seeks to
uphold there. It would also ensure that the seeds of inter-state cooperation
already planted would wither, leaving the countries of Europe no safer than they
are today.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3 1988, Tuesday

Dutch fear more terror attacks by IRA: Aftermath of Netherlands killings

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 63071.

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM


Dutch security experts believe that the weekend murders of three RAF men in The
Netherlands by the IRA marked not so much a one-off propaganda response to
Gibraltar and other setbacks but rather acts which herald more carefully planned
attacks against British targets on the Continent.

The Dutch daily De Volkskrant, referring to 'the long arm of the IRA', called
the killings 'the most serious act of terrorism on the continent of Europe so
far'. It added: 'The terrorists have recovered their balance.'


Dutch officials said that the IRA, which had long had special links with radical
groups and the Irish expatriate community in Amsterdam, found the Netherlands
and Belgium relatively easy to operate in.

The IRA - exploiting the increasingly open frontiers of Europe as it approaches
integration in 1992 - is able to link up with terrorists from other European
countries, including West Germany, the sources said, and did not necessarily
need to bring 'hit teams ' to the Continent. 'The IRA undoubtedly has sleeper
units in place,' one police expert said.

The security authorities have identified a terrorist network in Europe,
embracing the IRA, Basque separatists, the Italian Red Brigades and West
Germany's Red Army Faction. These groups aid one another with guns, cash and
escape routes.

Over the past three year there has been a resurgence of 'Euro-terrorism',
beginning with the murders of prominent armaments industrialists in 1985 by
Action Directe in France and the Red Army Faction in Munich. In response,
Europe's police forces have increasingly pooled their resources. 'This is a
cross-frontier pheonomenon,' one counter-terrorism expert said. It has to be
fought in a cross-frontier way.'

France, West Germany and Italy regularly exchange computer information to keep
track of terrorist suspects, both European and Middle Eastern. And EEC
counter-terrorism experts have proposed that national security services should
maintain liaison officers on other European countries' police forces.

None the less, in a free society - as Dutch Justice Ministry officials point out
- determined terrorists and other criminals are extremely difficult to stop. In
many parts of the Continent, frontier checks have been almost completely
abolished already, in anticipation of 1992.

The Low Countries have been a 'soft target' for the past decade, with an IRA
catalogue of terror stretching from the murder in 1979 at the Hague of Sir
Richard Skyes, the British Ambassador to the Netherlands, to Sunday's murder of
three airmen at Nieuw Bergen and Roermond. In between came an IRA bomb in
Brussels, under a bandstand where a British Army and was due to perform; an
attempt on the life of Mr Christopher Tugendhat, in 1980, when he was an EEC
commissioner in Brussels; and last year's car-bomb attack at Rheindhalen, the
British Army HQ just over the border in West Germany.

The answer, senior EEC officials believe, lies not in abandoning the programme
for abolishing internal frontiers, but in reinforcement controls at EEC external
frontiers, and in improving the exchange of information between intelligence
services, using sophisticated modern technology.

The problems are exemplified by Amsterdam, which, with its liberal atmosphere,
drugs culture and reputation as an arms-running centre, offer sanctuary for IRA
sympathisers. An organization founded by the Irish community here and known as
the Netherlands Ireland Committee (or alternatively the Irish Information
Centre) publicizes the activities of Sinn Fein and campaigns openly against the
British military presence in Ulster.

On the canals, there are several Irish bars and folks song cafes, including the
Korrupt, the Dubliner and the String. None of the young Irishmen there approved
of the killings, but some were ambivalent. The Netherlands Ireland Committee
issued a statement regretting the killings and the fact that they took place on
Dutch soil, but putting the blame squarely on 'the attitude of the British
Government over the past few months.'

What is not clear is whether the horrifying murders in the two Dutch border
towns will lead to a drop - even temporary - in any latent support there may be
for extreme Irish nationalism in Amsterdam's sub-culture.

Last year two IRA men who had been behind the Maze Prison breakout in 1983 -
Gerald Kelly and Brendan McFarlane - were extradited to Britain after they had
been arrested by Dutch police, after a tip from the British security services
under the new anti-terrorism co-operation procedures. But the proceedings took
nearly nine months, and some Dutch officials believe that some IRA sympathisers
who poured in to Amsterdam during that period to try to prevent the extradition
may have stayed on.

One Amsterdamer complained yesterday: 'We are getting rather tired of Ireland
and the Irish problem. It is about time they stopped bringing the Irish conflict
to Holland.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3 1988, Tuesday

Key issue in Dublin talks

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63071.

LENGTH: 262 words


The Provisional IRA's murder of three airmen will be a key issue at talks
between British and Irish ministers this week with Britain pressing for still
greater security co-operation in the fight against terrorism.

It is also expected that British ministers will press for a speedy resolution of
the continuing difficulties over the extradition of terrorist suspects.


A further exchange of letters between the British and Irish has failed to break
the deadlock which has angered Conservatives and led to fears that the
extradition of terrorist suspects from the Irish Republic could be halted.

Conservative MP's will also be angered that talks between the Provisional IRA's
political wing and the Social Democratic and Labour Party are to continue
despite the killings.

The meetings are part of an attempt by the SDLP to persuade the Provisional IRA
to end its campaign of violence.

The ministerial talks take place at a time to soured relations between London
and Dublin and amid fears that the Provisionals are anxious to increase attacks
on servicemen serving overseas.

Leading figures in Provisional Sinn Fein, political wing of the Provisional IRA,
know that shooting servicemen abroad gives the movement much greater publicity
than incidents in Ulster.

At the meeting of the Anglo Irish intergovernment conference, which is expected
to be held in Dublin tomorrow, the latest killings and the renewed controversy
surrounding the shooting by the SAS of three Provisional IRA bombers in
Gibraltar will dominate the security agenda.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 4, 1988

The Day in Politics: Younger has close look at security - IRA killings

BYLINE: By MARTIN LINTON

LENGTH: 656 words


The Defence Secretary, Mr George Younger, told the Commons yesterday that the
Government had already taken extensive measures to tighten security for
servicemen in West Germany after the murder of three airmen by the IRA in Dutch
border towns on Sunday. He was considering what further measures could be taken
in the longer term.

The shadow defence secretary, Mr Denzil Davis, asked Mr Younger to pay special
attention to the security of servicemen in married quarters in both West Germany
and Britain, and to consider the possibility that distinctive number plates on
their cars made them easier to identify.


Mr Younger said the issue of German number plates to British servicemen had been
considered on a number of occasions, but it was not quite as simple as it
seemed. 'Indeed German number plates would not necessarily make British
servicemen as inconspicuous as they think,' he said.

Mr Younger condemned the attack on the six servicemen, who were off duty,
non-operational and in civilian clothes as 'a crime against decency and
humanity'. It was another manifestation 'of the callous barbarism to which the
IRA and its supporters are prepared to stoop'.

Mr Davies said: 'There can be no shred of justification for  the murder of
 these young men who were doing no harm. The best tribute that can be paid to
  the six young men and their families is to apprehend those who committed
 these crimes, to  bring them to justice and to  punish them in accordance
 with the due process of the  law.'

 The Official Unionist leader, Mr James Molyneaux, said it was sobering that if
the men had been armed and had defended themselves 'they would by now have been
branded as murderers'.

Mr Robert Maclennan, joint leader of the Social and Liberal Democrats, described
the murders as 'utterly futile' and called on Mr Younger to repudiate alk from
some sources that terrorist violence could be contained at an acceptable level.
'There is no acceptable level of organised violence. We are engaged in an
international attack upon this vile force.'

The Speaker, Mr Bernard Weatherill, intervened in the debate to ask Mr Tony
Marlow (C. Northampton N) to withdraw an allegation that some Labour MPs were
'friends of terrorism'.

Mr David Winnick (L. Walsall N) called the allegations 'a disgusting smear'.

The Democratic Unionist leader, the Reverend Ian Paisley, said that the and his
party 'have had warnings that there will be more IRA attacks, more people gunned
down by the IRA, more innocent people gunned down'.

At Prime Minister's questions Mrs Thatcher denounced Thames TV and the
Independent Broadcasting Authority for screening a documentary about the
shootings in Gilbraltar of three IRA members. The Prime Minister complained that
the This Week programme, Death on the Rock, was transmitted before the inquest
into the deaths.

She quoted from the report - after the Aberfan disaster more than 20 years ago -
of the inter-departmental commission chaired by a former Lord of Appeal, Lord
Salmon, into the law of contempt as it affects tribunals of inquiry.

Mr Thatcher said: 'That report said, 'One would not wish to see in this country
the horror of trial by press, TV, and radio. We have so far escaped them only
because of the high sense of responsibility on the part of the press, TV, and
radio and because of the law of contempt'.'

The Prime Minister said the broadcasters who took the decision to screen the
Gibraltar film had not met 'that high sense of responsibility to which the judge
referred'.

Her remarks came after Mr Harry Greenway (C. Ealing N) raised 'general doubts'
about the accuracy of new alleged eyewitness evidence in the programme. Mr
Greenway said there must be grave doubts about the ability of the IBA to control
what was shown.

He complained that 'troops were tried and convicted on the basis of dubious
evidence'.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 4 1988, Wednesday

Parliament: RAF murders 'acts of callous barbarism' - IRA attack

SECTION: Issue 63072.

LENGTH: 928 words


The murder of three RAf men in Holland was another manifestation of the callous
barbarism to which the Provisional IRA and its supporters and sympathizers were
prepared to stoop, Mr George Younger, Secretary of State for Defence, said in a
Commons statement.

The victims had posed no threat to anyone. They were off duty, non-operational,
in civilian clothes and in The Netherlands purely for recreation. 'Their murder
is nothing short of a crime against decency and humanity.'


Steps had been taken to strengthen still further the security of British forces
in German and The Netherlands. 'We are considering what further security
measures might be appropriate in the longer term, both there and elsewhere.'

Other British overseas representatives were also maintaining a high state of
vigilance. But normal life for servicemen and all other British representatives
overseas must continue as far as practicable.

'They, like us, must be able to enjoy the benefits of the way of life which they
are dedicated to maintain on behalf of the nation as a whole.'

Mr Denzil Davies, chief Opposition spokesman on defence, expressed the
Opposition's total condemnation of the murder and maiming of the servicemen.

'Murder cannot be justified or condoned wherever it takes place and there can be
no shred of justification for the criminal attacks on these young men who were
doing no harm to anyone.'

Would the Government consider the security of married quarters in Germany and
military establishments in Britain?

The distinctive number plates of the cars of British servicemen abroad made them
easier to identify. Would it be possible to replace them with neutral plates?

Ultimately, the best tribute that could be paid to these young men would be to
prosecute those who committed these crimes, to bring them to justice and punish
them in accordance with due process of law.

Mr Younger said that he was grateful for Mr Davies's sincere expressions of
sympathy and support for the Armed Forces.

The possibility of issuing German number plates had been considered several
times, but it was not as simple as it seemed. It would not necessarily make
British servicemen's cars any harder to identify. Anything sensible or legal
would be considered.

Everything possible would be done to apprehend the culprits.

Mr James Molyneaux, leader of the OUP, said that as a foundation member of the
RAF Regiment, he would like to add to the expressions of smypathy to the injured
and bereaved.

If these young men had been armed and if they had shot any of their assassins
they would by now have been branded as murderers in advance of any court hearing
or inquiry.

Was it, in the circumstances, any wonder if the security forces sometimes
wondered whether they would ever be able to win the battle against terrorism?

Mr Younger said that he greatly appreciated Mr Molyneaux's sympathy,
particularly with his background with the RAF Regiment. He did not think that
the point made by Mr Molyneaux would be lost on many people in this country.

In reply to Sir John Biggs Davison (Epping Forest, C), Mr Younger said that the
Government would do all it could to involve Britain's Nato allies in the
co-operation to defeat these terrorists. It was having excellent co-operation
from its friends in The Netherlands, which it greatly appreciated.

Mr James Kilfedder (North Down, UPUP) called for condemnation of those
politicians in Northern Ireland, the Irish Republic and Britain who equated the
killing of the three IRA terrorists intent on the murder and slaughter of
hundreds of people in Gibraltar.

Mr Younger said that when those who were totally innocent were murdered by
terrorists, that was on its own and should be condemned on its own.

Mr Robert Maclennan, joint leader of the SLD, expressed his party's detestation
of these foul crimes and its sympathy for the bereaved.

The Rev Martin Smyth (Belfast South, OUP) said that those who compared the
shootings in Gibraltar with this incident were either suffering from amnesia -
these events having gone on long since - or, far worse, they were acting as
spokesperson for the IRA.

Mr Younger said that this was one of a long series of atrocities. It should be
seen in its perspective.

Mr Tam Dalyell (Linlithgow, Lab) said that, although it might be very
unpleasant, some of them thought that there was a link between this and what
happened in Gibraltar.

Earlier, during questions, the Prime Minister criticized the lack of
responsibility of the IBA and of Thames Television over the showing last week of
the programme on the shooting of IRA terrorists in Gibraltar.

Mr Harry Greenway (Ealing North, C) said that 'there must be grave doubts as to
the ability of the IBA to control a programme in which troops were tried and
convicted on the basis of very dubious evidence'.

Mrs Thatcher: I share with him the concern about the decision of the IBA to show
a film before the inquest had taken place.

She quoted from the report of the interdepartmental committee on the law of
contempt as it affected tribunals, chaired by Lord Salmon: 'One would not wish
to see in this country the horror of trial by press, television and radio. We
have so far escaped them only because of the high sense of responsibility on the
part of the press, television and radio and because of the law of Contempt.'

She added: I agree that on this occasion neither Thames Television nor the IBA
demonstrated that high sense of responsibility to which the judge referred.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 5, 1988

Terrorists' timing alarms police

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: BIELEFELD


West German police believe that the bomb found on Tuesday under a British Army
captain's car in Bielefeld was planted between noon on Monday and dawn the
following day.

Bielefeld police said yesterday that the captain, who has not been named,
thoroughly checked the car on Monday morning. At noon, he parked it opposite the
officers' mess on a public street, near his home.


The prospect of the bomb being planted between Monday and dawn on Tuesday, when
the captain drove it into Ripon Barracks, may alarm anti-terrorist police
because it suggests that only 36 hours after Sunday's two attacks in the
Netherlands - and with police in the Netherlands and West Germany looking for an
IRA gang who had just killed three RAF men and wounded three others - someone
was prepared and quipped to carry out a third attack.

The Bielefeld bomb contained 1.2 kilos of plastic explosives and a timing
device.

The two Scotland Yard officers who returned to London yesterday after helping
dutch police examine the debris of the Nieuw Bergen bomb which killed two RAF
men said it was similar to bombs used by the IRA in Britain.

The British Forces Broadcasting Service renewed its security warnings yesterday.
All cars entering Ripon Barracks were thoroughly searched.

The bomb found in Bielefeld was hidden inside a wooden box, like a cigar box,
and held by two magnets under the front passenger seat.

It contained small commercial batteries, a timer, an electric device and cable.
It was made safe using a high pressure water gun to break the capable and
separate the components from the explosives.

There is official caution in linking the German and Dutch incidents and no
organisation has claimed responsibility for the Bielefeld bomb. The IRA claimed
the Dutch attacks.

Herr Rudiger Michalik, the public prosecutor supervising the bielefeld police
investigation, said yesterday: 'We are now checking to see if this bomb is
identical to others used against the Rhine army. We are very careful in saying
if this is the IRA because we do not know it yet for sure.'

In 1980, an IRA gunman and a female accomplice shot dead an officer, Capatain
Mark Coe, based at Bielefeld, outside his home in the town. Two years before,
seven British bases, including Bielefeld, were bombed. The IRA claimed
responsibility.

At that time, West German police issued an identikit picture of a man, named as
Peter Farrell, wanted for the series of bombings.

In the Netherlands, a Dutch police spokesman said they had no suspects but hoped
to compare notes with the West German police.

He denied suggestions that West German border police were following a definite
lead. 'We check that out and it's a balloon. It is not true,' he said.

Detectives spoke briefly yesterday with two of the survivors. Senior
aircraftsman Mr Andrew Kelly was too ill to provide much information and his
colleague, Mr Richard Garth, is still shocked. The other survivor of the
Roermond shooting, Mr Ifan Lewis, who lost his left foot, is too ill to be
interviewed for at least two weeks, his doctors said.

Princess Margaret, who was on a long-planned visit to West Germany yesterday,
diverted to the military hospital at RAF Wegberg to meet Mr Garth. His fiance,
Ms Lee Gascoigne, was with him during the five-minute visit.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 5 1988, Thursday

Bases on alert as IRA links emerge

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN and MICHAEL EVANS

SECTION: Issue 63073.

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: WEGBERG


The 70,000 British servicemen and their families in West Germany were placed
under the highest 'red alert' security yesterday as it emerged that this week's
three terrorist incidents were linked and that the IRA is receiving
'indispensable' assistance from West German terrorists.

As Princess Magaret paid a visit amid intense security to the British airmen who
survived one of last Sunday's two IRA attacks on the Dutch-German borders,
Western military officials and West German police sources said they believed
there was a direct link between the car bomb at Nieuw Bergen and the shooting at
Roermond on Sunday and the bomb found on Tuesday at a British Army base at
Bielefeld, more than 100 miles away in West Germany.


The two British police officers, one from the Special Branch and one from
Scotland Yard, who have spent two days assisting Dutch police, established
yesterday that the bomb used to murder two British airmen while they sat in
their car outside a discotheque at Nieuw Bergen was an IRA device.

The two officers, one specializing in IRA activities in Europe and the other in
explosives, returned to Britain last night after providing their Dutch
colleagues with detailed evidence.

'We are very sure now that the bomb was placed by the IRA', the Dutch police
spokesman, Sergeant Harry Clabbers, said. He said the bomb had been placed under
the airmen's car, and it closely resembled previous IRA attacks in Britain.

Dutch police yesterday briefly questioned Senior Aircraftman Andrew Kelly, who
survived the Nieuw Bergen bombing, but said he was still so badly injured that
he was unable to give much information.

But the police were able to question at length Senior Aircraftman Richard Garth,
who survived the Roermond shooting, both before and after he had been briefly
visited by Princess Margaret.

'These are attacks on British Army targets in West Germany and there seems to be
an emerging pattern,' one source said. 'It is almost accidental that the first
incidents were in Holland because the airmen had gone over the border to relax.'

The sources said the bomb planted under an officer's car at Bielefeld,
headquarters of the Fifth British Army Corps, could have been put in place by,
or with the help of, terrorists from West Germany's Red Army Faction, which had
developed 'very close links' with the IRA.

Officials believe that the IRA attacks on British servicemen have been carried
out with 'indispensable' West German terrorist assistance, and that the IRA,
using a network of Euro-terrorism built up over some 10 years, has decided to
attack British military targets in Europe as a 'soft option'.

Forensic experts were yesterday trying to discover if the Bielefeld bomb had the
same 'signature' as that used in Nieuw Bergen. But military sources thought it
unlikely that the same IRA team or individual had planted the Nieuw Bergen bomb,
driven 30 miles to attack the airmen at Roermond, and then driven 120 miles to
Bielefeld.

'We are dealing here with simultaneous attacks by different teams, which
suggests a sophisticated and very expensive operation,' one source said.

Herr Fiedrich Zimmermann, the West German Interior Minister, and recently that
West German police had arrested 20 terrorists over the past five years. But the
Red Army Faction has survived.

New 'revolutionary cells' have been created and strong links have been formed
with the IRA, the Italian Red Brigades and the French terrorist group Action
Directe. Herr Zimmerman said there had been no 'let up' in the European
terrorists' war on society.

A memorial service was held at a Catholic church in Nieuw Bergen for the airmen
who died.

There was high security for Princess Margaret's visit to RAF Bruggen, another of
the bases on the Dutch-German border, and for her subsequent visit - a departure
from her previously arranged scheduled - to see Senior Aircraftmen Garth and
Ifan Lewis, who survived the Roermond shooting and are now in hospital at RAF
Wegber.

Military police Land-Rovers with mounted submachineguns guarded the gates of
both bases.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                               May 6 1988, Friday

Leading Article: No time for turning - Mrs Thatcher's Irish policy

SECTION: Issue 63074.

LENGTH: 1510 words


It is no longer reasonable to hope that any single act of IRA violence will
harden the response of this nation (or that of its neighbours) to true threat of
terrorism. The attempt to assassinate half the Cabinet at Brighton did not. Nor
did the desecration of Remembrance Day at Enniskillen. Nor will the cowardly
murders of off-duty airmen.

It is possible, however, that the chain of actions which began with the
Gibraltar shootings and continues with the argument over the television
investigations of them may end with more success. For questions have been raised
which rise above the numbing impact of violent death. They encomprass the
freedoms which a free country gives its citizens; the right means for such a
country to protect itself against threats to its being; the rights and duties of
journalists acting inside the law; and the rights of government agents to act
outside of it.


Governments should pay heed to the mood of public debate. When the Government is
asked whether its tactics and strategy are sufficient to deal with the IRA, it
must have an answer and an explanation.

This Government - indeed any government committed to the safety and territorial
integrity of the United Kingdom - knows that it has always to reconcile two
purposes which are potentially in conflict. It must work for the permanent
defeat of terrorism; at the same time it must preserve support for the
constitutional link between Northern Ireland and Britain.

Fewer than one year voter in three on the mainland think that Northern Ireland
should remain inside the UK. The remainder are distributed between those who do
not know, those who advocate a united Ireland and those who say that it should
become independent. Those journalists, recently criticied by ministers for
sympathy to the aims (if not the means) of the IRA, may be closer to this mood
of indifference than the Government likes to think.

That does not, however, justify everything in the television treatment of the
Gibraltar shootings. The terrorist methods of the IRA and their foreign allies
threaten the fundamentals of democracy. The suppression of the IRA is an
interest not merely of a particular government, nor merely of the State. It is
an interest of the society as a whole; here journalists, television executives,
and heads of regulatory bodies, share common obligations with their fellow
citizens.

One of those obligations is to preserve the properly applied rule of law. In
that we all have an interest. Another is to act in cognizance of any other
national interest at stake.

A coroner's inquiry in Gibraltar is part of the rule of law. Journalists
inquiring - quite legitimately - into the circumstances oif the shooting of the
three terrorists in March have a duty to present their findings with due
consideration of the risk of prejudice to the inquest.

Those responsible for publishing their discoveries must take their decisions by
criteria which go further than the precise application of the law contempt. It
is not necessary to accept that any national interest should always be the
overwhelming criterion in such decisions, nor that the Government should be the
sole judge of where that interest lies.

Broadcasting is a powerful medium. We simply do not think that if serious
consideration of the national interest at stake had taken place, the IBA
decision to broadcast the interviews with witnesses would have been made. The
BBC is right to want to stop its own interviews from being shown in Gibraltar.
Whether it will be successful is less clear.

This row, however, raises questions well beyond that of who judges the
journalists. It has given opponents of the Government's Northern Irish policy a
fresh opportunity for general criticism. Some of these would endorse a
shoot-to-kill' policy of the kind which some journalists clearly believe was in
operation in Gibraltar. They would wants such a policy to be prosecuted either
covertly or though overt signals to the terrorists that they were at open war.
They want thte IRA to be fought with the same application of the national will
as Hitler was. These views have in common the minimum presumption that the
Anglo-Irish Agreement has been a failure and that it is time for the security
forces to take a new, unilateral hard line against IRA. This would at least mean
internment of known IRA activists.

A number of factors make this line of reasoning attractive to politicians and
public. Internment would certainly work better in the late 1980s than it ever
did in the early 1970s: better intelligence and longer experience would
concentrate it on the right people. More aggressive tactics would end the
paradoxes produced by a society apparently condoning the existence of known
terrorists in its midst, and even subsidizing them and their supporters through
the housing and benefits systems.

Most of these supposed gains are illusions, however. The Government, which knows
this to be true, has been feeble and faint-hearted in saying this. The state of
the argument now gives ministers - and especially the Prime Minister - the
opportunity to address its opponents and to go back to the offensive.

There is a curiousity in the argument from the right-wing critics of Mrs
Thatcher's Irish policy. A Prime Minister who has stuck tenaciously to her
policies against some of the most ferocious opposition mustered in post-war
Britain is being asked to execute a humiliating reverse. The abandonment of the
Agreement and the switch to a 'tougher' policy would release some pent-up
frustration upon terrorists who richly deserve it. But the IRA would know - and
quickly make it known - that it had won one of the largest symbolic victories of
its campaign. The change of policy would concede to the IRA the status of a
military enemy, thus wiping away every advantage gained from the Government's
strength of mind during the hunger strikes of 1981, which were undertaken to
establish that very principle.

Moreover, interment would have to be indefinite. Therefore, it would inevitably
have to be applied unilaterally. No equivalent action would be taken by the
Republic in such circumstances.

There would be other losses. The IRA would present this turn of policy as
another cruel turn in the endless cycle of British oppression; the dollars would
flow from the Irish-Americans of the United States. The multi-national
co-operation essential to stemming that flow would be weakened, even denied.

As a recruiting force for an IRA of the future it would be many times more
powerful than any incentives which present IRA leaders can dream of. Even the
most overt and committed 'declaration of war' against the IRA might fail to be
sufficiently 'surgical'. In their long rearguard campaign, those terrorists
remaining could impose disorder and death on a vast scale.

It does not take much imagination to guess the effect of such senses on mainland
public opinion. The separation of Britain and Northern Ireland would be more
likely.

There is, in truth, no policy in Ireland which cannot be made to look like a
failure if judgement is entered early enough. The Prime Minister should find
enough confidence in her own policy to rebutt the oddly faint-hearted advice
which is telling her to abandon the Anglo-Irish Agreement.

The Agreement is not a policy in itself, but an instrument. As such, it is well
designed for the pursuit of the Government's fundamental aims: the restoration
of democratic politics free from fear and the maintenance of the constitutional
allegiance of the majority.

Indeed, many critics of the Agreement concede in the small print at the foot of
their complaints that, for all its disadvantages, it should not be done away
with in its entirety. Particularly inside Northern Ireland they recognize the
potent symbolic importance that such a surrender would have.

The Government has recently begun a fresh series of moves to squeeze the IRA and
Sinn Fein. The proposal for a political oath on local councils ought to be
revived. Community funds open to misuse are rightly being cut off. It is now
recognized that there is far greater scope for bureaucratic and financial puruit
of terrorism. If terrorists are being allowed to go free by due process of law,
the law needs improvement. Many little-publicized ideas lie on the table waiting
to be taken up and driven forward from the top.

The heart of this policy is a drive to isolate terrorists both from the
community (by imprisoning them after trial) and to deny them support without
which they cannot survive. During the late 1970s and 19780s, the trend has been
of declining violence. Long though the reach of the IRA's ambition is, it has
been suppressed before and can be again.

Internment, on both sides of the border may be an appropriate weapon during the
final phase of the struggle against the IRA. The premature use of such 'endgame'
tactics would rebound upon those who play them - and with even more tragic
results than those which now so horrify the nation.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                               May 6 1988, Friday

British airman slept through IRA ambush

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 63074.

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: ROERMOND


With British bases in West Germany still on the alert yesterday for further IRA
attacks, Dutch police said their investigation into the shooting last Sunday of
three British airmen at Roermond had suffered a series of setbacks.

Senior Aircraftman Richard Garth returned to Britain yesterday from the RAF
hosptal at Wegberg after telling Dutch police that he had no recollection of the
shooting, in which his colleague and close friend, Senior Aircraftman Ian
Shinner, was shot dead. Like his two companions, he had spent the day drinking
in bars in the town.


He told police he had slept through the ambush.

Dutch police and British and West German investigators had hoped he would
provide key clues. Hopes are now pinned on the third airman, Senior Aircraftman
Ifan Lewis. But he has had a foot amputated, and doctors say he will not be fit
to speak to them for 'days if not weeks'.

The bodies of the three airmen who died in last Sunday's two attacks, Senior
Aircraftmen Ian Shinner, John Baxter and John Reid, will be returned to Britain
today from RAF Wildenrath, close to the Dutch-German border, after a ceremony in
which the coffins, draped with the Union flag will be slow-marched to an Andover
of RAF 60 squadron.

Before he was flown to RAF Northolt yesterday, Senior Aircraftman Garth, who was
wounded in the shoulder, told police he had returned to the airmen's parked car,
a two-door VW Golf, at midnight last Saturday, after spending most of the day in
bars with Senior Aircraftmen Shinner and Lewis.

He fell asleep at the wheel, and remained oblivious to the attack. He told
police he had not heard his two companions return to the car at about 1 am, nor
had he been aware that the gunman - or gunmen - emerged from the shadows to pump
bullets into the car, killing Shinner and seriously wounding Senior Aircraftman
Lewis. Medical sources said he did not realize he had been hit until he reached
the hospital.

The two British detectives who spent two days making forensic examinations at
Roermond and at Nieuw Bergen, where a car bomb went off outside a discotheque
popular with British servicemen, left on Wednesday night after compiling a
report.

Meanwhile, Dutch police said the bomb discovered on Tuesday at a British Army
base at Bielefeld in West Germany was of a similar type to that used in the car
bombing at Nieuw Bergen. Sources said this appeared to confirm that there was a
link between the two attacks. The IRA has not claimed responsibility for the
Bielefeld bomb.

Late on Wednesday night Dutch police staged a reconstruction of the Roermond
shooting, with witnesses who say they saw a car driving away just after the
incident. But the police said the witnesses were still unable to agree on the
type or colour of the car. The number plate, part of which witnesses memorized,
appeared to be West German.

Dutch police were also trying to unravel conflicting details of the discotheque
bomb at Nieuw Bergen. Senior Aircraftman Andrew Kelly, who survived the blast in
which his two companions were killed, was moved from his hospital near Venlo in
The Netherlands to the RAF hospital at Wegberg.

Before leaving for Wegberg, he said that all three airmen in the Nieuw Bergen
incident had been in their car when it blew up. But police said they were at a
loss to explain how he could have survived.

His mother, Mrs Barbara Kelly, speaking from RAF Wegberg, said: 'It's been hell,
and we are on the way back, thank God, because Andrew is coming through.' Her
thoughts were with the parents of the 'other boys who have not made it'.

She and her husband, Brian, had been shocked to find their son on a life support
machine, but greatly relieved when they spoke to him and Andrew opened his eyes.

His first word had been 'Mum'.

LONDON - The Commons Defence select committee yesterday asked the Ministry of
Defence for a memorandum of the security of members of the Armed Forces serving
in West Germany.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 16 1988, Monday

Police want marksmen to be protected by secrecy

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63082.

LENGTH: 603 words


The identities of police marksmen should be confidential to protect them from
harassment, according to a motion for the Police Federation conference starting
tomorrow.

Police accept that the anonymity rule could not apply to officers facing
prosecution after a shooting, but there is concern that when the names of
officers who wound or kill criminals are released they receive hate mail.


Last year, the name of the constable in Scotland Yard's specialist firearms
squad who killed two armed robbers at the Plumstead abattoir ambush was leaked
to the press. As a result he and his family had to be given protection and his
colleagues believe the Yard broke an undertaking that marksmen would never be
identified.

Police would like to see a system where the police could give evidence at
inquests using only initials or ranks in the same way that the SAS were allowed
to give evidence at the inquest which followed the Iranian Embssay siege in
1980. The same system is likely to be used if SAS men are called to the inquest
in Gibraltar on the deaths of three IRA bombers.

According to the conference rules, motions cannot be accepted on matters which
are already federation policy. The question of the need for anonymity has been
accepted by federation officials who have been trying to negotiate an ageement
for 10 years. Some forces feel the matter is so important there should be
legislation and a new debate.

The conference will be dominated by anger over this year's pay negotiations and
argument about the nature of the conference itself. Critics argue that at a cost
of Pounds 500,000, much of its public money, the 1,000 delegates should achieve
more than they do.

On the question of pay, Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, may face a bumpy
reception when he addresses the conference later in the week.

The federation fears that the Edmund-Davies package on pay and conditions,
agreed a decade ago, is now under attack, reducing pay packets and allowances in
the years to come.

Police this year are likely to get an award of between 7 and 8 per cent,
effective from September, but there are fears about the way the pay formula
could be calculated in future. Home Office representatives at the pay talks have
suggested a new formula for calculating pay which would cost the police money.

Proposals to change allowance would affect recruits and young officers. The
federation argues that the result would increase the difficulties in London,
which is losing officers to other forces.

There is also concern that the conference appears sterile and does not put
across the police service's interests or problems despite being the largest
annual gathering of officials held in Britain.

A recent editorial in Police Review asked whether the conference needed to run
for three days since the main issue of pay would be debated very early.

Evidence shows that crime can be curbed by increasing the certainty and severity
of punishment, an academic expert writes in Crime UK 1988 today. A 10 per cent
increase in the length of sentences leads to decreases of between 3 and 8 per
cent in the reported incidence of six types of crime, Dr Donald Lewis, of
Woollongong University, Australia, says. They are larceny, Burglary, robbery,
car theft, malicious and felonious wounding. The biggest decline is in larcency.

'In the past, criminologists and decision-takers have placed too much emphasis
on rehabilitation and insufficient attention to the deterrent effect of
punishment.'

Crime UK 1988 (Policy Journals, Hermitage, Newbury; Pounds 22 plus Pounds 2.50
p&p).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 17 1988, Tuesday

Couple dedicated to helping refugees: British victims of Sudan blast

BYLINE: HOWARD FOSTER

SECTION: Issue 63083.

LENGTH: 450 words


Mr Chris Rolfe and his wife Clare, who died with their two young children in a
terrorist bomb attack in Sudan, had devoted most of the past six years to
community work in Third World countries.

They were both Quakers, Mr Rolfe, aged 35 and his wife, aged 37, trained as
community workers in Britain and spent the late 1970s and early 1980s on
projects around the council estates of Swindon, Wiltshire.


In 1982 the couple approached the Quaker Peace & Service the international
affairs department on the Society of Friends, and asked to be sent on a project
abroad.

The Quaker agency decided that they would be suited to work in north-west
Somalia, where refugees from Ethiopia lived in poor camp conditions. Their task
was to help the community to supplemnt its meagre food rations by earning a
small income from a series of money-making ventures.

'They were a remarkable couple in many ways', Mr Andrew Clark, general secretary
of the QP&S who interviewed them, said. He visited them in Somalia and wrote
glowing references when they applied to the Ockenden Venture for work in the
Sudan. 'They had a striking working relationship. Clare worked with the women
and started a tie-and-dye co-operative which is still going today. Chris brought
chickens into the camp for food and sale.

'It takes a lot of dedication to stick it for three years when you are living in
a mud and stick hut as a refugee yourself. Clare became pregnant in Somalia and
flew home to have Tommy, their son. Then she went back out to the camp with the
baby.'

Thomas was aged three, and their daughter Louise was aged one.

Mr Clark said that when the Rolfes' contract ended in 1985 they returned to
Britain to be close to their parents. Mr Rolfe's parents lived in Brighton and
the couple recent bought a bungalow near by in Woodingdean, East Sussex.

At the end of last year they applied to work for the Ockenden Venture and were
excited about their new project in eastern Sudan.

The man who interviewed the Rolfes for the Ockenden Venture, Mr Jim Thomson,
overseas director, said last night he was 'brokenhearted' by the tragedy. He had
been with the family in Khartuom at the hotel where they died until last Friday.
'This is such a terrible thing to happen to such a happy, dedicated family who
loved each other and their work so much.'

The Rolfes wrote of the arduous life of the refugee camp in the Quaker Peace &
Service newsletter of May 1983. 'And what of us two community workers from the
council estates of England, what have we to offer the nomads of a Third World
Islamic country? Is it right to make a community in place where the long-term
solution is somewhere else?'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 1988

Bomb plots charge tests extradition

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


A Belfast man wanted on charges connected with four bomb attacks in London will
be the first test of the new extradition agreement between Britain and Ireland.

The firsty stage in the extradition of Patrick McVeigh, aged 37, nearly turned
into a fiasco yesterday as he was being released from Portlaoise prison after
serving five years of a seven-year sentence for the possession of firearms.


At 8.30 am, McVeigh made a break for the perimeter wall of the prison after
being escorted though the exit of the main building. Irish Army soldiers on the
perimeter wall fired five shots, as McVeigh attempted to join a group of 35
Republican supporters gathered outside.

In the scuffles that followed McVeigh and a member of the group were arrested.

Later in Carlow district court McVeigh was formally served with two warrants
from Scotland Yard accusing him of conspiting to cause explosions likely to
endanger life and cause serious injury in Britain from August 7 1981 to October
27 1983. He was also accused of possessing explosive substances with intent to
endanger life.

These charges are understood to relate to the bombings of the Chelsea Barracks,
a Wimpy Bar in Oxford Street, in which a bomb disposal officer was killed, the
attack on a Debenhams Store, the attack on Sir Stewart Pringle, Commandant of
the Royal Marines, and the explosion at the home of Lord Havers, who was then
the attorney-general.

The warrants were obtained at Bow Street Court on May 13, hours after Sir
Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney-General annnounced he had reached agreement with Mr
John Murray, the Irish Attorney-General, on how Britain would comply with the
new proceedures in Ireland.

Sir Patrick said Britain would proceed on a 'case by case basis'. However his
contention that Mr Murray had backed down on demanding stipulations beyond the
requirement of the Irish legislation, provoked anger in Dublin.

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said that the Irish Attorney-General had given
authority for these warrants to be backed for execution.

The row between Britain and Ireland over the legislation, which requries the
agreement of the Irish Attorney-General before British warrants can be served,
is almost certain to lead to challenges in the courts.

Even if McVeigh's warrants are found to be valid in an Irish court, he has 15
days to appeal to the Supreme Court on the grounds that the legislation which
was passed on December 1 was unconstitutional. Yesterday, McVeigh was remanded
in custody to appear at a special court in Portlaoise on Friday.

The inquest into the death of John McMichael, the UDA deputy leader, heard that
he had been in fear of his life. His wife Shirley said he ahd not been living at
home after a tip-off that the IRA were out to get him.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 19 1988, Thursday

First test for new deal on extradition: IRA man rearrested outside jail

BYLINE: PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: Issue 63085.

LENGTH: 604 words


A key IRA suspect wanted in connection with bombings in London will provide the
first test for the new extradition agreement between Britain and Ireland after
his dramatic rearrest yesterday.

Shots were fired by Irish troops as Patrick McVeigh attempted to escape from
police trying to confront him with the extradition warrant after his release
from Portlaoise prison where he was serving a firearms sentence.


McVeigh made is move after spotting Irish police waiting for him as he passed
through a 'no-man's land' between the prison gates and an outside fence. He was
quickly captured, in spite of attempts to obstruct the police by Sinn Fein
supporters, and driven under heavy escort to a court in Carlow for the start of
extradition proceedings.

The Gardai were bearing the first extradition warrant to be served on a
suspected terrorist under the extradition agreement finalized last week between
the Irish and British governments after six months of acrimonious stalemate over
how proceedings should be conducted.

The warrants had been taken out at Bow Street Magistrates' Court, central
London, last Friday, and approved by Mr John Murray, the Irish Attorney General.
They accuse McViegh, aged 36, of Belfast, of having control of explosive
substances between August, 1981 and October, 1983, and conspiring with others to
cause an explosion in the United Kingdom.

The IRA launched several bomb attacks in London during the period, killing three
people, two outside Chelsea Barracks, south-west London, and the other in Oxford
Street.

Until this week, extradition procedures agreed under the Anglo-Irish accord had
been frozen because of a dispute between Dublin and Westminister. However, Sir
Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney General, acceded last week to an Irish request that
warrants should carry a summary of the case against the accused.

The Irish police were waiting with the warrants as McVeigh left Portlaoise
prison, 50 miles from Dublin, at 8.40am yesterday after serving five years and
four months of a seven-year sentence for arms smuggling.

In an ancient which was at first reminiscient of the one in which the terrorist
Evelyn Glenholmes escaped the Garda's attempts to rearrest her outside an Irish
court, Mr McVeigh escaped along the jail's perimeter wall. The police were then
hampered by a group of 35 Sinn Fein supporters who fought with officers as Irish
troops fired five warning shots.

McVeigh was arrested some distance away. He then stood outside the jail, with
blood on his face, as the warraants were read. He was taken to Carlow District
Court where he was remanded in custody until Friday. One of the protesters was
also arrested.

He will provide the new extradition system with its first real test. Under the
system, all the British police have to prove on Friday is that McVeigh is the
man named on the warrant and that the charges are technically correct.

If the warrant is accepted, the accused has 15 days in which to appeal. Security
sources in Dublin said his lawyers are likely to try to take the matter to the
Supreme Court to test the legitimacy of the extradition laws which many
nationalists claim contravene tenets of the Republic's constitution.

Angry mourners stormed out of St Patrick's Roman Catholic church, Belfast,
yesterday after the Bishop of Down and Connor Dr Cahal Daly, called for prayers
of forgiveness for the 'loyalist' gunmen. Mourners at the funeral of Stephen
McGahan, aged 27, who was shot dead in the attack, were incensed by Dr Daly's
denunciation of the IRA threat of retaliatory action against the killers.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 21, 1988

Extradition hearing ends in legal tangle: SDLP gets political flak from IRA bomb
attack at show

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The first stage of an attempt to extradite to Britain a Belfast man wanted in
connection with four bomb attacks in London ended in shambles at a district
court in Portlaoise in the Irish Republic yesterday.

The court had been about to order that Patrick McVeigh, aged 37, be flown out of
Dublin immediately, when McVeigh, who had earlier withdrawn instructions from
his solicitor, changed his mind and decided to seek legal aid to make a plea for
remand.


The District Justice, Mr Shamus Mahon, ruled that the proceedings be adjourned
for a week. It was an inauspicious start to a test case of the Irish Republic's
new extradition procedures. The Attorneys-Generals of Britain and Ireland had
reached agreement on the procedures only last week, after six months of heated
argument.

The hearing had to be adjourned once, while evidence was brought before the
court about the exact arrangements of McVeigh's extradition, should it be
granted. The court was told he would be flown out of Casement military airport,
outside Dublin, to London.

Earlier, McVeigh, who had attempted to make a run for it after his release on
Wednesday from Portlaoise prison, had entered the court unrepresented after
dismissing a legal aid solicitor who was granted to him at an earlier hearing.
This had caught the State solicitor, Mr Reginald White, unprepared without all
of the evidence he thought was necessary to make an application for an
extradition order, because he thought McVeigh would apply for an adjournment.

Instead, McVeigh read from a prepared statement, claiming the court was
unconstitutional and was unable to conduct the application for his extradition.
He then said press reports saying he was a member of the IRA would prejudice the
hearing.

McVeigh, handcuffed and flanked by police officers, told the court: 'The papers
have made me out as a member of the IRA but I have never been convicted of being
a member of that organisation.'

McVeigh argued with the judge about the quality of legal counsel he could get on
legal aid, before deciding to have no further dealings with the court hearing.

After another adjournment Mr White decided that he had enough evidence to make
an application for an immediate extradition order. McVeigh made no challenge and
the extradition order was granted. When McVeigh was told what had happened he
changed his mind and indicated that he would seek legal aid.

District Justice Mahon, who said he was being 'very patient', rescinded the
order and adjourned the case for a week.

In Belfast, the Social Democratic and Labour Party came under further pressure
after admitting it had taken part in a second round of talks with Sinn Fein on
Thursday, the day the IRA admitted bombing the Royal Ulster Agricultural
Society's annual show at Balmoral, causing five Royal Ulster Constabulary and
five civilian casualties. The blast set fire to a police recruitment stand.

Mr Austin Currie, one of the four members of the SDLP who took part in the talks
with Sinn Fein on Thursday said that 'intelligent' Unionists had privately
wished the SDLP team well in their efforts to stop the IRA miltary campaign.

He said: 'Our objective is a lasting political solution. We believe that this
can be achieved by negotiations between all of the parties invlved in the
conflict. As a precondition, all military and violent action must be brought to
an end.' Sinn Fein officials blamed the RUC presence at the show for the
civilian casualties but there is little doubt that the IRA attack surprised both
SDLP and Sinn Fein negotiators at the talks. Both sides said more talks would
take place.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 21 1988, Saturday

McVeigh extradition hitch; Irish judge changes his mind

BYLINE: PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: Issue 63087.

LENGTH: 565 words


The first hearing using the new extradition procedures between Britain and
Ireland ended in confusion in an Irish district court yesterday when the judge
issued an extradition order for a suspected IRA terrorist and then withdrew it.

Patrick McVeigh, who is wanted by Scotland Yard in connection with bombings at
Chelsea barracks and in Oxford Street in which three people died, at first
denounced the proceedings at Portlaoise District Court as unconstitutional. He
refused to make any application to the judge, Justice Seamus Mahon.


But after a 70-minute adjournment to allow the order to be prepared for
signature, Justice Mahon prevailed upon McVeigh to change his mind and accept an
adjournment for one week.

McVeigh was clearly surprised by the judge's insistence. He said to the judge:
'I thought you had (already) ordered my extradition'.

Justice Mahon replied: 'Until I leave this court I can change my mind 50 times,
and so can you.'

The proceedings had been confused from the outset. McVeigh, handcuffed to a
police officer, rose to address the judge from a prepared statement which said:
'I do not concede the constitutionality of these proceedings against me in any
respect whatsoever.

'I do not concede that this court or the Justices of Ireland have the
jurisdiction to conduct these proceedings.'

The judge then advised McVeigh that he should be legally represented and granted
him legal aid, even though this is not obligatory in extradition cases.

McVeigh declined the offer and refused to apply for an adjournment.

But when the judge asked the prosecution to proceed, Mr Reginald White, the
Irish State Solicitor, was clearly caught unprepared. He said that he did not
have the necessary witnesses available.

After a short adjournment Mr White told the court he had decided to make the
application without witnesses.

McVeigh refused to enter any objection and the judge granted the order. He told
McVeigh that he had 15 days to lodge an appeal; otherwise he would be extradited
from Baldonnel military airport.

The judge then pressed McVeigh to accept legal aid and an adjournment. 'If you
get legal aid it doesn't amount to recognition of the court. You have
reservations on that and you are perfectly entitled to them.' At this point, the
judge added, McVeigh was 'an innocent man'.

McVeigh agreed to accept this and left the tiny rural courtroom waving to a
crowd of supporters who chanted 'No extradition'.

Security will be intensified today at the Northern Ireland-Malta World Cup
football match at Windsor Park, Belfast, and at the North West 200 motorcycle
races at Portstewart, Co Londonderry, after Thursday's explosion at the Royal
Ulster Agriculture Society show.

The IRA has claimed responsibility for the attack, but last night the RUC had
yet to confirm it was a bombing.

GIBRALTAR: Doubts have been cast about June 27 as the officially announced date
for the inquest into the death of three IRA terrorists shot dead last March
because it would clash with one of the local cultural highlights of the year the
Gibraltar Festival of Arts (Dominique Searle writes).

The organizing committee has written to Mr Felix Pizzarello, the coroner, asking
him to consider postponing the inquest as it feels that there will not be enough
policemen available to cover security at both festival and inquest.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 27, 1988

The Day in Politics: Labour 'stirring concern', says King - Gibraltar

LENGTH: 394 words


The Northern Ireland Secretary, Mr Tom King, accused the Opposition of trying to
stir up concern before the Gibraltar inquest into the shooting of three IRA
activists.

He also condemned as pernicious a Labour backbencher's assertion that the SAS
had operated a shoot-to-kill policy in the colony, following similar tactics
allegedly used by the RUC in Northern Ireland.


Dr Marjorie Mowlam, one of Labour's Shadow Northern Ireland Ministers, said at
Question Time that recent events in Gibraltar - an apparent reference to the
postponement of the inquest - had had a bad impact on security in Northern
Ireland.

Many issues causing public disquiet could not be answered by an inquest, she
said, and she called on Mr King to launch a inquiry after the inquest had taken
place.

Mr King replied that what would have caused much disquiet was if the planned
bombing in Gibraltar had actually taken place, leading to horrific suffering and
tragedy.

Mr Dennis Canavan (Lab, Falkirk West) told Mr King that concern had been
expressed by the Irish government and many people in Britain about the RUC's
shoot-to-kill policy in Northern Ireland.

'What assessment has been made of the effects on British-Irish relationships of
the political orders given to the SAS to extend the shoot-to-kill policy to
Gibraltar?'

Mr King retorted: 'That thoroughly pernicious question starts from a fundamental
distortion of the facts.'

Whatever views and comments had been made about Mr John Stalker's inquiry into
six shootings in the province, he had made clear that he was satisfied there was
no shoot-to-kill policy.

In further exchanges, the Official Unionist Leader, Mr James Molyneaux, told Mr
King there had been a breakdown in the promised cross-border co-operation
between Britain and the Republic over a recent car bomb defused in Londonderry.
One of the cars used for the bomb left at Strand Road RUC station in the city
had been stolen in Dublin and a second car had been stolen in Kerry. THe
explosives had also come from the Republic.

Mr King said Mr Molyneaux knew the importance the Government attached to
cross-border security and the bomb in Londonderry underlined the need for
co-operation.

Another car bomb had also been defused by the security forces in Armagh and Mr
King added: 'We face a serious threat at the moment.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 28, 1988

Bombing suspect remanded in custody in extradition battle

LENGTH: 225 words


Patrick McVeigh, wanted in Britain in connection with alleged bombing offences,
was remanded in custody yesterday when he appeared in court in the Irish
Republic on Scotland Yard extradition warrants.

McVeigh, aged 37, from Belfast, was left arrested last week as he left
Portlaoise prison after completing a sentence for arms offences. He is wanted in
connection with bombings in the UK between 1981 and 1983.


A small group of people with anti-extradition placards demonstrated outisde the
district court at Portalaoise during the 15-minute proceedings.

Dublin detectives yesteday held a fourth man for questioning about suspected
spying by the IRA on the city's police security headquarters. He was detained
under anti-terrorism laws.

In a swoop on Wednesday, police found sophistacted radio and camera equipment in
a flat near the HQ.

They suspect that the IRA planned to listen in to radio messages, and photograph
and monitor movements of special branch officers.

In Britain, one of the six men convicted of the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings,
Richard McIlkenny, was allowed out of prison yeterday to attend his brother's
funeral service.

McIlkenny,a ged 54, read one of the lessons at the Sacred Heart Church, Aston,
Birmingham, but was not allowed to attend the interment of his brother, Seamus,
who was 52.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11 1988, Saturday

Tehran and London near accord; Britain and Iran reached agreement for
compensation on each other's embassies

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63105.

LENGTH: 599 words


Britain and Iran yesterday reached 'broad agreement' on compensation for damage
to each other's embassies, leaving only minor technical points to be settled.

The Foreign Office said the agreement was 'on the basis' of Britain's offer to
pay Iran Pounds 1.8 million for damage caused when the SAS stormed its embassy
in 1980 after it had been occupied by a terrorist group. The offer was linked to
a British demand for Pounds 900,000 compensation for damage to British
diplomatic property in Iran during and after the revolution of 1979.


'We and the Iranians have agreed that we both need more time to consider this
further, ' the statement said. But Whitehall sources said the agreement was '90
per cent in the bag' and that Iran had accepted the main points of the offer.
Neither side thought it necessary to have another round of talks, but there will
be further exchanges through diplomatic channels.

Mr Muhammad Mehdi Akhoond Zadeh Basti, the Iranian Charge d'Affaires in London,
said as he left the talks that there was agreement on the amounts, but
differences remained on the mode of payment. 'There is good will on both sides,
' he said.

Britain and Iran appeared to be hoping that the three days of talks would help
to improve relations. They were the first real negotiations, apart from visits
to the Foreign Office by Mr Basti, since relations were virtually mothballed
last June.

Although the fate of British hostages in Beirut was not discussed, colleagues of
Mr Terry Waite, the Archbishop of Canterbury's special envoy, said they felt
encouraged that the two countries were talking to each other again.

They were intrigued by a link, reported by The Times yesterday, between Mr Waite
and an Iranian prisoner in Britain who was released by the Home Office last
month. An official said it appeared to be a coincidence but a happy one.

It came about because of two trips made by Mr Waite to Tehran in December, 1980,
and February, 1981, to negotiate the release of British missionaries arrested
during the Iranian revolution. He flew back after the second trip with Miss Jean
Waddell, secretary to the Bishop of Iran, the Rt Rev HB Dehqani-Tafti, and a
couple from the Anglican Church Missionary Society, Dr John Coleman and his
wife, Mary.

While discussing their release with the Revolutionary Guards, Mr Waite was asked
to visit two Iranian prisoners held on bombing charges in London. He kept the
promise and delivered tape recordings of the Koran to an Iranian consular
official who had been permanently blinded by a bomb blast in a London hotel. He
also visited a co-defendant, Mr Ebadollah Nooripour, then aged 28, whose uncle
had been killed in the blast.

'I had asked the Iranians at Christmas to play the game with our people (the
missionaries), and I just wanted to be consistent, ' Mr Waite said later when
asked about the visit.

The consular official was subsequently cleared, but Mr Nooripour was jailed for
12 years. As reported yesterday, he was released in May after serving the
sentence, less one-third remission. 'I think it is good news that he was
released and would have been very bad news if for any reason his remission had
not been granted, ' one of Mr Waite's colleagues said.

The Home and Foreign Offices have said that his release was a routine matter,
with no ulterior motive.

Lambeth Palace said there had been no contacts with the three-man Iranian
delegation which came to London for the talks. The Iranian Embassy said the
delegation would probably stay on for a few days, although the talks are over.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 14, 1988

Irish court bars terror extradition: Law chiefs to meet after 'Flash' McVeigh
goes free

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH and JOE JOYCE

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN


Urgent consultations are expected between the British and Irish
attorney-generals in the wake of yesterday's refusal by an Irish court to order
the extradition of Patrick McVeigh, wanted in connection with an IRA bombing
campaign in London between 1981 and 1983.

McVeigh was released when a district court judge in Portlaoise, Co Laoise, ruled
that he had not been identified in court as the man sought by Scotland Yard and
named in two extradition warrants. Outside the court McVeigh was swept away by
supporters when a number of Irish policemen made an unsuccessful attmept to stop
him.


Scotland Yard officers had been in Dublin a few days before the case and were
ready to give identification evidence. They were called back to London, however,
after the State Solicitor's office in Dublin said their presence would not be
necessary.

The case is the latest in a lengthy list of unsuccessful attempts by the British
authorities to obtain the extradition of suspected terrorists. Acute
embarrassment in Dublin was reflected when the British counterpart, Sir Patrick
Mayhew, yesterday afternoon to give a preliminary briefing on the reason for
McVeigh's release.

'There is no doubt that he found the decision as dismaying as we,' a source in
London said.

An Irish government spokesman later indicated Dublin's willingness to operate
extradition effectively. He said that law officers were considering the steps
that could be taken to give effect to the extradition request in the light of
the court decision.

Mrs Thatcher was said to be 'utterly dismayed'. Government and police sources
expressed frustration, although they declined to criticise either the Irish
police or Mr Murray.

'We are really at a loss to know how to keep abreast of the changing
requirements of the Irish courts,' one government source commented. The judge's
reasoning 'doesn't stand up for one second,' he added.

McVeigh, nocknamed 'Flash', was arrested in May as he left Portlaoise prison
after serving five years of a seven-year sentence for possessing guns. A British
application for is extradition was the first test of procedures agreed between
Sir Patrick and Mr Murray after Ireland's ratification of the European
Convention on Terrorism and the enactment of special legislation to provide
safeguards for Irish citizens.

A row centred on an Irish requirement that Britain should satisfy the Irish
Attorney-General of the case against suspects wanted for trial. It was setted by
a compromise agreement to treat each case on its merits.

Two warrants for McVeigh were sent to Dublin, accompanied  by information
 supporting the case against him and approved by Mr Murray. On June 7,
 representatives of the Crown Prosecution Service held a conference in Dublin
 with lawyers from the State Solicitor's office to agree on how to handle the
  extradition hearing.

 Two days later at CPS headquarters in London, British lawyers met to examine
once more the details of the case.

According to British government sources: 'At the end of that conference, the
central question remained as to whether the (Irish) state intended to call
English witnesses to establish identity.'

British concern was underlined when a specific assurance was sought from the
Irish State Solicitor, Mr Louis Dockrey, that Scotland Yard officers would not
be needed in court.

On June 10, Mr Dockrey wrote to tell the Director of Publis Prosecutions, Mr
Alan Green, QC, that the Irish barrister handling the case had advised 'that the
evidence already available is sufficient in law to establish the identity' of
McVeigh.

In a statement last night, Mr Green said: 'The CPS had expressly asked whether
further identification was needed. They were told that it was not. We are
seeking an urgent report from the Irish authorities.'

It is understood that Sir Patrick and Mr Murray have agreed to consult urgently
to decide whether new warrants should be issued or an appeal lodged.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14 1988, Tuesday

Detectives say they saw IRA arms move; The arrest of Patrick McLaughlin and Liam
McCotter

SECTION: Issue 63107.

LENGTH: 194 words


A detective described to a court yesterday how he lay on the ground in a forest
watching alleged IRA bombers preparing an arms and explosives cache.

Det Constable Tim Bewicke was part of an operation which led to the discovery
last year of two terrorist arsenals near Manchester and the arrest of two
Belfast men, Patrick McLaughlin and Liam McCotter.


He told the Central Criminal Court that the two men drove into Macclesfield
Forest on February 16 last year. He heard a digging sound and saw the two men.
He returned three days later with an explosives expert to find three plastic
dustbins containing arms, explosives and bomb components.

Mr McLaughlin, aged 40, of Glenalena, Ballymurphy Estate, Belfast, and Mr
McCotter, aged 25, of Carrigart Avenue, Belfast, deny conspiring on and before
February 19 last year to cause explosions in Britain.

Another Scotland Yard surveillance officer, Det Constable Michael Weir, said he
and a woman officer keeping watch on Cemaes Bay, Anglesey, saw Mr McLaughlin and
Mr McCotter get out of a car, collect bags from a boat, load them into the boot,
and drive off.

The case continues today.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14 1988, Tuesday

Fury as Irish judge frees terror suspect; Thatcher dismay at latest blow to
extradition deal with Dublin

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, PAUL VALLELY and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63107.

LENGTH: 728 words


A fresh row erupted between London and Dublin last night as the Prime Minister
and Director of Public Prosecutions reacted with fury to the freeing of a
suspected IRA terrorist.

Within hours of an Irish Republic court's decision to refuse an extradition
order served on Patrick McVeigh, Mrs Thatcher received a full report on the
affair and was said to be 'utterly dismayed'.


A spokesman at No 10 Downing Street said that she was particularly concerned
because Britain's Crown Prosecution Service had been specifically assured by the
Irish authorities that witnesses would not be needed to identify McVeigh.

District Justice Jarlath Ruane released McVeigh because no British police
officer was in court for the extradition hearing. It was a dramatic blow to the
new extradition agreement between Ireland and the United Kingdom, finalized only
last month.

Justice Ruane said the state's case was 'fatally flawed' on identification.
'There's no doubt whatsoever that the person before the court is Patrick
McVeigh, who until his arrest was a prisoner at Portlaoise, ' he said.

'However, that falls somewhat short of saying that he is the same Patrick
McVeigh whose name appears on the warrant.

'The address at Forest Street, Belfast, is the only connecting link. It could be
the father or son or indeed a complete stranger of the same name at that
address.

'To deprive a person of his liberty and hand him over to another jurisdiction
without this vital evidence would be totally unjust.'

Last night Scotland Yard sources said that British police witnesses went to
Ireland in preparation for the extradition hearing.

However, Irish government legal experts said there was no need for the witnesses
to stay and they returned to Britain.

On June 10, the Crown Prosecution Service was informed in writing that Irish
counsel had advised sufficient evidence was already available in law to
establish the identification of McVeigh. The letter said that no British
witnesses would be required to fly to Ireland.

The Irish Attorney General agreed with counsel's advice, and lawyers and police
in London said yesterday that the Irish counsel's comments had been correct in
law.

Mr Alan Green, QC, Director of Public Prosecutions, said in a statement last
night that the court case was 'a most dismaying outcome' to the first
application to be made under the new extradition agreement.

McVeigh faced extradition on a charge of being in possession of explosives
between August 1981 and October 1983. He was also charged with conspiracy with
others to cause explosions in the United Kingdom.

During the period of the possession charge, three people were killed by a bomb
outside Chelsea Barracks and a police explosives expert was killed in Oxford
Street trying to defuse a bomb.

Moments after he was released yesterday, McVeigh was mobbed by shrieking IRA
supporters in the small market town of Portlaoise.

Several police officers moved to rearrest him, but other officers backed away
when a police sergeant shouted from the courtroom steps: 'Let him go. He's a
free man.'

Some of the crowd surrounded McVeigh, then they punched and kicked the only
officer still holding him. McVeigh, who was released from Portlaoise prison last
month after serving five years for firearms offences, then escaped down an
alleyway.

The scenes recalled the debacle in which another IRA suspect, Evelyn Glenholmes,
escaped from British police when an extradition warrant was refused against her
too on a technicality.

At least three other leading terrorist suspects have been freed in extradition
cases because of technical defects in warrants.

It may be possible for the Irish Attorney General to order the re-arrest of
McVeigh and then go to the High Court to overturn the district court decision.

In London, Mr John Morris, shadow Attorney General, said he was astonished at
the refusal on the technicality that McVeigh's identity had not been properly
established.

Mr Kevin McNamara, the shadow Ulster spokesman, was 'gravely disappointed'. Two
important extradition cases were pending and both governments had 'a vested
interest in seeing terrorist suspects brought to trial'.

The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said the decision
proved that the extradition arrangements were flawed.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 15, 1988

The Day in Politics: Dismay over release of IRA suspect - Anglo-Irish

BYLINE: By MARTIN LINTON

LENGTH: 637 words


The House of Commons was almost unanimous yesterday in expressing its dismay at
the release of IRA bombing suspect Patrick McVeigh and the failure of
extradition procedures between Britain and Ireland.

In Prime Minister's questions, Mrs Thatcher said the judgment of the Irish
district court had been deeply dismaying, adding: 'We had thought that effective
extradition arrangements now existed.'


The Crown Prosecution Service had expressly asked whether further evidence on
identification was needed and was told that it was not, she said.

She made no criticism of the Irish Government, but she said: 'I believe we will
only defeat terrorism when the overwhelming majority on both sides of the border
are actively committed to doing so.'

The Opposition leader Mr Neil Kinnock said he shared the Prime Minister's 'sense
of dismay about the confusion which arose and her hope for the outcome which
will ensure even more effective action against terrorists or suspected
terrorists.'

In a special statement to the Commons, the Attorney General Sir Patrick Mayhew
said that the Government found the judgment deeply dismaying and stressed that
the Crown Prosecution Service had 'meticulously complied with the advice they
received.'

The Irish Attorney General had telephoned him immediately after the hearing to
express his disappointment with the result and he had expressed his feeling of
'profound frustration and surprise.'

They had agreed to consult urgently on the next steps in the case of Patrick
McVeigh and the implications for the effective machinery for extradition between
the two countries.

There was no truth in reports that he was 'at arm's length' with the Irish
Attorney General.

He had spoken to him on the telephone against yesterday, and there was no doubt
in his mind that the Irish Government was deeply disturbed by what had happened.

The Shadow Attorney General, Mr John Morris, asked what steps he had in mind to
prevent a repetition of this 'tragic result' in any of the many extradition
cases waiting in the pipeline.

Mr Ivan Lawrence (C. Burton) said people in this could were becoming fed up with
the Irish courts who 'move the goal posts every time we try to take action
against one of these terrorists.'

A former Home Secretary Mr Merlyn Rees (Lab. Morley and Leeds S) asked if it was
true that the Garda could not arrest McVeigh until the appeal was completed. Sir
Patrick confirmed that there were 'no means by which he can be arrested.'

Mr David Alton (SLD. Mossley Hill) asked whether the legal debacle was 'yet
another triumph for the old firm of Fumble and Fumble or a calculated piece of
deliberate sabotage.'

Mr Ian Gow (C. Eastbourne), who resigned as Mrs Thatcher's Housing Minister in
protest at the Anglo-Irish Agreement, said it had been said that without the
agreement, co-operation on extradiction would be impossible.

'Will you understand that in Ulster there is increasing bewilderement that the
Government should give special privileges to the Republic when it appears the
Republic is incapable of co-operating with us in the defeat of terrorism?'

Sir Patrick said it was untrue there had been no advance, but yesterday's court
decision was 'a very grave set-back'.

Mr Barry Porter (C. Wirral S) said that words of reassurance from the Irish
Government were not going to be enough and people would be 'looking for some
action to see that we get what we were promised by the Anglo-Irish Agreement.'

Mr Michael Mates (C. Hampshire East) said it was outrageous that McVeigh had
been released by the Irish district court instead of being remanded in custody
while inquiries were made.

Mr James Kilfedder (UPUP. North Down) told MPs that the only winners from the
situation were the IRA and McVeigh himself.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 15 1988, Wednesday

Dublin appeal on suspect 'bungle'; Failed extradition of Patrick McVeigh

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD and PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: Issue 63108.

LENGTH: 705 words


The Irish Government attempted yesterday to minimize anger in London and Dublin
over the latest extradition bungle by announcing it is to appeal to the Dublin
High Court in a bid to overturn the controversial decision to free the suspected
IRA bomber Patrick McVeigh.

The decision caused as much concern in Dublin as London because the evidence
given in court was the same as had been given in similar cases over the past
twenty years. It was being made clear in Dublin that the mix-up was caused not
by a loophole in new extradition arrangements but as a result of the decision of
one district justice.


The decision to appeal was welcomed by Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney General,
who with the Prime Minister expressed 'deep dismay' at the decision by the
District Justice, Mr Jarlath Ruane, at Portlaoise.

The issue will be discussed at an Anglo-Irish meeting expected in Belfast on
Friday. Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, said the court's
decision was an 'occasion of comfort to terrorists and a matter of deep
disappointment to those of us standing in the fight to defeat terrorisn'.

In the Commons, Conservative MPs were furious at the decision to release Mr
McVeigh because of lack of identification. Mrs Thatcher said she had been
'deeply dismayed'.

She added: 'The Crown Prosecution Service had done everything they could. The
fault was not with us. They expressly asked whether further evidence from the
United Kingdom on identification was needed and they were explicitly told it was
not.'

Sir Patrick and his Irish counterpart, Mr John Murray, spoke on the telephone
yesterday on the controversy and both Governments are to hold urgent talks aimed
again at eliminating problems that have bedevilled successive extradition
attempts.

The Attorney-General said he favoured suspects being held in custody in the
Republic pending an appeal if technicalities caused extradition difficulties. He
said Mr McVeigh, from Belfast, had been able to 'set off into the unknown' and
could not be rearrested until further warrants were issued.

Sir Patrick told the Commons that Mr Murray had considered and agreed with
advice given Dublin legal authorities to the Crown Prosecuting Service that
evidence provided by Britain was sufficient to establish identity.

Sir Patrick had expressed his dismay, frustration and surprise to Mr Murray and
told MPs there was no doubt in his mind that Mr Murray was deeply disturbed.

In the Dail in Dublin yesterday the Fine Gael justice spokesman, Mr Sean
Barrett, suggested that the law should be changed to allow extradition cases to
be heard by circuit judges.

At present applications for extradition are heard before the district justices,
the Irish equivalent of magistrates. Only after an order is granted can the
matter be heard in the High Court.

At least three other extradition cases have foundered on technicalities after
district justices, qualified only as solicitors and experienced largely in
parochial matters, were confronted by sophisticated Dublin defence barristers.

The suggestion was supported by Mr Desmond O'Malley, leader of the Progressive
Democrats, who said that the district court had needed only to be satisfied that
the Patrick McVeigh of Portlaoise prison, named on the warrant, was the same man
in the dock. 'There is no conceivable way therefore, in which the identity of
that particular defendant could have been open to any doubt. The decision was
inexplicable and some would say almost perverse, ' he said.

Legal challenge: Lawyers from the British and Irish Governments were anxiously
observing the opening yesterday of an unusual legal challenge to the Anglo-Irish
agreement in the High Court in Dublin.

One of Ireland's leading constitutional lawyers, Mr Hugh O'Flaherty, opened the
proceedings for two Belfast brothers, Christopher and Michael McGimpsey. They
have raised Pounds 60,000 from individual Ulster Unionists to fight the case,
which alleges that the agreement is invalid under Irish law. If they succeed,
and legal opinion in Dublin is that they stand a fair chance, the Irish
Government will have to pull out of the agreement which was signed in November
1985.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 17 1988, Friday

A soldier must keep his freedom; Army in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: MICHAEL YARDLEY

SECTION: Issue 63110.

LENGTH: 1145 words


The sight of a van blown to bits by an IRA bomb and the deaths of six soldiers
who had been taking part in a fun-run immediately brings into question the
amount of liberty our servicemen should be allowed in potentially dangerous
postings. But to put further restrictions on the servicemen and their families
would be precisely what the IRA wants.

The IRA aims to promote fear and alienation in its campaign to isolate the
British Army in Northern Ireland, to have it perceived as being in an unwinnable
defensive position where withdrawal is the easiest political option.


The army will have none of it. A senior officer who has served in Northern
Ireland underlined the point: 'The most important thing after an event like this
is to avoid overreacting. To do so would be to play into the hands of the IRA.

' It is important to allow the soldiers the maximum possible freedom. To keep
them incarcerated would increase the stress rather more than the risks the
soldier knows he is taking. When he first arrives in the province he knows he is
a target. But the key to it all is his training and the Army is now better
trained for service in Northern Ireland than for any other situation he may
face.'

Being goaded into doing what the enemy wants is always a great danger. In the
context of terrorism in Ulster the trap can become almost unavoidable. In
attempting to satisfy the political and media demand for rapid visible responses
the Government sometimes forgets the purpose of the enemy action. Terrorists set
out to create the maximum number of psychological casualties, who can often
exert more influence than the actual physical victims. It is sometimes said that
one physical casualty can frighten thousands and the terrorists believe that if
enough fear and revulsion is created they can foster the impression that the
authority they oppose is impotent, unable even to protect itself.

Warnings will undoubtedly be issued that the guard of the off-duty soldier
should never be dropped but further restrictions are unlikely as they would
operate against the United Kingdom's interests in two ways. First, as
psychological warfare against British troops, and second, as encouraging the
view that London has lost the initiative.

An effective counter terrorist strategy, should avoid responding to terrorist
crime in the way the perpetrators have intended. Britain's aim is to eliminate
them so wherever possible an offensive and clearly designed strategy is
desirable to put the enemy under pressure. No long term strategy can afford to
alienate the community from which terrorists are recruited, and which may have
legitimate grievances and few means of expression. Any long term strategy must
also be clearly explained so there is no misunderstanding either locally or
internationally.

In Northern Ireland British soldiers, particularly those on short tours, find
themselves under extreme pressure. They are trapped in the middle, but they
cope. For those on longer tours there is, surprisingly, still a considerable
amount of contact with the local people. Although this might be desirable both
militarily and socially it is also an everyday practical necessity.

Army camps, though they may try to be, cannot be entirely self-contained. One
young officer's wife in Belfast told me after the Lisburn tragedy: 'I think if
movements were further restricted it would only make things worse; I do not
think it would make us consider the danger any more. We tend to push that to the
backs of our minds to survive anyway. The problem is with little things like dry
cleaning and shopping. You have to go out of the camp. We've got NAAFI but it's
expensive and not very good'. This very practical young army wife detailed a
number of problems for service families. Arrangements for transport between home
and social activities on the base worked well, but there were however a number
of flaws in existing security arrangements. Pregnant wives, for example, were
obliged to visit a maternity hospital in a particularly dangerous district.

She made it clear too that it was not just the views of the soldiers that had to
be considerd. In her view, if further restrictions were imposed soldiers might
be forced to comply but wives and other members of family might be more
reluctant.

Garrison life already creates problems. Excessive drinking, marital tension,
and, amongst teenagers, vandalism, all could be aggravated by further
restrictions. If no other choice can be devised the Army must seriously consider
the long term psychological monitoring not only of soldiers but of their
families as well. It is now routinely accepted that after an experience of
combat a soldier needs to be psychologically debriefed, and it may be that a
similar service should be offered to veterans of Northern Ireland.

The real problem in Northern Ireland now is how to regain the initiative.
Because of the nature of their organizations terrorists tend unless challenged
always to hold the initiative. What is required to break this is imaginative
action on three fronts, the political, the intelligence and the military. The
IRA is an organization of limited resources. It is an old military maxim that to
win one must cut off the enemy from its supplies. If Colonel Gadaffi is aiding
the IRA significantly at the moment, we need to consider how to convey to him
and other quartermasters an unequivocable message that it is not in their best
interests to continue. Double-speak is still the order of the day. We may talk
of not negotiating with terrorists but, the fact is, that British companies are
deeply involved with nations which promote terrorism.

The IRA itself is a relatively small organization with only a few hundred front
line activists and is careful in choosing its targets. The six men murdered at
Lisburn on Wednesday and the two soldiers lynched earlier in the year were from
the Royal Signals, a regiment that has been successful in thwarting recent IRA
plans by developing sophisticated equipment for monitoring and jamming IRA radio
controlled devices. The development of specialized technology by the Royal
Signals is an example of just the sort of imaginative approach which is
necessary to confront the IRA and others like them.

It is also clear that certain basic rules of security may have been forgotten in
the carnival atmosphere at Lisburn a lesson is to be learned there. The Army
will have to find ways of motivating personnel and their families to maintain
vigilance. It is all too easy for the guard to drop.

What is required in Northern Ireland is a policy of maintaining and developing
contact between the security forces and the local population, not a return to
the fortress mentality of an occupying power.

Michael Yardley is the author of books on the Army, intelligence and terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 18, 1988

Killer blast shows bomb hunt urgency: King presses for more Anglo-Irish action
against IRA

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The use of Czech-made Semtex high explosive in the Lisburn bomb that killed
off-duty soldiers underlines the urgency of the hunt for the IRA's Lbyan arms
shipments, Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland claimed
yesterday.

Further co-operation between the north and Dublin was vital he said, at the end
of a session of the Anglo-Irish Conference in Stormont Castle, Belfast.


The meeting between Mr King and the Irish Justice Minister Mr Gerard Collins
lasted all morning. The Chief Constable of the RUC, Sir John Hermon and the
Garda Commissioner, were also present.

As well as security, the two sides discussed the debacle over the extradition of
the alleged IRA bomber Patrick McVeigh, financial aid to the deprived area of
Catholic West Belfast, and fair employment legislation in the Province.

'We discussed some of the aspects of the Libyan arms shipments,' Mr King said,
'Semtex, we believe, was included in some of the supplies.'

Of the IRA he said: 'With the assistance of the Libyans they have significant
resources and those have to be recovered before they cause further atrocity and
further human suffering.

'There's no doubt the IRA have been skillful in the art of concealment. This
week the Irish police had to pump a whole underground tank to find concealed
weapons.'

On the problems of extraditing Patrick McVeigh, Mr King said he was satisfied
the Irish Government wanted to make the system work. 'Its very important for
both our countries that there's effective extradition and that nobody can commit
crimes of terror or other crimes and by crossing the border escape
jurisdiction.'

An announcement on extra funding for the deprived areas of West Belfast, some of
which have the highest rate of unemployment in Britain, would be made soon. The
Dublin Government is keen that extra aid should be given to the largely Catholic
section of the city.

'With the improvement of the British economy there's probably the best
opportunity that Northern Ireland may ever have had for a real improvement in
its economy and a real chance to get a significant number of new jobs,' he said.

He attacked those who supported violence while complaining about the lack of
employment as hypocritical because intimidation, racketeering and violence was
driving away businesses from the inner city.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 18, 1988

IRA terror mission doomed from start: The cost to the Provisionals of losing two
key men

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 766 words


When Patrick McLaughlin and Liam McCotter were convicted at the Old Bailey
yesterday of plotting a 'prolonged campaign of terrorist violence' on mainland
Britain, the Provisional IRA not only lost two of its leading operatives.

It also lost the initiative to launch the offensive in England it considers
vital to restore its prestige in the eyes of supporters. But what is most
worrying for the IRA is that the operation was blown wide open from the start.


Police had such precise details that McLaughlin and McCotter were watched from
the moment an Irish fishing boat sailed into Cemaes Bay, Anglesey, and docked at
a deserted jetty, to the time the pair burried the explosives and arms in two
Chesire forests. The information could have come either from an informer, or an
undercover agent working within the terrorists' ranks.

The 190 pounds of Semtex plastic explosive - enough for 25 bombs - which police
discovered in four plastic dustbins in Macclesfield and Delamere forests outside
Manchester will be comparatively easy replace. Colonel Gadafy's generosity to
the Irish Republican cause seems unlimited.

The gun-running ship Eksund, caught outside Brest last year, was carrying a
large amount of Semtex for the IRA, to which it had made a number of previous
deliveries. The Semtex unearthed last February was almost certainly part of a
large consignment of the hightech explosive smuggled to Gadafy by a renegade CIA
agent, Ed Wilson, in 1982.

It will be far more difficult to repeat the carefully planned logistical
operation, bomb components and weapons on a moonlit beach on Anglesey. The
terrorists' operational potential outside Ireland has already been damaged by
the deaths in Gibraltar of three of their most experienced people.

Scotland Yard anti-terrorist officers and Greater Manchester detectives who
combined in the surveillance of Echo (McLaughlin) and Foxtrot (McCotter) cannot
identify a man known as Alan Robinson who rented a flat for them in Wilbraham
Road, Whalley Range, Manchester, with a cash down-payment of Pounds 490. He then
disappeared, either back to Ireland or to a 'sleeper' role in mainland Britain.

Bomb-making components unearthed by police bore all the hallmarks of the
Provisional IRA. Time and power units, capable of long delay detonation, were
identical to the one used in the bombing of the Grand Hotel, Brighton, in 1984.
But one set of fingerprints found on a timer belonged to neither of the two
Belfast men.

McCotter was the IRA 'quartermaster' who organised the caches, waterproofing the
dustbins with sealing tape before burying them. The plan then was for him to
return to Ireland leaving McLaughlin to operate in the planned offensive.

The pistols and East German-made AK47 assault rifles found in the caches were
for him. He would not have risked going to the forests - well-visited beauty
spots - to recover the guns and ammunition until absolutely necessary: when the
Semtex was also required by the bomb-maker who would join him at Wilbraham Road.

The bomb caches in Cheshire were found just before the general election and Mark
Thatcher's wedding, but neither event is considered to have been a potential
target. Leading politicians who are considered vulnerable are constantly under
close protection, and the wedding of the Prime Minister's son at the Savoy
Chapel was ringed by tight security.

Security chiefs consider that the IRA would attack much less important
personalities and events. The time and power units found in Chesire would have
enabled them to plant bombs weeks, or even months, before they were detonated.

McLaughlin, who is married with four children and lived in the Turf Lodge area
of Belfast, first came to the notice of the Royal Ulster Constabulary in 1971 as
a volunteer in the Provos' Second Battalion. That year he was sentenced to six
months for riotous behaviour.

He was interned on the prison ship HMS Maidstone in Belfast Harbour in 1972, but
was released soon after because he suffered from asthma.

In 1974, he was promoted to IRA 'company commander' and is thought to have been
actively involved in terrorsim.

In May 1975, he was sentenced at Belfast Crown Court to three years for
possessing a firearm, but was released a year later.

McCotter is single and one of five children. His late father Patrick was
brother-in-law of Seamus Twomey, formerly Belfast Commander of the Provisional
IRA.

He was named in 1977 by an associate as a member of the IRA, and by 1985 was
considered by the RUC to be quatermaster of the Belfast Brigade.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 18, 1988

Israeli and PLO man told to go over Mossad affair

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK, Diplomatic Correspondent

LENGTH: 448 words


Britain has risked future cooperation with Israeli intelligence services by
yesterday ordering the expulsion of an Israeli diplomat over a secret Mossad spy
operation in Britain, and has courted new strains with the Arab world by
simultaneously expelling a PLO official in London.

The twin decisions were announced by the Foreign Office 24 hours after Ismail
Sowan, Palestinian double agent, was goaled for 11 years at the Old Bailey for
storing weapons, including explosives, rifles and grenades for Abder Mustapah, a
Palestinian implicated in the London murder of an Arab cartoonist last year.


The explusions reflect Mrs Thatcher's determination to act decisively to deter
terrorist activity in this country, and to drive home to Israel - and other
friendly security services -that they cannot expect to have free rein for their
intelligence operation in Britain.

During police investigations into the murder, it emerged that Sowan had acted an
an informer for Mossad, the Israeli equivalent of MI6, as well as the PLO.
Brtain believes that the Israelis were aware of the PLO arms cache, but failed
to inform their British colleages.

Britain does not accept Israeli denials, and feels all the more aggrieved as
this was not the first time that Mossad has failed to honour an understanding to
keep the host country informed of its activities.

Israel's ambassador was called to the Foreign Office yesterday and told that Mr
Arie Regev, understood to be charged with maintining links between British and
Israeli intelligence services, would have to leave by the end of the month,
because of activities incompatible with his diplomatic status.

While this phrase is normally used when a diplomat is considered to have acted
as a spy, this does not apply in Mr Regev's case.

The Palestinian ordered to leave, Mr Zaki al-Hawa, is offically described as a
press officer.

But British sources said that he is the last of four members of Force 17, a PLO
'security' group often associated with terrorism, left in Britain. The
Palestinian, who has bot been directly implicated in the cartoonist's murder has
also been told to leave by the end of the month.

Israel complained at the expulsion decision, expressing regret that the
government saw fit to take such measures.

An Israeli embassy spokesman said last night that Britain, by focussing on
cooperation between Mossad and British security services, had shifted the
emphasis from the main issue posed during the Sowan trial - PLO terrorist
activities in Britain. 'The fact than a PLO arms cache existed in Britain is
cause for great concern. but Israel, he insisted, did not know of the arms
cache.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 18 1988, Saturday

Questions remain over suspect who slipped net; Israeli secret service case

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63111.

LENGTH: 527 words


The Israeli secret intelligence service, Mossad, knew him as Abed El-Rahman
Saleh Moustafa, a professional dedicated to the cause of the Palestine
Liberation Organization. His career had been monitored by Mossad watchers ever
since he joined the main Fatah organization of the PLO in 1970.

Yesterday as the Foreign Office took action against the Israeli embassy,
expelling a key diplomat after accusations that Israel had failed to warn the
police of the presence of a suspected PLO terrorist in Britain, serious
questions began to emerge over who was to blame for ever allowing Moustafa his
name can also be spelled Abdul-Rahim Mustapha to come to this country in the
first place.


He spent several years in Britain working as a 'legitimate' employee of the PLO
office in London even though there had been an international warrant out for his
arrest since 1970 on suspicion of being involved in a terrorist attack on an
Israeli El Al airline coach in Munich.

What is still not clear is why the British security authorities seemed to know
nothing about Mustapha when he first came to Britain. Anyone employed by the PLO
in London should routinely have been checked out.

Yet someone in the police or security service must have advised the Home
Secretary in April last year that Mustapha should be banned from re-entering the
country when he tried to return after a visit abroad.

The main problem for the British police is that they were apparently kept in the
dark by the Israeli intelligence service who knew all about him. They had even
ordered one of their young, experienced Mossad agents, Bashar Samara, to
infiltrate a secret PLO cell in London which had connections with Mustapha.

According to the court case which ended on Thursday, the Palestinian double
agent, Ismael Sowan, was also keeping tabs on Mustapha. But if was such a senior
figure in the PLO, Israel ought to have tipped off the British authorities when
he returned to this country illegally in July 1987, after he had been officially
excluded from Britain by the Home Office in April because of belated concern
about his possible terrorist activities.

It is understood that the Israeli intelligence authorities have denied they were
aware of Mustapha's secret return.

In 1970, Mustapha joined Fatah, which is Yasser Arafat's official PLO wing.

In 1978 he was sent to the Pakistani Military Academy for further training and
in 1980 he was appointed head of 'Command 18' in Arafat's newly formed Force 17
unit which was principally a heavily-armed bodyguard organization for the PLO
leader but was also used for special assassination operations. In 1982 Mustapha
went to Tunis after the Israeli invasion and from there he arrived in Britain
early in 1983 to take charge of operations in London.

In April 1985 he left Britain and was transferred to Beirut. He was captured by
the Shia organization, Amal, which moved him to Syria where he was imprisoned
for four months. In September 1985 he was released and flew to Cyprus. From
there he returned to Britain.

Mustapha is now thought to be living in Algeria, and is still connected with
Force 17.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 20 1988, Monday

Thatcher protest at Israel 'deceit'; Whitehall warns Mossad over PLO ope ration

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER and IAN MURRAY

SECTION: Issue 63112.

LENGTH: 562 words


The Prime Minister wrote a secret letter of protest to the Israeli government,
after Scotland Yard investigations into PLO terrorism discovered the Israeli
intelligence service was carrying out secret operations in Britain, senior
Whitehall sources said yesterday.

The Prime Minister warned Israel that Mossad could find itself removed from the
list of 'friendly' intelligence agencies liaising with Whitehall.


Its agents would be refused help and placed on the 'unfriendly' list alongside
organizations like the KGB. Mossad was considered to have acted deceitfully.

The letter was sent to Mr Yitzhak Shamir, the Israeli Prime Minister, last
autumn and demonstrates the strength of feeling in Westminster and Whitehall
over the affair. On Friday the Government announced that an Israeli diplomat and
a PLO official in London were to be expelled. Another Israeli diplomat who went
home to Israel was told last year he would not be welcome if he returned to
Britain.

Details of Mrs Thatcher's letter will be disclosed tonight by Granada
Television's World in Action programme. Yesterday the official line from Downing
Street was that Britain's displeasure had been registered with Israel at 'a high
level' last autumn.

Mossad's operations against the PLO, using two Palestinian agents, were
confirmed publicly last week when one of the agents, Ismael Sowan, was convicted
of storing explosives for a PLO terrorist leader and sent to prison for 11
years. Mossad had been watching Abdul-Rahim Mustapha, the suspected terrorist,
without telling police in Britain.

Police began a hunt for Mustapha last July after Mr Ali al-Adhami, an Arab
newspaper cartoonist, was shot by an assassin in a Chelsea street. They
discovered Mustapha had lived in Britain since 1983.

When the Israeli operation was uncovered, police had difficulties dealing with
Mossad. Israeli agents are suspected of removing documents stored by Mustapha
and secretly examining the arms cache.

According to Whitehall sources, the Israelis refused to give any help. Police
had identified Mossad men linked to Sowan, who gave his Israeli contacts keys to
Mustapha's business.

Mrs Thatcher's letter was sent two months after Sowan's arrest and just after Mr
Bashir Samara, the second Israeli agent, was ejected from Britain.

According to the television programme, it was Mrs Thatcher who told the Israelis
that Mr Jakob Barad, an Israeli diplomat handling Samara, could not return to
London. In Israel, the affair is seen as demonstrating serious failures by MI5
to keep tabs on Mustapha, rather than a blemish on Mossad's character.

Unofficially there has been considerable anger at Britain's action in expelling
Mr Arie Regev last week, apparently balancing this by ordering Mr Zaka al-Hawa,
the PLO's London press officer, to leave.

Mr al-Hawa is alleged to have been involved in the PLO unit accused of carrying
out the shooting in London last year of Mr al-Adhami. Israelis say the
expulsions mean Britain is equating arms smuggling and organizing terrorist
attacks with counter-terrorism activities at the Israeli Embassy, from which
Britain benefits.

The Israeli view is that it kept a close watch on Mustapha for years and is
being made the scapegoat for British failures. However, it is unlikely that any
'tit-for-tat' expulsion is being considered.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 20 1988, Monday

Toronto summit police search for IRA suspects; Security alert as Western leaders
meet in Canada

BYLINE: From ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor, Toronto

SECTION: Issue 63112.

LENGTH: 692 words


A suspected IRA terrorist was being sought in Toronto yesterday as world leaders
opened their talks at the economic summit meeting.

Michael Collins, an Irishman aged 41, had already been arrested for a visa
offence after being identified by British security agents as an IRA member in a
pub stake-out.


He entered Canada from Ireland on a one-month visa in September. It was later
disclosed that Collins was wanted for questioning over incidents in the 1970s,
but the Royal Ulster Constabulary last night described this report as rubbish.
'We don't want him for anything, ' an RUC spokesman said.

The Prime Minister and her detectives were told of the arrest late on Saturday
night. The British delegation said there had been no threat to Mrs Thatcher. A
British spokesman described the arrest as coincidental and said that it was not
surprising given the degree of security around the summit meeting.

Mrs Thatcher succeeded in eluding the media and slipping off for a 40-minute
walkabout yesterday morning in the harbour area of Toronto, strolling with not a
camera in sight around Pier Four and Queen's Quay.

Mrs Thatcher, who was said to want fresh air outside her hotel, was also cocking
a snook at all the security stories, which are taken with a pinch of salt by the
British delegation. One British source said yesterday: 'I have never been to a
summit yet where there wasn't a terrorist scare.'

Police and security authorities were meanwhile continuing the search for another
suspected IRA man believed to have slipped into Canada on a flight from Mexico
three weeks ago.

But summit security authorities are discouraging reports that the IRA could have
smuggled a Stinger anti-aircraft missile in along with a drugs shipment to
Quebec some months ago.

They confirm, however, the seizure in Toronto recently of a large arms cache
'enough to blow up Summit Square' hidden above a false ceiling.

Police are particularly alert on behalf of Mrs Thatcher. Superintendent Bernard
Nadeau, of the Toronto police, said that she was a prime target for the IRA. 'We
are on full alert, ' he said. 'A lot of groups would think Mrs Thatcher a good
target.' Special security is also being accorded the Japanese Prime Minister, Mr
Noboru Takeshita.

With security teetering between deadly serious and farcical, security forces
yesterday arrested and then released three puzzled Buddhist monks whose
passports indicated that they had travelled around the world to cities where
world leaders met.

There is a Dollars Can5 million (Pounds 4.1 million) budget for security alone
at the summit for the leaders of the world's seven leading industrial nations
Britain, Canada, the US, Japan, France, West Germany and Italy.

There has been an intensive alert since Hiroshi Sensui, a Japanese Red Army
terrorist, was arrested in Manila on June 7 while recovering from osmetic
surgery. Japanese terrorist groups were believed to be planning strikes at the
summit and at the Seoul Olympics.

All the standard paraphernalia was being deployed to thwart terrorist attacks at
the Metro Convention Centre and the 6.5-acre Summit Square, a car park concreted
over and provided with an instant garden and a tented city for 4,000
journalists.

Local restaurateurs, hoteliers and residents are furious at the intrusion. It
has cost them considerable business in the high tourist season.

Workers in nearby offices have been sent memos instructing them to 'assume a
commonsense posture' which apparently means not pointing imaginary guns from
behind the windows of their high-rise buildings.

Four special bail courts opened yesterday for any arrested demonstrators, and
prostitutes have been protesting at police headquarters after an operation to
clear them from newly spick-and-span Toronto.

As usual, no expense has been spared. Food-tasting teams of health inspectors
have been attached to the leaders, should they be tempted to slip out for a
hamburger. They will be served in triplicate, with one portion going for health
analysis. But earlier plans to install separate lavatories for each leader have
been dropped.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 21, 1988

Foiled IRA bombers get 37 years

LENGTH: 510 words


Two Irishmen arrested as they plotted a bombing campaign in mainland Britain
last year were gaoled for a total of 37 years at the Old Bailey yesterday.

Patrick McLaughlin, a 40-year-old father of six, was gaoled for 20 years and
Liam McCotter, 25, was given a 17-year sentence.


McLaughlin, of Glenalena, Ballymurphy estate, Belfast, and McCotter, of
Carrigart Avenue, Belfast, were convicted by a jury on Friday of conspiring on
and before February 19 last year to cause explosions in the United Kingdom.

The two were arrested after an undercover surveillance operation during which
they were tailed to arms caches in Macclesfield and Delamere forests, south of
Manchester.

Passing sentence, Mr Justice Owen said: 'On the evidence which I have heard I am
quite satisfied you contemplated explosions which were likely to endanger life.
I bear in mind there was sufficient explosive material to cause 25 such
explosions.

'I accept you believed you were entitled to behave as you did - indeed, I cannot
see how anybody could possibly contemplate the carnage and misery likely to be
caused without having some such belief.

'This factor cannot however reflect in your favour, indeed it is one of the
factors which makes you so dangerous. In my judgment, the enormity of what you
contemplated and the need to deter others demands very heavy sentences.'

The judge said it seemed right to distinguish between the two men. McLaughlin
had been before the courts twice before on arms offences and was an older man.
Mr Justice Owen congratulated the police involved in bringing the pair to
justice in Operation Denmark.

A joint undercover force of Scotland Yard anti-terrorist squad officers and
Greater Manchester police thwarted what might have been the Provisionals'
bloodiest sequence of attacks in England.

Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, said during the nine-day trial that it was
'inconceivable' there would not have been death and injury had the plot gone
ahead.

The jury heard how McLaughlin and McCotter were tailed to the two caches which
they buried in plastic dustbins in Macclesfield and Delamere forests.

The two men were also being watched as they picked up what was believed to have
been arms and explosives from a fishing boat by moonlight at Cemaes Bay, north
Wales.

The caches contained almost 200 lb of Semtex high explosive, sufficient,
according to the prosecution, for the IRA to attack twice as many targets as in
their last planned blitz in 1985, the 'bomb-a-day' campaign aimed at British
holiday resorts. This was also thwarted by police surveillance.

The forest caches contained timing devices, of a characteristic IRA design, a
remote control device, detonators, three East German automatic rifles, two
Brazilian handguns and ammunition.

The undercover squad watched both men intensely for four days from February 15
to 19 last year. The trawler making the arms drop at Camaes Bay was allowed to
continue on its way for fear of 'blowing the operation' and missing the
all-important arsenal.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 30, 1988

Diary

BYLINE: By ANDREW MONCUR

LENGTH: 736 words


Is our Nicholas Ridley, Environment Secretary, a  fully signed-up Nimby -
 all in favour of more new homes, but Not In My Back Yard? Swipe me, here's
 Case No. 2: his opposition to plans to build penthouses close to his London
 home in Warwick Square, Pimlico. Case No. 1, you'll recall, involved his
 earlier objections to a housing development at the bottom of his garden in
 the Cotswolds (he cut short a recent TV interview when asked why). Mr
 Ridley, of course, advocates building on green fields to relieve demand for
 housing in the south-east, labelling his opponents as - that's right -
 Nimbys. He wasn't so keen when the  builders loomed close to his then home
 in Westminster. On May 22, 1985, when he was Transport Secretary, he wrote
 to the local planning officer urging that the penthouses proposal should be
  turned down, partly because all the scaffolding would invite crime. ' .. as
 a Cabinet Minister I think the police would find the increased risk from
 terrorist attack to be totally unacceptable,' he  wrote. By a happy
 coincidence, noted by the diary at  the time, on the very same day Tory MP
 Mrs Angela Rumbold whizzed off a personal letter to Lady Porter, leader of
 the city council, objecting to the scheme. Mrs Rumbold, better known as a
 resident of Surbiton, had, as it happens, been Mr Ridley's pps at the
 Department of  Transport and went on to become in September, 1985, a junior
 minister at Environment, where they were soon to team up again. He
 spokeswoman said yesterday that she had objected as a resident in Warwick
 Square, where she then had a flat. Mr Ridley insisted yesterday that there
 was no contradiction with his stance on development in the south-east. 'I
 have to take a broad view  about land use and supply. But nothing I have
 said means that individual planning applications should not continue to be
 decided on  their merits,' he said, which is why he was properly making
 representations in this case. In the event their approaches were in vain.
 Consent was granted in July, 1986.

 Robert Maxwell, still (just) the man behind Britain's biggest chopper, is
selling his three Chinook long-range helicopters. North Sea oilmen have been
giving these aircraft the albatros treatment since the Sumburgh tragedy two
years ago. Ads will appear in the aviation press this weekend and agents are
understood to have been appointed to deal with inquiries from the cash-strapped
military.


Is this an omen? Parliament and the Glorious Revolution, the fittingly-named
exhibition at Banqueting House, Whitehall, includes taped extracts from
exchanges in the Commons. Labour's contributions feature Neil Kinnock and what
sounds suspiciously like John Prescott.

It would have been interesting to ask the Rev Brian Shand why he's advertising
in PR Week to appoint a Pounds 14,000 a year publicity officer at St Margaret's
Church, Uxbridge. Unfortunately, he's away on retreat - an occupation which has
its drawbacks in PR terms.

There'll be a controlled explosion today at the Old Palace, Lincoln, where a
little charge will be placed beneath an Australian institution. Namely, the late
Sir Robert Menzies. And this just the day before his name is adopted by the
Australian Studies Centre, part of the Institute of Commonwealth Studies in
London, whose funding is being taken over by a Menzies memorial foundation in
Melbourne. This naming has upset Dr Ross Fitzgerald, the novelist and radical
historian from Brisbane, who means to get up a few nostrils by saying so at
today's conference of the British-Australian Studies Association. 'It's really a
contradiction in terms,' he said. He continues to feel as mad as a gumtree full
of galahs about Sir Robert's slavish attachment to the UK as 'home' and his
contribution to the Aussies' state of cultural cringe.

The prospect of transportation for life seems to  have lost its power to
 deter. Signs, dating from the reign of George IV, are displayed on elderly
 bridges in Dorset, warning of the likely penalty for wilful damage. All very
  well, but somebody's nicked the plaque itself from the  bridge at Shapwick,
Sturminster Marshall. It has now  been replaced, this time fixed with bolts
 and epoxy mortar.

 G'day to the head of manpower services, in charge of staff recruitment, in the
City of Coventry, Mr Manning.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 5, 1988

Coroner to rule on SAS secrecy: Decision today on Gibraltar inquest evidence
plea

BYLINE: By JOHN HOOPER

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: GIBRALTAR


Gibraltar's corner will rule today on whether SAS men who shot dead three
unarmed IRA members will be able to keep their indentities secret at September's
inquest into the killings.

Lawyers acting for the Government claimed that revealing the identities would
make the SAS men targets for IRA revenge attacks. However, Mr Patrick McGrory,
lawyer for the families of the three dead, said: 'If someone cried havoc and set
loose the dogs of war, I think it is a perfectly legitimate line of inquiry ..
to ask who that was.'


Disputes over the identities and the scope of the inquest broke out yesterday at
the sart of a meeting, requested by the British Government, to lay ground-rules
for the inquest. It was agreed yesterday taht it will open on September 6,
exactly six months after the shootings on the Rock.

Daniel McCann, Mairead Fairrell and Sean Savage were shot as they walked back
towards the Spanish frontier after parking a car which security forces wrongly
believed contained a bomb. Bomb-making equipment was discovered in Marbella two
days later. The British Government acknowledges that the IRA members were not
armed at the time, and has said they intended to set off a car bomb in
Gibraltar.

Mr McGrory reminded the colony's coroner, Mr Felix Pizzarello at yesterday's
hearing of the promis of the Prime Minister, mrs Thatcher that the inquest would
be 'the inquiry into the events. It is a promise on which the shadows, are
already beginning to form,' mr McGrory told the court.

It emerged yesterday that the normal terms of reference of a coroner's inquest
in Gibraltar are more restrictive than those for the UK. It would also not have
the power to compel witnesses from Britain to testify in person.

The court heard from counsel for 'seven individuals identified as soldiers A to
G,' that, if they were not screened in some way, they would not come to court.
Mr John Laws, acting for the Ministry of Defence, proposed that the inquest
should be restricted to investigating three areas - notably the 'state of mind'
of the soldiers at the time of the killings - but must exclude discussion of the
sources, quality and details of British intelligence about the IRA in general,
and the presumed IRA operation which led up to the killings. Evidence from the
soldiers could come from behind a physical barrier or by means of closed circuit
television which, he said, would disguise their faces but allow them to
demonstrate bodily movements. At the end of yesterday's hearing, Mr Pizzarello
turned down an invitation from Mr Laws to see the technique demonstrated.

The coroner will have to wiegh the alleged danger to national security and the
threat of the soldiers not attending against claims from the families'
representative that the moves suggested by the Government were unnecesary, would
prejudice his cross-examination and set precedents that would endanger the right
to freedom from summary execution and the rule of law.

'The rule of law can be as ringingly proclaimed from this small courthouse as
from the loftly domes of the Palace of Westminster', Mr McGrory said. In part,
his case rested on the need to identify any illegal actions that might have been
involved in the deaths and those apparently responsible for them.

Mr Laws said that the ruling he was seeking on the ambit of the inquest would
give 'ample scope for a proper inquiry' and that screening the soldiers was
vital to their safety. 'A one percent risk is too great. This is a case of life
and limb'.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1988, Tuesday

Nine killed in terror attack on cruise ship; Britons among 78 injured on a Greek
pleasure boat

BYLINE: MARIO MODIANO and DAVID CROSS

SECTION: Issue

LENGTH: 1450 words


At least nine people died when masked gunmen hurling grenades and firing
sub-machineguns attacked a Greek pleasure boat packed with foreign tourists on
an island cruise last night.

Hundreds of passengers jumped into the sea to escape the attack.


The Greek Merchant Marine Ministry said six of the dead, mostly foreign
tourists, died instantly in the machinegun attack on the 688 tonne City of Poros
three miles off the island of Aegina. Three others died later of bullet wounds
in hospital and up to 100 others injured.

'It is a wonder how more people did not get killed, ' one crew member said.
'When their magazines were exhausted they just recharged and kept firing on.'

Late last night it was still unclear whether all the passengers had been
accounted for. As darkness fell the search for those who had jumped overboard
continued by the light of flares dropped from planes.

'People who jumped overboard to escape are still being brought in by other ships
so we don't yet know how may still be missing, ' said Mr Andreas Andrianopoulos,
the mayor of Piraeus.

Six hours before the attack an explosion killed two men and destroyed a car
parked near a marina where the City of Poros was to dock in the Athens seaside
surburb of Paleo Faliron.

A senior police officer said: 'We are assuming the two attacks are connected,
but there's no hard evidence so far.' No claim of responsibility had been made
for the ship attack.

Hospital authorities said at least four Britons were among the injured.

The ship was carrying 496 crew and passengers on a day trip around the Saronic
Gulf, off Athens. The ship's operators said most of the tourists were French but
there were also 35 Swedes, 13 British and seven Americans along with numerous
other nationalities.

Witnesses said the gunmen sprayed passengers on the ship's deck with machinegun
fire and threw hand grenades and fire bombs which set fire to the deck,
spreading panic and sending most passengers leaping into the sea.

People on nearby ships who saw the drama said the gunmen then fled in a small
speedboat. Greek Government sources said air force planes, helicopters and
coastguard vessels were hunting the attackers, whose identity was not
immediately known.

Mr Evanghelos Yannopoulos, the Minister of Merchant Marine, called the attack a
'wretched act of barbarity'. He said nine dead included the first officer Mr
Antonis Deimezis. The others were foreign tourists.

He said that of those taken to hospital 15 had been wounded by grenades and
bullets, others had sustained broken limbs from jumping overboard and the rest
were suffering from shock.

The bodies of those found on the ship were so badly burnt they could not
immediately be identified. A flotilla of small ships was last night conducting a
searchlight hunt for survivors.

Mr Andreas Papandreou, the Greek Prime Minister, cut short his holidays to visit
several of the wounded. An emergency Cabinet meeting will be held today.

The City of Poros was attacked after setting sail yesterday morning from a
marina in the Athens suburb of Paleo Faliro.

A few hours before the attack, Paleo Faliro was rocked by two explosions in a
car which killed its two occupants and spilt out weapons, American bank notes
and a half-burnt Iranian magazine.

Police said the two were Middle Eastern and suspected that those killed in the
car blast were connected with the gunmen on the ship, possibly waiting for it to
return to the marina.

'The persons in the car were probably waiting for the boat to return to set the
explosives off as the passengers disembarked but something went wrong and they
fell victims to their own weaponry, ' a senior police officer said.

'The gunmen on the ship probably heard the news of the blast from the radio and
decided to take dynamic action on their own.

'What worries me is the Iranian magazine found at the wrecked car. Iran was in
the news lately but I don't want to say anything else.'

Counter-terrorist experts have not ruled out the possibility that the attack was
staged in retaliation for the shooting down of the Iran Air airliner by a US
warship in the Gulf last week.

Unconfirmed reports said all US bases in Greece had been put on alert.
Precautions around the US Embassy in Athens were stepped up after the shooting
down of the Iran Air Airbus in the Gulf last week, for fear of retaliatory
action.

A US military attache was killed on June 28 when a bomb planted in his car
exploded as he drove to work in Athens. The Greek extreme-left guerrilla group
November 17 later claimed responsibility.

Panic erupted on the vessel as soon as the gunmen struck. 'Most of the
passengers jumped in the sea when the first explosions were heard. It was
absolute hell, ' a passenger said.

The maritime minister, Mr Yannpoulos, said the attackers were already on board
the cruise ship when it set sail.

Captain George Mavromatakis, the ship's master, said he heard the first officer
scream: 'They are shooting, take cover!' and then saw two gunmen firing at the
passengers and lobbing hand grenades. 'There was a big explosion and I found
myself buried under burning debris, ' he said.

M Jean Wogewda and his wife Natalie, French passengers on the liner, were both
wounded by the gunmen. M Wogewda was shot in both legs but managed to crawl
away.

'I turned around and was thrown into the air by the impact of the bullets
hitting my legs, ' he said from his hospital bed.

'I couldn't believe it and thought it was a joke. I only saw one gunman as he
reloaded his weapon. Then he hurled a grenade at the ship's smoke stack setting
off a fire. Then he .. started firing at us again.'

Coastguard boats lifted wounded passengers from the sea. Hospital sources said
the 98 people admitted for treatment were from France, Sweden, Denmark, Britain,
Greece, Morocco, Norway, Colombia, Japan and Jordan.

'They are very frightened, some of them in shock, ' a doctor said.

Two British passengers discharged from hospital after receiving first aid were
identified as Mr John Whittome, 59, and Mrs Sonia Thilenius, aged 67.

Relatives said Mr Whittome, a bank manager from Worthing, Sussex, and his wife,
Celia, were travelling with a group of pupils from the Sion Convent School in
Worthing, West Sussex. Mr Whittome's wife, Celia, is a classics teacher at the
school and often travels abroad with school parties, she said.

The coastguard said fire-fighters had brought the blaze on the vessel under
control.

A film shot by an amateur photographer on a hydrofoil passing the City of Poros
after the gunmen fled, screened on Greek television, showed a helicoper hovering
over the liner and at least 10 smaller vessels coming to the liner's assistance.

With smoke pouring out of the ship's side, it sailed the 16 miles to the port of
Piraeus at full speed.

The City of Poros, built in 1962 and owned by the Canopus Shipping company of
Athens, operated as a day cruiser specializing in visiting islands dotting the
Saronic Gulf.

The earlier explosions in the Paleo Faliro suburb wrecked a car rented by a man
using a Lebanese passport. Besides killing its two occupants the blast spilt out
a hoard of weapons, ammunition and US banknotes.

Police officers suggested the occupants of the car had either been trading arms
and explosives clandestinely, or were preparing to stage a terrorist attack in
the Athens area.

The bodies of the victims were so dismembered that police were uncertain about
the number of persons killed. Nor were they able to say whether the powerful
explosive had detonated accidentally or had been set off deliberately. The man
who rented the car on July 4 was identified as Amut al-Hamit, aged 36. The car
hire clerk remembered that he was escorted by two other 'Arab-looking men'. A
man by the same name checked in last Friday at a seaside hotel in Glyfada, just
beyond Athens airport.

Witnesses said the car was hit by two explosions while it was parked on a side
road of the road to the airport. Wreckage was scattered over a wide area and the
blast damaged nearby buildings and destroyed a taxi parked 50 yards away.

The taxi driver was spared because she was having a cup of coffee near by.

Previous attack: Yesterday's attack marked the worst such incident involving a
passenger ship since October 1985, when four Palestinians commandeered the
Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro with 511 passengers and crew off Egypt and
threatened to blow it up unless Israel freed Palestinian prisoners.

A crippled American passenger was murdered by the hijackers.

The four hijackers were tried and imprisoned in Italy.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 13, 1988

Leading Article: A slow boat to tragic fatuity

LENGTH: 575 words


As the world awaited, with horror but without surprise after the latest
catastrophe in a grim year,d the definitive 'claim of responsibility' for the
panicstricken carnage aboard the City of Poros, it was taken as read that the
crime must have been in revenge for the destruction of the Iranian Airbus eight
days earlier. Let us try and follow the macabre chain of events and the
grotesque logic which led to the conclusions drawn by the Greek police, the
generality of observers and perhaps by the terrorists themselves.

Not pausing to distinguish between legitimate self-defence against attack,
pre-emptive strike and shoot first, ask questions afterwards, the USS Vincennes
obliterates a lumbering passenger-plane which it took for a tiny, mach 2
fighter. The Iranians are furious and order a national day of mourning. They
ritually vow terrible revenge.


So Iranians or their disconnected agents, we are led to believe, were mobilised
(or mobilised themselves) for a quick retaliation. Even acts of teror take time
to plan, so something crude and easily arranged was needed. Objective: Americans
if possible, but failing that any westerners (it is a cruel irony that the
French are most prominent among the victims, given recent French efforts to
'normalise' relations with Tehran). Place: Greece, because it has a record of
lax security, openness towards the wild men of the Middle East, vast hordes of
tourists and inhabitants indistinguishable from western Asians. Method: car
bomb; when this is lost to an 'own goal,' switch to (or concentrate on) a
seaborne attach with small arms on a boatload of daytrippers. Execution: bloody
but essentially as incompetent as the car bomb, with several of the (mercifully
few) dead killed by the boat's propeller as people leapt over board, rather than
by the gunmen. Benefit to the cause of iran and its supporters: nil. Indeed, if
there is any doubt about the whole scenario, it is its redundant fatuity.

The embarrassment of Washington, now reaching for its cheque book, thus begins
to fade as the killers take the limelight from the 'Great Satan,' shooting
themselves in the foot by butchering holidaymakers. Meanwhile some experts blame
the Greeks for alleged laxity. While this has certainly been deserved in the
past, notably at Athens airport, the recent assassination of the US naval
attache in Greece is no more remarkable than the murder of the ANC
representative in Paris or of the Arab cartoonist in London. Crimes like these
occur all over the West; so do other terrorist outrages, whether homegrown or
imported by foreign fanatics, or both, as in Britain. Greece may still be
perceived, rightly or wrongly, by terrorists as Europe's soft underbelly. We who
live in the same glass-house should not throw stones but rather respond
positively to mr Papandreou's appeal yesterday for more cooperation: as Helmut
Schmidt is wont to say, the biggest room in the world is the room for
improvement. If Athens now sees more clearly that those who dabble in the Middle
East only geth their fingers burned, the victims of the City of Poros atrocity
will not have died for nothing. As for Washington, even if it is not wise enough
to apologise full-heartedly for a tragic error, we must hope it is capable of
drawing sombre lessons from experience: vix, in this context, that retaliation
leads only to more retaliation and the victims are nearly always innocent
bystanders.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 17 1988, Sunday

Line must be drawn at rule by Brussels; A dangerous illusion links a single
market to a single European government. Such ideas should be resisted

BYLINE: BRIAN WALDEN

SECTION: Issue

LENGTH: 2109 words


JACQUES DELORS, president of the European Commission, is a powerful figure who
holds radical views about Europe's future. He says that within seven years the
national parliaments of the European Community must give way to the 'embryo' of
a European government.

Gradually it is dawning upon us that the European question in British politics
has not been resolved, but has been lying dormant. Opposition to membership of
the EC has been slowly withering away in Britain because the issue has been seen
in economic terms. But talk of a European government is sure to revive fears
about political sovereignty.


Plainly Margaret Thatcher does not like the idea. The prime minister's enemies
portray her as an unintellectual woman, lacking in vision, who is incapable of
discoursing on the destiny of mankind after dinner. This does scant justice to
her instincts. She shocked the House of Commons recently by mentioning the
possibility of a European government and indicating that Britain was not ready
for it. As usual she is one of the first to recognise the way the wind is
blowing and to state her position without equivocation.

My own view of the matter is not distorted by any dislike of continentals. I
admire Dutch tolerance, German cleanliness and efficiency, Italian family life
and love of children and French worldliness and realism. I do not walk the earth
convinced of the innate superiority of the British.

But a nation is not a mere social arrangement that can be submerged into
something better at the whim of planners and bureaucrats. The UK has not managed
to solve its own nationality problems. The Scots, Irish and Welsh cherish their
national identity and are quick to take offence if government appears to neglect
their national interests.

Despite centuries of London government it is by no means certain that Scotland,
for instance, may not eventually opt for independence.

Creating a single government for Western Europe is an infinitely more difficult
operation than holding the UK together. It is all very well saying that economic
factors are pushing us in that direction. The whole of modern history cautions
us against neglecting political and national realities.

Among cosmopolitan intellectuals nationalism has had a bad reputation throughout
my lifetime. In response to this dislike of nationalism various federations of
nations were established, but most of them have been destroyed by the strength
of national feeling. On every continent nationalism remains the strongest
political instinct among ordinary people. Theoretically it seems easy to create
artificial conglomerates which ignore national sentiment, but in practice this
has turned out to be one of the blind alleys of human development.

Nationalism, which used to be popular with progressive thinkers, came to be
distrusted because it was seen as the cause of wars. The memory of August 1914
has never entirely faded. Patriotic crowds jammed the streets of Berlin, Paris
and London singing their national anthems and bellowing for war.

But it is simplistic to believe that nationalism must necessarily be bellicose.
Europe was happy to fight in 1914, because it had no idea what a modern total
war was like. That is not the case today, when fear of war is universal among
Europeans of all nationalities and every political persuasion.

All things being equal, I have not the slightest doubt that the majority of the
British people would prefer to retain a government in Whitehall and an effective
parliament at Westminster, rather than be subject to a European government. But
all things are not equal and the British must wake up to the plans of the
Brussels bureaucracy and the visionary outlook of many European politicians,
especially in West Germany.

There is no point in subjecting Delors to an abusive tirade, because much of
what he says is true. The creation of a single market is bound to mean that many
of the decisions affecting our economic and social life will be taken in
Brussels and Strasbourg. British politicians have been very slow to visualise
what the new Europe will mean for national parliaments and national sovereignty.

Often in politics there is a case for letting sleeping dogs lie. But the
European dog is running loose and the British must, as a matter of urgency, make
it crystal clear what fences they propose to defend against him. It is better to
have a blazing row in the near future than to let the situation drift until the
British voter discovers that a European government is just around the corner.
His outrage at the suggestion could take us out of the EC.

The British have not publicly set any limits, but must do so soon. Every month
wasted means another batch of plans hatched in Brussels by sincere and dedicated
proponents of a European government who do not understand how unwilling the
majority of us are to accept it.

A minority of British politicians will favour a European government. Some
opposition politicians who despair of their chances of sitting behind a desk in
Whitehall are willing to try anything, a European government, regional
government, or even Scottish independence, if it will give them a taste of
power. Some Tories are idealistically attached to the European vision and would
surrender national sovereignty to get a united Europe.

The majority of British politicians who think otherwise need a strategy. I
believe that they must concentrate on severing the illusory umbilical cord that
appears to link a single economic market to a single European government.

It is not true that economic unity can only be supervised by a multi-national
government. It is one of those so-called logical propositions upon which
visionaries depend in order to force through political arrangements most people
do not want. But if it is to be disproved, Whitehall and Westminster must work a
lot harder than they are doing at the moment.

The European council of ministers and the commission must be scrutinised much
more closely by the House of Commons. The Commons ought to demand to know about
community legislation from the moment of its inception. There is far too much
secrecy overhanging Brussels.

What is the point of making a fuss about official secrets here in Britain, if
the Commons is going to ignore the far more important documents circulating in
Brussels? I do not want to stop the creation of a single market and I am more
willing to give way on such matters as Vat on children's clothing than I suspect
most British voters are. I see nothing sacrosanct in the British system of
indirect taxation and would not disrupt the community in order to preserve its
oddities.

THE BEST of the new Britain showed itself last week. It was seen amid the
carnage on the City of Poros ferry boat when 12 British schoolgirls did what
they could to help people wounded in the terrorist attack. They deserve our
praise and gratitude, and Margaret Thatcher was right to call them a credit to
themselves, their families, their schools and their country. They represent the
majority of British youth who have no time for the yobs and thugs who so often
hog the headlines abroad, to our national shame. Such selflessness is doubly
welcome because of its contrast with the daily diet of personal indiscipline
this country has become depressingly used to.

Where there was once a natural social order, there has grown up a wanton
disrespect for authority and a mindless wish to flout the rules and defy both
law and convention. How else could a policewoman be attacked in prosperous
Maidstone in full view of a mob of 60 people, some of whom jeered as she was
punched and kicked? Where there was once a strong sense of community, there has
grown up a reluctance to care for public amenities or foster civic pride. How
else could vandalism be so rampant and the litter louts so contemptuous? It does
not afflict other European countries in the way it does Britain. In which
British town or on which British motorway can it now be said with confidence
that a woman or a child can pass unmolested? We all know the answer.

The greatest single achievement of Mrs Thatcher's government has been to pioneer
a return to industrial discipline against great odds. That, more than anything
else, has underpinned the country's revived prosperity and made it possible for
ministers to boast, as they did last week, that Britain has become once more a
high-performance enterprise economy. But more money in the pocket and the
acquisition of more financial assets than most British families have ever
dreamed of are only part of the revolution that the country needs to complete
before this century is out. Economic success, still too short-lived and slender
to take for granted, needs to be accompanied by a social and moral revolution.
This will be infinitely more difficult to achieve.

The social rot has gone deeper than the industrial decay of the 1960s and 1970s,
and cannot be cut out with the simpler, crude strokes which proved so effective
on the economy. The national culture is too rooted in social liberalism, another
legacy from the 1960s, to permit a return to rigid social and class structures,
and none but the antediluvian would want it. But a sharp reversal in the long
decline in personal and social standards is imperative all the same. If the
long, drawn-out agony of Britain's economic decline can be reversed, so can the
decline of its social morality. The national interest requires it and the coming
generation has the right to expect it. But how to do it?

The first task is to win the argument that it is even possible most people
accept that such an improvement is desperately needed but many doubt whether
anything worthwhile can be done. Exhortation alone will achieve nothing. Nor
will casting blame at other people's doors. We are all responsible, those who
turn their backs on the problem as well as those who foment it.

But where to begin? With the family: nothing can be done, we believe, without a
conscious revival of parent power and family cohesion, to which all efforts
ought to be bent. The scope is enormous. The old, extended families of
grandparents, aunts and uncles, cousins, brothers and sisters were powerful
organisms and bulwarks of social order. Children were given a sense of
continuity and their place in the natural order. Family hierarchy and respect
for one's elders was matched by hierarchies and a sense of purpose and order
elsewhere in the school, in the churches, the public life at local and national
level. The extended family has given way to smaller family units often cut off
from relatives, where parents struggle to raise children in a cultural
atmosphere that has never been as materialist, libertarian and, at its worst,
licentious as it is now in short, where children are tempted to believe that in
most things 'anything goes'.

A critical casualty in this assault on the family has been the ability of many
parents to influence their children in their late teens when they most need
guidance. The law deems young people to be adults in the eyes of the courts at
17. The law might just be an ass. The decline of parental power is, we believe,
an area of self-inflicted damage to the social structure which needs urgent
debate and swift remedy.

As at home, so in the schools. Teachers need to restore the authority of their
predecessors, parents and education committees to back them up. Schools cannot
become centres of academic excellence unless they become no-go areas for
indiscipline and disruption. All too frequently that is not so and we have all
conspired, by ignoring it, to condone it for too long.

The church, for example, needs to stop arguing over the virgin birth and women
priests and return to its basic role in society as a moral guide. On a wider
scale, the police, local magistrates, councillors and voluntary organisations
need to wage the same campaign across the community. As a start, violence and
serious offences connected with alcohol and drug abuse ought to receive the
exemplary penalties open to the courts. It is time to launch a propaganda war
for a new and better society rather than fighting a rearguard action aimed at
preserving one that has passed. It is time for the moral majority which we
believe exists at the heart of this country to rouse itself and hit back. This
ought not to be a party political issue, despite Labour's recent attempt to link
rural violence to government policies. As unemployment falls and the economy
booms, the fight to raise personal and social standards is set to move upstage.
It is where it belongs.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 18, 1988

France and Greece clash over attack: Terrorist accusations cast shadow over EEC
meeting

BYLINE: By JOHN PALMER and PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: ATHENS and PARIS


A diplomatic row between the French and Greek governments over the way
authorities in Athens handled the terrorist attack on the City of Poros cruise
ship is overshadowing a meeting of EEC foreign ministers on foreign policy
co-operation.

The meeting, the first to be held under the Greek EEC presidency, begins in
Athens today.


The French Foreign Minister, Mr Roland Dumas, met the Greek Foreign Minister, Mr
Yannis Papoulias, in Athens yesterday to protests against Greek accusations that
a French student, Laurent Vigneron, who died in the attack, was one of the
terrorists. Earlier in the week, the Greeks had to withdraw similar allegations
against a 21-year-old French woman, Ms Isabelle Bismuth, who also died in the
attack.

Other EEC governments are also concerned at the manner in which the Greek
authorities have rsponded to the City of Poros incident, and at what they see as
the gerally lax attitude of the Greek Government to anti-terrorist security
policy.

The wider question of Middle East terrorism is bound to be raised when the
foreign ministers meet here today, and Mr Papoulias is certain to be asked about
details of the Greek inviestigation into the attack.

The Greek Prime Minister, Mr Andreas papandreou, has already publicly indicated
that stricter measures against international terrorism will be priority during
his government's six months' tenure in the EEC presidency.

Anti-terrorist specialists from other European countries have been analysing the
Belgian-made weapons found after the killings and believe they were bought by
Libyans. The strongest suspicion is that the Palestinian Abu Nidal group, which
has bases and 500 men in Libya, is involved.

According to French sources, the American FBI is convinced Abu Nidal was also
involved in the murder of a US naval attache in Athens this month.

Much of today's EEC meeting will be taken up with the wider polical issues of
unrest in the Middle East, including the shooting down by the United States of
the Iranian civil airliner over the Gulf. Earlier attempts by the EEC to issue a
statement deploring the incident were blocked by the British Government which
wanted some reference to America's right to act in 'self defence.'

However, in the past week there have been signs that Britain may be distancing
itself from its initially strongly pro-American line on the incident. It now
seems that the EEC will agree to send to Washington a fairly tough statement of
their concern that there should be no repetition of this kind of attack.

The foreign ministers are also expected to exchange views on Mr Gorbachev's
proposal endorsed by last week's meeting of the Warsaw Pact, for new summit
talks on further nuclear arms reductions in Europe.

Although the Warsaw Pact has now indicated that such talks need not involve only
European countries, but could also include the US, Britain is reluctant to agree
to any new negotiations until progress has been achieved in the Vienna
conference on security and co-operation in Europe.

It is also thought that talks on conventional arms reductions will get under way
before the end of the year. These discussions are being held up by a
disagreement over monitoring of human rights - thanks mainly to a refusal by
Romania to endorse an outline agreement.

Only when these talks have made progress will Britain agree to a further review
of nuclear disarmament. The French and West German governments seem ready to
respond more positively to the idea of a new dialogue with the Soviet Union as
suggested by Mr Gorbachev.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 29 1988, Friday

Top British envoy in peace talks with Iran and Iraq; Sir Crispin Tickell

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN in London and CHRISTOPHER THOMAS in New York

SECTION: Issue 63146.

LENGTH: 678 words


Both Iran and Iraq yesterday sought Britain's assistance in bringing about a
ceasefire in the Gulf War after their talks with Senor Javier Perez de Cuellar,
the United Nations Secretary-General, were suspended for a day.

Sir Crispin Tickell, Britain's permanent representative to the UN, held separate
meetings in New York with the belligerents' foreign ministers, Dr Ali Akbar
Velayati of Iran and Mr Tariq Aziz of Iraq.


But while Sir Crispin expressed his willingness to help, sources in Whitehall
said he had emphasized that Britain wished only to support the
Secretary-General's efforts.

There was no question of Britain conducting a separate peace initiative.

The sources said that both ministers asked separately to see Sir Crispin because
of Britain's leading role in bringing about Security Council Resolution 598,
which is the basis of the current peace hopes. Their wish was that Britain would
continue to play a role.

Britain was responsible for much of the drafting of the original resolution and
for some of the diplomacy which achieved unanimity within the Security Council
to pass it a year ago. It called for a ceasefire and set out steps leading to
full peace.

The meeting between Sir Crispin and Dr Velayati was the first high-level contact
between Iran and Britain since a serious row between the two countries a year
ago. Although relations were not broken, all but one of Iran's diplomats in
London were expelled last July and all British envoys in Tehran were withdrawn.

Dr Velayati did not seek yesterday's meeting to talk about the relationship, but
Sir Crispin took the opportunity to discuss it. Prospects for better ties
between London and Tehran improved earlier this month when the two countries
agreed to compensation for damage to each other's embassies.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, has been considering whether some
diplomatic gesture should be made, and had looked at sending an envoy to Tehran
to man the empty British Embassy. But the sources said yesterday it was felt
that a further sign of Iran's desire for better links was needed first.

Sir Crispin told Dr Velayati during their 75-minute meeting that the Government
was encouraged by Tehran's acceptance 10 days ago of Resolution 598. If this led
to a ceasefire, and if attacks on shipping in the Gulf stopped, the prospects
for better relations would be improved.

But serious problems remained between the two countries, such as the violation
of diplomatic immunity and Iran's support for organizations involved in
hostage-taking, hijacking and other acts of terrorism.

Sir Crispin is understood to have mentioned the imprisonment without trial of Mr
Roger Cooper, a British businessman, and Mr Nicholas Nicola, whose family comes
from north London. Britain wanted consular access to both men, and demanded that
they should either be brought to trial or released.

But the British envoy said that the Government was pleased with Dr Velayati's
declaration on Tuesday that he was prepared to help, on humanitarian grounds, in
securing the release of hostages held in Lebanon.

It was the first time that Britain had been able to put its view at such a high
level. Until now, it has had to act through the Iranian Charge d'Affaires in
London.

Sir Crispin also had a 45-minute meeting with Mr Aziz.

Senor Perez de Cuellar had suspended his talks with the two ministers to study
what he called 'helpful comments' by Iran on his proposals for a ceasefire. But
observers felt that he had received a less encouraging response from Iraq. Mr
Aziz said that Baghdad would not be rushed, and again called for direct talks
with Iran.

Tehran rejected this on the ground that Resolution 598 does not require direct
talks, but the Secretary-General said yesterday that he hoped Iran would
consider it.

The diplomatic efforts in New York brought no respite to battle-weary troops on
the fronts. After seven days of heavy fighting, men were still dying and being
wounded in their thousands, according to both sides.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 2, 1988

Errors turn IRA eyes to mainland

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


Even for committed supporters of the 'armed struggle,' last month's crop of IRA
statements must have made mournful reading: 'a volunteer in control of the small
bomb accidentally detonated the charge ..', 'the wrong description was passed to
other volunteers ..', 'the Belfast Brigade staff and volunteers extend their
deepest condolences to the relatives ..', 'there is nothing we can say to
comfort the relatives of this family.'

They are a far cry from the confident words uttered by Mr Gerry Adams, President
of Sinn Fein, in April last year when he declared that the IRA could strike
where and when it wanted at the British Crown forces. Since then 22 of its
members have died, along with 18 civilians for whose deaths Mr Adams had to
apologise.


As the political side of the republican movement becomes more embroiled in talks
with the Social Democratic and Labour Party, the 'military' side badly needs a
direct hit against a military target on the British mainland to staunch the
internal haemorrhage of self doubt.

The Mill Hill bombing may have done exactly that.

In the end, everyone expects innocents to be slaughtered in a war. The so called
mood of Enniskillen - the feeling that no political cause is worth the suffering
- did not last very long.

What does matter to Republicans is those who, having served the cause, now
accuse the IRA of losing its way politically. The ideological commitment of its
supporters has always been the IRA's biggest weapon. Lose direction and the
movement could splinter.

A renewed IRA bombing campaign in Britain would meet many otherwise elusive
objectives. Even if it had no chance of working, it would take the heat off the
IRA's current problems at home.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 2 1988, Tuesday

Provisionals may have UK foothold; IRA attack on Inglis Barracks

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63149.

LENGTH: 561 words


The Provisionals have not mounted a successful operation against military
installations in mainland Britain since the Regent's Park and Hyde Park attacks
almost exactly six years ago in the summer of 1982.

They have mounted no successful attacks on the mainland since the Brighton bomb
during the Conservative Party conference in October 1984 when five people died.


Now it seems that a Provisional active service unit has arrived safely in
Britain. Time will tell if yesterday's attack was simply an attempt by the IRA
to regain some stature after a history of recent debacles or the start of a
mounting campaign against an enemy which may have grown unwary in recent years.

The reasons for the IRA's recent failures are not difficult to find.

Since 1982 police have discovered four huge caches of arms and explosives in the
Midlands, the North-west and the Home Counties. Weapons and bombs, with timing
devices, were unearthed in forest land.

Police have also convicted IRA activists, including Patrick Magee, the Brighton
bomber, and an active service unit planning what would have been a devastating
attack on resorts and ports in 1985.

Last autumn one of the IRA's most skilled bomb-makers, responsible for scores of
deaths, was sent to prison for life at the Central Criminal Court. A few weeks
ago two men sent over to plant the latest arms caches were also sentenced to
long prison sentences in London.

Try as it might, the IRA does not seem to have been able to mount successful
operations in Britain. Experienced IRA men were caught time and again, often
soon after arrival.

Scotland Yard anti-terrorist experts believed that the IRA could no longer
sustain that sort of activity or find bombers experienced enough to mount such
big coups as the Brighton attack.

In Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic the Provisionals have suffered
reversals or as at Enniskillen last autumn have lost much support. That happened
again when last month they killed an innocent family instead of their target, an
Ulster judge.

The IRA said to be riven internally by suspicion of traitors and dissension
between those who want a more aggressive guerrilla war and those who seek the
political road has turned increasingly to attacks in Europe where British
security may be weak. Attacks in The Netherlands and West Germany on British
bases or personnel this year proved they could succeed.

Now Scotland Yard faces the problem that an active service unit is operating
again, possibly from bases close to London and supplied from a cache which may
have remained hidden.

In the Mill Hill attack the unit successfully reconnoitered the camp and
smuggled the bomb well inside the camp at a time when many soldiers could be
expected to be present.

There are many other Ministry of Defence establishments which are difficult to
guard securely and which have a low military rating but their security will now
have to be reviewed. The IRA long ago made clear it considered any military
establishment fair game for attack.

For a long time anti-terrorist experts have been waiting to see if the IRA could
once again operate on the mainland. They will study the timing carefully. For
within a month the new round of party conferences begins and in October the
Conservatives return again to Brighton for the first time since 1984.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 2 1988, Tuesday

Blast leads to security review at all key events; IRA attack on Inglis Barracks

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63149.

LENGTH: 567 words


The Government last night ordered an immediate reappraisal of security
arrangements for key events, including the Conservative Party conference.

Yesterday's barracks bombing has brought fears of a new campaign.


They will have to be taken into account in calculations about security at such
events as the Brighton conference. Security plans for the Gibraltar inquest on
the IRA members killed there are being looked at again.

Politicians from all parties yesterday united in condemnation of barracks
bombing and voiced concern over the apparent low level of security at the base.

Security at other barracks was immediately tightened up, although ministers said
there was a limit to the day-to-day precautions that could be taken without
making life intolerable, and in so doing handing a victory to the IRA.

The policing operation for the Tory conference, where four years ago an IRA bomb
ripped through the Grand Hotel, was already expected to be one of the biggest
yet mounted in Britain.

'People are virtually going to be counted in and out of Brighton', senior
military sources said.

Police in Brighton have already mounted their security efforts for the
conference. To increase public awareness of the possible threat police are
distributing more than 2,000 colour posters featuring television characters to
drive home the message. A poster showing Cagney and Lacey says: 'Be on the
lookout for suspicious activity.'

Police are also holding talks with publicans, hoteliers and estate agents.
Estate agents are being asked to report to the police if they are suspicious of
people moving to the area to rent or buy property.

Yesterday's bombing will lead immediately to a further examination, particularly
after what was seen as the IRA's readiness to attack 'soft' targets.

Mr Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Social and Liberal Democrats, said it was
another example of the IRA's cowardice in going for soft targets. 'We must be
prepared to take a strong line against terrorism, as it is obvious that
terrorists are no longer content with those targets that might be prepared to
defend themselves.'

Mr Allan Rogers, Labour's defence spokesman, called for a full review of
security at all military and government establishments. He said: 'This must be
conducted at the very highest level involving the Prime Minister herself and the
Chief of Defence Staff.

'People are getting a little fed up with seeing our security forces insecure.
This is an absolutely appalling matter, but it does emphasize that all military
installations in particular have to be extremely vigilant and security must be
tightened up at the highest level.

'The IRA have demonstrated that they will murder in the most obscene ways.'

Mr Ian Gow, Conservative MP for Eastbourne and a former Northern Ireland
minister, said if the security had been adequate the IRA would not have
penetrated the barracks. 'I have no doubt lessons will be learnt. The bases
should now be put on full alert.'

Mr Ivor Stanbrook, Conservative MP for Orpington, said: 'There must be an
inquiry to determine whether there was a security lapse. It is now apparent that
all British troops are vulnerable.'

Sir Antony Buck, chairman of the Tory backbench defence committee and MP for
Colchester North, said the Government must now look carefully at what had
previously been regarded as safe bases.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 2 1988, Tuesday

IRA blitz feared after bomb; Attack on Inglis Barracks

BYLINE: TONY DAWE, PHILIP WEBSTER and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63149.

LENGTH: 916 words


Security forces are bracing themselves for a summer bombing offensive by the IRA
on the British mainland after the explosion yesterday that killed one soldier
and injured nine others at a London barracks.

Ministers, who fear an IRA unit is active in Britain, promised a total review of
defence bases last night.


They faced a barrage of criticism over 'appallingly' lax security at Inglis
Barracks, Mill Hill a communications centre in north London, on the boundaries
of Mrs Margaret Thatcher's Finchley consitutency.

The explosion blew a gaping hole in the living quarters of the Forces' main post
office, and Irish terrorists hailed it as a morale-boosting success their first
on the mainland since the bombing of the Conservatives' conference hotel in
Brighton in 1984.

Officers from the Scotland Yard Anti-Terrorist Branch were still searching the
ruins last night, but Mr Archie Hamilton, Minister for the Armed Forces, who
visited the scene, said he would be 'very surprised' if it were not a bomb.

He telephoned Mrs Thatcher, who is in Australia, before promising a review of
security and a full inquiry into the blast. The Prime Minister said she was
'deeply distressed'.

Mr Hamilton condemned the IRA terrorists for picking 'a very soft target', where
mainly civilian-type duties were performed.

Mr Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, said it was 'another act of infamous
cowardice' by the IRA that would earn it only loathing and contempt.

The soldier killed yesterday was named as Royal Engineers Lance Corporal Michael
Robbins, aged 23, from Hampshire. He had spent three years in the Army and the
Inglis posting was his first. Two other soldiers are seriously injured in
hospital; six more have been detained and one discharged.

Some of the injured joined politicians and staff at the barracks in criticizing
the low level of security at the base, which handles all the mail for British
servicemen at home and abroad and for all Royal Navy ships.

Mr John Gorst, Conservative MP for Hendon North, whose constituency covers the
barracks, described the security as appalling and said he would protest to the
Ministry of Defence about it.

'When I was canvassing there at the last general election, I drove through the
gates and parked my car beside the accommodation block which has now been
reduced to rubble', he said.

'I was able to walk straight in and knock on the door. Anyone looking like a
workman, carrying a ladder, for instance, could do the same.'

Mr Gorst spoke to two of the injured soldiers, a Welshman and a Scotsman, at
Edgware General Hospital. 'What they had to say on security is not repeatable.
Their comments were very severe and very sour', he said.

Mrs Joanne Duncan, aged 22, whose husband works in the postal section of the
barracks, told The Times at her home on the base yesterday: 'I knew this would
happen. Since I've been here, the security situation has been terrible. This
base is the worst I've been to.'

She said the main problem was the 5ft-high perimeter fence, which has been torn
down completely in places and has gaping holes, regular routes for children
playing on the base.

Miss Mary Onisiforo, who bought the hairdresser's shop at the barracks four
months ago, said that she received a security pass only four weeks ago. 'For the
first three months I went in and out every day without one.'

The blast occurred at 6.53 yesterday morning as most of the staff were still
asleep. It tore through a section of the barracks block, sending the first floor
crashing to the ground and leaving a gap in the roof.

Colonel William Butts of the Royal Engineers, one of the first on the scene,
said: 'The outer walls blew out and the roof caved in. We rushed in and managed
to pull out some of the bodies of the injured.

'Everything was orderly, but men were obviously suffering from back and neck
injuries and burns; they were shaken.

'We dragged a lot of masonry off, and managed to move quite a bit of it. One man
was in the rubble for half an hour, and the rescue team kept talking to him,
telling him to hold on.

'He was saved by a large radiator which fell across his body and protected him
from falling masonry.'

In Ireland, the Provisional IRA's claim of responsibility was confined to a
terse one-line statement. Further details are expected to appear in Thursday's
issue of the Republican News.

However, there was obvious satisfaction among Republican activists in Belfast
after a long sequence of bungled IRA attacks.

The outrage was regarded as a morale-boosting triumph an explosion inside an
army barracks, without civilian casualties, and moreover, in mainland Britain.

For the Provisionals, the explosion has the additional flavour of being so close
to the Prime Minister's own constituency and there was speculation in Belfast
that the bombing was deliberately timed to coincide with her arrival in
Australia.

After the IRA's recent blunders the latest being the deaths of three members of
the Hanna family in the Killeen bombing on the border 10 days ago security
authorities in Ulster have been expecting the terrorists to sharpen their focus
on the Army.

They believe the IRA wants to reduce the civilian toll and to shift the focus of
attacks away from Northern Ireland to areas where they have greater impact.

Further attacks on mainland Britain and against British military bases and
personnel on the Continent are now considered likely.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 4, 1988

Unsteady dollar to blame for deterring American tourists

BYLINE: By VICTORIA MACDONALD

LENGTH: 226 words


American tourist stayed away from britain in May because of the unfavourable
exchange rate.

Announcing figures for the first five months of this year, the tourism minister,
Mr John Lee, said the trade had been expecting a downturn because of fluctuating
dollar exchange rates, but it was not until May that numbers began to fall off.


In May, 1,210,000 foreign visitors came to the UK, 7 per cent fewer than in May
last year. The number of north Americans dropped by 13 per cent to 300,000 and
the number from Western Europe by 6 per cent, to 700,000. In 1986, many tourists
had stayed away because they feared terrorist attacks.

The number of visitors from the rest of the world increased in May this year by
1 per cent, to 210,000. Visitors spent Pounds 445 million, 3 per cent less than
in May, 1987. The 2,110,000 UK residents who went abroad in May spent Pounds 595
million.

In the first five months of 1988, there was an overall increase in the number of
visitors to the UK. The 5.4 million visitors, 4 per cent more than last year,
spent Pounds 1,950 million. The number of visits by north Americans and western
Europeans rose by 3 per cent and those by people from other countries by 9 per
cent.

Visits abroad by UK residents fell 2 per cent, to 8.5 million, but they spent
Pounds 2,480 million, a 14 per cent increase.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 4 1988, Thursday

Experts ready to rebuild IRA bomb; Police investigation into the Mill Hill
explosion

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63151.

LENGTH: 432 words


Within the next few days, the focus of the police investigation into the Mill
Hill explosion will move from the shattered barracks block in north-west London
to a vast covered shed run by explosives' experts from the Royal Armaments
Research and Development Establishment based at Woolwich Arsenal, south-east
London.

In that shed in the months to come, the establishment's scientists will minutely
sift scores of bags of rubble and debris from the barracks. What emerges may
allow them to reconstruct the bomb and could eventually lead to the conviction
of its manufacturer or armourer.


The scientists' findings will be matched against a vast library of information
culled from other attacks and arms finds. The bomb at Mill Hill could match
other devices where identities or fingerprints have been discovered.

The Woolwich team played important roles in the conviction last year of Gilbert
McNamee, jailed for life as one of the IRA's most successful bomb manufacturers,
and in piecing together the bomb which exploded at the Grand Hotel, Brighton,
Sussex, during the Conservative Party conference in 1984.

The system of piecing together material from bombing sites has now been
developed to a sufficient degree in Britain for the Yard earlier this year to
lend a detective from the anti-terrorist branch to the Dutch police to help to
organize their search for evidence after an attack on RAF men.

At Mill Hill, the area of devastation will be divided into zones stretching out
from the seat of the explosion. Trained officers on the scene will be looking
for anything that might be connected with a bomb. At Brighton, a key part of the
bomb was found buried inside a hotel lavatory 15 days after the blast.

The police may run a metal detector over the area closest to the blast because
metal portions of a device usually survive. Once they are finished, debris from
each zone is sent to the RARDE centre where it is spread out for careful
sifting.

What RARDE finds will be compared with an inventory of other IRA devices
stretching back into the 1970s put together by the Army, the RUC and British
police. The first stop is likely to be the contents of two IRA arms caches found
last year outside Manchester.

The caches, containing nearly 200lbs of explosives and a range of hand-made
timers, are the latest finds in Britain and could be part of a series of caches
including one from which the London bomb was taken.

The Yard's fingerprint section will have already tried to uncover any prints and
begun comparing them with thousands of records.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1988

IRA ambush gang kill police contractors

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST and PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


A building contactor and a workman repairing the Royal Ulster Constabulary
station at Belleek, County Fermanagh, were killed in a hail of gunfire yesterday
when four IRA gunmen ambushed their van.

The ambush was laid only 100 yards from the Irish border. Four IRA men, masked
and in combat gear, pumped more than 150 rounds of automatic fire into the
victims' van as it returned from the heavily fortified station.


An RUC spokesman described the killing as 'brutal and savage'. He said the
builders had no connection with the security forces. 'They were just mowed down
in cold blood,' he added.

Both men are understood to have been in their sixties. The IRA has repeatedly
threatened civilian workmen repairing security force barracks.

Earlier a parcel bomb was delivered to the home of Rev William McCrea,
Democratic Unionist MP for Mid Ulster, as Dr Ian Paisley as the DUP leader
denounced the Government's reaction to the IRA campaign. The bomb failed to go
off.

Dr Paisley said: 'We want action. We want the security forces put on a war
footing.' He was speaking after attending the funeral of Detective Constable
George Warnock, killed by an IRA car bomb in Lisburn on Tuesday.

The bomb for Mr McCrea, who is on holiday in America, was concealed in a
hollowed-out book, sent in a package postmarked from Drogheds in the Irish
Republic.

Mr McCrea's secretary, Mr Rodney Mitchell, who began to open the package, said:
'There was quite enough explosive inside to do a lot of harm. It was God's hand
who preserved me.'

An army bomb disposal team defused the device.

Unionist anger at the latest IRA offensive has put back the prospect of talks on
devolution with the Social Democratic and Labour Party.

Republican sources yesterday confirmed that the aim of the current offensive is
to provoke a crisis of confidence in Britain over direct rule, on the 20th
anniversary next year, of the IRA campaign. One senior figure said: 'the IRA
have got a 20-year punch. What will the British do? Continue for another 20
years?'

Police investigating Monday's bast at the Inglis Barracks in north London were
still searching yesterday for evidence of Republican involvement.

At the opening of the inquest into the victim, Lance Corporal Michael Robbins,
Detective Superintendent Christopher Bird of the Yard's anti-terrorist squad,
told the Hornsey coroner's court: 'We have confirmed last evening the presence
of explosive at the scene sufficient to indicate that the cause of the explosion
was a bomb.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 5 1988, Friday

German link to Mill Hill bomb; IRA activity marks 20 years of troubles; Inglis
Barracks

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER and MICHAEL HORSNELL

SECTION: Issue 63152.

LENGTH: 610 words


Scotland Yard believes the IRA bomb used to blast the Inglis Barracks at Mill
Hill, north London, on Tuesday could be similar to devices planted by the the
Provisionals last month at an Army camp in West Germany.

Anti-terrorist specialists suspect that an IRA active service unit in Britain is
using crude, short-timed devices from bomb makers who also supplied the IRA unit
which planted two 20lb bombs that wounded nine servicemen at the Glamorgan
Barracks, Duisburg.


There was a growing suspicion in Belfast yesterday that the sudden upsurge in
IRA activity could be linked with a campaign to mark the twentieth anniversary
of the latest Ulster troubles in August next year.

Police do not rule out the possibility that one IRA unit may have been
responsible for the Mill Hill and West German attacks. Forensic specialists are
likely to compare debris and other evidence.

In both attacks, the bombers struck at night, leaving devices which exploded a
few hours after they were activated.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch believes the Mill Hill bomb was left
sometime during Sunday night or early on Monday morning. The bombers had picked
a barrack block used by permanent staff at the camp, which meant they could be
assured of a target. They had also known enough about the barrack routine to
avoid a night patrol.

The bombers are thought to have parked a getaway vehicle close to the camp and
then walked into the central area through an unguarded back gate. They had
opened a rear door to the building and had slipped the bomb, hidden in a bag,
inside.

The police have identified at least four suspects. They believe the most likely
bombers were two men seen at about 11pm going into the block with a bag and who
left later empty-handed. They also want to trace a jogger seen running through
the camp.

They are also interested in identifying a young woman, described as blonde and
'striking', who was seen crossing the parade ground in front of the bombed
block.

Det Supt Christopher Bird confirmed at an inquest yesterday that a bomb had
caused the blast. The inquest at Hornsey, north London, coroners' courts was on
Lance Corporal Michael Robbins, aged 23, who was killed in the explosion.

Professor David Bowen, of Charing Cross Hospital medical school, west London,
said the cause of death was 'traumatic asphyxia'.

A pro-IRA march and rally is to go ahead in London tomorrow in spite of calls
for it to be banned. Scotland Yard has told the organizers to ensure that it
passes without confrontation and warned them that grounds could still arise
which could lead to a ban.

The march, organized by the Irish Freedom Movement to mark the seventeenth
anniversary of internment in Northern Ireland, will be held in Islington,
north-east London.

About 2,000 people are expected to attend the four-mile march, which starts
outside Islington town hall and ends with a rally at which prominent republicans
are expected to speak. Local councillors are expected to attend.

Mr Anthony Beaumont-Dark, Conservative MP for Birmingham, Selly Oak, called for
a ban on the march, which was organized months ago. However, the only person
with the power formally to request a banning order by the Home Secretary under
the 1936 Public Order Act is the Commissioner of Police.

Mr Phil Murphy, national organizer of the Irish Freedom Movement, said: 'We
don't see why events of the last few days should lead us to call off the march.
We see it in the context of a war which has gone on for 20 years.'

The march marks the start of a renewed republican campaign to demand the
withdrawal of British troops.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 6, 1988

King acts to tackle terror campaign: Security shake-up agreed as Rhine Army
barracks bomb injures four

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST, ANNA TOMFORDE and DAVID SHARROCK

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: BELFAST and BONN


New Security measures to combat the IRA terror campaign were agreed yesterday,
as three soldiers and a woman civilian were injured by a bomb at a British army
base in Duseldorf, West Germany.

The measures came after a two-hour meeting between security chiefs and Mr Tom
King, the Northern Ireland Secretary, who had flown back to the province after
just spending just one day of his summer holiday at his Wiltshire farm.


He was greeted by mounting Unionist anger, with calls for an RUC shoot-to-kill
policy, the re-introduction of hanging and interment without trial.

Three Royal Engineers and a West German woman working for the Rhine Army were
injured yesterday in an explosion at a barracks in Dusseldorf, four days after
the IRA bombing of Inglish barracks in Mill Hill, north London.

The Dusseldorf interior ministry said that witnesses of the balst, whicj
occurred soon after midday, saw two suspicious-looking cars raced away from the
scene. The Roy Barracks are located in the suburb of Ratingen, on a main road.

A Rhine Army spokesman said the explosion occurred at the perimeter fence, about
five yards from several single-storey buildings used to store equipment. The
soldiers and the women, a painter employed by the Army, were inside one of the
buildings.

She suffered cuts to one arm while the soldiers has minor lacerations from
flying glass. The force of the blast sent roof tiles and bricks flying over a
wide area, and a school in the grounds, closed because of the holidays, was also
damaged.

Despite the attack, which brings the toll to five dead and 28 injured in the
past five days, the Government is determined to resist being stampeded into
making ill-considered security moves.

Government sources said yesterday that internment would not stop the IRA units
in Britain and West Germany and would onlyu provide a spur to flagging IRA
recruitment.

At the end of her Australian tour Mrs Thatcher specifically ruled out the
immediate re-introduction of internment.

Speaking in Brisbane, Mrs Thatcher said: 'We have not reconsidered it yet.'

Commenting on the latest bombings, she added: 'Bombings, shootings and killings
in Britain and in Northern Ireland have nothing to do with democracy or freedom
of speech. They are a negation of both.'

An Ulster Police Federation spokesman expressed anger and disappointment over
the Prime Minister's rejection of internment.

He said: 'The arrest and detention of about 300 to 400 known activists on both
sides of the community would see a significant decline in the level of violence
and would get the jack-boot of criminality off the neck of the whole community.'

Northern Ireland ministers have begun a policy of not responding to Unionist
claims that they are leaving the province defenceless. No more troops are to be
deployed in the immediate future.

After his meeting, Mr King talked by telepphone to Mr Gerry COllins, the Irish
Justice Minister, about the moves the Gardai were taking in the hunt fro the IRA
active service unit which on Thursday gunned down Mr William Hassard, aged 59, a
building contractor, and Mr Fred Love, aged 64, a workman, who had just carried
out repairs on an RUC border station at Belleek, County Fermanagh.

The escape car was found just north of the border. The route home the victims
took to Derry-gonnelly criss-crossed the border and it is believed the attack
was launched from the Republic.

The Gardai yesterday ringed the area in an intensive search for the attackers.

Before going into a meeting of the officers of the Ulster Unionist Council, the
ruling body of his party, Mr James Molyneaux, leader of OUP, called for the
intorduction of selective internment and stiffer prison sentences for terrorist
in Northern Ireland.

He said RUC intelligence was reliable enough to take out of circulation those
who masterminded the current 'holocaust'.

Mr Moluneaux also wanted the RUC to be told to launch a gloves-off offensive
against the IRA. He said: 'The IRA boast that they are engaged in an armed
struggle. I think they have got to be taken at their word.'

Mr James Kilfedder, an Official Unionist MP, described Mr King as 'the weakest
of all the Secretaries of State'.

In Canterbury yesterday, the Lambeth conference unanimously passed an emergency
resolution condemning all violence in Northern Ireland after a row about a
resolution which appeared to condone the activities of the IRA.

The attack comes three weeks after the attack on the Duisburg barracks in which
nine soldiers were injured.

The West German Chief Public Prosecutor, who has taken over the German side of
the investigations, said the circumstances pointed to the IRA.

Since the Duisburg bombing security has been stepped up at British military
installations in West Germany, but it is acknowledged that many low security
'soft targets' remain.

The Ministry of Defence would not confirm that the blast at Roy Barracks had
been caused by a bomb or comment on the security aspects.

Ten years ago the IRA opened their assault against the British armed forces in
Europe with a series of bomb attacks on eight Rhine bases. Since 1978 it has
been targeting army and air force personnel in an area that shares borders with
West Germany, France and the Benelux countries.

In July 1979 three bombs exploded at army installations in Dortmund. No-one was
injured. The following month a time bomb planted beneath a Brussels bandstand
exploded, injuring seven army musicians and 11 Belgian civilians.

In December 1980 the attempted assassination of Britain's Common Market
Commissioner, Mr Christopher Tugendhat, was attributed to the IRA.

In May three RAF servicemen were killed in attacks in the Netherlands.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 6 1988, Saturday

IRA bombers strike again at British base; Bombing of depot for Army map-makers
in the Roy barracks at Ratingen, north of Dusseldorf

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER and MICHAEL EVANS in London and JOHN ENGLAND in
Dusseldorf

SECTION: Issue 63153.

LENGTH: 1323 words


Provisional IRA bombers yesterday blasted the perimeter of a British Army
barracks in West Germany, injuring three servicemen and a German woman civilian.

The attack came days after military establishments went on to heightened alert
after the Mill Hill bombing in London.


By last night, the IRA had not claimed responsibility, but West German
investigators said they had little doubt that the Provisionals were behind the
attack.

As in London, the IRA chose a 'soft target', this time a depot for Army
map-makers in the Roy barracks at Ratingen, north of Dusseldorf.

The bomb was the fifth attack mounted in Europe on British servicemen since May,
and brings the casualty list of deaths and injuries inflicted by a new IRA
offensive this week in Northern Ireland, Britain and Europe to six dead and 19
injured in five days.

The IRA is now apparently operating two active service units, one on the
Continent and one in mainland Britain, or a highly mobile single team able to
draw on bombs from caches in Britain and abroad.

The one saving grace for the security forces is that the IRA no longer seems to
be relying on long-term devices difficult to uncover, but cruder short-timed
devices which increase the chances of the bombers' detection.

Scotland Yard detectives still working at the scene of the Mill Hill blast are
likely to compare their findings with the West German police in the search for
common features.

Last night, West German anti-terrorist investigators, led by the national chief
federal prosecutor's office, which is responsible for handling terrorist
offences, began examining the scene. A spokesman said that the prosecutor, Herr
Kurt Rebmann, suspected the IRA was responsible.

The bombers struck yesterday shortly before lunchtime, wrecking an equipment
store used by the 14th Topographical Squadron of the Royal Engineers five yards
from the fence. The depot is edged by fields.

The bomb buckled the fence, caused damage to an equipment store, and blew out
the windows of the barracks' kindergarten and primary school, which were empty
because of the school holidays.

Two cars, one with West Berlin plates and the other apparently from Dusseldorf,
were seen speeding away but have not been found.

The three servicemen suffered minor cuts and bruises from flying glass and
debris, and were released after receiving medical treatment. The woman civilian,
who was doing painting work at the barracks, was treated in hospital.

The Ratingen barracks, where 96 servicemen of the Royal Engineers' map-making
unit are based, is one of nearly 50 British Army locations in West Germany.
Security at every barracks in West Germany and Britain has been on Bikini Amber
Alert, one level lower than Red Alert, since the Mill Hill blast.

Despite the pattern that now seems to be developing in the IRA campaign, the
security level is unlikely to be changed. Many of the barracks are on mimimum
manning because of the holiday period, but all servicemen are supposed to be
maintaining maximum personal vigilance.

Intelligence sources said yesterday that there was still no clear idea whether
the IRA was working from West Germany or driving over from The Netherlands to
carry out the attacks. Every name of suspected IRA terrorists and supporters,
believed by the British security authorities to be living in The Netherlands,
has been passed to the Dutch police.

But the sources emphasized yesterday that it was easy for the terrorists to
travel across the frontier.

The sources said yesterday that co-operation with both the West German and Dutch
authorities was good, and there was no suggestion of criticism though there had
been no success in tracing the terrorists involved in the five incidents.

During the day Mr Tom King, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, flew to
Belfast for urgent talks on security with the Army and the Royal Ulster
Constabulary.

A special meeting of the Official Unionist Party ruling body, the Ulster
Unionist Council, met in emergency session in Belfast last night to discuss the
latest upsurge in IRA violence.

The death of two elderly Protestants in County Fermanagh as they drove home on
Thursday evening from working at an RUC station has brought the number of deaths
in the Province to five in the space of three days and fuelled calls for greater
action.

Mr King returned to England after being given assessments of the current
Provisional IRA threat and reviewing the operational steps being taken by the
security forces against the upsurge in violence.

He telephoned Mr Gerry Collins, the Irish Justice Minister, specifically about
the double murder in Fermanagh, expressing his gratitude for what the Garda was
doing.

Mr Collins gave Mr King an assurance that everything the Garda could do would be
done, an official spokesman said.

The shooting dead of a joinery contractor, Mr William Hassard, aged 60, and an
employee, Mr Fred Love, aged 64, as they drove away after a day's maintenance
work at the RUC station in Belleek, County Fermanagh, on Thursday evening was
brutal even by the heightened standards of violence now being displayed by the
Provisional IRA.

About 150 rounds were fired by four gunmen using automatic rifles into the van
that Mr Hassard, a father of four and a former Ulster Defence Regiment man, was
driving.

The two men were murdered by the same Provisional IRA unit thought to be
operating from across the border which was responsible for last November's Poppy
Day bombing in Enniskillen, when 11 people died, and which in June placed a bomb
on a school bus, critically injuring a girl aged 14.

The tiny hamlet of Church Hill, where Mr Hassard lived and ran a joinery firm
employing eight local men, was in a state of stunned and silent shock yesterday
as well-wishers called to express condolences at the family home. The two dead
men went to school together and worked together for 40 years.

The local Church of Ireland rector, the Rev Christoper Willcock, condemned the
'significant minority' of local Catholics who support the IRA. They were
bringing a terrible penalty on everybody else, not least their co-religionists,
and the less thinking Protestants would hold the whole Catholic community
responsible for such atrocities, he said.

The Catholic priest of Belleek, Father Patrick Lonergan, said that his
parishioners were stunned and horrified by the outrage in their village. 'I
condemn these murders without reservation. I hope there is no support for this
type of thing among local Catholics.'

Among the fresh calls for greater action yesterday was one from the Northern
Ireland Police Federation, expressing anger at Mrs Thatcher's refusal during
interviews in Australia to return to internment.

A spokesman said that the RUC was trying to fight the most despicable acts of
terrorism with inadequate measures. 'The arrest of 300 to 400 known activists on
both sides of the community would see a significant decline in the level of
violence and would get the jackboot of criminality off the neck of the whole
community. The situation is dramatically different from 1971 (when internment
was last introduced). What level of atrocity will prompt an effective response
from the Prime Minister?' he asked. 'My members want to know.'

Security forces are on the alert for the Noraid leader, Mr Martin Galvin, who is
expected to try to enter Ulster from the Irish Republic in defiance of a
government ban.

He arrived in the Republic on Thursday and is due to speak at a Sinn
Fein-organized anti-extradition rally in Lifford on the Donegal-Londonderry
border today.

The New York-based Republican is publicity director of Noraid, which is regarded
by security forces as a fund-raising front for the IRA.

He is leading a party of 30 Irish-Americans who are on what Sinn Fein calls 'a
fact-finding mission' on both sides of the border.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 6 1988, Saturday

The IRA 'should be wiped off the civilized world'; Margaret Thatcher

BYLINE: From ROBIN OAKLEY, Brisbane

SECTION: Issue 63153.

LENGTH: 706 words


Mrs Thatcher yesterday exploded with anger at the IRA. Speaking even before she
had heard of the bombing incident near Dusseldorf, she declared in a TV
interview: 'They should be wiped off the civilized world.'

After hearing of the bombing late last night Mrs Thatcher immediately extended
her sympathies to the injured. A Downing Street official said: 'The Prime
Minister .. makes the point that this other outrage .. underlines all she has
been saying this week in Australia.'


In a series of interviews yesterday Mrs Thatcher appealed to Republican
sympathisers and other people not to protect the bombers and murderers by
withholding information or giving them safe houses.

Mrs Thatcher said: 'People should give information. It is no good saying 'We are
against them. They are against democracy. It is a scandal. It is a disgrace. It
is a tragedy.' If they have evidence, they should find a way of giving it so
that we can catch them. Everyone should do that, north or south of the border
and everywhere in the United Kingdom and abroad.'

The Prime Minister insisted she would not be deterred from her walkabouts by the
latest IRA bombings and threats. 'You do not run away because a few people are
troublesome. You just go on through, ' she said.

She accused the media in general and the BBC in particular of giving the IRA too
much publicity and said she expected anybody who interviewed an IRA member to be
prosecuted.

'The IRA is a proscribed organization in Britain and anyone who interviews them
I should expect to be committed for an offence.'

Mrs Thatcher condemned the IRA repeatedly as people who slaughtered innocent
men, women and children for their own per-

sonal ends. Questioned by an Australian journalist about the Gibraltar killings
of an IRA active service unit and about an Amnesty report on human rights in
Northern Ireland, Mrs Thatcher said the IRA did not like the result of the
ballot box and so they resorted to the bullet. They bombed, maimed and killed as
they had done this week.

'It is nothing to do with democracy or freedom of speech. It is the negation of
both and I hope you would think it right not to give them any publicity.'

Asked by a BBC interviewer about the low success rate of policy against the IRA,
Mrs Thatcher retorted: 'Do you mean to suggest that the BBC thinks we should
give in to treason and violence? I just hope that you do not in future give too
much publicity to it.'

At her Expo '88 press conference she emphasized: 'Even as I have been here, they
have been bombing and shooting and killing in Britain and in Northern Ireland.
Those tactics have lost something like 2,000 people killed.' Asked by BBC Radio
why she did not ban Sinn Fein as well as the IRA, Mrs Thatcher replied: 'The IRA
is a proscribed, forbidden organization. Sinn Fein is a political wing. Yes, I
understand the problems of Sinn Fein. Sinn Fein does say it supports violence,
but the IRA perpetrates violence.'

She said that the reintroduction of internment in Northern Ireland had not yet
been reconsidered and it would not necessarily help.

'I think it would be a very serious step to take and we should think long before
doing so.'

Mrs Thatcher dismissed the troubles with demonstrators in Melbourne, Sydney and
Perth, saying: 'I've seen these things with a few Irish before.' They only
succeeded, she said, in winning sympathy for her own cause.

Downing Street officials are still angry at the risks to which Mrs Thatcher was
subjected by poor police organization in Melbourne. But Mrs Thatcher said
yesterday she had no criticism of security arrangements in Australia.

'I know what havoc a few IRA sympathisers can wreak on those who are not used to
it, ' she said. 'It does not give me any fear whatsoever it just gives me a
resolute determination that we continue this walkabout and that we will not be
put off by these people.

'Politicians must go out and about. We need the contact. We get a lot from it
and shall continue to do so.'

Though Brisbane crowds yesterday gave Mrs Thatcher the warmest reception of her
tour, she still faced a knot of some 50 socialist, pro-IRA protesters, including
children, opposite her hotel.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 7 1988, Sunday

Behind the mask; IRA; Insight

SECTION: Issue 8557.

LENGTH: 959 words


The declaration from Tom King was upbeat and confident. After a meeting of the
Anglo-Irish conference in London 10 days ago, the secretary of state for
Northern Ireland declared that the IRA was becoming increasingly 'incompetent'.

The security forces were continuing to gain the upper hand, he said, and recent
terrorist atrocities were a measure of the growing isolation of the IRA.


When he spoke there had been 49 murders in Northern Ireland this year. In South
Armagh, terrorists had attacked an Army Lynx helicopter for the first time with
machinegun fire. On the continent, three RAF men had been killed.

A measure of King's confidence came two days before his remarks when the prime
minister reshuffled her cabinet. At his own request he remained at his post a
position long considered a political backwater.

But since the Anglo-Irish conference and King's statement there has been a
sudden and intense escalation of IRA violence, carefully and cleverly
orchestrated to keep the terrorists' activities on the front pages and murderous
enough to make King's remarks appear to be nonsense:

Last Monday the IRA mounted its first successful raid on the British mainland
since the Brighton hotel bombing of 1984, exploding a bomb at a north London
barracks and killing one soldier.

On Tuesday an off-duty soldier from the Ulster Defence Regiment was shot dead in
a shop in West Belfast, a policeman was killed in a booby-trap car in Lisburn
and an IRA land-mine exploded under a UDR Land-Rover, injuring eight soldiers.

Wednesday brought the death of a part-time member of the UDR in County Tyrone.

On Thursday two elderly Protestant contractors working at a Royal Ulster
Constabulary police station in County Fermanagh were shot dead.

Friday saw no respite; the IRA struck again at a British Army base, this time in
Ratingen, West Germany, injuring three soldiers and a woman civilian.

The attacks, deliberately timed for maximum publicity, hardly seemed the work of
incompetents.

BY Friday of last week Tom King had been forced to break off his holiday and
return to Ulster for crisis talks. The government's anger was emphatically
signalled by Margaret Thatcher in Australia, herself the target of pro-IRA
demonstrations. 'The IRA should be wiped off the civilised world, ' she
declared.

The terror campaign was of an intensity unseen for many years. But in Ulster
last week many members of the security forces were adamant that the IRA is at a
critical point in its history.

The fundamental question facing the terrorists is whether they can maintain the
present policy of seeking power 'with a ballot paper in one hand and an Armalite
rifle in the other' entering Sinn Fein candidates in elections while continuing
a campaign of violence.

Twenty years of struggle for British withdrawal has been unsuccessful. A series
of bungled operations from Enniskillen to Gibraltar has claimed many lives, both
of experienced IRA activists and innocent civilians, bringing international
condemnation and plunging morale to an all-time low.

Last week's violence is a determined attempt by IRA hardliners to re-establish
morale, support and the credibility of the armed struggle, while distracting
attention from internal splits; for divisions there are.

Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, recently warned the IRA that it must 'put
its house in order'. He fears that more IRA own goals, such as the bombing of a
school bus on June 28, will lead to the political isolation of Sinn Fein and its
eventual defeat. It is clear that he, at least, is looking increasingly to a
political solution to the Northern Ireland troubles.

Recent weeks have also seen a group of prisoners, convicted of IRA offences,
calling for the ending of the violence. The hardliners decry any proposal to
scale down the terror in a search for political respectability and believe that
Sinn Fein's political role has compromised their organisation, helping the
security forces to penetrate their ranks.

Last week's campaign of violence represents their best and perhaps their last
chance to regain credibility within the movement. The question is: how long can
the hardliners sustain the effort?

THE violence inflicted last week has long been expected by the RUC. It has
warned, since the beginning of the year, that such an onslaught was planned. It
believes careful intelligence work in Britain and abroad has delayed it until
now.

The campaign was to have been opened with carnage in Gibraltar last March by a
specially-selected group of terrorists; but British security forces foiled the
attempt to blast the band of the Royal Anglian Regiment on the Rock.

That defeat set back the IRA's plans, throwing it into turmoil as it searched
for possible moles within its ranks. In the meantime, terrorist units were
infiltrated into Britain and the Continent. They are well equipped with plastic
explosive supplied by Libya and will continue to strike in the coming months
unless caught, say security sources.

Despite the violence, King's comments have been partly vindicated. Although
better armed than ever before, the IRA has concentrated its present campaign on
'soft targets' which do not require sophisticated planning.

If the campaign continues at its present pitch for long enough, however, it is
likely to rekindle widespread support for a violent solution among Republicans,
and support for Sinn Fein will dwindle .

If there are too many own goals, however, or the units in Britain and Amsterdam
are caught, then Sinn Fein's ballot-box approach is likely to prosper. But that
would not signal an end to the troubles the hard men of the IRA would simply
regroup for a new campaign of violence.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 7 1988, Sunday

Terror's hard core of sixty; IRA; Insight

SECTION: Issue 8557.

LENGTH: 381 words


THE 'army' which to date has claimed the lives of an estimated 1,600 soldiers,
policemen and civilians and has kept British troops on the streets of Ulster for
the past 19 years is at present thought to number no more than 60 members
engaged on what the IRA calls 'active service'.

One small group, numbering no more than six members, is believed to be on
mainland Britain, and another in The Netherlands.


The rest operate in Northern Ireland, crossing the border into the republic to
collect stored weapons, carry out robberies or hide. These so-called
'active-service' members specialise in shootings, bombings or mortar attacks.
Others will act as intelligence gatherers or quartermasters.

The IRA, military sources admit, is the most proficient terrorist group
operating in the world today. It deliberately keeps its numbers small to protect
itself against informers.

Behind the vanguard of 60, however, there are more than 200 trained and
experienced IRA members ready to join the units carrying out terrorist attacks
when needed. The third tier is made up of potential members: youngsters from
Republican farming families, urban youths who have graduated through street
demonstrations and former IRA men recently released from prison.

They face a vetting process, which can take up to a year, before the training
begins.

Until the latter half of 1987 most new recruits tended to be directed into
political work for Sinn Fein. Weapons training was by way of specially-made
videos, with little opportunity to handle the real thing.

However, the IRA's invention of the 'drogue bomb', a home-made, armour-piercing
grenade which needs little expertise to operate, means that today's recruits are
often quickly pressed into action.

The organisation they join has a complex structure. At its head is a seven-man
army council based in Dublin, where there is also an 'HQ' staff which has
members directly controlling terrorist units in Britain and Europe.

Most of the units operating in Northern Ireland are controlled directly by a
northern command structure based in Belfast. In areas where there is a strong
Republican presence the chain of command is passed down to local units. In rural
areas, however, a greater degree of autonomy exists.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 7 1988, Sunday

Spy ordered out; El Hadi Issa Grada expelled from Britain

SECTION: Issue 8557.

LENGTH: 70 words


A LIBYAN spy has been ordered out of Britain by the home secretary after British
intelligence discovered he was part of a terrorist cell plotting to attack
Libyan dissidents. El Hadi Issa Grada, 44, who has a British wife and two
children, was arrested by special branch detectives at his home in Southsea,
Hants, on Friday. He has lived in Britain since 1975 and was last night being
questioned at Portsmouth.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 9 1988, Tuesday

Two dead as Protestants seek revenge; 'Loyalist' backlash starts; Northern
Ireland

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS in London and JOHN ENGLAND in Bonn

SECTION: Issue 63155.

LENGTH: 806 words


A Protestant backlash against IRA violence erupted in Ulster yesterday as West
German police disclosed details of the device used to bomb a British Army
barracks at Ratingen last week.

In Belfast, a 17-year-old student and a brewery worker were killed as Loyalist
terrorists launched random sectarian attacks in the Catholic Ardoyne area.


In the first incident, two teenage brothers were crossing an intersection when a
car pulled up. According to a witness, one of the car's occupants produced an
automatic rifle and opened fire on the pair.

James Patrick Morris, aged 17, of Highbury Crescent, Ardoyne, was shot and
pronounced dead on arrival at Mater Hospital. His unnamed brother, aged 16, was
not hit.

As the car, a stolen Cavalier, rounded a corner, apparently returning to the
Shankill district across the busy Crumlin Road, its way was partially blocked by
a lorry delivering beer to a social club. The gunman peppered the cab with
bursts of automatic fire, hitting the driver's mate, Mr Peter Dolan, from
Moreland Crescent, Andersonstown, in the neck and chest. He died soon after
being taken to Mater Hospital.

At the same time, the regular Army's death toll in Northern Ireland rose to 13
this year and 402 since 1971 with the death in Musgrave Park military hospital
of Corporal Alex Bannister, aged 21, a 2nd Battalion Queen's Regiment soldier
from Maidstone, Kent. He was critically injured by an IRA sniper three weeks
ago.

In Germany, police said the bomb that exploded last Friday outside the perimeter
fence of the British Army barracks at Ratingen, near Dusseldorf, was hidden on a
bicycle, parts of which were found by experts examining damaged buildings.

The discovery underlines the ease with which the IRA has planted bombs both
inside and outside Army barracks in recent months. The Ratingen barracks attack
caused only minor injuries, but it succeeded in keeping the IRA in the public
eye.

Although the bicycle was blown to pieces in the blast, German experts have been
able to identify it as a red touring model made in Japan.

It was probably used to transport the bomb to the remote camp of 14
Topographical Squadron Royal Engineers along a narrow path through fields
surrounding the base.

German police said: 'The bicycle may have been brought to a spot near by in a
car. It was put against the fence between 8am and noon.

'We have appealed to people who live near the camp to tell us if they saw any
strangers in the area during that time. We have also called on anyone who is
missing a bicycle of that description to contact us.'

After the explosion, two cars with German number plates were seen speeding away
from the barracks. It was still not clear yesterday whether they were linked to
the explosion.

British security sources are convinced that the current bombing campaign is an
IRA operation and does not involve links with other European terrorist groups.

Suggestions that the IRA is using organizations such as the German Red Army
Faction successors to the notorious Baader-Meinhof gang to carry out attacks on
its behalf were authoritatively dismissed yesterday.

The British Army of the Rhine (BAOR) and West German security authorities both
denied a report that a suspected Red Army Faction terrorist identified as Werner
Lotze was seen walking freely at BAOR headquarters at Rheindahlen last Tuesday,
a day after the Inglis barracks explosion at Mill Hill in north London.

Dr Hans-Jurgen Forster, of the federal public prosecutor's office in Karlsruhe,
which deals with terrorist attacks, said it was a case of mistaken identity.

'A British woman soldier saw a man whom she thought was Lotze. But when German
police showed her several photographs of him she said the man she had seen was
definitely not the alleged terrorist.'

Dr Forster said there was no evidence of co-operation between the IRA and the
Red Army Faction.

British Army sources also emphasized that while the Rheindahlen base was a
sprawling, open site, with public roads running through it, the huge
headquarters building housing the BAOR, RAF Germany and Nato's Second Allied
Tactical Air Force and Northern Army Group was a closely guarded high-security
area.

Security at all bases in Germany is still being assessed on a daily basis by the
Army and RAF chiefs at Rheindahlen, although the detailed measures to be taken
are left to the discretion of barracks commanders.

Senior Ulster unionists, including Mr James Molyneaux, the party leader, and Mr
Ken Maginnis, his security spokeman, held talks with officers of the Royal
Ulster Constabulary for two hours yesterday.

Topics discussed included criminal sentencing procedures and policy unionists
say Ulster courts pass lighter sentences than those in mainland Britain and
troop deployment.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 10 1988, Wednesday

Forces face 83 riot attacks; Internment anniversary; Northern Ireland

BYLINE: RONALD FAUX

SECTION: Issue 63156.

LENGTH: 477 words


Demands for tougher measures against terrorists have been made after violent
demonstrations in Belfast marking the seventeenth anniversary of internment.

The ritual celebrations resulted in 83 attacks on security forces on Monday
night and 42 people were arrested.


Thirteen appeared in court in Belfast yesterday on public disorder and riotous
behaviour charges.

Eight Royal Ulster Constabulary officers were injured in clashes. The police
force said that more serious, widespread trouble had been avoided by quick
action.

The violence brought a strong response yesterday from the Rev Ian Paisley,
leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, who demanded the introduction of
internment for Republican terrorists.

Mr Paisley said the RUC had achieved a 95 per cent success rate in bringing
Protestant terrorists to justice, but the force's success among the Republican
men of violence had been negligible. The difference, he said, was that the
police were able to go into Protestant areas to get evidence.

Rejecting the call by the Northern Ireland Police Federation for even-handed
internment, Mr Paisley said such a move would be unjustified and would
antagonize the Protestant community.

'The facts are that the process of law works in Protestant areas', he said. Last
year 11 murders were attributed to 'loyalist' organizations and 20 people were
charged while republicans committed 69 murders but only eight were charged.

The DUP party executive's answer to the recent upsurge in violence included
calls for capital punishment, more resources to fight the IRA, search and seize
operations in Republican areas, stronger border security and stiffer prison
sentences for terrorists.

A crackdown on terrorism on both sides of the border was demanded by the Rev
Stanley Whittington, President of the Methodist Church in Ireland. He was
speaking yesterday at the funeral of Mr William Hassard, aged 59, a father of
four, shot dead by the IRA on Thursday with another man as they worked at
Belleek RUC station.

Soldiers who survived the IRA bomb blast at Inglis Barracks in north London will
pay tribute to their murdered colleague on Thursday. A full military funeral
will be held at the base for Lance Corporal Michael Robbins, aged 23, who died
in the explosion on August 1, before he is buried in a private family ceremony
away from the barracks.

Irish police and customs officials have smashed an IRA smuggling racket and
seized illegally imported cattle hormones worth Pounds 250,000 at a farmhouse in
Co Monaghan.

Mr Kevin Boland, a former Irish cabinet minister, appealed to the Dublin
government yesterday not to extradite Robert Russell, a Maze prison escaper, to
Northern Ireland later this month.

Britain views the case as a test of the Irish administration's willingness to
hand over terrorist suspects.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:40:01

