



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:22:48
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

THREAT OF UK TERROR ATTACK 'VERY HIGH' POSSIBLE TARGET: A newspaper claimed a
plot centred on London's underground

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 279 words


THE threat of a terrorist attack on Britain is "very high", an expert warned
today.

Osama bin Laden had issued an "explicit" threat said Professor Paul Williamson,
of St Andrews University's Centre for the study of Terrorism and Political
Violence.

"The threat level to the UK is very high at present," the professor told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme.

"We know that al Qaida is an extremely dangerous organisation with a record of
mass killing.

"We also know that Britain has been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a
recent audio tape. "He threatens attacks against Britain and other countries
that are part of the terrorism coalition."

Lord Harris, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said the head of
specialist police operations in London thought it was a case of when, not if, an
attack came.

"It is a matter of common sense that you take the warning that the professor has
just given us very seriously," he told Today.

"Following September 11 (government minister) Nick Raynsford convened what is
called the London resilience committee which looked at all the existing plans
and upgraded them on the basis of what if the unthinkable happened.

"No-one had envisaged terrorism on the sort of scale that we saw in New York and
Washington that day.

"What if various things happened including attacks on the London Underground?

"Do the emergency services have the plan in place to handle specific events?

"All of those plans were upgraded. A lot of work was done on working out how
agencies would cope under specific eventualities.

"I think we are much better prepared than we would have been 18 months ago."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 30, 2002

MOMBASA THREAT WAS KNOWN OF WEEKS AGO; WHY DIDN'T WE GET A WARNING?

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland and Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 638 words


WARNINGS of a possible terrorist attack in Kenya were in circulation weeks ago,
it was confirmed yesterday.

The Australian government warned its citizens against travelling to the resort
city of Mombasa, where terrorists launched a car bomb attack on a tourist hotel,
killing 12. The blast came at the same time as an unsuccessful attempt to shoot
down an Israeli airliner.

A spokeswoman for the Australian department of foreign affairs confirmed: "We
had received some new information which indicated that we had to revise our
travel advice, warning Australians to defer all non-essential travel to
Mombasa."

Concern over missed warnings erupted six weeks ago following the terrorist
attacks in Bali.

It emerged then that Britain and Australia received warnings mentioning the
Indonesian resort - but had failed to pass them on.

American travellers were informed. Britain, the US and Australia have the
closest intelligence-sharing relationship in the world. Thousands of British
sun-seekers visit Mombasa every year.

But Tony Blair's official spokesman yesterday turned down repeated opportunities
to deny that Britain received the same warning about Mombasa that the Australian
authorities passed on.

He said "generic advice" had been passed on to Britons to be careful in Kenya,
but added: "I am not saying anything more. I am not going to comment on specific
intelligence. Intelligence issues are complex and we will respond to questions
as we think appropriate."

Pressed on whether the Government should upgrade its system of putting advice
only on the Foreign Office website and instead issue specific press notice
warnings, the spokesman indicated that ministers did not want to panic the
public.

"The Government will continue to do what it has to do and calibrate any response
it has to make accurately, mindful of the need to act as appropriate and not to
do the terrorists' job for them, " he said.

Ministers are understood to be concerned about over-hyping intelligence on
possible terrorist hotspots for fear of panicking tourists and handing Al Qaeda
victory in its campaign to destroy the global travel industry.

But Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said the
Government must be prepared to take a "robust" line if it received warning of a
specific threat, even if it involved a Commonwealth country such as Kenya.

"The Foreign Office here will have to be similarly robust if there is any
quantifiable threat to British citizens, even if it involves a Commonwealth
country, " he said. Meanwhile, Israelis wounded in Mombasa arrived home on an
air force jet yesterday to tearful reunions on the runway with family and
friends.

The plane landed at Lod air force base, near Tel Aviv, with about 70 Israeli
tourists, including the bodies of three who were killed in the bombing - two
brothers aged 13 and 15 and a 61-yearold man.

Four of the wounded were put into ambulances bound for a Jerusalem hospital.

Most of the first arrivals were outwardly unscathed but many cried in relief at
being home as they disembarked, draped in blankets and clutching each other
before falling into the arms of loved ones.

"If there is going to be an attack then Israel is the best place to be, " said
one young woman.

The plane flew to Kenya with experts from Israel's Shin Beth and Mossad secret
services.

Israeli premier Ariel Sharon has given them the task of tracking down - and
killing - those responsible for the outrage.

Kenyan police said 12 people - an American, a Spaniard, six Pakistanis and four
Somalis - had been held for questioning in connection with both attacks.

A spokesman said: "We feel that some of them have information which could be
useful to us."

Police are looking for other suspects "of Arab appearance".

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 25, 2002

Sales boost;
 NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 93 words


BRITAIN: British products and services are selling better to Americans, both in
Britain and the US, since the terrorist attacks of September 11, a new survey
shows.

Walpole, an organisation that champions British excellence around the world,
found that UK companies saw an increase in sales of between ten per cent and 80
per cent in December 2001 and January 2002 compared with the previous year.

Company bosses said they believed the upturn in sales stemmed from American
solidarity with Britain as a result of the joint "war on terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN FAILS TERROR TEST;
 BLAST AT LACK OF RESPONSE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 222 words


THE emergency services in Britain lack the capabilities and resources to cope
with a massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs
warned today.

The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of 'inadequate
central co-ordination and direction'.

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of 'real deficiencies' in the
ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained 'fundamental
vulnerabilities'. Committee chairman, Walsall Labour MP Bruce George, said: 'We
do believe that there has been a lack of grip and direction on the part of
central government.

'We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale of the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism.'

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service.

Downing Street insisted steps had been taken to improve security and emergency
planning, but conceded more needed to be done.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

THREAT IS "VERY HIGH" WARNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 95 words


THE threat of a terrorist attack on Britain is "very high", an expert warned
today.

Osama bin Laden had issued an "explicit" threat said Professor Paul Williamson,
of St Andrews University's Centre for the study of Terrorism and Political
Violence.

"The threat level to the UK is very high at present," the professor told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme.

"al Qaida has a record of mass killing.

"Britain has been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a recent audio tape. He
threatens attacks against Britain and other terrorism coalition partners."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 17, 2002

BRITAIN ON STANDBY FOR NUKE STRIKE; SECRET PLAN TO EVACUATE MILLIONS IN TERROR
ALERT

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 578 words


PLANS to move millions of people out of Britain's major cities in the event of a
terrorist attack have been secretly drawn up, it was revealed yesterday.

The mass exodus would be launched at centres of population around the country if
there was a nuclear or biological strike.

In London, emergency nerve centres for the Government, the police and vital
financial services have already been built and equipped. They would be ready
within hours of a terrorist outrage.

The move is in direct response to the September 11 atrocities and a possible
terrorist backlash after any military strike against Iraq.

But police stress there is no specific intelligence about an imminent attack.
The authorities say they are responding to a general threat.

Details of the emergency plans emerged as pressure was mounting for the
deportation of extremist Muslims who openly support the Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein.

The Al-Muhajiroun group, whose leading supporters include controversial Sheikh
Abu Hamza alMasri, has warned Britons that they will "choke on the smoke" of
revenge attacks if a strike against Saddam is launched.

It is understood Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch is examining material -
including videos - linked to the group in case they breach the Terrorism Act.
The extremists, who are condemned by the vast majority of Muslims in Britain,
want the UK to be incorporated into an Islamic state in Europe.

Emergency plans have been drawn up for major UK cities to ensure that local
government and the police can operate effectively in the event of a terrorist
attack. They include new measures introduced since September 11 such has no-fly
zones over power stations and other vital sites.

A major element of each plan is understood to cover supplies of crucial drugs -
including antidotes to known biological weapons - and medical services.

The existence of London's postSeptember 11 plan was revealed in a letter to the
all-party Commons Defence Committee by Judith Mayhew, chairman of London
Corporation's policy and resources group. "London is currently looking at
methods of mass evacuation in certain geographical areas, " she wrote. Details
of the exodus plans would be broadcast on radio and TV in a way which would not
"overdramatise" the crisis.

Police chiefs believe there could be mass panic if London or other major cities
came under attack, particularly from chemical weapons. Areas of dense population
or with poor road and rail links would create additional problems.

Methods of dealing with possible outbreaks of public disorder at railway
stations and other transport terminals also feature in the plans.

Home Secretary David Blunkett is in overall command of the emergency planning as
head of the newly-created Civil Contingencies Committee. But in the event of a
disaster the Prime Minister would be in charge, working from the Cobra nerve
centre in Whitehall.

Tony Blair recently ordered a GBP 1.4million re-fit of Cobra. It is understood
the money will be spent on upgrading communication equipment to link the centre
to a network of regional government bunkers dotted around the country.

He has ordered the work to be completed before any military action against
Saddam.

One expert said last night: "Planning of this kind has been going on for
decades, particularly in the face of a Cold War nuclear attack. It is only right
that Government is prepared for any nightmare scenario."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            December 8, 2002, Monday

UK CIVIL DEFENCE NO LONGER EXISTS'

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean Environment Editor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 628 words


By

Britain is massively unprepared for a catastrophic terrorist attack, a series of
confidential Downing Street documents seen by The Independent on Sunday reveals.

The documents disclose that the nation's civil defence "effectively no longer
exists", that the emergency services have "not attempted" to become fully
prepared for the threat, and that legislation is so "anachronistic and
ineffective" that the Government could not even declare a state of emergency.

The disclosures - much the most devastating official admission yet of Britain's
vulnerability - closely follow last week's government announcement that it would
stockpile enough smallpox vaccine to be able to vaccinate everyone in the
country if necessary.

They come amid increased concern that al-Qa'ida is about to mount an attack on
Britain, and as the crisis over Iraq reaches a new intensity with yesterday's
delivery of its dossier on weapons of mass destruction to the UN. Many experts
agree that war with Iraq would be greatly increase the possibility of chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons being used in London and other cities.

The documents - compiled between September and 5 December by the Civil
Contingencies Secretariat based in the Cabinet Office - warn of "catastrophic
incidents... simultaneously occurring in diverse locations, arising from
terrorist attack". It says that the "devastating" use of weapons of mass
destruction threatens "the viability of the nation as a whole". But they add
that while Britain can "respond effectively to smaller-scale emergencies", the
capacity to deal with big ones still "is urgently required" 15 months after the
11 September attacks. Recent floods and the foot and mouth and fuel price crises
- though less disruptive than a major terrorist attack - had exposed "poor
communication between central and local government", "a lack of clarity over
roles and responsibilities", and "inconsistencies in roles and arrangements".

They describe how after the end of the Cold War "most civil defence
infrastructure and initiatives were scrapped or suspended", and conclude: "Civil
defence effectively no longer exists in the UK as a stand-alone practical
activity."

Meanwhile, they add, Britain's emergency legislation is "out of date". They say
that "though useful and common internationally", the "ability to declare a state
of emergency effectively does not exist in the UK" because the 80-year -old law
under which it would be done is "anachronistic".

Local councils, they say, give emergency planning a low priority because they
are not bound by law to ensure it is carried out, and because "they appear to be
distracted by the multifarious range of important functions for which they are
responsible". As a result, some local authorities had not prepared proper plans
for dealing with a possible terrorist attack.

Police, fire and ambulance services, for their part, had gone at "only a slow
pace" in modernising their responses, and had "not attempted" to meet the full
agenda for change laid out by the Government.

The documents say that new legislation is urgently needed to "ensure civil
protection" and that, without it, the lack of preparation will get even worse.
But ministers are dragging their feet.

They failed to include a new Civil Contingencies Bill in the Government's
legislative programme, announced in last month's Queen's Speech, and do not even
plan to publish a draft of it until the spring.

Senior Cabinet Office sources told The Independent on Sunday last week that they
were frustrated by the contrast between the alacrity of ministers in clamping
down on civil liberties after 11 September and their reluctance to take adequate
measures to protect the public from attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 15, 2002

PLAN FOR NEW SEPT 11 RAIDS BLAIR WARNED

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words


TONY Blair was yesterday warned that Britain would be the target of September
11-style terror attacks if it joins any military action against Iraq.

Radical Muslim cleric Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed claimed that Islamic
fundamentalists were planning mass terror attacks in retaliation.

Sheikh Mohammed, the UKbased leader of the radical AlMuhajiroun group, said: "We
are giving advice to the British Government and as well warning the British
public of the consequences of involving themselves in attacking Iraq because the
consequences of playing with fire is always either you burn yourself or cause
other problems."

Asked if he had information of threats, the Sheikh replied: "If you are in my
position and listening to the talk and discussion in different rooms on the
Internet and aware about Islamic activities, yes you will be worried, because I
receive many of these type of threats."

The Sheikh has caused widespread fury in the past for his inflammatory comments.
He called for Britain to be turned into an Islamic state with the Muslim flag
hung outside Downing Street and has described Osama Bin Laden as a "hero". He
also provoked anger yesterday when he appeared to justify the September 11
attacks. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We don't need to receive any
information, we want to study reality and see what happened on September 11,
which was a direct response to the evil American policy in the Muslim world."

Deputy PM John Prescott yesterday said that the ultimate decision on whether to
attack Iraq would be made by Mr Blair.

Some 160 MPs, mostly Labour backbenchers, have signed an early-day motion
cautioning against action and many are believed to be ready to rebel.

Mr Prescott said: "The Prime Minister has made it clear that at the appropriate
time there will be a decision in Parliament if such decisions have to be taken."

Pressed if he meant MPs could vote on war, he said: "Well, there will be a kind
of discussion because every time we have had decisions on these matters they
have usually been on the adjournment of the House. But it will be judged at the
appropriate time. The Prime Minister will make the decision."

Later Labour MP Tam Dalyell, Father of the House, said: "Hearing his attitude
makes me regret ever having voted for John Prescott for the leadership of the
Labour Party.

"In a parliamentary democracy, is the First Minister to consult Parliament only
after a decision has been made?"

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 26, 2002

US buys British in solidarity

SECTION: Business, Pg.75

LENGTH: 105 words


BRITISH products and services are selling better to Americans both in Britain
and the US since the terrorist attacks of September 11.

Americans feel a sense of solidarity towards Britain as a result of the joint
war on terrorism and they are buying British goods far more than before.

Yesterday's survey for Walpole, which champions British excellence, showed sales
by British companies increased between 10 per cent and 80 per cent in December
2001 and January 2002 compared to the previous year.

Companies to benefit from this special relationship include Fortnum & Mason and
gunsmiths Holland & Holland.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 1, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

Britain's peace role is praised

BYLINE: By the Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 181 words




Britain is recognised as a "powerful force for good" around the globe in the
wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said
today.

In a New Year address, Mr Straw said the US suicide hijackings, which triggered
the war on terrorism, had shone a light on the "dedication and professionalism"
of the staff of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.

"September 11 had a deep impact on all of us," he said.

"Yet in the days that followed those harrowing events in the United States, few
of us could have imagined that, on this New Year's Day, so many people would be
freed of fear and oppression and that the Union flag would once more fly over
the British Embassy in Kabul."

He spoke after Lord Justice Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, voiced "concern" over
anti-terror laws brought in at home in response to the September 11 attacks.

The moves which include detention of suspected foreign terrorists without trial,
should last no longer than "absolutely necessary", he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 13, 2002

ATTACK FEAR AS UK STOCKPILES SMALLPOX JABS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 171 words


FEARS that terrorists may be planning a biological attack on Britain grew last
night after it emerged that the Government has bought 30 million smallpox
vaccines - enough to protect half the population.

Ministers have ordered GBP 32millionworth of the jabs to bolster defences
against the disease in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

It follows anthrax attacks on the US and concerns that Saddam Hussein has
chemical and biological weapons.

Smallpox, which kills around 30 per cent of its victims, has the potential to
blow up into a worldwide plague if used in a terror attack.

Health Secretary Alan Milburn has met his counterparts in other countries to
discuss contingency plans in the event of an attack.

But Department of Health officials last night insisted Britain was not being put
on a high state of alert and the move was simply "precautionary".

A spokesman said:

"There is no credible threat but it is important to take all necessary steps to
protect the population."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          February 14, 2002, Thursday

BRITONS RAISE POUNDS 5M FOR TOWERS' FUND PROUD: Former New York Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani with the insignia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words


BRITONS have raised nearly pounds 5 million for the victims of the September 11
attacks in New York.

The announcement was made yesterday at a lunch for the city's former mayor,
Rudolph Giuliani, shortly after he received a knighthood from the Queen at
Buckingham Palace.

The money will be used to help children who lost a parent in the atrocities and
also for the families of the 61 British victims, said Lord Levene, chairman of
the appeal fund that was set up in the UK the day after the terror attacks.

Donations came from companies and communities across Britain, including Cornish
fishermen and soldiers in Yorkshire.

After receiving his knighthood, Mr Giuliani said: "We need good friends and we
have no better friend than Great Britain."

Mr Giuliani is now entitled to use the letters KBE after his name.

But because he is not a British citizen, he cannot style himself Sir Rudolph.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 25, 2002

Boost for tourism;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 34 words


NATIONAL: Ministers were today set to unveil a 40 million package to kickstart
Britain's tourism industry following the double blow of foot-and-mouth disease
and the September 11 terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 July 21, 2002

UK WARNED OVER ANTI-TERROR PLANS

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and Tim Webb

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 290 words


The british government will be warned this week that plans to help people
survive a national emergency, similar to a 11 September style terrorist attack,
are inadequate.

The Labour-dominated defence select committee is to warn that, 10 months after
the attacks on New York and Washington alerted the world to the dangers of
large-scale terrorist attacks, Britain still does not have an workable action
plan.

One committee member said: "The strategy they have at the moment is a waste of
time. After speaking to all the people who would be expected to guide the
country through the aftermath of an attack or a smallpox epidemic, we were just
not convinced that everyone is organised and co-ordinated. There is
disorganisation down the line that needs to be sorted out.

"If they are going to refurbish the Cobra centre, that is the sort of move we
would welcome," the source added. "But it would only ensure that things improve
on the government's own doorstep. It is disorganisation further down the line,
at the sharp end, that must be tackled."

Last month The Business revealed that the regulator of Britain's nuclear
facilities warned the Department of Trade and Industry that security
arrangements were "inadequate".

The annual report from the Office of Civil Nuclear Safety (OCNS) also said it
did not have enough personnel to continue full inspections of nuclear sites
after 11 September.

Intelligence services fear that Al-Qaeda terrorists are planning to use a
"dirtybomb" containing nuclear materials. Nuclear waste is spread around 33
UKsites. Britain's nuclear facilities are also reported to be on a list of
potential targets, said to be vulnerable to attacks by suicide bombers, drawn up
by MI5.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 July 24, 2002

Britain could not cope with attack;
 TERROR WARNING: MPs point to lack of capability

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 343 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs warned
today.

The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of "inadequate
central coordination and direction".

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of "real deficiencies" in the
ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a "proper and
comprehensive" review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the "slow progress" in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a "strong central authority" was needed to lay down the law in Whitehall
and co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved in
emergency planning.

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in anti-terrorism operations within
the UK.

It called for a review of security at nuclear power stations, sea ports, and on
Royal Navy warships to ensure they were properly prepared to counter the
heightened terrorist threat.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "We do believe that there
has been a lack of grip and direction on the part of central government.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale of the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism."

The committee was particularly critical of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat
which was set up last year before the September 11 attacks specifically to co
-ordinate government response to disasters.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            January 7, 2002, Monday

MUSLIMS URGED TO LAUNCH UK ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 163 words


A BRITISH Muslim who claims to have helped recruit more than 200 British
volunteers to fight for the Taliban, warned many will return home to launch UK
terror attacks.

Hassan Butt, 22, who was brought up in Manchester but is now based in Pakistan,
said he would personally encourage attacks on political and military leaders and
government buildings.

Although some volunteers had been "martyred" during the war in Afghanistan, he
warned a "new phase" of terrorism would be launched on Britain and he encouraged
Muslims "without hesitation".

Butt also claimed he had returned to Britain for three weeks since September 11,
undetected by the security services.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that many of the British volunteers are
now in Pakistan "organising operations".

He added: "If they do return to Britain, I do believe they will take military
action within Britain."

He said targets will be "British military and government institutes".

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 6, 2002

BLUNKETT REVIVES ISSUE THAT SPARKED LIBERTY GROUP FURY; I DON CARDS FOR BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 323 words


EVERYONE in Britain could soon be issued with a compulsory ID card after the
Government yesterday announced plans to canvass views on the issue.

The idea was briefly raised last year after the September 11 terror attacks, but
ministers quickly retreated amid public outcry at the idea of rushing in such
controversial legislation.

Even the last Tory government abandoned attempts to introduce compulsory ID
cards, which were last issued in Britain in 1952.

Civil liberties groups have vowed to fight what they see as a dangerous and
costly move, and even the Home Office shies away from the term "identity card",
preferring to refer to a "universal entitlement card".

Rather than just confirming identity it would help people access public services
while also cracking down on fraud and illegal workers, say officials.

To avoid friction between police and public, people would not have to carry the
cards. But it could be mandatory for everyone to have one, and those without
could be denied certain services.

Home Secretary David Blunkett is seeking comments for a consultation document.

The credit-card size cards would probably use the same "biometric" technology as
those for asylum seekers introduced last week, which critics believe will be
used as a trial for a universal scheme. Computer chips in each card can store
someone's photograph, fingerprints, address, and entitlement to state services
such as health, education, benefits and even public libraries.

Mark Littlewood, of civil rights group Liberty, said said: "Not only would such
a scheme be prohibitively expensive, but it would pose a real threat to civil
liberties.

"People already have countless ways to prove their identity. Introducing
entitlement cards would open the way to the creation of a national database and
once such a scheme is in place there must be a real threat that the system would
become ever more draconian."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 2002

Record pounds 14bn tourism deficit

BYLINE: John Carvel, Social affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 391 words


Britain chalked up a record pounds 14bn trade deficit on travel and tourism last
year as the inward flow of overseas visitors slumped in response to the foot and
mouth epidemic and September 11 terrorist attack, the office for national
statistics reports today.

The number of overseas residents visiting Britain fell by 9% and the amount they
spent by 12% - the biggest falls in 20 years since records began.

By contrast, the number of Britons travelling abroad increased by 3% and the
amount they spent by 4%. For the first time UK residents spent more than pounds
2 abroad for every pounds 1 spent in Britain by overseas residents.

The pounds 14bn travel account deficit was pounds 2.6bn more than the previous
record set in 2000.

The average foreign visitor stayed eight nights in Britain and spent pounds 489
during the visit. Highest individual spending was by visitors from Kuwait and
other smaller Middle Eastern countries, who averaged 17 nights and spent pounds
1,419 a visit. Lowest spending was by Belgians, who stayed three nights and
spent pounds 163 a visit.

In aggregate, residents of the US spent the most while in Britain. Their pounds
2.4bn outlay was more than three times the amount spent by the Germans in second
place (pounds 700m).

The ONS said overseas residents made 22.8m visits to the UK, 2.4m less than in
2000. The effect of foot and mouth disease was felt mainly in the second and
third quarters when numbers fell by 7% and 11%.

The effect of the terrorist attack in New York was felt mainly in the fourth
quarter when visitors to Britain fell by 17%, compared with the same period a
year before. Visits by North Americans between October and December fell by 28%
from 972,000 in 2000 to 702,000.

Taking the year as a whole, UK residents made a record 58.3m visits abroad and
spent a record pounds 25.3bn. Nearly three in four visits abroad made by Britons
last year were to EU countries, with France and Spain accounting for two in five
of all visits.

The ONS said figures for this year to the end of August showed a 3% increase on
the same period last year, but were still lower than in the first eight months
of 2000.

The figures were published in the annual Travel Trends. They were based on the
2001 international passenger survey, involving about 254,000 interviews.


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               December 17, 2002

Anti-terror kits in huge demand

SECTION: News; People; Others; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 400 words


As fears of a terrorist attack on Britain grow more than 400 kits - which offer
complete protection against all known chemical warfare agents - have been sold
by Complete Safety Systems, of Cinderford. The firm is the first in the UK to
sell the kits, which consist of body and foot covers, a gas mask with a filter
and decontamination powder to ensure clothes remain free from chemical agents.

They are now in demand from huge multinational corporations in London which it
is feared would be a prime target for any terrorist wishing to strike at the
heart of the country.

Roger Ellis, managing director of the company, said: "With all the raised
threats of a terrorist attack on Britain I think maybe these companies are
concerned about safety in the city.

"We've sold more than 400 kits since September and it's mainly to big companies
in the city of London.

"The kits can be kept in the car and taken on the tube and it just provides that
bit of reassurance.

"These are caring companies and they want that extra bit of back-up.

"Some of them are quite big well-known companies but you talk to the head of
security and they don't want any publicity.

"We targeted those companies specifically but it has been surprising as I
thought we'd get more individuals wanting to buy the kits.

"I suppose people in Gloucestershire feel quite safe here." Mr Ellis came up
with the idea to sell the anti-terrorism kits in the wake of September 11.

Despite searches on the internet he discovered there was nowhere to buy new kits
in Britain that could protect against a biological or chemical terrorist attack.

The Citizen's reporter David Thomas (pictured left) was one of the first to try
out the anti-terrorism kit when they went on the market in September.

Since then Complete Safety Systems has also had 1,678 hits on its website,
www.survival.gb.com.

The kits - which are imported from Sweden - are small enough to be carried
around, can be put on in seconds in an emergency and offer 12 hours of
protection against all known warfare agents.

They retail from around £200, although individual items, such as new filters for
old gas masks are available from under £20.

Anybody interested in purchasing a kit, or who would like further information,
should contact the company on 01594 827 458, fax them on 01594 827 638 or visit
the website.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  July 5, 2002

New force to protect nuclear sites

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 225 words


AN INDEPENDENT police force to protect Britain's nuclear sites is to be set up
amid continuing fears of a terrorist attack by Islamic extremists, it emerged
today.

The force would also step up security against groups which may attempt to steal
nuclear waste to create socalled "dirty bombs" - crude devices capable of
causing devastation if detonated in a town or city.

The planned 600-strong Civil Nuclear Constabulary would protect Britain's seven
atomic sites and guard nuclear materials when they are transported around the
UK.

Many officers would be armed under the proposals which were contained in the
small print of the Government's White Paper on cleaning up nuclear waste, a
project which will cost £48 million.

Officers will also be banned from going on strike or joining a union.

The planned force would operate in the same way as other independent
constabularies such as the British Transport Police and the Ministry of Defence
police.

It would have its own chief constable and its own overarching police authority,
which will be appointed by the Trade Secretary.

Ministers have continued to warn of the dangers presented by the al Qaeda
terrorist network and believe that the prospect of extremists getting hold of a
"dirty bomb" is a real one. They stress that they have received no specific
threat.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           January 26, 2002, Saturday

UK ECONOMY CONTINUES TO GROW SLOWLY DESPITE EVENTS IN US;
 STATISTICS: BRITAIN'S GROWTH WAS AT ITS SLOWEST RATE FOR THREE YEARS OVER THE
LAST QUARTER BUT AVOIDED GRINDING TO A HALT

BYLINE: Megan Davies

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 374 words


BRITAIN'S economy grew at its slowest rate in nearly three years in the last
quarter - but managed to avoid grinding to a halt, figures showed yesterday.

Data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) showed the economy grew 0.2pc
in the fourth quarter of 2001, a slide from the 0.5pc recorded in the third, and
its slowest quarterly growth since the beginning of 1999.

Year-on-year growth slowed to 1.9pc. However, economists said that the figures
recorded an impressive performance.

Some had forecast growth grinding to a complete halt in the quarter, following
the September 11 terror attacks in the United States.

But the data were helped by a robust performance from the services sector which
recorded an above-forecast 0.9pc growth, although manufacturing saw sharp
declines.

And full-year figures for 2001 from the ONS show the economy grew 2.4pc over the
year, above the Chancellor's Pre-Budget Report forecast of 2.25pc.

The UK has now registered growth for nine and a half years running.

Treasury Chief Secretary Andrew Smith said the figures showed Britain was well
placed to weather the global slowdown. "No country can insulate itself from the
ups and downs of the world economy. But, as today's figures confirm, Britain is
much better placed than in the past to steer a course of economic stability. We
will remain vigilant, will not relax our fiscal discipline and will do nothing
which puts Britain's hard-won economic stability at risk."

Ian Fletcher, chief economist at the British Chambers of Commerce, said, "Our
economy had everything bar the kitchen sink thrown at it during the last quarter
of 2001 and the fact that it still grew is testament to some nimble footwork
from the Bank of England and the spending power of consumers."

John Butler, economist at HSBC, said the figures were an impressive performance,
adding that there was "no hint that the economy is on the verge of contracting".

"An impressive performance, but a performance that has come at a cost in terms
of widening existing imbalances in the economy, " he said.

Economists view the fourth quarter as being the trough of the economic cycle and
say figures should perk up in the first quarter this year.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 12, 2002

Tense standoff at conference held in mosque

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 144 words


LONDON: A mosque holding a controversial conference on the September 11 terror
attacks was at the centre of a tense standoff last night.

The Islamic conference, entitled September 11: A Towering Day in History, was
due to hear from some of the most radical Muslim clerics in Britain.

The event, at the Finsbury Park mosque in nor th London, was being organised by
al-Muhajiroun, the group which wants to make Britain an Islamic state.But
Muslims in the mosque were penned in by dozens of police officers as about 100
British National Party supporters and 30 Anti-Nazi League demonstrators gathered
outside.Both groups used loud hailers for chanting.

They were kept apart by steel barriers and lines of police officers.

Inside the mosque the "positive outcomes" of the terrorist attacks on the US a
year ago was one theme being discussed.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 25, 2002

DOCTORS WARNED OF NEW TERROR BUG THREAT; ANTHRAX ALERT IN ALL OUR HOSPITALS

BYLINE: EXPRESS EXCLUSIVE By Rachel Baird and David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 6

LENGTH: 462 words


HOSPITALS across Britain have been put on alert for a terrorist attack involving
anthrax, plague and flesh-eating bugs.

The official warning also highlights botulism and smallpox as well as mustard
gas, cyanide and nerve agents which can kill with a single drop. An attack
involving nuclear radiation is seen as another potential threat by the Public
Health Laboratory Service.

The terrifying catalogue of poisons and diseases has been drawn up since last
year's September 11 terrorist attacks and is still growing. Many of the entries
were added only last month.

Official guidance to ambulance workers, hospital doctors, GPs and public health
officials warns them to "maintain a high index of suspicion" to help spot the
early signs of an attack.

In some cases it could take several weeks for symptoms to become apparent. The
guidelines include details of the symptoms people would suffer, how - if at all
- they could be cured and what proportion would die.

Some diseases would kill almost everyone infected.

Earlier this month an official report warned that Britain's emergency services
would collapse in chaos if terrorists launched a major biological attack.

But Dr Peter Tiplady, chairman of the British Medical Association's public
health committee, said last night: "A tremendous amount of work has been done
getting public health teams ready and up to speed. Experience of these
biological agents is thin but people have now been trained.

"The Department of Health has made available a lot of equipment and pods with
antidotes and supplies of drugs.

"Overall I think we are very well prepared - a lot better than we were a year
ago." One of the most terrifying scenarios is an attack with flesh-eating bugs
such as the Ebola virus, which can cause bleeding from the mouth, eyes, nose and
internal organs.

Doctors expect so many people to be infected that the rules for isolating
patients would have to be abandoned.

Deliberately spreading the Ebola virus through the air would be difficult
because the bug cannot survive long outside the body.

But plague can be transmitted by air or by touch. And the poison Ricin, derived
from castor oil beans, is deadly in small quantities and there is no antidote.
Mass panic is predicted to follow any attack, making the job of the emergency
services harder.

Home Secretary David Blunkett recently issued a warning of an Al Qaeda plot to
release poison gas. But officials tried to suppress it.

Meanwhile, three North Africans are awaiting trial in London on terrorist
charges.

Labour backbenchers will tonight voice their protests against military strikes
on Iraq. But rebels say ministers have sought to muzzle them by tabling a
"bland" motion simply backing the UN.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 31, 2002, Thursday

US looks to Britain for anti-terror lessons

BYLINE: Tim Reid

SECTION: Overseas news; 22

LENGTH: 155 words


THE man appointed by President Bush to defend America from terrorist attacks
visits London next week to "learn lessons" from the tactics used to counter the
IRA's 30-year bombing campaign (Tim Reid writes).

Tom Ridge, the US Director of Homeland Security, will meet David Blunkett, the
Home Secretary, and officials from M15 and Scotland Yard on Wednesday. Speaking
to The Times yesterday, Mr Ridge said that the Bush Administration had been
studying Britain's anti-terrorism intelligence network and anti-terror laws to
help to develop a strategy to fight al-Qaeda and other international terrorist
organisations.

He said that he believed another terrorist attack against America was
inevitable. George Tenet, the CIA Director, has said that the threat posed by
al-Qaeda was as great as before the September 11 attacks, and that international
terrorists were "coming to

get us". Richard Lambert, page 24


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 24, 2002

Most Muslims believe West is waging war on Islam

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 521 words


THE majority of British Muslims believe al Qaida should not have been blamed for
the September 11 and Bali terrorist attacks, a poll published yesterday
revealed.

The ICM survey for the BBC Radio 4 Today programme found that 70 per cent
thought the war on terrorism was a war against Islam.

And 84 per cent felt the US and Britain should get the approval of the United
Nations and, in the UK, Parliament, before going ahead with military action
against Iraq.

Just over half believed the West was not justified for blaming Osama bin Laden
and al Qaida for the terrorist attacks on New York and on Bali.

Eleven per cent believed further attacks on America by al Qaida would be
justified, while eight per cent said an attack on Britain would be justified.

ICM polled 500 Muslims by telephone over the weekend.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, head of the London-based radical Islamic group al
-Muhajiroun, said he was not surprised at the findings.

"We always believed this is a war against Islam, there is a hidden agenda
against Islam, and that is really manifested on many occasions.

"I see Tony Blair. . . as much as George Bush, leading the campaign against
Islam and Muslims."

Asked whether he agreed with eight per cent of those polled who believed that
al-Qaida would be justified in attacking Britain, he said: "I believe so.

"I believe Muslims abroad have the right to retaliate, and if they retaliate,
they have got to retaliate against the source.

"I do not represent the Muslim community in the UK, I never claim so.

"For my views, I believe Muslims abroad, whenever they become under attack, have
the right to retaliate."

Shahid Malik, member of Labour's national executive committee, described his
comments as "outrageous" and "garbage".

He told Today: "There can never be any justification for terrorist attacks,
whether it be Omar Bakri, whether it be state terrorism, or any other kind of
terrorism. I am outraged that you can put that view forward.

"You are absolutely right, you do not in any shape or form speak for British
Muslims."

Mr Malik said the eight per cent was relatively a "large percentage", but added:
"I don't believe that that eight per cent really believe that they want any
attacks to take place in this country.

"I think it is a frustration, and it's easy to say over the phone, 'Yes, we
think an attack is justified'.

"But if they think about it . . . rationally and realistically, they would know
they are speaking nonsense."

Mr Malik agreed the majority of British Muslims did believe the war on terrorism
was a war against Islam: "I think in the short term it's going to be very, very
difficult to shake that off, until we get movement in Palestine, and indeed in
Kashmir.

"We hear a lot about UN resolutions, and nobody is opposed to them.

The problem is there is a selective implementation of those resolutions.

"I don't believe it is a war against Islam, but if you look at it
dispassionately, the way it's manifested itself, it seems to be targeting Muslim
countries and Muslim people who are being oppressed."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                January 7, 2002

Muslim's UK terror threat

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 183 words


A British Muslim who claims to have recruited 200 UK volunteers for the Taliban
today warned many would return to launch terror attacks here.

Hassan Butt, 22, who was raised in Manchester but is now based in Pakistan, said
he would encourage attacks on political and military leaders and government
buildings in Britain.

Mr Butt also claimed that he had returned to Britain for three weeks since
September 11 undetected by security services.

He said many of the British volunteers were now in Pakistan "organising
operations".

Dr Ghayasauddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain,
said: "These young men have been misguided by people of little understanding.

"The fact that that they are using Islam as a cover for their evil designs is
the most frightening part."

Shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin said Mr Butt's claims that he had entered
the country had to be taken seriously.

l US warplanes renewed strikes against suspected terrorist hide-outs in
Afghanistan today amid reports that al Qaida leader Osama bin Laden had fled to
Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 19, 2002

Warning Of Uk Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 166 words


The government last night warned a terrorist attack in Britain was increasingly
likely.  Asked if an attack on Britain was inevitable, a Government source said:
"It's not inevitable, but the probability is that sooner or later one of these
groups, who are extremely determined, will get through.

"We can protect many obvious, high-value targets but then, as we have seen in
Bali, they can go for the very soft target. As we saw with the Soho bomb, it's
not hard to plant a bomb to kill quite a lot of people who are just out having
fun." Intelligence sources are assessing between 100 and 150 reports on
terrorist activities each day, he said.

The source said a "small number" of al Qaida operatives may be living in the UK,
and any terror strikes in the UK may involve them or new arrivals.

Seven men of north African origin were last night being questioned by
anti-terrorism detectives in Scotland after being detained in two separate raids
in Edinburgh and London.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                           November 19, 2002 Tuesday

Terror attack: information healthcare provider writes to MPs and emergency
services

LENGTH: 571 words


Electronic healthcare information provider Clinnix is writing to all Britain's
MPs and emergency services in a bid to help allay the fears of the general
public on the consequences of a terrorist attack in the UK.

The following letter is being sent to all members of Parliament, plus key
members of the emergency services throughout the U.K. It is an open letter
stating our desire as one of the leading electronic healthcare companies in this
country to help confront the fears of the general public relating to
international terrorism and the consequences of a terrorist attack on this
country. The information will be provided to many thousands of GPs and nurses as
part of the Clinnix Health Pro service and to the public in our Clinnix Health
Manager service which will be available in the lead up to Christmas. Its' aim is
to go some way to taking the terror out of terrorism and help the public to
react in an appropriate manner should they be faced with an act of terrorism. We
believe that this information will help protect people and should be available
to every member of our emergency services and general public alike.

Dear Sir / Madam,

Do you believe that the British public is yet equipped to cope with a local
biological, chemical or radiological attack?

- How many people know what to actually do if such an attack occurs X miles from
them?

- Is it not preferable to provide the population with comprehensive information
in advance rather than escalating fear, possible injury and even death through
ignorance in the event of an actual attack?

People fear the unknown. Panic and alarm result from ignorance and feelings of
helplessness, not from receiving high quality and practical information on how
to react to a real attack.

I am the CEO of a healthcare company providing leading edge evidence based
health information electronically to GP's, nurses and more recently, the British
public. We provide objective, peer reviewed information to all our audiences in
a way which is fully supportive of the Government's desire for evidenced based
clinical decisions, and its' Expert Patient Initiative. This initiative is all
about providing people with information so that they can take more
responsibility and accountability for their own and their family's health.

I feel the absolute need to include in our information the health issues from
biological, chemical or radiological exposure, whether accidental or from
attack, in the same objective, non scaremongering way as we already cover
diabetes, cancer, heart disease, first aid etc. In the forthcoming release of
our updated Clinnix Health Manager product for sale to the British public we
will be including a free of charge module covering this topic in depth. The same
information will be provided to the many thousands of GP's and nurses who
already use our free of charge Clinnix Pro service.

In this way, Synigence plc will be helping the British public to face-up to the
fear of the unknown, and to prepare themselves and their families to have the
best chance of survival in the event of an attack. It's no more than most
individual US states have done through their internet sites. Hopefully, you
already have your own initiatives to ensure that the people you represent and
care for are properly prepared. Let's all take some of the "terror" out of
terrorism.

Yours sincerely

Keith Bushnell Chief Executive OfficerClinnix

CONTACT:

For any further information please contact Keith Bushnell on +44 [0]7976300915

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 PR Newswire Europe Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 July 24, 2002

'We can meet terror threat'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 247 words



THE government today rejected claims by MPs that Britain's emergency services
could not cope with a massive terror attack after September 11.  Home Office
minister John Denham was reacting to a Commons Defence Committee report which
highlights "real deficiencies'' in the abilities of the civil authorities to
deal with a major incident and they said that fire and ambulance crews lack the
equipment and training to cope with a chemical, biological or nuclear attack.

"It's not a mess. There have been improvements since last September across a
whole range of public and private services and we are significantly better
prepared than we were. But we're not complacent,'' said Mr Denham.  He said that
security preparations never come to an end and they were constantly in the
process of asking what is the threat, and how well prepared the country is.

"But we're not complacent because clearly we have other things to do,'' added Mr
Denham.  The Defence Committee say that while they did not believe Britain
should follow the lead of US President George Bush, who appointed a director of
homelands security, they did believe that there had been a lack of grip and
direction on the part of central government in the wake of the US terror attack.
The chairman of the committee, Labour MP Bruce George, said they were not
criticising Home Secretary David Blunkett but believe that since he had other
tasks he should appoint a minister of anti-terrorist measures.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 7, 2002, Monday

BRITON IN TERROR PLEDGE;
 'VOLUNTEERS READY TO HIT UK'

BYLINE: Shaun Connolly Political Editor HASSAN BUTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 254 words


A BRITON who claims to have recruited hundreds of UK citizens for Osama bin
Laden's al Qaida network today said many planned to return home to launch terror
attacks here.

Former Wolverhampton University student Hassan Butt, now based in Pakistan, said
he would personally encourage attacks on British political and military leaders
and government buildings.

Mr Butt, 22, insists he has recruited 200 fighters for the Taliban and bin Laden
from the UK.

Although some volunteers had been 'martyred' during the war in Afghanistan, he
warned a 'new phase' of terrorism would be launched on Britain and he would
encourage the Muslims without any hesitation.

Mr Butt also claimed he had returned to Britain for three weeks since September
11 undetected by the security services.

He claimed many of the British volunteers were now in Pakistan 'organising
operations'.

Mr Butt said: 'If they do return to Britain I do believe they will take military
action within Britain.' He said the targets would be 'British military and
government institutes, as well as British mil-itary and government individuals'.
Dr Ghayasauddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain said:
'It is a very worrying and frightening point of view.

'These young men have been guided or rather misguided by people of little
understanding. I think it is more fantasy than realism, but I simply hope that
these people, these young men, will realise their mistakes, mend their ways and
re-order their priorities.'

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               February 10, 2002

FINANCIAL EXPRESS; TULIP SPROUTS 30 HOTELS

BYLINE: DAVID PARSLEY

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 134 words


DUTCH hotel operator Golden Tulip Worldwide is set to spend GBP 200million on 30
locations across Britain and Ireland.

The move is a sign the tourist industry is regaining its confidence since the
September 11 terrorist attacks on America.

Golden Tulip is expected to create more than 700 jobs with the new three- and
four-star hotels and is looking at locations in Britain and Ireland's major
cities over the next three years. The master franchise agreement has been
awarded to Yorkshire-based hotel management and development company, Countrywide
Leisure Management, after its success with the Golden Tulip and Tulip Inn
Manchester hotels.

Golden Tulip is one of Europe's largest hotel franchise operators, with more
than 30,000 rooms in more than 300 hotels across 49 countries.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 19, 2002

MUSLIM'S WARNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 199 words


TONY Blair risks ostracising Britain's two million Muslims if he continues to
back military action against Iraq.

US and British foreign policy was in danger of being seen as an indiscriminate
war on Islam, said Iqbal Sacranie, the Muslim Council of Britain's secretary
general.

His fears were expressed in a foreword to a new book about the September 11
terror attacks in America, to be published today.

In it Mr Sacranie writes: "What happened on September 11, 2001 was simply evil
and criminal.

"Regrettably, it has been used to set a global course of action with little
respect for human life, national sovereignty and the rule of law. In the
process, Muslims the world over and the cherished religion of Islam - a religion
for all humanity - have been made the focus of irrational anger and hate."

Mr Sacranie's decision to speak out reflects growing fears among Muslim leaders.

They believe that a military invasion of Iraq, coming so soon after the war in
Afghanistan, will play into the hands of extremists.

The book, The Quest for Sanity:

Reflections on September 11 and the Aftermath, calls for "increased dialogue and
understanding between peoples".

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR ALERT;
 SEPTEMBER 11: TENSIONS RAISED AS WORLD REMEMBERS

BYLINE: Samantha Clarke And Dean Valler SECURITY ALERT: Armed police on the
streets of London

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 430 words


THE whole of Britain was today on a high security alert for the anniversary of
the September 11 terror attacks in America.

Extra police were brought in at major airports across the UK, on top of the
extra security which has been in force since the attacks in New York, Washington
and Pennysylvania a year ago.

The move follows a warning last week from Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs who
said that lone terrorists, unconnected to al Qaida, could strike today.

In the West Midlands, police stepped up their presence at "vulnerable areas" in
the region.

A force spokeswoman said: "There is no specific threat to the West Midlands and
the UK in general, and we encourage people to go about their business as usual.

"As usual we encourage people to be aware of what is around them and be vigilant
about anything suspicious or unusual."

The armed forces have been called in to help step up security patrols throughout
Britain.

At Heathrow Airport, 18 of today's scheduled transatlantic flights were
cancelled by operators BA, Virgin and American Airlines. And at Gatwick Airport,
vehicle checks and armed patrols at the airport have been stepped up.

A Birmingham Airport spokesman said staff were continuing to operate on a
heightened state of security since last year. Two American flights were due to
fly today - one to Chicago and one to New York.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Squad, said: "We shouldn't just think about the ghastly spectacular attacks that
have already taken place, but also the range of possibilities that smaller
groups and individuals may use.

Britain was today joining nations around the world to remember the horrors of
September 11.

Rugby today remembered the first anniversary of the terror attacks on America.

At least four high street stores - Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's and Boots
- said staff and customers would be asked to observe a one-minute silence at
1.46pm, the time the first jet hit.

Firefighters in Rugby also planned to stage a silence at their Corporation
Street headquarters and officers. Staff at the town's Newbold Road police
station and Rugby Town Hall were also paying their own silent tribute.

The town's Quakers invited people to join them for a service of remembrance at
the Friends Meeting House and an hour of prayer and meditation was being held at
St Andrew's parish church in the town centre.

A service of remembrance was taking place at Coventry Cathedral led by the Dean
of Coventry, the Very Rev John Irvine.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 21, 2002, Thursday

Britain at low risk of chemical attack

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 394 words

THE threat from terrorist attacks in the UK involving "CBRN" - chemical,
biological, radiological or nuclear weapons - has been assessed by Government,
police and the security services as low.

A low classification - the fifth level on a risk scale of six used by Government
to prepare against terrorism - means such attacks have not been discounted but
their likelihood is thought to be lower than that from bombs and bullets.

Security measures are in place at major reservoirs and water distribution
centres, with fences, guards on gates and CCTV monitoring, not least because the
authorities recognise the potential for public alarm over any threat to water.

Police and the security service, MI5, also watch for any signs that suspected
terrorists are trying to obtain chemical, biological or nuclear material and
attempt, with the help of industry, to monitor any suspicious purchases or
imports of dangerous chemicals by unauthorised individuals.

But the low threat assessment, it is understood, has reflected in part the view
that obtaining, handling and, particularly, dispersing lethal chemical or other
agents presents major difficulties to terror groups.

An attack mounted by an extremist group on the Tokyo underground in 1995, using
the nerve gas sarin, which killed 12, disturbed the rest of the world. But the
incident also demonstrated the limitations on the dispersal of dangerous but
fragile chemicals.

However, the September 11 attacks convinced security chiefs in Britain and
elsewhere that they had to re-think many previous assumptions.

The IRA, around which most of the UK's threat assessment process has been geared
for several decades, did not appear interested in chemical weapons, which would
pose an indiscriminate risk to the public. Its "active service units" planned to
escape and survive.

But the breed of terrorist typified by Osama bin Laden's al-Qa'eda network does
not care about the death of innocent members of the public. Some fanatical
Islamists also do not care if they escape, and some actively wish to be suicide
bombers.

Scotland Yard and MI5 have studied the experience of Israel in identifying and
tackling suicide bombers, and there has been a discreet operation to fortify
potential terrorist targets with such measures as concrete blocks in roads to
prevent suicide vehicle bombs.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 26, 2002, Friday

MONEY: BRIT GOODS SELL BETTER IN AMERICA

SECTION: MONEY PAGE; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 279 words


MORE Americans are buying British products and services since the terrorist
attacks of September 11, according to a new study.

The survey - A Matter of National Importance - found UK companies saw an
increase in sales of between 10 per cent and 80 per cent in December 2001 and
January 2002 compared with the previous year.

Company bosses said in the report that they believed the increase stemmed from
American solidarity with Britain as a result of the joint war on terrorism.

Stuart Gates, managing director of Fortnum & Mason, said the September 11
attacks had a "significant effect".

But he added: "Since then the store is definitely up on sales to Americans.

"This can be attributed to the warm feeling of Americans towards a British
institution like us."

Roger Mitchell, deputy chairman of gunsmiths Holland & Holland, added: "Given
that Americans aren't travelling as much, the 10 per cent rise we've had is very
significant.

"Since the Queen had the Star Spangled Banner played at Buckingham Palace, we've
been swept up by Americans saying thank you."

The survey, by Walpole, who promote UK products overseas, also found some firms
preferred to label goods British because of its Cool Britannia overtones,
epitomised by fashion designers like John Galliano and Alexander McQueen.

They could tap into the "Old British" idea of quality and craftsmanship.
However, contemporary brands preferred the "UK" label to "British".

"Britain" and "Great Britain" appealed to older generations and suggested
quality and integrity, whereas "UK" was favoured by the young, who felt Great
Britain "reeked of a colonial past", the report said.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 July 23, 2002

MPs to attack security chaos after terror outrages

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin, Political Editor

LENGTH: 435 words


A DAMNING indictment of Britain's homeland security preparations in the wake of
the September 11 outrages is set to be delivered to MPs tomorrow.

The Commons Defence Committee is expected to condemn the excessive
departmentalism plaguing the Government's civil contingency reaction to last
year's terrorist attacks in America.

In a hard-hitting report, the Labour-dominated committee will paint a picture of
Britain's civil-defence preparations in chaos, with fire brigades and police
unable to communicate with each other because of different radio systems.

They will contrast the decisiveness of President George Bush in naming former
Pennsylvania governor Tom Ridge as head of homeland security after September 11
with what one source called the let's set up a committee approach of Britain.

MPs are also set to criticise the Civil Contingencies Secretariat (CCS) - set up
by Tony Blair last summer in the wake of the fuel protests of autumn 2000 and
the great floods - to draw up strategies for action in case of civil and natural
emergencies.

The report is understood to reflect concern that different Government
Departments have different ideas of the role of CCS chief Mike Granatt.

The source told the Yorkshire Post: What the Americans did after September 11
was put Tom Ridge in charge.  What did we do? We set up a Whitehall committee.
It's typically British.

The report is also understood to have survived a last-ditch bid by Government
officials to water down its conclusions.

Some committee members are said to be livid that its chairman Bruce George and
one other Labour member last week met Mr Granatt even though the report had
already been agreed.

The Defence Committee, which includes Beverley and Holderness Tory MP James
Cran, will specifically complain that despite the international terrorism
threat, some local authorities have had money for civil defence cut in the last
few months.

But sources last night said there were clear signs that the Government had
sharpened up its act and reacted to the committee as it took evidence since the
turn of the year.

They cited the appointment of senior civil servant Sir David Omand, permanent
secretary at the Cabinet Office, in place of Mr Granatt in charge of the CCF.

Only last week, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon answered a specific concern of
local authorities that there was no real liaison between them and regional
military commanders in the event of an emergency.

Mr Hoon told MPs that he was creating joint regional liaison officers to act as
a single point of liaison on emergency planning matters.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 15, 2002

Moslem warns of 'holy war' on Britain

BYLINE: Ben Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 194 words


By Ben Taylor, Crime Correspondent

A NOTORIOUS Moslem radical has warned of a September 11-style attack on Britain
if war is declared on Iraq.

London-based cleric Sheik Omar Bakri Mohammed, who leads the fundamentalist
group Al-Muhajiroun, said Islamic militants could launch a 'holy war'.

He chose his words carefully to avoid prosecution for inciting hatred and
insisted he condemned all violence. But he said the terror attacks in the U.S.
were 'a direct response to the evil American policy in the Moslem world'.

The 43-year-old told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'We are giving advice to the
British government of the consequences of involving themselves in attacking
Iraq.

'If you are in my position and listening to the talk and discussion on the
Internet and are aware about Islamic activities, you will be worried. There are
Moslems abroad who believe they are at war with the West.'

He said his warning was sincere and he did not mean he advocated violence.

But he has previously been accused of inciting racial hatred and is banned from
all British university campuses because of fears he could indoctrinate students.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 1, 2002, Friday

BELEAGUERED ECONOMY GRINDS TO A HALT AFTER TERROR ATTACKS;
 BUT UPTURN IS EXPECTED, SAYS BANK OF ENGLAND GOVERNOR

BYLINE: Graeme Evans Business Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 412 words


BRITAIN'S battered economy failed to grow for the first time in nearly ten years
following the September 11 terrorist attacks, it emerged yesterday.

Official data showed GDP growth ground to a halt during the fourth quarter of
last year, remaining unchanged on the previous three-month period.

That is the weakest quarter-on-quarter movement since the last decline in GDP
when Britain was emerging from recession in the middle of 1992.

The figure was issued after the Office for National Statistics (ONS) revised its
estimate for fourth quarter GDP from the 0.2pc pencilled in last month.

Economists said the decline from third quarter growth of 05pc was sharper than
expected, although it did not impact on long-term prospects.

Investec chief economist Philip Shaw said: "The figure is a surprise but nothing
to panic about. We still see economic growth in the first quarter of this year."

He added that the figure further reduced the need for the Bank of England to
raise interest rates in an effort to stop the economy overheating.

The latest data from the ONS also revised year-on-year growth for the fourth
quarter down to 1.7pc from 1.9pc. Apart from the second quarter of 1999, that
was the weakest figure since the start of 1993.

However, the GDP figure for the whole of 2001 remained at 2.4pc - above the
Chancellor Gordon Brown's PreBudget forecast of 2.25pc.

In contrast to a healthier services sector, the volume of output in production
industries fell by 2.1pc in the fourth quarter and included a 1.7pc fall in the
rate for manufacturing.

The ONS said manufacturing output was now 5.6pc weaker than the same quarter a
year earlier - the biggest decline since 1991.

Business investment also fell by 3.2pc during the quarter, with the drop most
pronounced in the machinery and equipment sectors.

HSBC economist John Butler said: "The two-speed economy lives on and clearly
illustrates who were the winners and losers."

An expected gradual improvement in the US economy will have a positive impact
across the world, the Governor of the Bank of England predicted.

Sir Edward George agreed with comments by Federal Reserve chairman Alan
Greenspan that the recession in the United States, which has had an impact in
this country, was over.

"We anticipate the US economy picking up quite strongly by the end of the year,
and that will have an impact on the world economy which is positive, " said Sir
Edward.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECESSION OVER: Governor of the Bank of England, Sir Edward George sees
the economy picking up strongly

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 17, 2002

Police step up security.

BYLINE: Pete Barrow

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 191 words



MERSEYSIDE Police have raised security levels across the county following the
terrorist attacks in the United States.

Superintendent Paul Forrester, Force Operations Manager, said: "We adhere to a
national plan along with other police forces nationwide to respond to the
possibility of terrorist attacks.

"Due to the implications of terrorist attacks from the Republic of Ireland,
police forces in Britain - working in partnership with other agencies - already
have highly sophisticated procedures in place to counteract the threat of
terrorist attacks on the mainland. Those procedures have now been implemented to
the highest level to ensure the safety of members of the public".

Chief Constable of Merseyside Police, Norman Battison, has paid tribute to the
police officers who lost their lives during rescue attempts following the
attacks.

He said: "All members of the force have been touched by the grief and horror of
these unspeakable terrorist attacks. I have sent condolences and messages of
support to the New York Police Department, which has lost scores of its finest
officers who perished in public service".

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK CONTROL FEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 217 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs warned
today.

The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of 'inadequate
central co-ordination and direction'.

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of 'real deficiencies' in the
ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident. Fire
and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a chemical,
biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed Forces,
while crucial radio communications equipment contained 'fundamental
vulnerabilities'.

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a 'proper and
comprehensive' review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the 'slow progress' in producing a promised civil contingencies bill. It
said a 'strong central authority' was needed to lay down the law in Whitehall
and co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved in
emergency planning.

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           February 10, 2002, Sunday

ARMED SOLDIERS TO PATROL UK AIRPORTS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 288 words


Armed soldiers are to patrol Britain's airports as part of reforms to the forces
that will be signalled this week by Geoff Hoon, Secretary of State for Defence
in the wake of the 11 September terrorist attacks. The move follows a fresh row
over airport security after arms were smuggled on to a flight in Manchester last
week.

A defence green paper, published on Thursday to coincide with a full Commons
debate, will foreshadow plans to give the Territorial Army a new role as
Britain's homeland defence force.

The army of part-time reservists could be called up more regularly and ordered
to take over from police in protecting military and civil sites at risk from
terrorist attack, including airports and nuclear power plants.

Mr Hoon will also announce he is consulting on plans to respond to the new
terrorist threat by shifting the military's emphasis from heavy armour to more
rapid-response units of crack regiments - such as the Paratroopers, who were
used in Afghanistan. He will rule out any big increase in SAS units.

Yesterday accusations flew following the revelation that a guard had failed to
spot arms being smuggled aboard a passenger flight at Manchester airport. A bag
containing bomb-making equipment, guns, imitation explosives, detonators and a
rifle magazine holding five dummy bullets was smuggled on to a British Airways
flight to Gatwick by a security company, with the approval of BA, in order to
test security checks at the airport.

The arms were hidden in a book, a camera and a cigarette box. A security guard
employed by Securicor ADI - the company responsible for scanning luggage passing
through the airport - has been suspended and an investigation has been launched.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

I SNEAKED IN TO RECRUIT FOR THE TALIBAN IN SCOTLAND

BYLINE: Calum Macdonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 319 words


A BRITISH Moslem who recruited fighters for the Taliban claims he travelled to
Scotland in the aftermath of the September 11 atrocities.

Hassan Butt, 22, who is now based in Pakistan, said he sneaked past the security
forces to hold recruitment drives in Edinburgh, Birmingham and Manchester.

And yesterday, he encouraged British Moslem extremists to carry out terrorist
attacks in the UK.

Butt, from Prestwich, Manchester, warned a "new phase" of terrorism would be
launched in Britain.

And he called on extremists to attack key buildings and leading politicians.

The former student boasts that he helped more than 1000 Taliban fighters,
including 200 British volunteers, to cross into Afghanistan.

Speaking in Pakistan, Butt insisted he returned to Britain for three weeks after
September 11, branding airport security a "farce".

He said: "The mere fact that the British Government had no idea I was here shows
the incompetence and shows the vulnerability that Britain has when it comes to
dealing with the mujahadeen and the Moslems.

"People might be surprised that I am able to travel so freely. But, for me, that
is not a problem because I have a British passport. In any event, the security
at airports is a complete farce."

Butt claims he organised a recruitment drive in Manchester and spent time in
Edinburgh and Birmingham trying to recruit Moslems to the Taliban cause. Now he
says the Taliban volunteers will organise attacks on Britain.

He said: "If they do return I do believe they will take military action in
Britain."

Butt, who says he would not think twice about killing a British soldier, could
be arrested if he returns to Britain. The Terrorism Act makes it an offence to
recruit for terror groups. Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin said Butt was
"traitorous". But a Downing Street spokesman insisted Butt's claims should be
treated with caution.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 7, 2002

Shadow of fear: Extremist boasts of return trips - and scare on jet

BYLINE: CARL PALMER AND IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 356 words


MY WAR PLOT; Security is a farce says the Taliban zealot; COMMENT: PAGE 8

A MUSLIM from Manchester who recruited fighters for the Taliban today backed
terrorist attacks on Britain.  And Hassan Butt, who is now based in Pakistan,
also claimed he had slipped back into the country without the knowledge of the
security forces.  He said he held a recuritment drive in Manchester and also
raised funds in the city.

Butt, from Prestwich, warned a new phase'' of terrorism would be launched on
Britain and he would encourage the Muslims without any hesitation. He said
attacks would be launched on key buildings and leading politicians. The student
said he was able to travel freely because he holds a British passport.  He
branded security in Britain a farce.'' Butt, who claims to have helped as many
as 1,000 Taliban fighters to cross into Afghanistan, said he actively supports
moves to recruit members for the Islamic militant group from across Britain.
        Butt, who says he has no qualms about killing British soldiers, added:
People might be surprised that I am able to travel so freely, but for me that
is not a problem because I have a British passport. In any event, the security
at airports is a complete farce.''
    Butt, who attended  Prestwich High, Abraham Moss High, and Bury College,
said he also travelled to   Birmingham and Edinburgh.
        A government spokesman said Butt could not be interned under new
emergency anti-terror laws, which only apply to foreigners.
    But he would be covered by the Terrorism Act, which makes it an offence to
recruit people for terror groups.
         The Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin called for a government
statement on Butt's claims.
        He said that Butt appeared to be seriously in breach of the law.

 I would describe it as traitorous.''
A Home Office spokesman said: We are aware of Hassan Butt and other people who
claim to be actively recruiting.  If there is any terrorist activity that is
something for the police to investigate and bring prosecutions where
necessary.''



LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CALL TO ARMS: Manchester-raised Hassan Butt backs terror attacks on
Britain

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 13, 2002

Government issues warning on terror;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 230 words


THE government issued renewed warnings yesterday of a high risk of terror
attacks, but ministers refused to go into details.

Labour Party chairman John Reid said that the "general level of threat from
terrorism is as high now as it was after September 11 last year."

But Dr Reid echoed Tony Blair's plea that the threat of terrorism must not be
allowed to destroy normal life in Britain.

"Every school, every holiday, every element of our society would be disrupted"
if Britain "gave in" to terrorists, said Dr Reid.

In a speech at the Lord Mayor's banquet, Mr Blair said that the purpose of
terrorism was not just to kill and maim.

It was also about causing terror, with the aim of scaring people, disrupting
their normal lives, and producing chaos and disorder.

He added: "The dilemma is reconciling warning people with alarming them, taking
preventative measures without destroying normal life."

Downing Street spokesmen sought yesterday to play down earlier reports of a
major terrorist threat to ferries using a lorry packed with explosives.

Support for British involvement in a unilateral US-led attack on Iraq has
slumped, according to a Channel 4 poll released yesterday.

Just 41 per cent of those polled supported committing British troops to an
attack which was not backed by the United Nations, down from 46 per cent last
month.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 6, 2002

SNIPERS POISED FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 229 words


SCOTLAND Yard launched a massive security operation to guard the Royal family
and VIPs at the yesterday's ceremonial procession.

Streets around St James's Palace, The Mall, Buckingham Palace and Westminster
Abbey were extensively searched for explosive devices.

Snipers with high-powered rifles took up position on the roofs while police
helicopters hovered and boats patrolled the River Thames.

Senior officers said there was no specific intelligence to suggest a terrorist
attack. But the Anti-Terrorist Branch is acutely aware that the Real IRA is
plotting another wave of attacks on the mainland.

With Prime Minister Tony Blair, former premier Margaret Thatcher, opposition
leader Iain Duncan Smith and senior ministers in Westminster Hall, Scotland Yard
was taking no chances. Bodyguards lined up behind the Royal Family, their Glock
pistols discreetly hidden.

Police chiefs say Britain remains under threat from Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda
network and fanatics bent on punishing Britain for invading Afghanistan.
Bodyguards and police were also ordered to memorise the faces of known stalkers.
Some deranged men still blame senior Royals for the death of Princess Diana in
1997. The security operation will be repeated at the funeral on Tuesday.
Security at Westminster Hall will include mourners going through airport-style
security machines.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 24, 2002

5m bid to woo back tourists

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 201 words


THE Queen's Golden Jubilee and the Commonwealth Games are spearheading the
launch of a multi-million-pound campaign to woo overseas visitors back to
Britain.

Under the slogan UKOK, the campaign was unveiled yesterday at the Tower of
London by Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell.

It aims to recover at least half of the 2 billion lost last year by an industry
hard-hit by the foot-and-mouth outbreak and by the aftermath of the terrorist
attacks on September 11.

"It is time to remind everyone that Britain is a vibrant and exciting place to
visit, particularly in the year of the Queen's Golden Jubilee and the
Commonwealth Games, " said Ms Jowell.

The campaign has been created by the British Tourist Authority which is
launching a 5 million advertising campaign. The initiative is targeted at seven
prime targets - the US, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Belgium and the
Netherlands.

Tourist Board chairman David Quarmby said the campaign was chosen for its
'simplicity and emotional impact.'

He said: "It provides visitors with reassurance, while allowing even very small
companies to reach the overseas markets they so desperately need to help their
businesses recover."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 7, 2002, Saturday

FIGHTER JETS ARE BACK OVER NY

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 387 words


MILITARY jets have resumed round-the-clock patrols over New York and Washington
as the anniversary of the September 11 attacks approaches.

But Pentagon officials have refused to reveal if the move is in response to a
specific threat.

The 24-hour patrols started on Friday, according to Pentagon spokeswoman Lt Col
Cathy Abbot.

The red alert is set to be mirrored across the Atlantic.

Military bases, airports and main rail stations in Britain and Scotland are
imposing tight security in the run- up to September 11.

Officials are concerned that al-Qaeda terrorists may attempt an attack on the
anniversary - although there is no evidence that the group marks such events.

The US Defence Department started the round-the-clock air patrols immediately
after the September 11 attacks and began phasing them out in April.

The patrols had continued sporadically when officials received threats.

From this weekend around the UK, thousands of extra police will begin a round-
the-clock vigil.

More than 500 American-owned interests top the list of UK targets that could
have been earmarked for attack by terror groups.

They include the US embassy in London, the headquarters of American-owned firms,
the homes of diplomats and senior military officers plus air bases like
Lakenheath and Mildenhall and other key defence facilities.

Next on the list are international airports, main railway stations, the London
underground and the heart of Britain's financial world in the City of London.

Armed police will also be keeping watch on hundreds of mosques and synagogues.

Assistant commissioner David Veness, the top-ranking detective in charge of
anti- terror operations, said last night: "We cannot afford to relax, we must be
alert and vigilant. We have no direct information about any specific threat, but
the potential is there.

"The threat could just as easily come from a lone fanatic as from an organised
group like al- Qaeda.

"We are looking at a full range of possibilities that go from shooting attacks
on individuals and small bombs to spectacular attacks, kidnappings, hijacks,
suicide attacks or large bombings.

"We will be putting a lot more police out on the streets and on the transport
system. The message to everyone is business as usual - but be vigilant'."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 17, 2002

CITY EVACUATION PLANS IN CASE OF TERRORIST STRIKE

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 579 words


PLANS to move millions of people out of Britain's major cities in the event of a
terrorist attack have been secretly drawn up, it was revealed yesterday.

The mass exodus would be launched at centres of population around the country if
there was a nuclear or biological strike.

In London, emergency nerve centres for the Government, the police and vital
financial services have already been built and equipped. They would be ready
within hours of a terrorist outrage.

The move is in direct response to the September 11 atrocities and a possible
terrorist backlash after any military strike against Iraq.

But police stress there is no specific intelligence about an imminent attack.
The authorities say they are responding to a general threat.

Details of the emergency plans emerged as pressure was mounting for the
deportation of extremist Muslims who openly support the Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein.

The Al-Muhajiroun group, whose leading supporters include controversial Sheikh
Abu Hamza al-Masri, has warned Britons that they will "choke on the smoke" of
revenge attacks if a strike against Saddam is launched.

It is understood Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch is examining material,
including videos, linked to the group in case they breach the Terrorism Act. The
extremists, who are condemned by the vast majority of Muslims in Britain, want
the UK to be incorporated into an Islamic state in Europe.

Emergency plans have been drawn up for major UK cities to ensure that local
government and the police can operate effectively in the event of a terrorist
attack.

They include new measures introduced since September 11 such as no-fly zones
over power stations and other vital sites.

A major element of each plan is understood to cover supplies of crucial drugs -
including antidotes to known biological weapons - and medical services.

The existence of London's postSeptember 11 plan was revealed in a letter to the
Commons Defence Committee by Judith Mayhew, chairman of London Corporation's
policy and resources group.

"London is currently looking at methods of mass evacuation in certain
geographical areas, " she wrote. Details of the exodus plans would be broadcast
on radio and TV in a way which would not "over-dramatise" the crisis.

Police chiefs believe there could be mass panic if London or other major cities
came under attack, particularly from chemical weapons. Areas of dense population
or with poor road and rail links would create additional problems.

Methods of dealing with possible outbreaks of public disorder at railway
stations and other transport terminals also feature in the plans.

Home Secretary David Blunkett is in overall command of the emergency planning as
head of the newly-created Civil Contingencies Committee.

But, in the event of a disaster, the Prime Minister would be in charge, working
from the Cobra nerve centre in Whitehall.

Tony Blair recently ordered a GBP 1.4million re-fit of Cobra. It is understood
the money will be spent on upgrading communication equipment to link the centre
to a network of regional government bunkers dotted around the country.

He has ordered the work to be completed before any military action against
Saddam.

One expert said last night:

"Planning of this kind has been going on for decades, particularly in the face
of a Cold War nuclear attack. It is only right that the Government is prepared
for any nightmare scenario."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 24, 2002, Tuesday

8pc of UK Muslims support al-Qa'eda

BYLINE: By Peter Foster

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 322 words

THE WAR on terrorism is viewed as a "war against Islam" by more than two thirds
of British Muslims, an opinion poll concluded yesterday.

But the ICM survey for the BBC showed the divisions that exist in the minds of
Britain's two million Muslims about pursuing al-Qa'eda.

At the most extreme end, the telephone poll of 500 Muslims found that almost one
in 10 (eight per cent) believed that al-Qa'eda would be justified in launching
terrorist attacks in Britain.

It bears out research conducted by The Daily Telegraph this month which showed
that eight per cent of Muslims refused to condemn the atrocities of September
11.

Moderate Muslim opinion said the figures reflected a growing frustration that
their faith was being tarred with the brush of militant terrorist organisations.

Shahid Malik, a member of Labour's national executive committee, said the
international community's attitude towards historical disputes over Palestine
and Kashmir had helped to foment animosity and create the impression of double
standards.

"I think that in the short term it's going to be very, very difficult to shake
off that perception," he told Radio 4's Today programme.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of al-Muhajiroun, a radical Islamic group in
London, said he agreed with the eight per cent who believed that al-Qa'eda would
be justified in attacking British targets.

"I believe Muslims abroad have the right to retaliate and, if they retaliate,
they have got to retaliate against the source," he said.

Mr Malik described those comments as "outrageous" and "garbage", adding that the
eight per cent figure reflected the scale of Muslim frustration rather than
genuine support for terrorism.

"I think it is a frustration and it's easy to say over the phone 'Yes we think
an attack is justified'. But if they think about it rationally and
realistically, they would know they are speaking nonsense."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            February 4, 2002, Monday

GLOOM AHEAD FOR BA AND TRANSCO STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 159 words


LATTICE, Britain's gas pipeline operator, will this week announce job losses at
its Transco business.

A spokeswoman for the group said it would announce how many staff would be laid
off when it reports financial results on Thursday, although she would not
confirm a number.

The Independent on Sunday reported the group was considering making up to 2,000
staff redundant to lop millions off its annual expenditure, while the Sunday
Telegraph reported the firm was preparing to cut around 1,500.

Transco, which has headquarters in Solihull, employs 14,000 staff in Britain.

FURTHER widescale job cuts looked inevitable at British Airways today after the
airline announced a quarterly loss of pounds 160 million. Finances have been
rocked by the impact of the September 11 terrorist attacks, although the firm's
latest figures were not as bad as feared.

BA is expected to unveil its future size and shape review in a matter of days.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 25, 2002

Americans 'buying British'

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 94 words


BRITISH products and services are selling better to Americans both in Britain
and the US since the terrorist attacks of September 11, according to a report
out yesterday. Americans feel a sense of solidarity towards Britain as a result
of the joint war on terrorism and they are buying British goods far more than
before. The survey for Walpole, an organisation that champions British
excellence at home and abroad, showed British companies experienced an increase
in sales of between 10% and 80% in December 2001 and January 2002 compared to
the previous year.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 31, 2002, Wednesday

ROW OVER VACCINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


CLAIMS that Britain has bought the wrong type of smallpox vaccine to guard
against terrorist attack were rejected last night.

US expert, Dr Steve Prior,said Britain's choice was indefensible" But UK's
Deputy Chief Medical Officer Dr Pat Troope said it was selected on a "full range
of expert scientific and medical advice" PowderJect, which landed the contract,
is run by Dr Paul Drayson who has donated pounds 100,000 to Labour.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 15, 2002

West unprepared for terror attacks

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 173 words


MANY of the West's hospitals are not ready for major emergencies, including
nuclear and biological incident casualties, an official report warns today.

The worrying news comes with Britain on red alert for terrorist attacks and
amidst a national firefighters' strike.

The National Audit Office says hospital bosses must take immediate steps to
identify problems in their major incident plans.

Tony Blair has warned of fears of devastating terrorist attacks on British
cities in the run-up to Christmas.

There are fears that chemical attacks could force the evacuation of thousands of
people from West towns and cities.

Today's report shows just half the acute health trusts in the South-west are
well-prepared for nuclear incidents.

And 60 per cent of West ambulance services are not properly prepared for
nuclear, radiological, chemical and mass casualty incidents.

Shadow Health Secretary Dr Liam Fox said: "The Government has failed to make
sure that the NHS is fully prepared to cope with disasters."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 1, 2003

Blair warns of dangerous year

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 139 words


UK: Britain faces an unprecedented number of "difficult and dangerous" problems
in the coming year, Tony Blair warned today.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncer tainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister said in his New Year
message.

But he said: "Britain is well placed to face up to them." His hard-headed
assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posed by Iraq, al Qaida, the
Middle East and Nor th Korea. Those threats will not help the faltering world
economy, he warned.

"I cannot recall a time when Britain was confronted, simultaneously, by such a
range of difficult and, in some cases, dangerous problems, " he said.

However, the Government was tackling each problem and would not be deterred by
shor t-term unpopularity, Mr Blair pledged.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 6, 2002

Minute Silence To Mark Terror Attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 296 words


A minute-long silence will be held to mark the first anniversary of the
September 11 terrorist attacks during a service at St Paul's Cathedral, the
Government said yesterday.  The Department for Culture, Media and Sport
announced that the service would start at 1.15pm and the minute silence would
begin at 1.46pm, which marks the moment the World Trade Centre attacks began.
Relatives of British victims will be at the service as well as senior government
figures and representatives of charities, a spokesman said.

Meanwhile, Britain's firefighters will also marking the first anniversary of the
terrorist atrocities. Hundreds plan to gather outside their stations to observe
a minute's silence at 1.46pm in honour of the 343 New York firefighters who died
in the attacks. Pictures of the heroic firefighters running into the twin
towers, rescuing those trapped inside and working tirelessly through the
devastation to try to find survivors became one of the enduring images of the
tragedies.

Workers across the UK are expected to observe the silence, with offices,
factories, shops and at least some television and radio stations falling quiet,
including BBC1 and ITV.

The Government's announcement may lead to similar arrangements in British
airports, Whitehall departments, schools, courts and churches.

Dignitaries including the Prince of Wales, the US ambassador to Britain William
Farish and senior members of the Government will attend the service of
remembrance. About 2,000 people have been invited to the memorial service.

Several City firms - many of which lost workers in the World Trade Centre
collapse - announced plans for their own services and the London Stock Exchange
will observe a two-minute silence starting at 1.46pm.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 25, 2002, Thursday

AMERICANS BUYING BRITISH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words


BRITISH products and services are selling better to Americans both in Britain
and the US since the terrorist attacks of September 11, according to a report
out yesterday.

Americans feel a sense of solidarity towards Britain as a result of the joint
war on terrorism and they are buying British goods far more than before.

The survey for Walpole, an organisation that champions British excellence at
home and abroad, showed British companies experienced an increase in sales of
between 10pc and 80pc in December 2001 and January 2002 compared to the previous
year.

Stuart Gates, managing director of Fortnum & Mason, said in the report, "The
store is definitely up on sales to Americans from this time last year. This can
be attributed to the warm feeling of Americans towards a British institution
like ourselves."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 22, 2002

We're not ready for a terror strike;
 Companies'emergency plans ignore the trauma for staff

BYLINE: Jeremy Pendleton

SECTION: News :Business :Others, Pg.37

LENGTH: 518 words


MANY of Britain's leading companies are inadequately prepared for the impact of
terrorist attacks, two leading professors claimed yesterday.

Much of the advice being issued by the Government on how businesses can keep
their operations running after a major incident fails to account for the
psychological impact that such attacks have on employees.

Last week the Western Daily Press reported how the Financial Services Authority
had set up a stand-by HQ at a secret location near the City of London which
could be brought into operation within an hour of a terrorist attack.

But contingency plans such as the FSA's deal only with the impact on buildings
and systems, not with the effect of a catastrophe on employees, say professors
Keith Alexander and Martin Betts at Salford University.

And almost one year on from the September 11 tragedy in New York, many of
Britain's top firms still do not have coherent plans to safeguard their staff
and premises and recover their business in the event of an atrocity.

"Although many companies, especially those in tall office blocks in city
centres, have now revisited their approaches to contingency planning, they have
failed to integrate them in a plan that fully protects the business, " said
Professor Alexander, director of the university's Centre for Facilities
Management.

"Proper business continuity planning requires the alignment of strategies
involving property, workplace, people and technology. Yet we find that most
organisations completely underestimate the people dimension.

"Insufficient thought is given to the effects of trauma, the need for
counselling and the broad effect that such attacks have on people's lives -
including their relatives and friends.

"Business recovery cannot even start until people have dealt with the impact and
are able to face work again. Some people can be affected for a very long time,
and that may include those who are vital to the business."

In less-aware organisations, said Professor Alexander, the biggest problem is
getting the issues clearly understood at board level. Many enterprises adopt a
project management approach to corporate property planning and disaster
recovery, so employees get overlooked. Facilities are prepared, wired and ready
to go in the event of a disaster, and city high-rise office evacuation plans are
in place.

But few companies face the reality that another September 11 could leave many
staff debilitated and unable to populate the back-up facilities. The trauma is
extensive, yet few firms include staff counselling in their planning, he said.

According to Professor Betts, head of the School of Construction and Property
Management at Salford University, some companies prepare disaster recovery plans
which are simply left on the shelf and ignored.

He said: "Unfortunately in many large organisations facilities management, re
-location and business continuity plans tend to overlook the wider people
impact, so that factors such as staff disruption and the resulting churn rates
associated with office moves often get missed."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 23, 2002

GBP 5m tourism drive launched

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 162 words



MANCHESTER'S Commonwealth Games will be the centrepiece of a multi-million-pound
campaign to attract tourists back to Britain.
       Under the slogan UK OK, the GBP 5m drive will spotlight the Games and
the Golden Jubilee of the Queen, who will unveil the sporting extravaganza.
        The move was announced today by Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell, who
said it was time to remind everyone that Britain was a vibrant and exciting
place to visit'' - especially in the year of the Commonwealth Games and Golden
Jubilee.

 Ms Jowell said: UK OK does just that by featuring some fantastic deals for
potential visitors to Britain.''
The campaign, drawn up by the British Tourism Association and targeted at prime
overseas markets, aims to recover at least half of the GBP 2bn lost last year by
an industry hard hit by the foot-and-mouth outbreak and the aftermath of the
September 11 terror attacks.











LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

UK FRONT LINE' FOR TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


BRITAIN'S tough line against those responsible for the September 11 atrocities
has made it a "front line" target for terrorists, Home Secretary David Blunkett
warned yesterday.

He was speaking ahead of a speech by Tony Blair today, when the Prime Minister
will spell out in stark terms the need for Britons to be vigilant against terror
attacks in the UK.

Events like today's Remembrance Day ceremonies must be regarded as potential
targets for al Qaida, who might also strike in the run-up to Christmas and the
New Year, Mr Blunkett said.

And he acknowledged that the security services and police could not guarantee
that British people were safe against outrages.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

KNIGHT OF NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 166 words


FORMER New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani this afternoon received an honorary
knighthood from the Queen who wished him 'less stress in his life' as the US
recovers from September 11.

Mr Giuliani thanked the Queen, on behalf of the American people, for Britain's
support in the wake of the Twin Towers terrorist attack.

'We need good friends and we have no better friend than Great Britain,' he said
after the Buckingham Palace investiture.

The former mayor bowed before the Queen as she handed him the insignia of a
Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire. 'I am very excited and very
humbled,' said Mr Giuliani who is now entitled to use the letters KBE after his
name.

As he is not a British citizen he cannot style himself Sir Rudolph.

Mr Giuliani said the Queen congratulated him on his leadership in the wake of
the September 11 outrage.

'She said she had watched everything on the television and she said 'I hope you
have less stress in your life now'.'

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               November 17, 2002

WITH THE EXCEPTION OF A MAJOR TERRORIST ATTACK, THE PROSPECT OF A COLLAPSE IN
BRITAIN'S RUNAWAY HOUSING MARKET NOW POSES THE GREATEST THREAT TO THE UK
ECONOMY.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 706 words


With the exception of a major terrorist attack, the prospect of a collapse in
Britain's runaway housing market now poses the greatest threat to the UK
economy.

The Bank of England finally admitted as much last week, when it raised the
spectre of an abrupt slowdown in house price inflation, currently running at an
unsustainable 20% to 30% a year, and the subsequent knock-on effects this would
have on consumer spending.

Residential property is central to the UK economy: two-thirds of households own
their houses, which means most people have the bulk of their wealth tied up in
their home.

Many homeowners have cashed in on the price surge by remortgaging their
properties: close to 6% of total post-tax income in the UK now comes from equity
released from the housing market. Most of the cash generated is being spent on
consumer goods and services.

The economy would barely have grown this year without the support provided by
the housing market, a worrying thought given that it is difficult to see what
will take its place when the bubble finally bursts.

Stable or falling house prices would mean no more capital gains to be spent;
even a small drop in prices would push thousands of households into negative
equity (where the value of a house is worth less than an outstanding mortgage),
especially those with remortgaged homes, further dampening consumption.

The Bank acknowledged the "enormous uncertainties" surrounding the evolution of
the residential property market in its Inflation Report last week.

Though its central forecast is for house prices to stop growing in two years'
time, the Bank was forced to admit it does not really know what will happen.

Given the importance of the housing market to the overall economy, this means
that the Bank's other forecasts are equally uncertain - especially its belief
that strong domestic demand will continue to compensate for a depressed global
economy, as well as its forecasts for inflation.

Largely because of the conditions in the housing market, the Bank now expects
consumer price inflation to breach its 2.5% target within the next few months,
before edging down again sometime towards the middle of next year. The Bank
predicts inflation will subsequently move back above target by the end of its
two-year forecasting horizon.

For the second month in a row, inflation measured on the RPIX index of retail
prices excluding mortgage payments was higher than expected. In the year to
October, prices rose 2.3% compared with 2.1% in September.

Most economists now believe interest rates will stay on hold for the next few
months as the Bank starts worrying about containing inflation again.

Rising house prices have been the key driver behind the rise in the inflation
rate, even though asset prices are not directly included in the retail price
index. Instead, the index includes a "housing depreciation" component which
captures the impact of higher house prices on the cost of living.

The housing component, which is based on figures for house prices produced by
the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, rather than indices from building
societies such as the Halifax or websites such as Rightmove, registered a 16%
year-on-year rise in October.

Higher house prices boosted inflation by half a percentage point in October,
according to GFC Economics, a contribution which is set to rise to a full
percentage point by the end of this year, equivalent to more than a third of
total inflation.

But a rise in unemployment may be starting to dampen house prices. After staying
surprisingly subdued since the beginning of the year, jobless numbers are now
rising strongly. Unemployment as gauged by the International Labour Organisation
measure surged 45,000 in the three months to September while employment fell
36,000.

Massive job cuts in financial services have started taking their toll on the
wealthier parts of London. House prices have already dropped by between 9% and
10% in Kensington and Chelsea and are also falling in other fashionable
boroughs.

Mounting job losses suggest that the collapse in the housing market may come
sooner rather than later. Now is not the time to buy an expensive house.

Allister Heath


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 21, 2002

GOVERNMENT PLANS TOTAL POWER WITH BRITAIN ON THE BRINK OF. . .; A STATE OF
EMERGENCY

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 559 words


OFFICES, hotels and even some homes could be seized by the Government under new
state of emergency powers to cope with terrorist attacks, the Daily Express can
reveal.

Warehouses, machinery, lorries and workers in some industries could also be
requisitioned when ministers' proposals come into force.

The move follows the news that armed guards will fly on some UK passenger planes
and a warning by senior security officials of a "high" risk of attack against
Britain.

The new emergency laws are far more wide-ranging than those in force now and
ministers would be allowed to use them far more frequently.

Under plans seen by the Daily Express, the Government will also have the power
in an emergency to:

take over workers who could help in a crisis ban everyday activities which could
make any crisis worse, such as buying food from contaminated areas pass laws
without Parliamentary approval relax health and safety laws to allow more junior
staff to do work from which they are normally barred.

Simon Reeve, author and terrorism expert, said: "Clearly, in the event of a
biological terrorist attack on Britain, the Government would need to move
quickly.

"This proposed legislation would enhance their emergency powers and could be
used to requisition large buildings for use as casualty reception centres or to
ban people from buying food in a contaminated zone, " he said.

"If there was a 'dirty' radiological bomb attack in London, the Government would
need to evacuate a large area of the city, possibly thousands of people, and
would need to take immediate control of hotels and buildings to house them.

"And if there was a smallpox attack, officials might need to suspend health and
safety rules to order NHS personnel and Army medics into the danger area to deal
with the spread of the virus."

The leaked Whitehall document showing ministers' plans for a new law dealing
with a state of emergency says central and local Government must be prepared for
unprecedented horrors.

"Organisations also need to be able to deal with catastrophic incidents,
particularly when simultaneously occurring in diverse locations, arising from
terrorist attack, " it says.

"While current arrangements for dealing with terrorist attack are well
established, the unconventional nature of events like September 11 has required
a more fundamental re-think."

But, controversially, ministers are planning to use emergency powers even in
non-terrorist situations, including future fire service strikes, BSE-type crises
and weather disasters.

Others include natural disasters, major accidents, including nuclear, and
epidemics in humans and animals or plants, serious economic crisis, disruptions
to the essentials of life such as food, energy, water, energy, fuel,
communications and the proper functioning of Government.

Under the planned new law, which could be passed by Parliament next year, an
emergency would be declared if "in the opinion of the monarch" it is needed -
although in reality the Government would decide.

But John Wadham, director of civil rights group Liberty, said the planned new
law was "incredibly dangerous".

"Taking state-of-emergency powers is the most extreme step a democratic
government can take. It's for acute crisis, where the very existence of the
state is under threat."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            August 23, 2002, Friday

CITY HOSTS TOP TALKS ON ATTACK

BYLINE: Jane Woodhead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 241 words


EMERGENCY crews from across Britain will attend a conference in Liverpool to
learn how to cope with a September 11-style terror attack.

Around 400 fire fighters, paramedics, police officers and local authority
emergency planning teams from all over the country, will attend the World Trade
Centre disaster conference in the city in November.

The conference aims to make sure emergency services would be able to cope should
such a tragedy happen in Britain.

A New York fire fighter, together with representatives from the New York
emergency planning team and the American embassy, will speak at the event at the
Crowne Plaza hotel, on Liverpool's waterfront.

Alex McDougall, spokesman for Merseyside fire service, said: "Merseyside is
leading the way in ensuring all of the emergency services in this country learn
from the events of September 11.

"We want to ensure that should such an attack take place on a major city in this
country, the emergency services and defence forces are ready to respond.

"It is essential for us to be made fully aware of the events which happened in
New York. We have all got lessons to learn from what happened."

Cllr Richard Marbrow, assistant executive member to the leader of Liverpool
council, said: "It is a real honour for Liverpool to be hosting a conference of
this sort. It will help this city and other cities across the country to learn
from the experiences of New York."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 17, 2002

CIA IN SUICIDE BOMBS ALERT TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Allan Hall in Berlin and Richard Palmer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


SUICIDE bombers are preparing to unleash terror attacks on Britain and Germany,
the CIA has warned.

American agents have told the two governments that Al Qaeda is preparing to
exact revenge on the nations most closely linked to the US military action in
Afghanistan.

The warnings follow revelations in last week's Sunday Express that Scotland Yard
fears a suicide bombing in Britain.

German officials believe the decision to deploy its SAS-trained special forces
inside Afghanistan, to fight alongside Americans in the mountains, has increased
the likelihood of revenge being taken.

According to reports in a German magazine two high-ranking Al Qaeda officials
were at a terrorist meeting in Peshawar, Pakistan in the past few days.

The report also says intelligence agencies have listened in to phone calls
within Germany between followers of Osama Bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           February 11, 2002, Monday

BRITAIN: DEFENCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 69 words


THE armed forces are stretched and need more resources to "engage more fully in
the world", Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon told BBC 1's On the Record yesterday.
On Thursday he will present to Parliament proposals for updating the UK's
defences in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks and confirmed he
wanted to see the Territorial Army being used more to protect the UK from
possible terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN PUT ON ALERT AS SECURITY CHIEFS FEAR NEW TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Simon Baker And David Barrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 659 words


POLICE and security staff across the UK have been placed on high alert for
today's anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.

Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs warned last week that lone terrorists
unconnected to al-Qaida could strike in a bid to exploit the "world stage"
offered by today's landmark occasion.

Mobile armed road blocks are in place around London as a first point of defence,
and the public have been warned to be on a state of "alert but not alarm."

The armed forces are also believed to have stepped up patrols and other security
measures at high-risk sites throughout the UK.

Although increased security has remained in place at British airports since the
terrorist outrages in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, many agencies have
planned extra police presence.

Eyewitnesses in central London yesterday reported seeing an RAF Tornado flying
over the city, although a Ministry of Defence spokeswoman refused to discuss
operations.

A spokeswoman for Heathrow airport said 18 of today's scheduled transatlantic
flights had been cancelled by operators BA, Virgin and American Airlines.

"Security has been heightened since September 11 and it will remain at a
heightened state," she added.

Additional vehicle checks and armed patrols are being carried out at Gatwick in
a bid to ensure that the day passes peacefully.

"There will be increased highprofile policing at the airport both as a deterrent
and to provide reassurance for the airport community and travelling public,"
said aspokeswoman for Sussex Police.

"Additional random vehicle check points will be conducted and there will be
enhanced armed and unarmed patrols within the terminals and other areas."

At exactly 1.46pm, the nation will come to a virtual standstill for one minute's
silence in memory of those who died in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

New York policeman Lieu-tenant Frank Dwyer will mark the start of the silence by
lighting a candle at 1.46pm, coinciding with the time of impact of the first
hijacked passenger jet on the North Tower of New York's World Trade Center.

The impact of the second jet on the South Tower will be marked by the lighting
of a candle at 2.03pm by leaders of British Jews, Muslims, Hindus andBuddhists.
The London Stock Exchange is stopping for two minutes' silence at 1.46pm.

At 1.15pm, there will also be a national service of remembrance and
commemoration at St Paul's Cathedral, at which more than 3,000 white rose
petals, representing all those who lost their lives, will be released from the
Whispering Gallery, inside the cathedral's dome. More than 600 relatives and
close friends of the 67 British victims are expected to be at the service, which
begins with the singing of the national anthem of the United States.

Actress Patricia Hodge will read a poem by T.S. Eliot and Culture Secretary
Tessa Jowell and US Ambassador William Farish will read lessons.

The Bishop of London, Richard Chartres, will address the televised service,
which will be led by St Paul's Canon in Residence Philip Buckler.

"The service is a time to think of those who died but also a time to light a
candle of hope for the future," said Canon Buckler.

"We shall be gathered at that time when the first of two aircraft flew into the
World Trade Center."

The Archbishop of Westminster, Roman Catholic Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor,
will lead prayers with the Salvation Army's World President of Women's
Ministries, Commissioner Gisele Gowans.

Opposition leader Iain Duncan Smith and Simon Hughes, representing the Liberal
Democrats, are expected to be among politicians attending.

Chancellor Gordon Brown, Home Secretary David Blunkett and former prime
ministers are expected.

Head of Scotland Yard's AntiTerrorist Squad, Assistant Commissioner David
Veness, said last week that individual terrorists may see the anniversary as
offering a "world stage."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGH PROFILE: Armed police officers on patrol in central London
yesterday, amid fresh tensions over a terror attack Picture: KIRSTY;
WIGGLESWORTH; TRIBUTE: Beams of light representing where the Twin Towers stood
illuminate the Manhattan skyline

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

Muslims condemn terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Neil Tweedie and Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 328 words

THE Muslim son of the Labour politician Frank Dobson joined fellow British
Muslims yesterday in condemning the September 11 attacks.

Joe Ahmed-Dobson, who converted to Islam in 1998, said attributing terrorism to
Islam was grossly offensive.

Mr Ahmed-Dobson, 26, said most Muslims condemned attacks on civilians which
violated the principles of their religion.

He was speaking at a meeting at the Central London Mosque near Regent's Park to
mark the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks. The event was organised by
the Islamic Society of Britain and Young Muslims UK, two organisations which
have consistently condemned the attacks.

Mr Ahmed-Dobson said: "Those who carried out the attacks in the United States
apparently attribute their actions to Islam. This attribution was, and continues
to be, grossly offensive to the overwhelming majority of the three million
Muslims in the UK and one billion Muslims across the globe."

Outside the Finsbury Park mosque in north London last night, hundreds of police
were deployed as Islamic extremists held a conference to mark the anniversary of
the September 11 attacks.

The event, entitled A Towering Day in History, was addressed by Sheikh Abu Hamza
al Masri, Imam of the mosque, who is under investigation by the FBI, and other
leading radicals.

They had claimed that more than 1,000 people would attend, but the numbers
entering the mosque - a four-storey building close to Arsenal football stadium -
were small.

Young men, their faces covered with headscarves, stood at the doors of the
building, and refused permission for members of the media to go inside.

Al-Muhajiroun, the group which organised the conference, said the radicals
present would be announcing the creation of an Islamic Council of Britain to
rival the moderate Muslim Council of Britain.

Police arrested a man nearby who was shouting abuse. A three-inch knife was
found on him.
[PS]News: [ES]

September 11 - America:

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 7, 2002, Saturday

RED ALERT OVER NEW 9/11ATTACK

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 178 words


SECURITY forces in Britain are on red alert over fears of a new terror attack to
mark the first anniversary of the September 11 atrocity.

From this weekend thousands of extra police will begin a round-the-clock watch
on scores of potential targets including airports, military bases and nuclear
installations.

More than 500 American-owned interests, including the US embassy in London, have
been earmarked for special protection.

Added security will be in place in key financial centres such as the City of
London and Canary Wharf.

Armed patrols will also be keeping watch on hundreds of mosques and synagogues
for fear of reprisal attacks.

Assistant commissioner David Veness, in charge of all anti-terrorist operations,
said: "We cannot afford to relax. We must be alert at all times.

"We have no direct information about any specific threat, but the potential is
there.

"It could just as easily come from a lone fanatic as from an organised group
like al-Qaeda.

"The message to everyone is: Business as usual - but be vigilant."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 20, 2002

Move to close terror loophole

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 164 words


BRITISH citizens who commit terrorist acts anywhere in the world will face
prosecution in UK courts under sweeping new powers announced today.

At present, courts here are powerless to put a terror suspect on trial even if
there is compelling evidence of their involvement in attacks in countries like
Afghanistan, Sri Lanka or Egypt.

But the Crime ( International Co-operation) Bill would mean they could be put in
the dock here once they slipped back into Britain.

The new measure aims to plug the loophole where it is impossible to extradite
them to a country where they might face the death penalty.

"We want to send a message that Britain won't tolerate its citizens committing
terrorist acts anywhere," a Home Office source said.

The Bill also has measures to combat terrorists who murder, attack or threaten
British citizens or diplomatic residencies abroad - a new power is suggested
which would allow the UK to put foreign suspects on trial here.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

WORLD TO UNITE IN MINUTE OF REFLECTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 206 words


THE first anniversary of the world's worst terrorist atrocity will be marked on
Wednesday by a minute's silence around the globe.

In Scotland, first minister Jack McConnell will lead a service of remembrance
and reflection at St Giles' Cathedral in Edinburgh.

Britain's largest memorial service will be in London's St Paul's Cathedral,
attended by the families of the 67 British victims killed in the terrorist
attack.

Tony Blair, leading members of the Cabinet and senior royals, including Prince
Charles, will also be in attendance.

The minute's silence will begin at 1.46pm - 8.46am in New York - the time
American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the North Tower.

Britain's firefighters will be remembering their 343 New York counterparts who
died by gathering outside their stations to observe the silence.

Television and radio stations, including BBC1 and ITV, plan to fall quiet and
the London Stock Exchange will have a two-minute tribute.

New York's day of remembrance will be led by the city's former mayor, Rudolph
Giuliani.

It is expected to begin with a roll-call of the names of all the 2801 people
dead and missing from the World Trade Center.

See Witness - A 16-page pull-out tribute

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 13, 2002, Thursday

PARLIAMENT & POLITICS: SECURITY - RESERVES TO BECOME CIVIL DEFENCE FORCE IF
TERRORISTS ATTACK

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words


THE GOVERNMENT announced plans yesterday for the volunteer reserves of the armed
forces to be used in support of civil authorities in response to terrorist
attacks.

The proposal was drawn up because of the 11 September attacks on America and the
fear of similar action in this country prompted by Britain's backing for the
"war on terrorism" and the deployment of troops in Afghanistan.

About 6,000 members of the volunteer reserves are expected to form the Reserve
Reaction Force under plans outlined in the discussion document "The Role of the
Reserves in Home Defence and Security".

The document concludes that Britain should not have specific military units
similar to the American Department of Homeland Security. Military planners
concluded that would put a further burden on the overstretched armed forces.

Geoff Hoon, the Secretary of State for Defence, said: "The Volunteer Reserves
could play an important role in meeting the challenges posed following the
terrorist attacks in the United States. This work sets out how military
arrangements for liaising with the civil authorities could be enhanced and how
best to co-ordinate military assistance to them if requested.

"We want the widest possible consideration of these proposals. The discussion
paper will create an opportunity for the Reserves, their employers and other
interested parties, including local authorities and emergency services, to
influence our thinking."

Bernard Jenkin, the shadow Defence Secretary, said: "The UK is miles behind the
US and other countries on the issue of homeland defence. The present commitments
of the armed forces already outstrip resources. Will this simply add to
overstretch?"

Defence sources insisted Britain already had well developed structures in place
and did not need the sort of radical changes seen in America.

Mr Hoon stressed that the reaction force was simply one part of the Government's
wider response to the increased terrorist threat.

"Sadly, we have a long history of terrorism in the UK. We have had to develop
appropriate mechanisms. What we are doing is improving those in the light of
those appalling events on September 11 in the United States," he said.

The consultation paper also envisages an enhanced role for the armed forces in
civil contingency planning.

It said the 2 Signal Brigade - a predominantly Territorial Army formation -
would be equipped with a radio communication system compatible with the police
and civil emergency services.

It envisages that the new force would be deployed only in the "wholly
exceptional" circumstances of a major terrorist attack. While such attacks are
likely to be "infrequent", they are "unpredictable as to timing and location",
it said.

Defence sources stressed the reservists would form only one part of the military
response in the event of a terrorist attack and that the full resources of the
regular forces would also be available.

Nevertheless, the announcement represents a substantial shift in the
Government's thinking on the reserves after the 1998 strategic defence review
recommended a big reduction in their numbers.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 11, 2002, Monday Edition 1

Terrorist attack shock now receding

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 33

LENGTH: 289 words



Britain's small and med- ium-sized manufacturers are recovering from the
economic shock of the US terrorist attacks, a survey out today shows.

While orders and output are continuing to decline, the falls are not as steep as
those seen in the immediate aftermath of September 11.

And fewer jobs are expected to be cut by small and medium-sized enterprises
[SMEs] in the coming months than before Christmas, in contrast to the picture
for the manufacturing sector as a whole.

The survey, the latest quarterly report from the Confederation of British
Industry, comes as economists believe the global economy is finally showing
signs of picking up.

Simon Bartley, chairman of the CBI's SME council, warned that the continued
falls in demand meant 39pc of firms now had less than a month's guaranteed
production.

This is the highest percentage recorded since 1988, and Mr Bartley said it
showed an improvement in worldwide demand was desperately needed.

But he added: "There is some reassurance in this survey.

"Manufacturers, particularly smaller ones, continue to face tough times with
orders and output still suffering but the rate of decline is slowing."

The CBI said 24pc of small and medium-sized firms enjoyed an increase in total
orders over the past four months.

While 39pc registered a fall, the resulting balance of minus 15pc is way ahead
of forecasts and compares with a minus 25pc balance in October.

Business confidence is also showing signs of improving despite the lingering
gloom in the recession- hit manufacturing sector.

The CBI said 13pc of SMEs were more optimistic and 40pc less so than in October,
when the balance was minus 57pc.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 19, 2002

THREAT OF ATTACK ON UK 'VERY HIGH'

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.32

LENGTH: 158 words


The threat of a terrorist attack on Britain is "very high", an expert warned
yesterday.

Osama bin Laden had issued an "explicit" threat said Professor Paul Wilkinson,
of St Andrews University's Centre for the study of Terrorism and Political
Violence. His al Qaida group had shown how deadly it could be.

"We know that al Qaida is an extremely dangerous organisation with a record of
mass killing," the professor told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "We also know
that Britain has been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a recent audio tape.
He threatens attacks against Britain and other countries that are part of the
terrorism coalition."

Lord Harris, chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said the head of
specialist police operations in London thought it was a case of when not if an
attack came.

"It is a matter of common sense that you take the warning that the professor has
just given us very seriously," he told Today.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                 July 28, 2002

Worries over Air Traffic HQ security.

BYLINE: Sarah Cole (author email sarah.cole@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: FAREHAMANDGOSPORT



HAMPSHIRE'S newly opened air traffic control centre at Swanwick was criticised
today for being too lax against the threat of terrorist attacks.

The GBP 850m air traffic control centre near Fareham is believed to be named in
a damning government report as one of several key sites across Britain which
should be better protected.

Due to be published tomorrow, the Defence Select Committee's report is set to
claim that poor organisation and under funding mean the country is ill-prepared
for a terrorist attack.

Today The Guardian said that the committee's inquiry, set up following the
September 11 terrorist attacks in the US, found that a range of bodies,
including the Home Office, Ministry of Defence Police, intelligence services,
private companies and local authorities, were failing to work together on
security issues.

It said that MPs on the committee were stunned to find that Royal Navy ships and
key sites such as Swanwick's national air traffic control centre were not better
protected.

The report apparently reveals that branches of the emergency services have
incompatible communication systems and the Army also has a separate
communication system.

It will call for more money to be spent on the Ministry of Defence police budget
and questions the merits of a new civil defence funding system that has led to
cuts in local council emergency budgets.

The report also calls for local councils to be legally required to plan and
prepare for emergencies and criticises the civil contingencies secretariat, set
up after the fuel protests and floods in autumn 2000, for lacking the drive to
pull security plans together.

Today a National Air Traffic Services spokesman said he was unable to discuss
details of security arrangements at Swanwick, but insisted: "NATS is fully
confident in the existing security systems."

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said he could not comment on the report before
it was published.



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 26, 2002, Tuesday

Navy steps up al-Qa'eda anti-terror patrols

BYLINE: By Michael Smith Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 345 words

THE Royal Navy is stepping up its patrols off the coast of Britain and in the
Mediterranean to protect shipping against attacks by al-Qa'eda terrorists, the
First Sea Lord said yesterday.

Adml Sir Alan West said he wanted to see more heavy machineguns put on board
vessels to allow the Navy to defend shipping against attacks from small boats
packed with explosives. The stepping up of patrols follows the broadcasting by
al-Jazeera, the Arab television network, of a tape of Osama bin Laden naming
Britain as among a number of countries that were al-Qa'eda targets.

Concerns over the potential for such attacks has further increased since last
month's suicide attack by a small boat on a French tanker off Yemen and the
heightened security alerts in Britain.

Until recently, MI5 had considered an attack on Britain by dissident members of
the IRA as more likely than one by al-Qa'eda but in the past month the situation
has become more threatening.

Earlier this month, the Home Office withdrew a warning of a "dirty bomb" attack
and replaced it with a more generalised warning. But days later Tony Blair
placed the country on heightened alert for a possible terrorist attack.

One of the persistent fears since the September 11 attacks is that terrorists
could smuggle a "dirty bomb" into London or New York on board a ship.

Sir Alan said that while there was no specific intelligence about terrorist
attacks there were "consistent strands" warning about such threats.

The Navy has been practising defending ships against "swarm" attacks by small
boats since the attack on the USS Cole off Yemen in October 2000 in which 17
United States sailors died, Sir Alan said. It also moved two anti-terrorist
patrol boats from Northern Ireland to Gibraltar after the Moroccan authorities,
working with British intelligence services, thwarted an attempt by al-Qa'eda
terrorists to attack British ships.

Sir Alan disclosed that the destroyer Manchester had returned from the
Mediterranean to assist in providing cover for the firemen's strike.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 1, 2003, Thursday

BLAIR'S STARK WARNING OF THREATS TO BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 244 words


BRITAIN faces an unprecedented number of "difficult and dangerous" problems in
the coming year, Tony Blair warned today.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister (right) said in his New
Year message.

And he added that this year Britain must face the "single most important
decision that faces this political generation" on whether to join the euro.

His assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posed by Iraq, al Qaida,
the Middle East and North Korea.

Those threats will not help the faltering world economy, Mr Blair warned. "I
cannot recall a time when Britain was confronted, simultaneously, by such a
range of difficult and, in some cases, dangerous problems." However, the
government was tackling each problem and would not be deterred by short-term
unpopularity, Mr Blair pledged.

The most dangerous reaction would be to "dismiss the importance of politics and
political decision", according to Mr Blair.

"Whether we survive and prosper or decline in the face of this insecurity
depends crucially on the political decisions Britain now takes," he said.

On Iraq, Saddam Hussein must be disarmed because failure "would make the world a
very dangerous place in the future".

The Middle East peace process must be pushed forward whatever the problems.

And he said Britain must also continue to play a leading role in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 11, 2002

Frontline role for Army's weekend warriors

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 213 words


BRITAIN'S weekend warriors are to be drafted into the frontline of the war
against terror.

The Territorial Army and other military reservists will guard key terror targets
and play a crucial role if the UK suffers September 11-style attacks.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon will tomorrow tell MPs he is setting up a 6,000
-strong reaction force.

It will give the TA a vital role in Britain's defence just four years after
Labour decided its numbers should be cut by a third. The reservists will be
called up after defence chiefs reviewed the UK's plans for terror attacks -
likely to be "infrequent and unpredictable". There could be simultaneous
attacks, and chemical, biological and even nuclear devices cannot be ruled out,
the Ministry of Defence document warned. The new reaction force would guard
sites, help deal with mass casualties and evacuate large numbers of citizens and
operate water and feeding stations. Since September 11, defence specialists have
suggested the TA should be used to guard potential terrorist targets because of
their expert local knowledge. Details of the force were leaked at the weekend,
raising suspicions at Westminster they were to deflect attention from a row over
an attempt to smear Paddington rail disaster survivors.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

BLAIR DEFENDS RESPONSE TO THREAT OF TERRORISM COPE WITH TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Waugh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264 words


TONY BLAIR yesterday rejected criticisms by an all-party committee of MPs that
Britain was not prepared for the threat of a big terrorist attack.

Mr Blair was challenged by the Leader of the Opposition, Iain Duncan Smith, at
Prime Minister's Questions over a hard-hitting report by the Defence Select
Committee.

The report warned that Britain's emergency services lacked the capability and
resources to cope with an attack on the scale of the 11 September atrocities. It
said there was "inadequate central co- ordination and direction".

In particular, the report pointed to concerns that emergency services were not
receiving enough training and equipment to deal with a chemical, biological or
nuclear attack, while communications equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

Mr Duncan Smith asked Mr Blair if he agreed with the MPs' conclusion that
Britain had not taken the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive examination of
how it would cope with a disaster on the scale of 11 September. The Tory leader
said there had been a "lack of grip and direction" from the Government.

But the Prime Minister said he believed the right balance had been struck
between spending billions on protecting the country from every threat and doing
nothing. "We will, of course, study the additional things the MPs say we should
do," he said.

Bruce George, the committee's Labour chairman, said the MPs did not believe that
David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, could devote all his energies to leading the
anti-terrorist preparations.

Leading article, page 16

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

UK EXPOSED TO TERROR STRIKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 78 words


BRITAIN could not cope with a September 11-style terrorist attack, MPs will warn
today.

The defence select committee says under-funding and lack of co-ordination make
the country vulnerable. It calls for prompt improvements in early warning of
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack and adds: "The Government
must provide the resources needed."

A No 10 official said: "The crisis machinery works well but is always open to
improvement."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 29, 2002

Amnesty attacks curbs on rights in terror Act;
 Report accuses Britain over deaths and arrests

BYLINE: by MIKE AMBROSE

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words


AMNESTY International condemned Britain and other western countries yesterday
for "jumping on the antiterrorist bandwagon" since the September 11 atrocities
in the United States.

The campaign said that the "democracies" had sidelined human rights in the name
of security.

The report laid bare humanrights breaches, an increase in paramilitary killings,
deaths in custody and a host of other violations in Britain and Northern
Ireland.

It said that new security legislation, which had been pushed through by the
Labour government in the months after the attacks, had "opened the door" to
human-rights violations.

The Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act allowed for foreign nationals to be
detained indefinitely without charge or trial.

Britain was also criticised for an increase in the number of paramilitary
killings and shootings in Northern Ireland.

Other areas of concern were the failure to bring prosecutions in a number of
controversial cases of death in custody in England and inadequate safeguards to
prevent the suicide of young people in prisons.

The report stated: "Our fears were realised as a shadow criminal justice system
was created in the UK without the essential safeguards of the formal system.

"Up to nine people are now being held within it."

The organisation blamed politicians "more concerned with popularity" than with
respecting international human-rights obligations.

The report charged: "A racist backlash has generated a climate of suspicion and
mistrust, exaggerated by the way in which foreigners are being portrayed as a
source of 'terrorism.'

"The year 2001 witnessed a direct challenge to long-accepted human-rights
standards by the very governments that campaigned for their establishment."

Amnesty attacked the United States for its treatment of prisoners from the
Afghanistan conflict, who have been held at Camp X-Ray in Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba.

The report said that rights violations had increased in many countries,
including Colombia, where 300 people "disappeared" and 4,000 civilians were
killed.

But Amnesty acknowledged that progress had been made in Tibet and in Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

GRAPHIC: X-RAY EXPOSURE: US personnel frogmarching a detainee at the prison camp
in Guantanamo Bay, which the Amnesty report singled out for criticism.

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             April 2, 2002, Tuesday

BETTING SHOPS MAY CLOSE ON DAY OF FUNERAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 202 words


BRITAIN'S bookmakers were meeting today to consider closing betting offices on
the day of the Queen Mother's funeral as a mark of respect.

Coral spokesman Simon Clare said: "The directors of Coral will be discussing it
and they will also be discussing with other members of the bookmaking industry."

The move follows a minute's silence at Kempton, the scene of one of the Queen
Mother's biggest wins as an owner, and at 14 other race courses yesterday.

Kempton's usual blue racecard had a black front cover and the Union flag flew at
half mast on a course where the then Queen Elizabeth's Manicou triumphed in the
1950 King George VI Chase - a race named after her husband.

The jockeys rode in black armbands, brought from Epsom where they were worn in
the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

Passion For Life seemed to have been named for Britain's oldest Royal but he
could not manage a fitting victory in the first race, eventually coming home
well beaten.

Racing was given the go-ahead by the British Horse Racing Board despite the
Royal death, a decision described as "what she would have wanted" by the Queen
Mother's racing manager, Sir Michael Oswald.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 15, 2002

CHILLING WARNING TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 422 words


BRITAIN was yesterday warned it will be the target of September 11-style attacks
if it joins any military action against Iraq.

The chilling threat came from a radical Muslim cleric who claimed Islamic
fundamentalists were planning mass terror attacks in the UK in retaliation for
any assault on Saddam Hussein. In a thinly veiled warning, Sheikh Omar Bakri
Mohammed added that the British public should be "worried" and said launching
strikes against Iraq would "cause problems".

Sheikh Mohammed, who is the UK-based leader of the fundamentalist Al-Muhajiroun
group, said: "We are giving advice to the British Government and also warning
the British public of the consequences of involving themselves in attacking
Iraq, as the consequences of playing with fire is always either you burn
yourself or cause other problems."

Asked if he had specific information of threats against the UK, the Sheikh said:
"If you are in my position and listening to the talk and discussion in different
rooms on the Internet and aware about Islamic activities, yes you'll be worried.

"There are Muslims abroad who believe they are at war with the West."

The Sheikh has caused widespread fury in the past for his inflammatory comments.
He controversially called for Britain to be turned into an Islamic state with
the Muslim flag hung outside Downing Street and has described Bin Laden as a
"hero".

Home Secretary David Blunkett has already warned Sheikh Mohammed that he is on
the verge of being arrested following a stream of provocative outbursts.

M15, special branch and the Home Office have been monitoring him, as well as
phone calls and e-mails made by other fanatics in his organisation.

Mr Blunkett said last year: "At a point when we believe he is causing danger by
literally inciting others to go out and take people's lives, we will take action
against him. We will be in a position to act decisively when the mark has been
completely overstepped."

Tory MP David Cameron, a member of the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee,
last night suggested the cleric should be deported. He sought political asylum
after being expelled from Saudi Arabia and was given indefinite leave to remain
by the Home Office.

Deputy PM John Prescott said the decision on whether to attack Iraq would be
made by the Prime Minister.

He said MPs may not be given a vote on the issue. Mr Prescott said previous
decisions to go to war had been dealt with in adjournment debates which allow no
opportunity for a ballot.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

SEPTEMBER 11: ONE YEAR ON: POLICE THROW RING ROUND MOSQUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 218 words


A MOSQUE holding a controversial conference on the September 11 terror attacks
was at the centre of a tense standoff last night.

The Islamic conference, entitled September 11: A Towering Day in History, was
due to hear from some of the most radical Muslim clerics in Britain.

The event, at the Finsbury Park mosque in north London, was organised by
alMuhajiroun, the group which wants to make Britain an Islamic state.

But Muslims in the mosque were penned in by dozens of police officers as about
100 British National Party supporters and 30 Anti-Nazi League demonstrators
gathered outside. Both groups used loud hailers for chanting.

They were kept apart by steel barriers and lines of police officers.

Earlier a man who shouted abuse at the mosque was arrested on suspicion of
possessing a knife.

Inside the mosque the "positive outcomes" of the terrorist attacks on the US a
year ago yesterday was one theme being discussed.

Abu Hamza al-Masri, who lost one hand fighting in Afghanistan against the
Soviets, was also speaking.

Jeremy Corbyn, the local MP, appeared briefly to support the local community
against all extremists, he said.

"I'm protesting against racists being brought into this community," he said.

"We want a harmonious multi-ethnic community."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2002

TASK FORCE TO GUARD UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 48 words


A VOLUNTEER force of 6,000 troops is to be trained to cope with a major
terrorist attack on Britain.

The Government will put together a force of reservists to help police and civil
authorities in the event of a raid like that of September 11 or an attack using
biological weapons.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 1, 2003, Thursday

BLAIR WARNS OF THREATS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 134 words


BRITAIN faces an unprecedented number of 'difficult and dangerous' problems in
the coming year, Tony Blair warned today.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister said in his New Year
message. But Mr Blair insisted: 'Britain is well placed to face up to them.'

His hard-headed assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posedby
Iraq, al Qaida, the Middle East and North Korea.

Those threats will not help the faltering world economy, Mr Blair warned. 'I
cannot recall a time when Britain was confronted, simultaneously, by such a
range of difficult and, in some cases, dangerous problems,' he said. However,
the Government would not be deterred by short-term unpopularity, Mr Blair
pledged.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

BRITAIN IS A TERROR TARGET'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 209 words


THE threat of a terrorist attack on Britain is "very high", an expert warned
today.

Osama bin Laden had issued an "explicit" threat, and his al Qaida group had
shown how deadly it could be, said Professor Paul Williamson of St Andrews
University's Centre for the study of Terrorism and Political Violence.

"The threat level to the UK is very high at present," the professor told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme.

The news comes as UN weapons inspectors are due to fly to Iraq today to see if
the country has any weapons of mass destruction. The outcome could plunge the
Gulf into war.

Lord Harris, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said the head of
specialist police operations in London thought it was a case of when, not if, an
attack came.

"It is a matter of common sense that you take the warning that the professor has
just given us very seriously," he told Today.

"What if various things happened including attacks on the London Underground?

"Do the emergency services have the plan in place to handle specific events?"

Lord Harris refused to go into details of the kind of threats that had been
planned for.

"Clearly it would not be right even if I knew the details for me to give them
out," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 July 29, 2002

Worries over Air Traffic HQ security.

BYLINE: Sarah Cole

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 326 words



HAMPSHIRE'S newly opened air traffic control centre at Swanwick was criticised
today for being too lax against the threat of terrorist attacks.

The GBP 850m air traffic control centre near Fareham is believed to be named in
a damning government report as one of several key sites across Britain which
should be better protected.

Due to be published tomorrow, the Defence Select Committee's report is set to
claim that poor organisation and under funding mean the country is ill-prepared
for a terrorist attack.

Today The Guardian said that the committee's inquiry, set up following the
September 11 terrorist attacks in the US, found that a range of bodies,
including the Home Office, Ministry of Defence Police, intelligence services,
private companies and local authorities, were failing to work together on
security issues.

It said that MPs on the committee were stunned to find that Royal Navy ships and
key sites such as Swanwick's national air traffic control centre were not better
protected.

The report apparently reveals that branches of the emergency services have
incompatible communication systems and the Army also has a separate
communication system.

It will call for more money to be spent on the Ministry of Defence police budget
and questions the merits of a new civil defence funding system that has led to
cuts in local council emergency budgets.

The report also calls for local councils to be legally required to plan and
prepare for emergencies and criticises the civil contingencies secretariat, set
up after the fuel protests and floods in autumn 2000, for lacking the drive to
pull security plans together.

Today a National Air Traffic Services spokesman said he was unable to discuss
details of security arrangements at Swanwick, but insisted: "NATS is fully
confident in the existing security systems."

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said he could not comment on the report before
it was published.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

BIN LADEN: WE WILL ATTACK BRITAIN;
 TAPE COULD PROVE TERROR LEADER IS ALIVE

BYLINE: Nathan Yates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 391 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: bin Laden


OSAMA bin Laden last night warned that al-Qaeda terrorists were ready to attack
Britain.

A man identified as the Saudi-born extremist made the threat against citizens in
the UK and other United States allied countries. He also hailed the Bali
bombing, the Moscow theatre siege, an attack on an oil tanker in Yemen and
shootings in Kuwait and Jordan as victories for al-Qaeda.

The taped statement in Arabic said al-Qaeda would attack anyone who backed the
"White House gang of butchers".

Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Germany and Australia were all named as targets.

It warned: "If you don't like looking at your dead remember our dead, including
the children in Iraq.

"The road to safety starts with stopping aggression. We had warned Australia
about its participation in Afghanistan. It ignored the warning until it woke up
to the sound of explosions in Bali."

The voice delivering the speech broadcast on Arabic TV station al-Jazeera bore a
clear resemblance to bin Laden.

US intelligence experts are analysing it to confirm whether it is the terror
network leader.

If it is authentic, it will be the first conclusive proof bin Laden survived
allied attacks on Afghanistan.

Praising the terrorists who killed nearly 200 people in the Bali bombing and
carried out other recent atrocities he said: "These are only a reaction
undertaken by sons who are zealous in the defence of their religion.

"They are in response to what Bush, the pharaoh of the age, is doing by killing
our sons in Iraq and what America's ally Israel is doing, bombarding houses with
women and old people and children inside with American planes.

"Our people in Palestine are being killed, are being subjected to the worse kind
of suffering for almost a century now.

"If we defend our people in Palestine the world is disturbed and allied against
Muslims under the banner of combating terrorism."

It was feared the audio tape was another propoganda coup for bin Laden whose
whereabouts remains a mystery.

The last evidence he was alive was a video tape believed to have been filmed in
November, 2001. In another tape aired last December he appeared gaunt and
possibly wounded.

Sean McCormack, spokesman for President Bush's National Security Council, said:
"We've seen the reports on the tape and we're looking into it."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 17, 2002, Friday

HELLO GUYS;
 BLAIR STARS IN POUNDS 25M AD CAMPAIGN TO WOO TOURISTS BACK TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: Justine Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 281 words

HIGHLIGHT: SUCCESS: The Wonderbra ad


TOURIST bosses are trying to lure Americans to Britain with a new ad campaign
starring Tony Blair.

The commercial features quirky characters in stunning scenery, selling the
country's heritage and culture with a twist.

It is part of a pounds 25million campaign to rebuild the tourist industry
following last year's foot and mouth crisis and the September 11 terror attacks.

The ad opens with farmers enjoying a game of welly-whanging - an unorthodox
rural take on the discus competition.

Next we see a taxi driver outside Buckingham Palace, whose cab is being pelted
with falling wellingtons, inviting viewers to "partake in the pleasure of
Britain". Traditional images including a pub, a cup of tea and a British bulldog
cut into surreal scenes.

In one, a city gent stands in a field of vibrant yellow flowers, while in
another thousands waltz around Trafalgar Square.

The voiceover is provided by Blackadder's Tim McInnerny.

But the Prime Minister has the last word saying, "Welcome", from the garden of
No 10.

The British Tourist Authority said: "We lost pounds 2billion last year and it
will take time to get levels back to normal.

"The Cool Britannia image worked for a while but times change. We're confident
this will capture the imagination of prospective visitors."

It is hoped the campaign, which will be adapted for Europe, will attract an
extra million tourists.

The ad, which cost pounds 7million, was directed by Michael Geoghegan, whose
credits include videos for the Lighthouse Family and Samantha Mumba.

Tourist chiefs will be hoping it has the same uplifting effect as Wonderbra's
hugely successful Hello Boys campaign.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 03, 2002, Tuesday

Civil defence plan woeful, says expert

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 336 words

BRITAIN'S emergency services are untrained and ill-equipped for a major
terrorist attack, according to a senior civil defence expert.

Eric Alley, a former chief emergency planning officer, claimed yesterday that
there was a "lack of political will" at the highest levels of Government to make
the necessary preparations.

In a letter to Oliver Letwin, the Tory home affairs spokesman, Mr Alley said he
had little confidence in the Government's ability to cope.

"The emergency services appear to be untrained, uneducated, ill-equipped and
under-practised in the necessary passive skills to respond to any major incident
- let alone recover from it."

He said there was no London-wide survival plan. The capital was "open and
vulnerable", and there was a lack of appreciation of the aftermath of an attack.

A "dirty bomb", using nuclear material, would pose great radiological
challenges.

Mr Alley, a former adviser to the Home Office and currently a senior official of
the Institute of Civil Defence and Disaster Studies, claimed Britain spent less
per head on civil protection than any of its partners in western Europe.

He said Britain's preparations were "bedevilled by a lack of political will",
with a deep sense of frustration among senior planners and emergency services
officers who were in a state of "near total ignorance".

What Britain needed was a Ministry for Civil Protection - instead it had a
minister without power in the Cabinet Office, "a cardboard cut out", he said.

The extent to which the country, especially London, was now exposed, was not
generally understood. Sudden attacks on a population mentally unprepared could
entail "serious danger of panic on a large scale".

Mr Letwin said Mr Alley's criticisms were a "very worrying" indication of the
Government's lack of preparedness for a terrorist attack.

The Tories are calling on the Government to appoint a senior political figure to
have overall charge of preparing for any future terrorist attack.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 15, 2002

Security crisis at our N-plants

SECTION: Features :General :Letters, Pg.12

LENGTH: 245 words


SIR - It was interesting to read about the preparations being made to cope with
the aftermath of possible terrorist attacks in Britain, in whatever form they
may take. This situation is particularly alarming for people who live near
Hinkley Point nuclear power station and the Royal Ordnance factory at Puriton.

I suppose the cheapest option, (that we always seem to get in this country), is
to have a few vehicles on standby, and a big hole dug in the ground somewhere,
ready to collect up and dispose of British corpses.

Instead of this farcical preparation, we need proper pre-emptive measures, such
as getting Hinkley Point and the ROF immediately fitted with ground-to -air
missiles.

Considering that the UK is the fourth largest economy in the world, (so can
easily afford it), it's about time the local authorities, politicians and the
Ministry of Defence got off their backsides and took necessary protective
measures like the Americans applied to their nuclear power stations and military
installations immediately after September 11, 2001. It simply beggars belief
that similar security precautions in Britain have not yet been implemented.

Personally, I'd rather see an airplane, being used as a missile and being aimed
at one of the two above mentioned sites, shot down before it hit the target.

This is surely vastly preferable to a clean up job and lots of useless
sympathetic words from politicians.

Name and address supplied.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           November 17, 2002, Sunday

CYANIDE PLOT ON TUBE: 3 CHARGED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 275 words


THREE men have been charged over an alleged plot to carry out a terrorist attack
on London Underground, police sources said last night.

Scotland Yard refused to comment on a report that the attack involved releasing
cyanide gas on the Tube network.

Rabah Chekat-Bais, 21, Rabah Kadris, in his mid 30s, and Karim Kadouri, 33, all
of no fixed address, were charged under Section 57 of the Terrorism Act 2000 for
the possession of articles for the preparation, instigation and commission of
terrorism acts.

All three have appeared in court and have been remanded in custody to appear
before magistrates again tomorrow.

The report said that six north African men were initially arrested on November 9
by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch in connection with the plot.

It said officers raided several addresses in north London, taking away items
during searches. Three of the men were later released and no chemicals or bomb
equipment were found.

The report also claimed that MI5 had intelligence that a gang was planning to
bring ingredients for a gas bomb into Britain.

It suggested that the alleged plot had prompted Mr Blair to make his recent
speech about the possible threats of terrorist attacks in Britain.

But Government sources insisted that the case was not behind the Prime
Minister's warning, in his speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in London last
week.

Seven years ago a nerve-gas attack on the Tokyo subway killed 12 people and
injured 5,000 others.

The attack by a Japanese religious cult Aum Shinrikyo served as a wake-up call
to the world of the threat from chemical and biological weapons.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR ALERT;
 SEPTEMBER 11: TENSIONS RAISED AS WORLD REMEMBERS

BYLINE: Samantha Clarke And Dean Valler PATROLS: Armed police were today on the
streets of London

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words


THE whole of Britain was today on a high security alert for the anniversary of
the September 11 terror attacks in America.

Extra police were brought in at major airports across the UK, on top of the
increased security which has been in force since the attacks in New York,
Washington and Pennysylvania a year ago.

The move follows a warning last week from Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs who
said lone terrorists, unconnected to al Qaida, could strike today.

In the West Midlands, police stepped up their presence at "vulnerable areas" in
the region.

A police spokeswoman said: "There is no specific threat to the West Midlands and
the UK in general, and we encourage people to go about their business as usual.
As usual we encourage people to be aware of what is around them. Anything
unusual or suspicious should be reported to the police."

Britain was today joining nations around the world to remember the horrors of
September 11.

A one-minute silence was observed by employees from Nuneaton and Bedworth
Borough Council today to remember victims of the attacks on the World Trade
Centre in New York.

The Mayor of Nuneaton and Bedworth, Cllr Geoff Ashford, led the tribute in the
Town Hall. Cllr Ashford said: "My thoughts

are with those people who lost members of their families, friends or colleagues,
ordinary people who went off to work and did not return."

At Nuneaton Fire Station, firefighters paraded outside and observed a minute's
silence at 11am.

At St Paul's church, in Church Road, Stockingford, there was a service at 10am,
and St James' church, in School Road, Bulk-ington, held a Euch- arist at 9.45am,
with the church staying open throughout the day for people to light memorial
candles.

There is also a day of prayer at St Mary's church in Hinckley from 10.30am until
3.30pm. All Saints church, High Street, Bedworth, is open until 2pm for private
prayer and reflection and St Nicolas church, in Vicarage Street, Nuneaton, is
open until 2pm and then reopens this evening from 6pm to 8pm, with a special
half-hour event from 7pm.

The armed forces have been called in to help step up security patrols at
Britain's airports: at Heathrow, 18 transatlantic flights were cancelled, and at
Gatwick, vehicle checks and patrols were stepped up.

Birmingham Airport was on a heightened state of security.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 11, 2002

MPs warn of bioterrorism threat

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.10

LENGTH: 313 words


THE threat of a biological attack on Britain from hostile states or terror
groups is growing, MPs warn today.

The Commons foreign affairs committee says security assessments of the threat
from bioterrorism were dramatically upgraded after September 11.

The present view is based partly on evidence discovered in Afghanistan during
the campaign against the Taliban and al-Qaeda.

The committee says terrorist groups including Osama bin Laden's network not only
want to acquire biological and chemical weapons, they are taking active steps to
obtain them.

Although the mass casualty terrorist attacks of recent years have not involved
such weapons, "bioterrorism remains a possibility which must be addressed with
the utmost seriousness", the MPs say.

States are also involved, with a risk that facilities and technologies in Iraq
and the former Soviet Union could be misused to develop biological weapons.

There is also a threat from the regions where the UK is most likely to face
challenges to its interests - particularly the Gulf, Near East and North Africa.

And the threat can only increase as biotechnology develops, with academics
noting a current upsurge in research which could have malign potential.

The committee concludes: "The level of threat to the UK from biological weapons
must not be underestimated."

But the MPs attack senior figures in the US administration who do not believe
bioterrorism is an international problem.

They say measures including intelligence, export control and action with other
countries to intercept shipments of concern are all needed to counter the
growing threat.

MPs demanded the measures after warnings that a terrorist with a litre of
anthrax could kill three million people.



Britain is stockpiling up to 60 million doses of smallpox vaccine in case of a
germ warfare attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 11, 2002

Mps Warn Of Bioterrorism Threat

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 10 1112WESTDP232mpswa

LENGTH: 311 words


The threat of a biological attack on Britain from hostile states or terror
groups is growing, MPs warn today.  The Commons foreign affairs committee says
security assessments of the threat from bioterrorism were dramatically upgraded
after September 11.

The present view is based partly on evidence discovered in Afghanistan during
the campaign against the Taliban and al-Qaeda.

The committee says terrorist groups including Osama bin Laden's network not only
want to acquire biological and chemical weapons, they are taking active steps to
obtain them.

Although the mass casualty terrorist attacks of recent years have not involved
such weapons, "bioterrorism remains a possibility which must be addressed with
the utmost seriousness", the MPs say.

States are also involved, with a risk that facilities and technologies in Iraq
and the former Soviet Union could be misused to develop biological weapons.

There is also a threat from the regions where the UK is most likely to face
challenges to its interests - particularly the Gulf, Near East and North Africa.

And the threat can only increase as biotechnology develops, with academics
noting a current upsurge in research which could have malign potential.

The committee concludes: "The level of threat to the UK from biological weapons
must not be underestimated." But the MPs attack senior figures in the US
administration who do not believe bioterrorism is an international problem.

They say measures including intelligence, export control and action with other
countries to intercept shipments of concern are all needed to counter the
growing threat.

MPs demanded the measures after warnings that a terrorist with a litre of
anthrax could kill three million people.

Britain is stockpiling up to 60 million doses of smallpox vaccine in case of a
germ warfare attack.


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 15, 2002

UK TARGET OF MUSLIM TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 75 words


A MUSLIM cleric has warned that religious fanatics will carry out mass terror
attacks on Britain if it takes part in any military action against Iraq.

The UK-based leader of a fundamentalist group said he knew of many "freelance"
Muslims who believe they are at war with the West and who would be prepared to
retaliate against Britain and any allied powers.

"The British public should be worried, " said the cleric yesterday.

Page 8

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          December 05, 2002, Thursday

Britain closes high commission in Kenya after threat

BYLINE: By Adrian Blomfield in Nairobi

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 284 words

A "CREDIBLE and specific" threat of terrorist attack forced Britain to close its
high commission in Nairobi last night.

The decision came six days after a suicide bombing killed at least 16 people in
a hotel in Mombasa and terrorists fired two missiles in a failed attempt to
bring down an Israeli passenger aircraft taking off from the city's airport.

"The high commission has been closed until further notice," said a Foreign
Office spokesman. "The threat was received this afternoon and the decision was
taken after consultation with the Foreign Office." He refused to give details.
The embassy's Christmas ball on Saturday has been cancelled and diplomats have
been ordered to keep a low profile.

Despite the latest threat, the Foreign Office has not advised Britons to cancel
trips to Kenya. It simply says visitors should avoid shopping malls, hotels and
restaurants.

Kenyan police said they had arrested two Arabs suspected of being in the vehicle
used in the failed missile attack. William Langat, the deputy police
commissioner, said the arrests may represent the biggest breakthrough so far.

Nairobi is the sub-Saharan African headquarters for many British companies,
several of which are considering closing their offices. Some British schools
said they would also consider closing. There are an estimated 50,000 Britons in
Kenya. In 1998 an al-Qa'eda bomb killed 214 people in the American embassy in
Nairobi and Osama bin Laden's network has claimed responsibility for the Mombasa
attacks.

America diplomats said they would close their central Nairobi offices today, but
their main embassy, relocated after the 1998 bomb, would remain open. They
described the threat as credible.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

                                 April 25, 2002

US buys British after terror strikes

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

BYLINE: By Post Reporter

LENGTH: 63 words


British products and services are selling better to Americans both in Britain
and the US since the terrorist attacks of September 11, a new survey shows.

Walpole, an organisation that champions British excellence around the world,
found that UK companies saw an increase in sales of between 10% and 80% in
December 2001 and January 2002 compared to the previous year.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 24, 2002

Labour warned over nuclear terror threat

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 107 words


TENS of thousands of lives could be lost if Britain does not improve the
protection of its nuclear power stations, MPs will warn today.

In a damning report, the influential Commons Defence select committee will warn
that Britain has not properly prepared for copycat terrorist attacks in the 10
months following September 11. MPs say any attack on a nuclear installation
could have potentially catastrophic consequences and poor organisation and
in-fighting is undermining efforts to protect the UK.

MPs will criticise Tony Blair for "a lack of grip and direction" in responding
to the threat of international terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               February 17, 2002

THE HEAD OF BRITAIN'S BIGGEST VACCINES COMPANY, WHICH HAS SECURED A GBP 17M
GOVERNMENT CONTRACT TO SUPPLY ANTI-TUBERCULOSIS JABS, GAVE GBP 50,000 TO THE
LABOUR PARTY, THE BUSINESS CAN REVEAL .

BYLINE: Andrew Porter; Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words


The head of Britain's biggest vaccines company, which has secured a GBP 17m
government contract to supply anti-tuberculosis jabs, gave GBP 50,000 to the
Labour party, The Business can reveal .

The two-year contract for BCG inoculations was signed last March. It was worth
four times the amount of the previous contract.

Paul Drayson, the multi-millionaire chief executive and chairman of
biotechnology company Powderject Pharmaceuticals, gave the money to Labour a
month after the 2001 election. It makes Drayson the biggest individual donor
since Labour was returned to power last June. Powderject is also believed to be
involved in other crucial government work, including work to boost Britain's
defences against bio-terrorism attacks.

Since 11 September and the worries over anthrax and smallpox outbreaks,
Powderject's plant, Evans Vaccines, based in Speke in Liverpool, has stepped up
production of jabs against the lethal diseases.

Downing Street spent much of last week denying any wrongdoing over Tony Blair's
decision to write a letter supporting the takeover of a Romanian steel company
by a firm owned by Indian billionaire Lakshmi Mittal, who donated GBP 125,000 to
Labour.

A BCG vaccination programme covering adults and children against tuberculososis,
the deadly lung disease, was halted in 1999. Medeva, the jab manufacturer, could
no longer guarantee supplies. The cost of that original contract was around GBP
2m a year.

Medeva has since been renamed Evans Vaccines and is now owned by Powderject.
Last March the Department of Health announced the BCG programme would be
re-started and that Powderject had won the contract to guarantee supplies for
two years at GBP 8.5m a year.

A spokesman for Powderject confirmed that the contract had been won ahead of
competitors from overseas.

He claimed on Saturday the reason why the contract price was four times as much
than the previous one was because production had been dormant and in order to
crank up that production they needed to invest a large sum of money. He
confirmed that the GBP 50,000 donation had been made by Drayson on 25 July.

He said: "He is a member of the Labour party and has not made a secret of that
fact. Paul's stance has always been clear. He doesn't believe he has anything to
hide."

Conservative health spoke-sman Liam Fox said on Saturday that the government
needs to answer key questions. "Any suggestion that the NHS is being overcharged
for vaccines would naturally be a cause for concern at any time," he said.
"Given the events, and in particular the scandal surrounding Labour donors, it
clearly becomes a case of heightened public anxiety."

Drayson, whose family stake in the company is thought to be around GBP 100m, has
become a major cheerleader for Labour. In the run up to the 2001 general
election, just weeks after his company had secured the BCG contract, he signed a
letter, along with six others, heaping praise on the government.

The letter talked of a "new spirit of enterprise" that "has been greatly helped
by government policy to promote excellence and encourage innovation." It went
on: "We would like to see the present government given the opportunity to
develop its policies and support for science-based companies."

This is the first time the link between Drayson's support for Labour and his
involvement in a lucrative contract has been made. It will add to the pressure
on Labour over its links with big business.

Drayson, 41, is also chairman for the trade organisation BioIndustry
Association. According to his spokesman he meets politicians, including Labour
MPs, "all the time".

Last month, at the height of the storm over MMR, Drayson came out and publicly
backed Blair's decision not to reveal if his baby son Leo had had the
controversial jab.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 19, 2002, Tuesday

'DON'T PANIC - BUT BE ON YOUR GUARD'

BYLINE: Emma Snodgrass

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 199 words


EXPERTS in emergency planning have reassured people in the Coventry and
Warwickshire area about the threat of terrorist attacks while warning them to
remain extra vigilant.

Officers in emergency planning departments across the region have not yet
changed plans for dealing with a terror attack after the recent stark warning
that there was a "very high" chance Britain was next on al Qaida's list of
targets.

Emergency planners at Coventry and Warwick-shire councils and West Midlands
Police said they had received no increased terrorism alert for the UK or the
West Midlands but have urged people to be extra vigilant.

Jeremy Lee, manager of emergency planning at Warwickshire County Council, said:
"The advice we would give would just be to keep an eye on the advice from the
government, to perhaps be aware of what is going on around them and perhaps be a
lot more vigilant."

Mick Green, assistant director of environmental services at Coventry Council,
said there were general plans in place.

A spokesman for West Midlands Police said: "There are no specific terrorist
threats in the West Midlands, but we remain vigilant and encourage the public to
be so too."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 13, 2002

Volunteers face call-up for UK anti-terror force;
 Vital role for 6,000 reservists

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: News, Pg.16

LENGTH: 332 words


BRITAIN could soon have a 6,000strong reaction force on constant alert for a
September 11-style terrorist attack, the Government announced yesterday.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said the anti-terror force of volunteer reservists
would play an "important role" in maintaining national security.

Under plans set out in a consultation document, the force would be drawn from
the 50,700 part-time volunteer reservists of the Royal Navy, Royal Marines, Army
and Royal Air Force.

They would continue to serve with their normal units, but about 500 would be
earmarked for antiterror duties in each military region, giving a total of about
6,000. The force would be held at a state of "graduated readiness" - with the
first elements available to assist the police and civil authorities within hours
of an attack.

It would be able to help in dealing with mass casualties, mounting search and
clearance operations, restoring transport and communications and operating food
and water supply points.

It would also have command and control facilities with the capability to operate
in the aftermath of a nuclear, biological or chemical attack.

The Tories, however, warned that Britain was still lagging behind the US in
strengthening homeland defences and said it was essential the new force was
backed by additional cash.

Shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin said: "The present commitments of the
armed forces already outstrip resources. Will this simply add to overstretch?

Defence sources insisted the UK already had well developed structures in place
following decades of Irish terrorism and did not need the sort of radical
changes taking place in the US.

While they stressed money would be found to fund the new force, officials
acknowledged they would have to wait until next month's Government spending
review to find out how much extra cash they would get.

Mr Hoon said the reaction force was simply part of a wider response to the
terrorist threat.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                            January 6, 2002, Sunday

BLAIR TERROR 'OUTRAGE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 317 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair yesterday condemned the terrorist attacks in India
which sparked the tensions leading the region to the brink of war.

Mr Blair, speaking in Bangalore, southern India, on the latest leg of his tour
of the sub continent, also used his speech to outline Britain's role in world
affairs after the US atrocities of September 11.

Addressing the Confederation of Indian Industry, he said the attacks - blamed by
India on militant groups based in Pakistan - were an outrage.

He said the bombing of a regional parliament and the suicide gun attack on
India's parliament were "an attack on democracy itself".

The Prime Minister will later go on in the next few days to New Delhi and the
Pakistan capital Islamabad for talks aimed at defusing the escalating military
build-up on the two nuclear powers' borders.

Mr Blair said: "There is much focus at the moment on the issue of Kashmir and
the acts of terrorism connected with it. This will feature heavily in my
discussions over the coming days here and in Pakistan.

"But one thing is clear.

Only politics, not terror, can solve issues like this.

"The starting point of any dialogue must be the total and absolute rejection of
actions such as those of October 1 and December 13. I view an attack on your
parliament with every bit as much outrage as I would an attack on the parliament
in which I sit.

"It was an attack on democracy itself.

Terrorism is terrorism wherever it occurs, whoever are its victims."

Turning to Britain's role in the world Mr Blair said: "For Britain there is both
challenge and opportunity.

"Britain has the fourth largest economy in the world but our land mass and
population inevitably constrain us. We are not a super power, but we can act as
a pivotal partner, acting with others to make sense of this global
interdependence and make it a force for good."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAIR: Keynote speech

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 1, 2003

'Danger'in 2003

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 91 words


Britain faces an unprecedented number of "difficult and dangerous" problems in
the coming year, Tony Blair warned today.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister said in his New Year
message.

But he said: "Britain is well placed to face up to them." His hard-headed
assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posed by Iraq, al Qaida, the
Middle East and North Korea.Those threats will not help the faltering world
economy, he warned.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 11, 2002

UK a 'front-line target'

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 136 words


NATIONAL: Britain's tough line against those responsible for the September 11
atrocities has made it a "front line" target for terrorists, Home Secretary
David Blunkett warned.

He was speaking ahead of a highprofile speech by Tony Blair today, when the
Prime Minister will spell out in stark terms the need for Britons to be vigilant
against terror attacks in the UK.

Events like the Remembrance Day ceremonies must be regarded as potential targets
for al Qaida, who might also strike in the run-up to Christmas and the New Year,
Mr Blunkett said.

In today's foreign policy speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of
London, Mr Blair is expected to warn that, despite successes over the past year,
such as the over throw of the Taliban, the threat from al Qaida remains real and
serious.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 21, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: 'SEVERE' ATTACK THREAT TO UK

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 63 words


THE threat of a major terrorist attack on Britain remains "severe", MPs said
yesterday.

The Commons foreign affairs committee, highlighting the key lesson of September
11, said "priority must be given to the gathering, assessment and use of high
-grade intelligence".

Without it, the West was "appallingly vulnerable". MPs spoke of a false sense of
security.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

SEPTEMBER 11: ONE YEAR ON: BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 130 words


PRINCE CHARLES and Prince Harry was today meeting bereaved families of British
victims of the September 11 terror attacks after a national service of
remembrance at St Paul's in London.

The service was attended by 2,000 friends and relatives of the dead as well as
Tony Blair and other political leaders.

More than 3,000 white rose petals, representing those who lost their lives in
New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, were released from the whispering gallery
inside St Paul's.

New York policeman Lt Frank Dwyer was lighting a candle to start a minute's
silence at 1.46pm.

At 2.03pm, leaders of Jews, Muslims, Hindus and Buddhists lit a candle to mark
the second impact.

l Britain's high streets were coming to a silent standstill today at 1.46pm.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 5, 2002

Muslims face more suspicion

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 168 words


More than eight in 10 Britons believe suspicion of Muslims has increased since
the September 11 attacks catapulted Islamist terrorism to the forefront of
worldattention, a poll released yesterday reveals.

The survey conducted to mark the start of Islam awareness week also shows that
two-thirds of people get their information about Muslims from the media, rather
than from personal experience. British Muslims have accused sections of the
media of Islamophobia.

Knowledge of Islam was low, with 64% saying they did not know much about the
faith, and 9% knowing nothing.

The survey, conducted by YouGov for the Islamic Society of Great Britain, had
1,890 respondents, and 84% of them agreed that Muslims and non-Muslims could
live peacefully together.

Three-quarters said non-Muslims should do more to build good relations with
Muslims, and 82% said Muslims should be trying to mix more.

Most (79%) rejected the idea that people settling in Britain should abandon
their culture.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 7, 2002

TERROR BOMBER ON LOOSE IN THE UK

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 5

LENGTH: 467 words


A LONE bomber could pose the greatest threat of a terror attack as Britain goes
on red alert for the first anniversary of September 11.

Police yesterday launched a nationwide appeal for public vigilance not only for
next Wednesday but for the weeks and months to come.

A major terror assault by organised groups of Islamic extremists linked to
warlord Osama Bin Laden is still a huge threat.

But Scotland Yard describes the danger of a one-off attack by a lone-wolf killer
drawn to the anniversary of the atrocity in the US as a real possibility.
Assistant Commissioner David Veness was quick to point out that there is no
specific intelligence on an imminent attack. He appealed to Britons to go about
their normal business and not to be cowed by the threat of terror.

"Public alert not public alarm will be needed for the foreseeable future, " he
said. "The possibility of smaller groups or even individuals underlines the
merit of public vigilance."

Britain could face the more usual dangers of gun, bomb, hijack and
hostage-taking as well as "ghastly, dramatic spectaculars" like that of
September 11.

Mr Veness revealed that extra uniformed patrols, some of them armed, will be
deployed in the capital on and around the anniversary.

Other forces are expected to implement similar measures. Cleveland said there
would be high-profile policing around the Port of Teesside.

And North Yorkshire Police said:

"There has been and will continue to be heightened alert." West Midlands Police
said they would be paying particular attention to buildings and public areas.

And in London, officers will be particularly visible at major public buildings.
Armed checkpoints will be stepped up to combat the threat from Islamic
extremists.

The heightened state of alert was underlined yesterday when the RAF revealed
that two Tornado jetfighters were scrambled to intercept a light aircraft amid
fears of a terrorist attack on the Royal Family. There were fears that the pilot
might be on a mission to smash into the Queen's home at Sandringham, Norfolk, in
a re-run of September 11.

But it turned out to be a false alarm as the 1,400mph fighters, armed with
missiles, followed. The plane veered off to an airfield during the incident last
March.

Meanwhile, France claimed last night to have handed America crucial information
that could have prevented the September 11 attacks. Officials said they gave the
CIA a secret dossier on terror suspect Zacarias Moussaoui after his arrest in
the US in August last year - three weeks before the atrocities.

They also claimed Moussaoui may have been wrongly dubbed the 20th hijacker, and
could in fact have been plotting a second wave of hijackings for earlier this
year.

Additional reporting by Gabriel Milland.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 19, 2002, Thursday

Intelligence chiefs say al-Qaeda is active in Britain

BYLINE: Michael Evans Defence Editor and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 722 words


AL-QAEDA terrorists are living in the United Kingdom and operating in "classic"
small cell structures, a senior Whitehall source said yesterday.

The official said: "An attack is not inevitable, but the probability is that
sooner or later one of these groups, who are extremely determined, will get
through. We can protect many obvious high-value targets but then, as we have
seen in Bali, they can go for the very soft target."

Speaking at the Cabinet Office at a rare briefing for senior members of the
media, the official distinguished between what he called "the small number" of
al Qaeda terrorists who all "knew each other" and the larger group of
sympathisers who shared the same ideology. "We're not talking about hundreds of
trained Mujahidin, and those who are giving support to the small number of
al-Qaeda in this country may not even know that they are engaging in terrorism
when they are asked to provide a safe house or a car," the official said.

His up-to-date analysis of the threat that Britain is facing from international
terrorism came as seven men of North African origin were arrested yesterday in
London and Edinburgh. They were being interviewed under the Terrorism Act in
Glasgow.

The French are also investigating an alleged chemical plot, following the arrest
of four terrorist suspects in a suburb of Paris this week.

In the Commons yesterday, Tony Blair emphasised that there had been significant
successes in damaging al-Qaeda's capabilities, and thwarting a number of planned
terrorist attacks. Officials said he was referring to specific cases such as the
plot to bomb Western embassies uncovered in Singapore earlier this year, and
other cases, including some in Britain, where arrests had been made to disrupt
the planning of terrorist activity.

The senior Whitehall official was anxious to put all the latest intelligence
about potential terrorist attacks into perspective. He said that while there was
evidence that al-Qaeda was interested in acquiring a chemical device, the most
likely means of attack was with high explosives. This had been clearly
underlined by the Bali bomb which had involved a conventional terrorist attack
against a soft target.

He counselled against focusing on the wilder extremes of terrorism, involving
poison gas, when the most likely threat would come from a "truckful of
explosives left in a public place".

The official gave warning that the real risk of a chemical, biological or
radiological attack in Britain would come in future years. He admitted that he
was "pessimistic" about what might happen in five years' time. However, at
present the only evidence of alQaeda's plans for a chemical attack had emerged
from documents found in Afghanistan and from interrogation of suspects at the
American camp at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. Notebooks found in Afghanistan
contained information that was no more sophisticated than A level chemistry.

Al-Qaeda terrorists did not have access to sophisticated battlefield chemical
weapons, he said. "We're talking about cooking up some poison which is easy to
do, you can do it from the internet. But would it cause mass casualties?
Probably not," he said.

He also dismissed the idea that terrorists would get their hands on small pox to
mount an attack in this country.

Terrorist attacks were more likely to focus on "transport, particularly using
aviation", he said. It was "clearly a favourite technique".

Underlining the Prime Minister's comment in the Commons yesterday that it would
alarm the public to warn them every time there was new intelligence, the
official said that it was important for people to understand the difference
between a general alert and a specific warning.

If there was intelligence that a group of terrorists were planning to carry out
a specific attack on a certain day in a certain place, the public would be told
and immediate action taken. He gave as an example the decision to cancel the
Grand National at Aintree in 1997 and evacuate all the crowds after a warning of
an IRA attack.

The official acknowledged that even if counter-terrorist operations succeeded in
disrupting al-Qaeda, the group's ideology which was opposed to Western
influence, would live on in others. "My prediction is that we are in for the
long haul," he said.


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 28, 2002, Tuesday

SECURITY FORCES ON ALERT FOR JUBILEE TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 293 words


SECURITY services in England and on both sides of the border are on high alert
amid fears of a terrorist attack by dissident republicans during the Queen's
Golden Jubilee celebrations, it was reported last night.

A cell of the Real IRA is believed to be operating in Britain and the Continuity
IRA is also understood to be stepping up activities ahead of the coming Bank
Holiday.

The Real IRA, which was behind the Omagh bombing and recent attacks in London
and Birmingham, is planning a terrorism "spectacular" in Northern Ireland or on
the mainland during celebrations of the Queen's 50 year reign, the Irish
Independent reported.

Both splinter groups have suffered setbacks in recent months after a series of
arrests by police in Britain and Northern Ireland and the Garda Siochana in the
Republic.

Michael McKevitt is awaiting trial at Dublin's Special Criminal Court, charged
with directing terrorism as the Real IRA's suspected leader.

Garda officers arrested a group of men at a hotel in Limerick two weeks ago, on
suspicion of involvement with the Continuity IRA.

Some 35 Real IRA members and 11 Continuity IRA members have been convicted of
crimes and a further 23 dissident republicans are awaiting trial.

Garda intelligence in the last month has suggested that the Continuity IRA,
which has claimed responsibility for a number of recent bomb attacks in Northern
Ireland, is planning a resurgence.

The Real IRA leadership is thought to have delayed plans for an Easter attack
until the Jubilee celebrations, the newspaper said.

Earlier this month, three members of the Real IRA, from Co Louth, were each
jailed for 30 years after being caught by British intelligence officers trying
to buy arms in Slovakia.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 13, 2002

Terror Alert Stays High At Ports And Bases

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.5

LENGTH: 258 words


Security remains as tight as ever at Westcountry docks, airports and military
bases, amid fears of terrorist attacks.

But the authorities have denied reports that they have been told to tighten up
security measures after FBI intelligence alerts. BBC Radio 4's Today programme
yesterday claimed that an alert was issued last week after French and Dutch
security services warned that terrorists would attempt to board a North Sea
ferry in a truck loaded with explosives.

A spokesman for Devonport Naval Base denied rumours that security has been
heightened because of increased fears of terrorist attack. "There is absolutely
no change to our security state at the moment," she said.

The intelligence report of a possible terrorist attack via a ferry is believed
to have originated from the FBI, the Today programme said. A secret bulletin
issued to ports by Britain's transport security service Transec last Friday was
said to have played down the warning.

But at the same time, all ports with roll-on roll-off facilities were ordered on
to a "heightened emergency" level of alert - the highest level provided for in
the system - the BBC said.

The programme quoted a spokesman for Dover, Britain's busiest ferry port, as
saying that port authorities had stepped up the searching of lorries.

Ross Williams, spokesman for Brittany Ferries, which operates services from
Plymouth, said: "It's not actually true that a new general warning has been
issued in relation to ferry travel and nobody should change their travel plans
as a result."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: Britain had warning of possible attack in Kenya

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words


The British government received the same intelligence as Australia about
possible terrorist attacks in Kenya but adopted a very different response,
Whitehall sources said yesterday.

Alexander Downer, the Australian foreign minister, confirmed yesterday that his
government had received information more than two weeks ago of a possible
terrorist threat in Mombasa, Kenya's coastal resort.

It issued advice on November 12 warning Australians to put off all non-essential
travel to Mombasa because of "possible terrorist attacks against western
interests".

Here, the Foreign Office simply issued a general warning alerting travellers to
Kenya to the danger of "indiscriminate attacks" in public places. It made no
mention of Mombasa in the context of terrorism.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Sec retary, defended the advice in a letter to the
Conservative party's Michael Ancram, claiming that "no information was available
to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented the attacks which took
place in Mombasa".

Mr Ancram told the BBC he wondered whether the British government had the same
warning that prompted Australia to issue its warnings. "If they felt that they
had information sufficient to do that, did we have that information and if we
did why didn't we give the same warnings?"

Whitehall sources insisted that since September 11 intelligence agencies made
sure any relevant information, however general, was exchanged. "(Terrorism) is a
common problem so intelligence is shared," a source said.

Mr Downer said the advice to Australians to avoid Mombasa had been issued as the
result of an intelligence warning.

"Australia had no specific information about the timing, location or method of
the possible attacks," he said.

But Mombasa is likely to have been mentioned in some context on intelligence
assessments, or Australia would not have referred to it.

Officials call Kenya a "soft underbelly" for terrorists. Mombasa, a city with a
large Arab and Muslim population, has strong traditional links with the Middle
East.

It is also the base for western warships patrolling the Horn of Africa.

Last night, almost two days after the blast, the Foreign Office issued a
specific warning to British citizens describing Kenya as one of a number of east
African countries where there might be an increased terrorist threat.

It urged travellers to be vigilant, "particularly in public places frequented by
foreigners. In particular there is a potential threat against western interests
in Nairobi."


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 20, 2002

Blunkett rejects call for supremo

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 159 words


DAVID BLUNKETT today rejected a Tory call for a new Cabinet minister to take
charge of efforts to protect Britain from terrorist attack.

Opposition leader Iain Duncan Smith has advocated an American-style "homeland
security" secretary to co-ordinate emergency planning.

But the Home Secretary said the move would waste money and spread confusion.

He claimed to have the backing of US homeland security chief, Tom Ridge.

"As Tom Ridge said to me two weeks ago when he was in the UK, he is having to
set up a billions-of-dollars department to try to second-guess and oversee what
others should be doing," said Mr Blunkett. "He said there's a lot to learn from
Britain."

The Tories renewed their call for a security supremo after recent confusion
about the level of threat facing Britain.

But Mr Blunkett told Radio 4's Today programme: "I've made it clear. I carry
responsibility for bureaucratic cock-ups in my department."


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 28, 2002

PRESENTING FOUR MORE FIRST-ROUND WINNERS IN OUR COMPETITION TO FIND THE NEW
VOICE OF BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1325 words


Today we publish the four entries that came top in our phone poll over the past
month, accompanied by comments from our expert panellists:

Express columnists Christa Ackroyd and Vanessa Feltz, GMTV's Fiona Philips and
editorial director of Express Newspapers Paul Ashford. We now invite you to vote
for the piece you enjoy most. The successful writer will become one of our six
finalists as our hunt to find a new Voice of Britain nears its end. The ultimate
winner will receive a prize of GBP 50,000 plus a contract with the paper

Public should be told

HELEN WAGSTAFF, 27, a press officer from Kent, on the threat of terrorist attack
THE Government appears to be in a quandary over the issue of possible terror
attacks.

The Home Office's recalled warning recently demonstrated the parallel desire to
keep the country vigilant but also to avoid mass panic over the prospect of
biological or chemical attacks upon British soil.

It leaves the public in a strange situation, with previously
impossible-to-imagine ideas zooming around our brains but with a desire to
continue life as usual and not allow our wild imaginations to get the better of
us. We have no choice but to go about our daily routines as normal but many of
us would admit to feeling slightly concerned every now and then when on public
transport or edgy if someone seems to be behaving abnormally.

Tony Blair tells us he is confident this is a war we will win but at a cost,
words which add to the already chilling atmosphere seeping through the country.

Rather than resigning itself to the inevitability of further terrorist attacks
and giving vague warnings, shouldn't the Government be making the public more
aware of exactly what we should be looking for and of how to deal with the
situation if it did arise?

Admittedly, being better informed wouldn't lessen the fear factor but at least
we could believe we were in some way equipped to cope rather than just sitting
ducks waiting to become statistics in the war against terror.

FIONA PHILIPS says: Although the subject is worthy, I felt Helen was too "wordy"
in her dealing with it. CHRISTA ACKROYD says: Helen speaks for the common man in
challenging Government policy. There should be nothing that makes a good
columnist more angry than a politician insisting he or she knows best - without
telling us why.

To vote for Helen Wagstaff call 0901 566 5081

Diana was no great Briton

LAWRENCE MIDDLEHURST, a Wigan gardener, did not think Princess Diana was a great
Briton - even before Churchill won the BBC poll DIANA the greatest Briton? What
are her qualifications? Her eating disorders? Her cloying cognomen of Queen of
Hearts? Her dress sense?

Rosie Boycott knows there is no substance to the claim that Diana is the
greatest Briton so her TV film resorted to the tactics Diana used: attack
Charles, paint a crude portrait of him as Bluebeard and Diana as the fairytale
princess.

The film was on the same level as a fairytale or, perhaps, more aptly Tom and
Jerry, as the case was put in cartoon form and was just as childish.

Charles is no saint but to those millions of us who remain uninfected by the
hysteria which surrounds her, neither was Diana.

Her tit-for-tat affairs were as nothing compared to her distasteful media
manipulation.

At the ultimate publicity event, her funeral, millions wept as they wept for
Valentino or Elvis. Millions more found it grotesque, morbid, sick but kept
silent.

Diana was a sad, lonely creature. I was sorry for her but it angers me that
first Diana and now Rosie Boycott should insult my intelligence by trying to
manipulate me with nursery school tricks.

What angers me most is that Diana groupies will probably ensure that this victim
- a victim most of all of herself - comes higher in the poll than hundreds more
who deserve the title.

FIONA PHILIPS says: Digs a hole for himself from the start. Why not use
"nickname" instead of "cognomen"? "Cloying cognomen" sounds good but it's too
clever by half.

CHRISTA ACKROYD says: Let's put it this way, Lawrence is certainly not backward
in coming forward. Not much chance of suffering splinters by sitting on the
fence here.

To vote for Lawrence Middlehurst call 0901 566 5082

How hospitals put us at risk

SUSIE STEWART, 60, a university researcher from Glasgow, is concerned that our
hospitals have become dangerous places.

FLORENCE Nightingale wrote in her Notes On Nursing: "It may seem a strange
principle to enunciate as the very first requirement in a hospital that it
should do the sick no harm."

More than 100 years later we have a new group of diseases which have been
dignified with the title Hospital Acquired Infection (HAI). Recent figures
suggest that HAI claims more lives in this country than drugs, road accidents
and Aids put together. More than 30,000 patients contract an infection from a
hospital stay every year and HAI is implicated in around 1,800 deaths.

The main causes of these diseases are inadequate hygiene and cleaning. It is
disgraceful that hospitals, supposed to be places of care and healing, are
putting lives at risk.

We have come a long way in the last 150 years with the discovery of antibiotics,
improved air and water quality and sewage disposal and new treatments to combat
diseases.

In our increasing reliance on technology, however, we are in danger of becoming
complacent and of forgetting the necessity for basic hygiene.

Researchers struggle to find a cure for cancer but HAIs also kill and the cure
for them is available for immediate use.

Florence Nightingale must be turning in her grave.

PAUL ASHFORD says: Susie Stewart's incisive and factually well supported
critique of Hospital Acquired Infection provokes the most important reaction a
newspaper column can elicit: the sense that something is wrong, should not be
allowed to happen and - crucially - that we can do something about it.

To vote for Susie Stewart call 0901 566 5083

Certifiable censorship

LAURENCE TIPPING, 41, a company director from Reigate, Surrey, thinks the film
censors are giving us too much information.

AS excellent as The Fellowship Of The Ring was, with the violence involved I was
astonished the authorities certified the movie for Parental Guidance, as if
parents who've not yet seen it can make sage decisions.

At least the British Board of Film Classification was so embarrassed by its
abdication of responsibility it mentioned in consumer advice it "may not be
suitable for under eights", unless of course they've been weaned on computer
games like MaimCops-Thieve-Cars. The BBFC seems so encouraged by the success of
addendums it has gone caveat crazy.

Now we have films advertised with different levels of sex, swearing and
violence.

You can see in a courtroom near you soon, "M'lud, my client stands accused of
grievous bodily harm.

However, citing the precedent of Vader versus Kenobi, ought not a charge of
moderate. . ."

Spiderman has scenes of something called fantasy violence. Happily, this only
causes fantasy injuries and presumably delusions of death. The new Bond movie
Die Another Day has "moderate action violence" and "one sex scene". Is that all?

Now that's effective censorship. I doubt I'll bother to go.

However, just as "suggestive" was sexy on celluloid, consumer advice is in
danger of becoming too explicit.

Two Towers has not yet been certified but I hope the postscript doesn't read
"battle violence, strong language from irascible dwarves, moderate humour, no
penetrative sex, but right at the end. . ." I'll wait to see for myself. Thanks.

VANESSA FELTZ says: Dry, wry twist on a traditional view, this columnist is not
afraid to explore the realms of his imagination. A slightly wicked sense of
humour which is welcome in a general bias towards piety among many of the
entries.

To vote for Laurence Tipping call 0901 566 5084

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            July 31, 2002, Wednesday

CALL FOR GOVERNMENT TO PUBLISH CONTRACT ADVICE;
 SMALLPOX VACCINE: BRITAIN'S CHOICE INDEFENSIBLE' CLAIMS AMERICAN EXPERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 292 words


MINISTERS must publish expert advice behind the award of a pounds 28m contract
to a Labour donor, one of the party's prominent backbench MPs said yesterday.

The call came after a US expert, Dr Steve Prior, claimed Britain had brought the
wrong type of smallpox vaccine to guard against terrorist attack.

Dr Prior, of America's Potomac Institute, branded Britain's choice of the Lister
strain of the vaccine "indefensible".

This was rejected by the UK's deputy chief medical officer Dr Pat Troop who said
it was selected on a "full range of expert scientific and medical advice" and
that "reasons of national security" prevented the Government making it public.

Dr Ian Gibson, chair of the Commons science and technology select committee,
said publication was the only way to end questions over the award.

PowderJect, which landed the contract, is run by Dr Paul Drayson who donated
pounds 100,000 to Labour, with pounds 50,000 handed over weeks before it was
awarded.

Critics have questioned why the contract was not put out to tender as it was in
the United States.

Controversy grew when it emerged that PowderJect would initially be buying in
vaccine from a German firm.

Whitehall's spending watchdog, the National Audit Office, has already announced
an inquiry into the way the selection was handled.

Dr Gibson said the decision to use the Lister strain, rather than the Russian
-developed type selected in the US, needed to be explained.

"We don't know the basis of the scientific evidence, it is not in the public
domain, and I think it really ought to be," he said.

Until the secrecy was lifted, the public perception that the award came about
because of the donations would remain, Dr Gibson warned.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

NEW TERROR TARGET ALERT;
 PM WARNS OF ATTACKS BLAIR: Terror threat as intense as ever

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 217 words


TONY Blair was today issuing a stark warning that Islamic militants could bring
their terror campaign to the UK.

More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.

His warning comes just days after the Government was accused of unnecessarily
sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing - a statement
detailing possible al Qaida tactics including 'dirty' nuclear bombs and attacks
on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume that they are safe simply because the UK has so
far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida.

Yesterday Home Secretary David Blunkett warned that the UK was in the 'front
line' for terrorist attacks and that the security and policing services could
not guarantee public safety at all times.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 19, 2002, Saturday

SERVICE TRIBUTE TO BALI VICTIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 230 words


A MEMORIAL service will be held in St Paul's Cathedral in London to honour those
who died in the Bali bomb blasts last weekend, the Australian High Commission
announced yesterday.

The service will be held at evensong prayers at 5pm next Friday, October 25,
giving the public a chance to remember the approximately 180 Australians,
Britons and others killed in the attack on the Sari nightclub last Saturday.

Acting High Commissioner Bill Tweddell said the Australian community in Britain
had been strongly affected by the tragedy.

"We at the Australian High Commission have been deeply touched by the level of
support offered by the Australian community in Britain, the British people, the
Government and the wider community. I hope the service will provide comfort for
people from all nations affected by this horrendous act," he said.

"We hope the memorial service will be attended by people from all countries with
citizens affected."

Yesterday, meanwhile, workplaces throughout London today held a minute's silence
in respect for the dead.

Offices of the recruitment company 1st Contact, which has approximately 32,000
Australians on its books, stopped at the stroke of 1pm.

Last month, St Paul's was the venue where friends and family of those killed in
the September 11 terrorist attacks gathered to commemorate the anniversary of
that event.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 22, 2002

ASYLUM SEEKERS POSE A RISK TO COUNTRY'S SECURITY

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 151 words


THE headlines scream at us about expected terrorist attacks on Britain and
suicide bombers who do not care whether they live or die so long as they inflict
damage on "the infidels".

Gas and germ warfare have been openly suggested. Many fundamentalists openly
preach against Britain, America and its allies. The results are only too vivid
after September 11 and Bali.

So to solve the problem Tony Blair asks us all to be vigilant. But that is not
our job to protect the country - it is his and his Government's.

He could start by immediately calling in the armed forces to blockade all our
points of entry to screen all travellers. Again it is well recorded that many
who do not wish Britain well have come to this country under the guise of
refugees.

The Government must announce that no more asylum seekers will be accepted until
the situation changes.

Clark Cross, Linlithgow

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 11, 2002

Mps Warn Of Bioterrorism Threat

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 313 words


The threat of a biological attack on Britain from hostile states or terror
groups is growing, MPs warn today.  The Commons foreign affairs committee says
security assessments of the threat from bioterrorism were dramatically upgraded
after September 11.

The present view is based partly on evidence discovered in Afghanistan during
the campaign against the Taliban and al-Qaeda.

The committee says terrorist groups including Osama bin Laden's network not only
want to acquire biological and chemical weapons, they are taking active steps to
obtain them.

Although the mass casualty terrorist attacks of recent years have not involved
such weapons, "bioterrorism remains a possibility which must be addressed with
the utmost seriousness", the MPs say.

States are also involved, with a risk that facilities and technologies in Iraq
and the former Soviet Union could be misused to develop biological weapons.

There is also a threat from the regions where the UK is most likely to face
challenges to its interests - particularly the Gulf, Near East and North Africa.

And the threat can only increase as biotechnology develops, with academics
noting a current upsurge in research which could have malign potential.

The committee concludes: "The level of threat to the UK from biological weapons
must not be underestimated." But the MPs attack senior figures in the US
administration who do not believe bioterrorism is an international problem.

They say measures including intelligence, export control and action with other
countries to intercept shipments of concern are all needed to counter the
growing threat.

MPs demanded the measures after warnings that a terrorist with a litre of
anthrax could kill three million people.

Britain is stockpiling up to 60 million doses of smallpox vaccine in case of a
germ warfare attack.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 11, 2002

Can hope rise out of the ashes?;
 Exactly a year ago, more than 3,000 people were killed in the terrorist attacks
on the United States. Their children, loved ones, family and friends are still
trying to come to terms with what happened.  ROSEE BROWN spoke to two people in
Bristol who are calling for peace and reconciliation in the wake of the
atrocities.

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1065 words


Like many in Britain, the Reverend David Smith, right, watched footage of the
September 11 horror on television. But it later emerged that his cousin Richard
Cudina had perished in the World Trade Centre attacks. Richard, aged 46, was a
bond broker with Cantor Fitzgerald and was at work on the 101st floor of the
South Tower when the first plane hit.

Since September 11 Mr Smith, the vicar of St John's Church in Clevedon, has
worked to overcome his grief and move forward. He spoke to the Evening Post
about how the past year has affected him.

DIFFERENT people deal with it in different ways. Richard's widow, Georgia, has
been very bitter at times, as you would expect.

"What has been difficult for a lot of people has been the fact that this has
been a tragedy that nobody has experienced before.

"You saw it on television as if it was almost a Cecil B De Mille film - to
witness those two aircraft crashing into the sides of the buildings and to later
see people jumping from the top - and I understand about 200 jumped - and to
then see both buildings collapse . . .

"The way it was represented by the media was almost like a film, so I think
we're still having a difficult time separating reality from fiction.

"Our family have obviously gone through all the emotions of bereavement, as you
would with somebody you love, and we miss Richard very much, particularly my
parents.

"He was the lynchpin with the family here in England. There is a great big gap.

"What I think has been difficult for a lot of families is they haven't had
relatives to bury.

"Fortunately some of Richard's body parts have been found, so I think at some
stage Georgia is going to have some sort of ceremony."

Rev Smith was one of many who called for an apology from Government transport
aide Jo Moore, who infamously described September 11 as a good day to bury bad
news.

He said: "I did accept her apology, in so far as it went, but her mistake was
being caught, and it did show a certain amount of cynicism at Government level.

"I felt that the Government handled it badly. I did write to Stephen Byers
suggesting the way ahead would be a letter to go out to the actual next of kin
of the English victims to say 'we're sorry'.

"They had all the names and addresses on a database.

"It would have been a few hundred letters and I think that would actually have
gone a long way.

"Looking back I don't think her apology was sincere - she was forced into
resignation."

"In terms of the Afghanistan action, I was unhappy at the time.

"We may feel that it was successful, but I understand that the number of
innocent people killed in that campaign was more than were killed on September
11.

"The moment we turn our backs on civil rights, on basic humanity, is the day we
actually join the terrorists, and it does seem to me that a lot of the people
who are now being held prisoner in Cuba deserve the civil rights we'd expect for
anybody else on the planet.

"There are issues with the Israel and Palestine situation where America and the
EU have got to be involved far less in their own national interests and more
involved in international interests.

"Until we can begin to think internationally there will be no peace.

"Richard, my cousin, had a chequered career, but largely he was a great
humanitarian."

Richard's parents are buried in Swanage, and the family hope to add his name to
their gravestone eventually.

Today Mr Smith will be holding a requiem mass to remember those who died and to
pray for peace.

"I have spoken to Georgia and her plan is to spend the day quietly.

"The whole issue has become one for politicians and the media and she wants to
avoid that.

"Some of the big memorial services last year were criticised by the relatives.

"One man wanted to go to one of the services and asked how he could get there.

"He was told he would have to queue.

"He asked: 'Are the Queen and the Prime Minister queuing? I'm the next of kin -
why should I have to queue?'

"Some of the books which have come out after September 11 contain a heck of a
lot of photos of politicians when that's not portraying what actually happened.

"Some of the restrictions to civil rights in the States now are worrying and we
have to be careful that we're not driving a great big wedge between the Western
world and the Muslim world.

"I think a lot of Muslims were afraid the finger would be pointed at them, when
many of them were saying that what was done was against the teachings of the
Qur'an.

"The murder of innocent people could not be countenanced under the banner of the
Islamic faith.

"Many Muslims live in this country and are happy with the civil rights and the
freedoms which we enjoy which they don't in their own countries.

"They are concerned that we may be losing the freedom in this country.

"I think that we, as Christian churches have a part to play in this, not only in
terms of teaching our own congregations, but to bring people of different races
and religions, not just Islam, but Hindu and all the spectrum of religion in our
cities.

"We need to be regarding England as the rainbow state, so I think the church
must be involved with that.

"We have got a lay rabbi living opposite us and he occasionally preaches at St
John's, and it's those sorts of things which are important.

"I find it frightening that I feel much closer to my orthodox Jewish friend
across the road than I feel to some extremist Christian fundamentalists.

"Monotheistic religions and some others all begin with the creation story.
However you understand that, there is an understanding that God is the creator
and therefore we begin with the understanding that we have a brotherhood and
sisterhood which we share.

"If we can only realise that, then we can see that it's important as members of
the same family to live together as such.

"Just as any family, you do get fallings-out but at the same time, when we have
a situation like September 11 or the African famines, we should come together.

"It doesn't matter what colour the skin is or what your racial type is, or what
your creed is, you should come together.

"Whether you're a Muslim, a Christian or a Jew you believe that.

"All the rest is decoration.

"The basis of Christianity is to love one another - and that's it."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 17, 2002

MOSLEM BRITONS STILL FEEL LEFT OUT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 111 words


BRITAIN'S Moslems want more integration into mainstream British society,
according to a poll published today.

The 1.8 million Moslems living in the UK have backed Home Secretary David
Blunkett's plan to introduce English language tests (65 per cent), though many
(39 per cent) were against the idea of an oath of allegiance.

The majority (69 per cent) still feel excluded from British life and two-thirds
disapprove of the UK's role in the war against Al Qaeda, according to the
Guardian/ICM poll.

One in three of the 500 Moslems polled also claimed he or she or a family member
had suffered personal abuse since the September 11 terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                December 9, 2002

BRITAIN ORDERS 5,000 BODYBAGS

BYLINE: by TIM STEWART

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


BRITAIN is buying 5,000 bodybags amid fears that the country is nowhere near
ready to cope with a bio-terror attack.

The government has also ordered 220,000 decontamination suits, to be handed out
within minutes of a chemical or biological attack by terrorists.

It is asking emergency equipment makers to plan for attacks on potential targets
- including Parliament, Trafalgar Square and Canary Wharf in London, plus big
city centres.

Within 18 months, 24million homes will get a leaflet detailing how to survive a
major terrorist assault.

The risk of attack is thought to be at its greatest since the Cold War.

Last month, the Home Office warned that Islamic militants might use radioactive
"dirty" bombs or poison gas on our cities.

The alert was later withdrawn fearing it would cause public panic.

But there is concern that Britain is massively underprepared for an attack.

The NHS's ability to deal with one was assessed as "worryingly low" recently.

Now the Government is placing orders worth tens of millions of pounds for
bodybags, decontamination suits and other equipment - including 50,000
decontamination shelters, 2,000 stretchers and 2,000 evacuation chairs.

It is buying 120,000 predecontamination suits for use after a chemical or
biological attack and 100,000 post-decontamination suits to be worn by victims
after treatment. The difference is because experts expect 20,000 to die.

The Government wants the gear by next summer to be stored at 16 locations.

Philip Ward, managing direct of bidder Ferno UK, said: "They are talking very
large numbers and very short time spans."

The Deputy Prime Minister's office said that GBP 56million had been set aside
this year to prepare for terrorist incidents.

Ministers are also drafting new laws forcing local authorities to draw up and
publicise emergency plans on how to cope with biological, nuclear and chemical
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

WE TRIED TO GET POLICE TO ARREST THIS TRAITOR.. NOW HE'S SAFE IN PAKISTAN AND
INCITING TERROR ATTACKS ON BRITAIN;
 YARD PROBE BUTT'S NEW THREAT

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 540 words

HIGHLIGHT: RABBLE-_ROUSING: Hassan Butt in Pakistan; FANATIC: Hassan Butt has
message of hate


A FANATIC tracked down by The Mirror called yesterday for terror attacks on
Britain by Islamic fighters he claims to have recruited in Pakistan.

British-born Hassan Butt, 22, slipped into London last month and demanded pounds
100,000 for his story. The Mirror refused to pay - and told police where he
could be arrested.

But the traitor flew back to Pakistan to carry on his hate-filled mission.

Butt used a radio interview to claim he had recruited more than 200 British
Muslims to fight for Afghanistan's former Taliban regime, and said many of them
would be returning to Britain for military action.

He said the targets would be "military and Government institutes, as well as
British military and Government individuals"."

Scotland Yard are now investigating whether Butt can be prosecuted.

One detective said: "In hindsight it probably would have been better if we had
detained him for questioning while we had the chance."

Butt, born in Luton and raised and educated in Manchester, went to Pakistan
before the September 11 attacks on America.

A mysterious go-between named "Mr Ahmed" set up last month's meeting with The
Mirror in Trafalgar Square.

Scotland Yard at first declined to act, saying they could find no evidence Butt
had committed offences in this country, even though Foreign Secretary Jack Straw
and Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon had warned that British citizens who preached
war against the UK or helped our enemies would be arrested when they returned.

After we secretly photographed Butt lurking in Trafalgar Square, and ran the
story on the front page, the police decided they wanted to question him after
all.

Anti-Terrorist Chief, Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, ordered an immediate
investigation into his background, both in Britain and abroad. But by then Butt
was on his way back to his sanctuary in Pakistan.

Yard detectives later asked us to give a full account of our dealings with him
and Ahmed. In his latest rant, Butt urged returning British "mujahedeen" to take
up arms against the Government and leading politicians.

On BBC Radio 4's Today programme, he warned that Britain was about to face a
"new phase" of terrorism organised from within. He said: "When they return to
Britain I believe they will take military action within the country."

Butt's comments were condemned by mainstream Muslim leaders, and Downing Street
warned that his claims should be treated with caution.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We have to be slightly careful in
giving too much credibility to claims like this.""

A Yard spokesman said: "The Met is working closely with the Crown Prosecution
Service to examine comments made on the radio today, to establish if any
offences have been committed."

The al-Muhajiroun group, which Butt has claimed to represent, said he was no
longer linked to the London-based organisation.

Sheik Omar Bakri said: "He does not have our support. We are an ideological,
political party.

"We do not recruit people to go and fight on behalf of anybody or to indulge in
any military activities."

Butt studied for a law degree at the University of Wolverhampton but his ravings
got him expelled last summer.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           November 17, 2002, Sunday

TERRORIST TUBE GAS PLOT' FOILED

BYLINE: Jo Dillon, Andrew Clennell, And Raymond Whitaker

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words


Three men have been charged over an alleged plot to carry out a terrorist attack
on the London Underground as fears grew of a direct threat to Britain's
security.

Scotland Yard confirmed that three men had appeared before Bow Street
magistrates last week, but they were not charged with plotting a specific
outrage. Reports today claim, however, that the men had been planning to bring
the ingredients for a gas bomb into Britain, probably to release cyanide into
the Underground network.

No chemical or bomb-making equipment was discovered at the addresses in north
London where the three men were arrested - along with three others who were
subsequently released - but they are being held under Section 57 of the
Terrorism Act 2000 for the possession of articles for the preparation,
instigation and commission of terrorist acts. They are due to appear before
magistrates again tomorrow.

The threat to the Underground has been revealed within days of the re- emergence
of Osama bin Laden, who in a tape broadcast by the al-Jazeera satellite network
last week specifically referred to Britain and five other Western allies of the
US.

The three men who appeared in court on Tuesday are Rabah Chekat-Bais, 21, Rabah
Kadris, in his mid-30s, and Karim Kadouri, 33. All are unemployed and of no
fixed address. According to today's Sunday Times, the three north African men
were suspected of being members of an Algerian organisation with links to
al-Qa'ida. The likely target was understood to be a crowded London Underground
train.

The Government rejected suggestions the arrests, on 9 November, prompted Tony
Blair's terror warning in a speech at the Lord Mayor's Banquet in the City last
Monday, or a Home Office warning, later withdrawn, that terrorists might resort
to using "a so-called dirty bomb or poison gas". MI5 is reported to have been
tracking the alleged conspiracy for several weeks, and the Prime Minister must
have been aware of the details.

Home Office sources, responding to concerns that the public had not been made
aware of any potential threat, said that the Government was receiving daily
intelligence and that if it or the police felt there was a threat, they would
have warned he public. Last Monday Mr Blair said barely a day went by without
new intelligence about a threat to British interests. A Government source said
last night: "The Government will take whatever measures necessary to combat the
threat of potential terrorism."

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch was urged to make the arrests even though
detailed inquiries into their alleged links with al-Qa'ida had yet to be made.

The devastating potential effect of a gas attack on an underground transport
system was demonstrated in Tokyo in 1995, when the Aum Shinrikyo cult released
sarin nerve gas, killing 12 and injuring 5,000. Members of the cult planted
small perforated bags of sarin, designed so that the gas would seep out and
spread slowly in the confined spaces of Tokyo's subway during the rush hour.

In 1976 an IRA bomb accidentally exploded on a Tube train at East Ham station,
and the driver was shot dead as he pursued the bomber.

Terror investigation, pages 10 and 11

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

AL-QA'IDA ATTACK ON UK INEVITABLE'

BYLINE: Sophie Goodchild Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 184 words


Al-Qa'ida attacks on Britain are almost inevitable, the Home Secretary David
Blunkett admitted last night.

Mr Blunkett told The Independent on Sunday that there were "worrying lapses" in
airport security and that "a real threat" still remained to Britain.

His comments, just days before the first anniversary on Wednesday of the 11
September attacks on the US, will heighten fears of further terrorist strikes.

Mr Blunkett, in issuing a stark warning against complacency, said: "The UK and
its interests overseas remain a target for al-Qa'ida terrorists who will almost
certainly seek to carry out further terrorist attacks, drawing on the network
which they have already established. A real threat remains to this country. That
is the stark truth."

A spate of near misses in the past week will have done nothing to soothe nerves
in the run-up to Wednesday.

German authorities were yesterday holding two people over an alleged bomb plot
at a US army base. Meanwhile, Kerim Chatty languishes in jail, charged with the
attempted hijacking of a Ryanair jet.

Reports, pages 8-10

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 09, 2002, Monday

Terrorism 'has dented our faith in science'

BYLINE: By David Derbyshire and Roger Highfield

SECTION: Pg. 07

LENGTH: 540 words

THE terrorist attacks of September 11 have helped to fuel anti-intellectual
sentiment and mistrust of science, the president of the British Association of
Science will say today.

In an address to the largest science conference in Britain, Prof Sir Howard
Newby, the chief executive of the Higher Education Funding Council for England,
will warn that the ideals of the Enlightenment are increasingly under attack.

"The terrorist attacks of September 11 have brought into sharp focus in a very
pertinent way how the dream of reason can indeed bring forth monsters," he will
tell the Leicester meeting.

"Now, more than ever, it appears difficult to argue the case for the
Enlightenment - that the growth of knowledge results in social progress.

"Instead, in recent years, anti-Enlightenment sentiments appear to have been on
the increase.

"If anything, we have succumbed to a lack of faith in the notion of social
progress and a suspicion amounting to an assertion that the growth of knowledge
does not guarantee human happiness - rather the reverse.

"An increasing proportion of the population seems to distrust rational inquiry
to establish both the facts and the uncertainties; rather they prefer their
instincts or even to celebrate anti-intellectualism."

His comments reflect concerns of the scientific establishment that the public
has lost faith in science. People are less deferential, and less willing to
accept the views of "experts" without question, he believes.

The opposition to genetic modified crops on health grounds, and the row over the
measles, mumps and rubella vaccine despite the lack of hard scientific evidence
reflect this suspicion.

Sir Howard, a sociologist and the former vice-chancellor of the University of
Southampton, will argue that the increasing fragmentation of knowledge is
hindering the public's understanding of science, and scientists' understanding
of the public.

Scientific knowledge is growing so quickly that no society can adapt quickly
enough to keep pace.

"It has been estimated that the sum total of scientific understanding in the
past 50 years has been greater than that in all previous history. Yet for all
that we seem to know, the world appears to be an increasingly uncertain place,"
he will say.

The scientific community has retreated from engagement with society, just as
society at large has been excluded from the real world of scientific method.

"The scientific community is mystified by the idea that morals should direct its
research, while those who seek to make science more publicly accountable are
equally baffled by the logic and methods of science.

"The public now feels that it is reduced to the role of a hapless bystander or,
at best, the recipient of scientific advance and technological innovation which
the scientific community believes it ought to want."

Too often, scientists appear remote and intimidating and appear to treat the
public with condescension or as a threat.

"The scientific community is beginning to engage more with society at large as
it comes to recognise the potential consequences of failing to do so.

"Equally, the public understanding of what science can, but more importantly,
cannot deliver has a long way to go."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 7, 2002

Greatest Brit Churchill will never surrender

BYLINE: Lucy Rodgers

SECTION: News :People :Others, Pg.6

LENGTH: 399 words


FAMOUS for his defiant speeches and bulldog spirit in leading Britain to victory
in World War Two, few would argue that Sir Winston Churchill is worthy of the
title of Greatest Briton of All Time.

And, according insiders at the BBC, Churchill has beaten William Shakespeare
into second place in the corporation's poll to award just such an accolade.

Lord Nelson is thought to have come third, while Bristol's own engineering
genius of the Victorian era, Isambard Kingdom Brunel, is rumoured to be in the
top 10.

The BBC refused to confirm last night whether the former British Prime Minister
had topped the poll of 30,000 viewers, saying we will have to wait for a series
of programmes, to be screened on BBC2 later this year, for the final result.

A BBC spokesman said: "There is no published top 10 and the details will not be
released until all the information has been collated.

Then the top 10 will be featured in a series of programmes to be shown later
this year and only after that will votes be taken for the title of greatest
Briton of all time."

While more modern figures such as John Lennon are thought to have made it into
the top 10, Britain's leading statesman and the Bard - perhaps the figures who
most personify Britain abroad - are believed to have been the front-runners.

The presence of two war heroes in the top three may also reflect the poll's
timing in November and December - not long after the September 11 terrorist
attacks. The leading group is believed to contain just one woman, Elizabeth I,
while Sir Isaac Newton, the father of modern physics, is also thought to be
vying for a top-five spot.

Although not all the votes have been counted since the survey closed on December
31, Churchill is believed to be so far ahead that he will not be beaten.
Shakespeare and Nelson are also believed to have received enough votes to ensure
their respective places. The other Britons in the line-up are: Jane Austen, John
Logie Baird, David Beckham, George Best, Aneurin Bevan, Charlie Chaplin, Linford
Christie OBE, Diana, Princess of Wales, Charles Dickens, Michael Faraday, Sir
Alexander Fleming, Sir Paul McCartney, Eric Morecambe OBE, Florence Nightingale,
Emmeline Pankhurst, Sir Steve Redgrave, Marie Stopes, Baroness Margaret
Thatcher, Alan Turing, Queen Victoria, Duke of Wellington, William Wilberforce,
and Sir Christopher Wren.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 25, 2002, Saturday

STUDENT RAG HAS FOLDED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


BRITAIN'S oldest student newspaper, the Edinburgh Student, has folded after
running up five-figure debts.

Editor Chris Page blamed the advertising slump since the September 11 terrorist
attacks for the dramatic drop in revenue.

The weekly Edinburgh Student is the largest financially-independent student
publication in the UK, and is entirely dependent on advertising cash.

But Page said: "We're confident we can get back up and running by next term.
We've got lots of support from the university."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 5, 2002

End of the firing line?;
 Britain's defence under threat if munitions factory closes, claim union leaders

BYLINE: Ruth Wood

SECTION: 404, Pg.17

LENGTH: 350 words


THE defence of the nation is at risk following threats to the future of a West
munitions factory, union leaders claimed yesterday.

RO Defence, formerly Royal Ordnance, is considering closing the only factory in
Britain that produces explosives for bombs, shells and guns, it has been
revealed.

If the plant near Bridgwater shuts in 2004 as suggested, production will move
overseas, almost certainly to the United States.

The news has appalled union leaders who claim the move will sacrifice Britain's
ability to defend itself from terrorist attacks. Neil Driver, a union rep at the
Puriton plant, said:

"This factory must be maintained for the sake of the British population.

"We do not live on a peaceful planet and it is the first job of this Government
to make sure it can defend its people. The terrorist attacks of September 11 are
the ultimate proof of that." Mr Driver, who represents the AEEU on the site, and
other union leaders are convinced production will move to Tennessee if the
Somerset factory shuts down.

BAE Systems which owns RO Defence, already has the contract to run the US
Government's high explosives plant there.

"How will Britain defend itself if the Americans decide they want someone else
to run their factory when the contract comes up for renewal in five years time?"
asked Mr Driver.

"We would have lost our own capability and would have to scour the world for a
new production base. Putting all our eggs in one basket with the Americans also
makes us an easier target for terrorists. It's difficult to take out 200
munition plants. It's quite feasible to take out one.

"There is also an increased risk of terrorism in transportation and more
likelihood of an accident with explosives coming half-way round the world back
to Britain".

RO Defence spokeswoman Marilyn Swann said closing the plant, which employs 140,
was just one of the options under discussion.

Bridgwater Tory MP Ian Liddell-Grainger and his predecessor, ex-Defence
Secretary Tom King, are meeting union reps in London to discuss the future of
the plant.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

Blair attacked over disaster response Terrorism

BYLINE: By Michael Kallenbach Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 502 words

THE Prime Minister yesterday brushed aside criticisms that the Government was
not ready to deal with similar terrorist attacks to those that took place
against America last September 11.

He was challenged by Iain Duncan Smith, the Tory leader, during Prime Minister's
Questions.

Mr Duncan Smith referred to a report by a Commons select committee. It stated in
its conclusion that the Government had not taken the opportunity to conduct a
proper and comprehensive examination of how Britain would manage the
consequences of a disaster on the scale of September 11.

He asked the Prime Minister: "Do you agree with that?"

Tony Blair told him: "I do not accept that we have not made the most urgent
preparations following September 11. The report itself begins by saying that
since September 11 much has been done to strengthen the UK's defence and
security against the terrorist threat. We will, of course, study carefully the
additional things they say we should do."

The defence committee said Britain's emergency services lacked the capabilities
and resources to cope with a massive terrorist attack.

In a scathing report, the committee criticised the Government's response to the
September 11 attacks, complaining of "inadequate central co-ordination and
direction".

Mr Duncan Smith quoted from the report: "A great deal of work has been expended
without clear strategic direction.

"It seems to us that in many areas the Government has confused activity with
achievement."

Then he said to Mr Blair: "Surely you can see the relevance of that and
hopefully you will agree with that conclusion."

Mr Blair said all the emergency services had reviewed their capabilities.

"There is a massive amount of training of police officers, ambulance staff,
people in the health service that has gone on in order to make sure we are
prepared," he said. "In addition, we have allocated from the reserve around
pounds 250 million extra for all sorts of things, from the Ministry of Defence
through to the Metropolitan Police and to strengthen the UK's anti-terrorist
financing regime.

"So there is an awful lot that has been done but, of course, we will consider
carefully what further suggestions the committee make."

Later, Mr Blair repeated the Government line that no decision had been made
about military action against Saddam Hussein.

"We cannot have a situation where Iraq continues to develop these weapons of
mass destruction," he said in response to some Labour backbenchers who expressed
fears that Britain could go to war during the summer.

Labour critics of the Government's stance on Iraq include Tam Dalyell
(Linlithgow), Diane Abbott (Hackney N and Stoke Newington) and former minister
Peter Kilfoyle (Liverpool Walton). They want Mr Blair to recall Parliament from
the summer break before committing British forces to action.

Mr Blair said: "We have not got to the stage of military action." But he added:
"My view is and remains that weapons of mass destruction are a serious threat."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 17, 2002, Tuesday

Twin terror threat from Islamic and Irish groups

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 270 words

BRITAIN faces a twin threat of terror attacks over the Christmas period from
Islamic fundamentalist groups linked to al-Qa'eda and dissident Irish
republicans, one of Britain's most senior anti-terrorist officers warned
yesterday.

London is regarded as a prime target but other cities are vulnerable. Peter
Clarke, a Deputy Assistant Commissioner at Scotland Yard and head of the
anti-terrorist branch, said London and the rest of Britain faced a range of
terrorist threats from different groups, though he stressed there was no
intelligence about a specific threat.

Mr Clarke appealed for vigilance over the Christmas period. The "threat
assessment" for both fundamentalist and Irish terror has been classed as high -
second only to imminent in a list of six threat levels used by police and
security services - for some months.

In particular, police across Europe are on alert for attempted "spectaculars" by
followers of Osama bin Laden, the leader of al-Qa'eda, and the emergence of
suicide bombers on the streets of western European cities.

Mr Clarke added: "The threat from Irish dissident republican terrorism continues
to be of great concern to us."

Members of the public were urged to be alert to the danger of suspect packages,
objects or vehicles.

Mr Clarke also urged anyone who might have information about possible terrorist
activity to contact police, adding: "Terrorists need somewhere to live,
somewhere to store equipment, and they need vehicles to move around in. If you
let your property or storage space and you have noticed something suspicious
please contact us."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 7, 2002

UK MUSLIMS ENCOURAGED TO BREAK LAW

BYLINE: By Maurice McLeod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words


A BRITISH-BORN Islamic militant, who claims to have recruited more than 200
British Muslims to fight alongside the Taliban, last night made a vitriolic call
to arms just hours after returning to the UK.

Hassan Butt, 32, was born in Luton and studied at Wolverhampton University
before going to Pakistan and joining the militant Islamic group AlMuhajiroun.

Speaking yesterday to around 200 supporters at a meeting provocatively called
"Jihad in Manchester?" Butt called for mass law-breaking and resistance to
Britain and the US.

"This is all about Jihad in Manchester. My message to all Muslims is that they
should be supporting Jihad no matter how hard it is becoming. All the laws the
British Government make, they should break, " he said.

Butt denied claims that he had called for terror attacks against Britain but
issued a thinly veiled threat of Al Qaeda action in the UK.

"I never called for anyone to attack the British people but when someone attacks
you, you will expect to be attacked back.

There are other Muslims who will take it to another level, " he said.

Al-Muhajiroun have always argued that it was the duty of young British Muslims
to fight in Afghanistan and boasted that they had recruited more than 200
British Muslims with another 400 waiting to fight against the British and US
armies.

Meanwhile, the Qatar-based Al-Jazeera television station broadcast what it said
was a tape of Bin Laden promising that Muslim youths would carry out more
attacks to "fill your hearts with terror".

And an explosion which engulfed a French oil tanker off the coast of Yemen
yesterday is thought to have been the result of a terrorist attack.

As the French government last night announced it was sending an investigation
team to the stricken vessel, the ship's owners said they believed terrorists had
been responsible.

Euronav company director Jacques Moizan said the unidentified boat which rammed
into the supertanker's hull was probably packed with explosives.

Mr Moizan said: "In my opinion this was a terrorist attack.

"The crew saw a high-speed vessel approaching on the starboard side. . . an
explosion followed."

While there are no confirmed links to the Al Qaeda terrorist network as yet,
Yemen is Osama Bin Laden's ancestral home and is known as a safe haven for
Islamic militants.

The tanker, Limburg, was meeting a pilot vessel to bring it into the port of
Mina al-Dabah, near Mukalla in the Gulf of Aden, when the explosion occurred.

Twelve of the 25 crew members have been hospitalised. One Bulgarian man is still
missing.

The incident has striking similarities with an Al Qaeda attack on the US
destroyer USS Cole two years ago when 17 servicemen's lives were lost.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 18, 2002

Recession fears for UK.

BYLINE: Murray Walker

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 88 words



DIRECTORS of small companies in the North-west believe the September 11
terrorist attacks in America will push the UK into full-blown recession.

Research published by Royal Bank of Scotland Commercial Services shows that 65
per cent of those quizzed fear the worst.

Sixteen per cent were having to make redundancies in the run-up to Christmas and
eight per cent were considering salary cuts or pay freezes.

But 62 per cent thought Britain was right to support the US military action and
provide resources.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 11, 2002, Monday

ARMED FORCES ARE STRETCHED TO THE LIMIT AND NEED MORE RESOURCES, ADMITS HOON

BYLINE: Ben Russell Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home News; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 297 words


BRITAIN'S ARMED forces are pushed to their limits and need more resources if
they are to increase the nation's role in international affairs, Geoff Hoon, the
Secretary of State for Defence, said yesterday.

"We are operating at the limits of our capabilities and it is important that it
is recognised that there is a limit to what we can achieve," he said.

Mr Hoon's comments come after claims from the Tories that the armed forces are
being asked to fulfil too many commitments. Mr Hoon told the BBC's On The Record
television programme: "We're certainly stretched. I wouldn't actually use the
word over-stretch at the present time."

He said: "We clearly do have to respond to catastrophic humanitarian situations
but equally we have to realise that there are always limits. There is only so
much that a country of the size and resources of Britain can manage. Certainly,
If we are going to engage more fully in the world, then obviously we will need
the resources to achieve that. The balance will then change."

But he defended Britain's role as a troubleshooter in places such as Sierra
Leone. He said: "I don't believe that we've made grandiose promises. What we
have done is set out Britain's responsibility in the world. We do have a
responsibility ... That means that people in the United Kingdom say we must do
something about this, we must help."

The Defence Secretary confirmed that members of the Territorial Army could have
an increased role protecting Britain from possible terrorist attacks. He said:
"We should not be using regular armed forces ... That's something we do need to
have a debate about."

Proposals for reshaping Britain's defences in response to the 11 September
terrorist attacks are expected to be announced on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 13, 2002, Sunday

LIDDELL PRESSES NATS ON PRESTWICK

BYLINE: Clayton Hirst

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words


Helen Liddell, Secretary of State for Scotland, will this week urge the airlines
running Britain's cash-strapped air traffic system to rethink controversial
plans to postpone the development of a new national control centre.

The carriers, including British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, BMI British Midland
and easyJet, want to hold off building the new pounds 60m facility in Scotland
for at least two years. Based at Prestwick, it was to be the centrepiece of the
pounds 800m privatisation of the National Air Traffic Service (Nats). But the
terrorist attacks of 11 September plunged Nats into financial crisis, and its
shareholders are desperately searching for savings to relieve pressure on its
overstretched balance sheet.

In a meeting with Nats chief executive Richard Everitt, Ms Liddell will ask the
group to press ahead with Prestwick, originally due to be completed in 2007.

Sources close to the Scottish Secretary said she would argue that Britain needs
Prestwick as a back-up facility should the air traffic system be targeted by
terrorists.

The news will be a blow to Nats, which had hoped for a sympathetic hearing from
the Government.

George Foulkes, the Minister of State for Scotland, will also attend the private
meeting to be held in Whitehall on Wednesday. Both Mr Foulkes and Ms Liddell
will argue that, having given the contentious Terminal 5 the go-ahead at
London's Heathrow Airport, the airline industry should respond by committing to
Prestwick, creating 470 jobs.

However, Nats may dig in its heels. It is due to open a new facility at
Swanwick, near Southampton, on 27 January. This will increase air traffic
control capacity by 30 per cent. Nats has already accounted for the pounds 60m
it would save by delaying Prestwick as part of a package of pounds 200m in cuts,
designed to revive its faltering business plan.

This also includes proposals to make 20 per cent of Nats' 5,500-strong workforce
redundant.

At the end of the month Nats will calculate exactly how much more money it
needs. Some estimates have put this as high as pounds 300m.

A spokesman for Nats conceded that more money would be required: "The downturn
is still evolving."

He pointed to figures released last week by airport operator BAA that showed a
6.4 per cent decline in December's air traffic on last year. Critically, BAA
revealed a 13 per cent fall in North Atlantic traffic. Some 44 per cent of Nats'
revenue comes from long-haul flights.

If Nats asks the Government to bail it out, it is likely to cause outrage among
some Labour MPs. In opposition, Labour maintained that "our air is not for
sale", but it quickly dusted down the Conservatives' plans for the sell-off when
elected.

Brian Donohoe, Labour MP for Cunninghame South, said: "(The airlines) overpaid
for Nats to the tune of pounds 180m to pounds 200m and they are now using 11
September as an excuse to get their money back. If they are given the money,
then around pounds 65m should be ring-fenced to be spent only on Prestwick."

The sale of Nats left the Government with a 49 per cent stake. The five airlines
hold 46 per cent through a specially formed company, Airline Group. Nats' staff
hold 5 per cent.

Despite Nats' troubles, the airlines say they will not pull out. Ray Webster,
chief executive of easyJet, said: "We didn't take the stake in Nats for short
-term profit. We invested in it for strategic reasons, to influence the way the
air traffic system is run."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 12, 2002

UK at risk of cyber terror

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words


Britain faces a growing threat of an electronic attack by terrorists linked to
al-Qaida that could paralyse key public services, including electricity and
water supplies, the government's adviser on computer security has told the
Guardian.

For terrorist groups like al-Qaida with limited resources, it would be "a very
attractive method" of attack, that would cause "huge damage", said Stephen
Cummings, director of the National Infrastructure Security Coordination Centre.

It is actively working with the intelligence services, including GCHQ, to gather
information about the electronic capabilities of terror groups.

The centre, a little-known unit based in the Home Office, was set up three years
ago to alert government agencies and companies to threats to computer networks
and protect what it calls Britain's critical national infrastructure, or CNI.

The CNI includes those parts of the country's infrastructure "for which
continuity is so important to national life that loss, significant disruption,
or degradation of service would have life-threatening, serious economic, or
other grave consequences for the community". It covers telecommunications,
energy, finance, transport, central government, water, health services, and
emergency services.

Terrorist groups, including al-Qaida, are already well aware of the potentially
devastating effect of electronic attacks, according to Mr Cummings. Such attacks
would have the advantage for terrorists of being extremely difficult to trace.

American newspapers this summer reported that signs of al-Qaida's skills in
cyberspace prompted US officials to conclude that terrorists were at the
threshold of using the internet as a weapon to kill - for example, by taking
control of floodgates in a dam, or of electricity substations.

Mr Cummings stressed that terror groups did not yet have the capability to mount
such attacks. Much more likely and more common would be further attacks on
individual websites using a virus or worm or through hacking.

But he said that while the threat of an attack that would knock out a critical
public service or power source was lower than attacks on websites, it was
increasing. "Terrorists are aware of the potential," he said. "Al-Qaida would be
interested in developing the capability."

If it recruited someone who worked inside an organisation such as a water or
power company, "it could happen tomorrow," he said.

Electronic attack could sabotage the software controlling the distribution of
power or the flow of water, for example.

The security services got a shock this year when a group of researchers at Oulu
University in Finland reported that a worldwide software network, the simple
network management protocol, or SNMP as it is commonly known, was vulnerable to
attack.

Mr Cummings' office sent out warnings advising Whitehall departments and
companies to install patches - coded electronic "sticking plaster" designed to
protect systems from outside attack - or to separate SNMP traffic from the rest
of their computer systems.

Private security companies also say there is growing evidence of attempts at
electronic terrorism. "They are trying to get in through the back doors of
office networks, which are quite vulnerable," said Christophe Huygens of
Belgium-based Ubizen.

NISCC issued 34 serious alerts last year, compared with just seven the year
before.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 16, 2002

LEADER COLUMN; ABUSE OF OUR FREEDOMS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 177 words


WE believe people have a right to voice their opinions, however repugnant, as
long as as it does not threaten democracy. So before anyone defends the rights
of fundamentalist Muslim leaders to spew their bile, they should think about
what kind of Britain these men want. It would be a Britain without democracy,
without tolerance.

There would be no room for those who are different. Women would be marginalised,
Christians, Jews and homosexuals hounded.

Among the Muslims who yesterday warned that a war against Iraq could spark
terrorist attacks in Britain and the US, are those who want the flag of Islam
raised in 10 Downing Street.

Yet many at yesterday's meeting found sanctuary in Britain from their enemies in
the Middle East. Within the security they have found, they plot and inflame,
while keeping just within the law. The Muslim Council of Britain is to be
congratulated for distancing itself from this madness. The police, M15 and Home
Office must redouble their efforts to oust those who abuse our tolerance and
preach intolerance.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 15, 2002

WARNINGS OF AL QAEDA ATTACK WERE 'IGNORED'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 273 words


DAMNING new evidence has emerged that intelligence warnings were ignored before
the last major Al Qaeda terror attack in Kenya, writes Tim Shipman.

The Sunday Express has learned that Israeli spy chiefs told of a possible attack
on an airliner just a few hours before a jet was targeted by the terrorists'
surface-to-air missiles.

The Israeli airliner took off from the wrong end of the runway at Mombasa
airport in a bid to avoid the attack. The pilot also set off electronic counter
measures like those used on military aircraft, but they were ineffective against
the heat-seeking missiles.

Security sources say there was also a warning about a bomb attack in Mombasa
weeks before the car bomb exploded at an Israeli-owned hotel a few moments
before the missile attack.

If British spy chiefs had the same information as the Israelis, it puts new
pressure on ministers to explain why Britain did not issue a warning about the
risks in Kenya- as Australia did.

The revelations come just four days after a parliamentary report slammed
Britain's spy chiefs for failing to warn holidaymakers before the Bali bomb.

The report has got MI5 bosses "spitting blood" that they are carrying the blame
for "serious misjudgment" over the October 12 massacre which killed 190
revellers, including 24 Britons.

They insist the threat level at Bali was increased a week before the bomb and
was published on a British Government Internet service for Britons living in
Indonesia advising them to avoid nightclubs and bars.

But the Foreign Office failed to send out the warning to British travellers,
tour firms or airlines.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 5, 2002

FILM GLORIFIES SEPTEMBER 11; TERROR VIDEO SOLD IN BRITISH MOSQUE

BYLINE: By Adrian Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 327 words


A VIDEO glorifying the September 11 terrorist attacks is openly on sale at a
British mosque.

The GBP 5 film, which warns westerners to "dig your graves" is available at a
stall within Birmingham Central Mosque.

It also includes footage of the Twin Towers being destroyed by hijacked jets and
the coffins of American soldiers who died in Afghanistan being returned home.

Mosque leaders insisted yesterday they had no knowledge the hour-long video was
being sold and refused to endorse its contents.

One of Birmingham's Labour MPs, Sion Simon, called for an investigation. He
said: "I am sure the vast majority of the Muslim population in the city would
find the contents of the video to be distasteful and worrying."

The sellers of the video could face prosecution for inciting hatred. A West
Midlands Police spokesman said officers "will be speaking to the mosque
authorities".

The video has raised fears that some British mosques are becoming fertile
recruiting grounds for extremist organisations which prey on disaffected young
Muslims.

Scores of Britons are believed to have joined Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan after
being recruited in Britain.

Several were alleged to have come from Tipton, near Birmingham and home to the
UK's second largest Muslim community.

The video includes Al Qaeda terror chief Osama Bin Laden talking about nuclear
weapons and a man in full battle dress warns the West: "A thousand Bin Ladens
are preparing to kill you."

A young man selling the video said: "I am not doing anything illegal and I have
paid to pitch my stall here." He said the video had been made in Pakistan and
that more would be flooding into Britain soon.

Mosque chairman Dr Mohammed Naseem denied there was any militant infiltration.

"It is impossible for us to scrutinise in any great detail all the goods that
are sold in the mosque courtyard but the goods available in no way represent the
mosque's views, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 14, 2002, Wednesday

Muslim radicals in Britain issue 'holy war' warning

BYLINE: By Anton La Guardia Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 600 words

RADICAL Islamic leaders in London issued a thinly-veiled threat yesterday that
the United States and Britain could face a terrorist onslaught akin to the
September 11 attacks if they go to war on Iraq.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, a preacher from north London, said he and other
radicals would issue a fatwa, or religious edict, telling Muslims how to respond
to the "evil" of an attack.

Islamic hardliners have little love for Saddam Hussein, but they see any
US-British military action against Iraq as the greater evil, part of a "Satanic
alliance" against Muslims around the world.

"I believe September 11 was a direct response to the evil American policy in the
Muslim world," said Sheikh Omar Bakri. "We do not want another event like this
in the West. If there is an attack by the British Government against Muslims
abroad, then Muslims abroad have the right to retaliate and defend themselves.

"Muslims in Britain are not allowed to do anything. But I believe the Government
must expect a lot of resistance from Muslims outside the UK.

"We are giving sincere advice to the British Government and the British public
so they understand the consequences of playing with fire."

He will be joined at a press conference tomorrow by several other radicals, some
of whom have been accused of links with Osama bin Laden and his al-Qa'eda
network.

They include Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Masri, another north London preacher and a
veteran of the war against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Muhammad
al-Masari, the Saudi opposition leader living in exile in London, and Yasser
al-Siri, an Egyptian dissident released from custody in London last month when
extradition proceedings by America were dropped.

A press release announcing the meeting at a London hotel said they would "give
the uncompromising Islamic stance on the US Crusade against Muslims in general
and Iraq in particular".

It denounced America as "the head of Satan", and Iraqi opposition groups allied
to the US as Muslims who have "sold themselves to Satan".

Saddam is himself described as the "child of Satan", but any Western attempt to
remove him by force is regarded as a new aggression against Muslims.

"The reality of controlling Muslim land and resources, of blackmailing Muslims
in the region, and supporting the killing of Islamic activists and the voices of
truth, is tantamount to playing with fire," read the notice.

"If the US and UK continue to play with fire there can only be one consequence,
which is for them to burn their hands and to choke on the smoke (September the
11 being an example)."

Sheikh Omar Bakri is careful to say that Muslims in Britain, who are under a
"covenant" to respect British laws, are not permitted to carry out terrorist
attacks.

But by his interpretation of Islam, "Muslims abroad" would not have to respect
such restrictions, and would be allowed to use any means to retaliate. Muhammad
al-Masari said that even without a war in Iraq, Muslims abroad would already be
justified in carrying out attacks against America or Britain.

"On a religious and moral basis, it was settled long ago. Retaliation is
justified by the embargo against Iraq and the destruction of the Iraqi civilian
infrastructure.

"If there is a further attack against Iraq, it will become even more evident."

He said Britain was unlikely to be targeted. "It is a practical issue. Al-Qa'eda
have limited resources and it is not worth the sacrifice of mujahideen [holy
warriors] to hit targets in Britain.

"Britain is irrelevant. What would they hit? Big Ben? It's not worth it."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 23, 2002, Monday

Campbell attacks 'scaremongers'

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 323 words

ALASTAIR Campbell, the Prime Minister's director of communications and strategy,
has criticised civil servants for needlessly scaring the public with warnings of
possible terrorist attacks in Britain.

He complained about Whitehall officials who had briefed the media last week that
the threat from al-Qa'eda was "real" but there was no evidence of an imminent
attack. It emerged yesterday that Tony Blair expressed irritation about the
briefings.

The Government has been accused of mishandling information on the possibility of
terrorist attacks in recent weeks, prompting public uncertainty about what the
risk actually is.

Mr Campbell expressed concerns about briefings organised by British security
officials before Prime Minister's Questions last Wednesday, which he alleges
were not cleared with Downing Street. Last month the Foreign Office was
criticised for failing to warn travellers about the possibility of an attack in
Bali ahead of the bombing that killed more than 190 people, including 26
Britons.

The Home Office was also criticised for putting out - and then withdrawing - a
notice suggesting there was a danger of a "dirty bomb" attack on Britain.

A study of the guidance issued by the Foreign Office on the risk facing Britons
abroad shows there are now 30 countries on the list of those to be avoided. A
recent addition to the list is Venezuela, where Britons have been urged to leave
unless they have an urgent reason to remain.

Auslan Cramb, Scottish Correspondent, writes: Fears of a terrorist attack in
Scotland were played down yesterday after raids on two addresses in Edinburgh.

Security sources were quoted in some newspapers warning that militant Islamic
groups could target the hogmanay celebrations in the centre of Edinburgh, which
attract more than 100,000 people. But police said there was no information "from
any source" to suggest that the event would be targeted.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 10, 2002

FINANCIAL EXPRESS - MEDIA UNCOVERED; THE PAPER TIGERS' WAR

BYLINE: By Julia Western

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg.  47

LENGTH: 627 words


TOMORROW marks the sixmonth anniversary of the horrors of September 11.

For most people in the UK, the following week was just as memorable. A time when
virtually every newspaper and currentaffairs magazine in Britain sold out with
blanket coverage of the World Trade Center disaster. And a time of rare media
unity: the terrorist attacks were not remotely justifiable, and the nations
stood together to defeat the forces of evil.

Well, six months may be a long time in politics - but it's an even longer time
in the media. Far from supporting the war on terror, the voices of dissent have
been on their most powerful march for years. In the UK alone, 3,123 articles
attacking the US-led campaign have been published - most in the past three
months. Of those, 298 have all but justified Osama Bin Laden's mass killings. A
handful have gone as far as to suggest it's time to kill "the real terrorists":
Bush and Blair.

Support for the efforts of Bush and Blair and Allied forces is becoming thinner
on the ground, with mainstream commentators supporting the anti-terror effort
disappearing without trace or having their views spiked.

Biggest culprit is the New Statesman magazine, owned by disgraced Labour tycoon
Geoffrey Robinson.

The organ of the former PaymasterGeneral distinguished itself recently by
publishing a blatantly antiJewish cover, which resulted in protesters storming
the magazine's London offices and forcing editor Peter Wilby into a public
apology.

But Wilby clearly has no problem bashing America and Blair.

Last week the magazine offered to pay a columnist's earnings to anyone who
assassinated President Bush. The offer is thought to border on breaking the law
against inciting a criminal act, and could yet find Wilby and his bosses facing
charges.

One man who knows only too well how anti-American the magazine has become is
former editor John Lloyd, who sent Wilby a lengthy letter opposing the New
Statesman's anti-war stance. Not surprisingly, the letter was spiked. Instead,
the New Statesman has preferred to print the views of left-wingers such as John
Pilger.

Pilger's anti-war thoughts also found their way onto the front page of The
Mirror, just as British troops were heading to Afghanistan - causing The Sun to
brand him a "traitor".

A spokesman for the New Statesman says it has no need to defend its editorial
stance, pointing out that sales have risen 25 per cent since September 11. But
it isn't just the Statesman where praise for the war on terror is muzzled.

Similar censorship charges are being levelled at the London Review of Books, a
left-leaning literary journal. The magazine refused to publish an essay by
political scientist David Marquand, praising Blair's "impeccable" response to
the September 11 attacks.

Mary-Kay Wilmers, the editor, e-mailed Marquand saying she couldn't run the
piece as "I can't square it with my conscience to praise so wholeheartedly
Blair's conduct since September 11".

Marquand is spitting mad at her "outrageous" decision. He says it's the first
time in 40 years that any of his articles have been spiked in such a way.

It's unlikely to be the last such incident, with many left-wing journals thought
to be making common cause with protest groups. The recent Stop the War rally
drew 10,000 supporters to Trafalgar Square, bringing together anti-Bush
activists, hard-line socialists, antiglobalisation campaigners - and several
media commentators.

But the collection of so many different political agendas under one umbrella can
cause confusion. At an anti-Bush rally in London at the weekend, Paul Mackney,
boss of the college lecturers' union, took the stage and began: "We are here to
speak out against the war in Vietnam."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

NEW YORK'S GIULIANI WINS KNIGHTHOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 132 words


FORMER New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani today received an honorary knighthood
from the Queen.

She wished him "less stress in his life" as America recovers from the September
11 terrorist attacks.

Mr Giuliani thanked the Queen, on behalf of the American people, for Britain's
support in the wake of the Twin Towers attacks.

"We need good friends and we have no better friend than Great Britain, " he said
after the Buckingham Palace investiture.

The ex-mayor bowed before the Queen as she handed him the insignia of a Knight
Commander of the Order of the British Empire.

"I am very excited and very humbled, " said Mr Giuliani who is now entitled to
use the letters KBE after his name.

But because he is not a British citizen, he cannot style himself Sir Rudolph.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SO DELIGHTED: Rudolph Giuliani KBE

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 20, 2002

GOVERNMENT PANIC NATION OVER TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 265 words


I AM disgusted by the irresponsible and alarmist way in which the media reported
and alleged attempted terrorist attack on the London underground system ("Death
squads target Britain", Daily Express, November 18).

It has been said that a hydrogen cyanide attack on the Tube could kill 10,000
people. The gas is extremely deadly, but it has to be delivered in huge
quantities. To kill 10,000 people, even in an enclosed environment like the Tube
system, w ould take dozens of tanker-loads of gas, a logistical problem even the
most intelligent terrorist could not solve.

True, a suitcase containing some canisters of the gas could kill the people near
it, but it would be less deadly than if the same suitcase w ere filled with
explosives.

The thought of indiscriminate terrorist attacks are bad enough w ithout scaring
people half to death with stories of gas and germs. I am serving in the military
and am trained in nuclear, biological and chemical warfare. They are terrible
weapons, but they all have their limitations.

The material needed to make any sort of nuclear device is very difficult to
acquire, but a mere mention of radioactive substances will cause public panic.
The dial on your luminous watch is radioactive, but that doesn't scare you, does
it?

Most biological weapons are far less deadly than people think: the germs are
dispersed high into the atmosphere where they are rapidly killed off by direct
sunlight.

I'm not saying there isn't a danger, but it is far smaller than scaremongers
would have y ou believe.

Name and address supplied

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 2, 2002

LONDON 'AT RISK' OVER RAF CUTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 68 words


BRITAIN'S security is being put at risk by a Government decision to disband the
fighter squadron at RAF Coningsby in Lincolnshire, critics claimed last night.

The squadron would protect London from a September 11-style terrorist attack.

The move will leave only four RAF defence squadrons - all in North Yorkshire and
Scotland - partly because pilots are taking lucrative civilian airline jobs.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

Britain protects French in Karachi

BYLINE: By David Blair in Islamabad

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 158 words

FRANCE responded yesterday to the threat of terrorist attack in Pakistan by
moving its Karachi consular office into Britain's heavily guarded diplomatic
premises.

All French diplomats deemed non-essential will be sent home and the visa section
of the consulate closed. Its sole remaining function will be looking after the
welfare of the few French citizens remaining in Karachi.

The city has become the focus of a determined terrorist campaign by groups with
links to al-Qa'eda. A suicide attack in central Karachi in May killed 11 French
citizens.

French officials subsequently carried out a security assessment of their
consulate, on a main road in the heart of Karachi. They concluded that it was an
easy target.

The chosen response has been to retreat behind the high walls and concrete
barriers that protect Britain's heavily fortified deputy high commission in the
Clifton area of the city.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Cornish Guardian

                               September 19, 2002

Service Hears America 'Is United'

SECTION: News; Other; Armedforces; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 237 words


The war against terrorism being waged by Britain and America will be
"unconventional, broad and sustained", said the outgoing commander of RAF St
Mawgan's Joint Maritime Facility on the first anniversary of the terrorist
attacks on his country.  This is the full text of the speech made by Captain
Scull, who has been in charge of the JMF 600-strong unit for over two years:
"The US and UK, along with many other allies responded to the September 11
attacks with commitment and action to root out and punish terrorists and those
who harbour, facilitate and finance them.

"The war against terrorism will be unconventional, broad and sustained. It has
military, legal, financial and diplomatic dimensions.

"Do not ever question the resolve of our two nations to do the utmost to prevent
future attacks.

"United by the memory of September 11, heroes and victims of our nations are
determined to win the war against terrorism." Scull then asked what America had
learned from the attacks on September 11 last year.

He answered: "The main thing we have learned about America and Americans is that
the terrorists were wrong. They miscalculated. They thought their attacks would
expose us as soft, spoiled, decadent and divided.

"Instead, Americans have become united, committed, patriotic and resolute to
stand and fight terrorism to preserve our free way of life and that gives me
comfort." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2002 Cornish Guardian

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 23, 2002

SPEND SPREE AS PAY GOES UP BY 30%

BYLINE: By Victoria Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 421 words


BRITONS have been on a spending spree despite fears of a recession as the
average household income hits a record GBP 27,000 a year.

The average home's disposable income has risen 30 per cent over the past 10
years, new research shows.

Although households have to pay their mortgages and bills from this sum, it has
still left consumers with a feeling of confidence.

Such ready cash has enabled Britain to embark on a hefty shopping spree which
saw spending in December on credit and debit cards top GBP 18.6billion.

Even after the terrorist attacks of September 11 and the job losses which
followed, more than 40 per cent of people said they were not worried by the
global economic situation.

The research from analysts Mintel shows that far from heeding warnings of
recession, most Britons have kept a cool head over their finances.

Shaheed Alam, a Mintel statistician, said consumers were far less interested in
putting their money into savings these days.

"In 1992 Britain was in the midst of a recession so people were more concerned
about saving than they are now, " he said.

"Another sign of consumer confidence not being at that low ebb is that people
are now more inclined to spend money on themselves than they were 10 years ago.
The number of people happy to go on holiday, buy new clothes and pay off debts
has all increased since then."

However, the debt levels facing many Britons have escalated as borrowing
increases, with the population now owing more than GBP 720billion - around GBP
11,830 per person. Most of this borrowing is for mortgages.

Young people are also becoming more concerned about their job security and have
admitted that they are considering cutting back on spending.

The only sector to feel the pinch of the terrorist attacks was the holiday
industry.

According to Mintel, there was not only a 15 per cent drop in the number of
people holidaying in Britain, but confidence in overseas travel also dipped.

Many Britons are not keen to book holidays a long time in advance, either
waiting for lastminute cheap deals or opting for more weekends away and only
one, long break each year.

It is thought the abundance of cheap travel has boosted the weekend-break
market, which is likely to become even more popular in the coming months.

The study also shows that more people are saving for their own funeral. Spending
on schemes designed to ensure a "good send-off" has increased by 63 per cent
since 1991, despite a decline in the death rate.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 3, 2002, Tuesday

700-STRONG SMALLPOX SQUAD VACCINATED TO TACKLE TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: Judith Duffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 496 words


HUNDREDS of doctors, nurses and soldiers are to be vaccinated against smallpox
in case terrorists attack Britain with the virus.

Ministers insisted the move is a precaution and stressed there has been no
specific warning of an attack.

But a spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "Post-September 11, we have
to be live to the threat of terrorism.

"The Government would be failing in its duty if we did not plan for a scenario
everyone hopes will not come to pass."

Some experts say smallpox is part of Iraq's germ warfare arsenal and that al
-Qaeda has tried to produce its own strain.

The Government plans to set up 12 anti-smallpox teams around the UK, made up of
specialist doctors and nurses. The Scottish Executive will publish its own plans
for dealing with an attack.

The team members, all volunteers, need to be vaccinated so they can work safely
with infected patients. About 350 medics will get the jab by the end of January.

Injections will also be given to about the same number of soldiers, specialists
in dealing with biological weapons.

Health minister John Hutton said: "We have no evidence of a specific threat of a
smallpox attack.

"However, it is sensible and prudent to ensure that the NHS can deal effectively
with any potential threat."

Hutton said the anti-smallpox teams would vaccinate people around the site of
any outbreak to stop the virus spreading.

Jabs can work for several days after patients have been infected.

The Government has been stockpiling smallpox vaccine since September 11, and has
promised enough supplies to protect everyone in Britain.

Some vaccines were bought from a firm called Powderjet, whose boss gave pounds
100,000 to the Labour Party.

Critics of the Government have claimed that the vaccine supplied by Powderjet
would be less effective against a terrorist attack than the strain being used in
America. Ministers insist the British stocks would work well.

Government officials say a smallpox attack is unlikely, and researchers into how
the virus spreads have urged people not to worry.

One expert, Elizabeth Halloran, said: "The last thing you want is thousands of
people running out to get vaccinated.

"The idea is that people should just stay calm and stay home."

A-LIST DANGER

SMALLPOX is highly contagious and kills around a third of people infected.

The disease was declared extinct in 1980 after a worldwide vaccination
programme, but experts fear it still exists in labs and could fall into
terrorist hands.

Smallpox spreads rapidly, mostly by skin contact. It is on America's "Category
A" list of the most dangerous germ weapons, along with illnesses such as anthrax
and plague.

The early symptoms of smallpox are similar to flu - a headache, backache and
high fever.

Then a rash of painful blisters spreads all over the body.

Patients can take two weeks to die. Most recover, but many are scarred for life
or even blinded.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  May 27, 2002

Security services put on Jubilee terror alert

BYLINE: Edmeades Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; NEWS; Pg. 4-NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEW

LENGTH: 168 words


Security services put on Jubilee terror alert SECURITY services in Britain and
on both sides of the Irish border are on high alert amid fears of a terrorist
attack by dissident republicans during the Queen's Golden Jubilee celebrations,
it was reported today.

A cell of the Real IRA splinter group is believed to be operating in Britain and
the Continuity IRA is also understood to be stepping up activities ahead of the
Bank Holiday.

The Real IRA, which was behind the Omagh bombing and recent attacks in London
and Birmingham, is planning a terrorism "spectacular" in Northern Ireland or on
the mainland during celebrations of the Queen's 50-year reign, the Irish
Independent reported.

Both splinter groups have suffered setbacks in recent months after a series of
arrests by police in Britain and Northern Ireland and in the Irish Republic.

Michael McKevitt is awaiting trial at Dublin's Special Criminal Court charged
with directing terrorism as the Real IRA's suspected leader.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          December 10, 2002, Wednesday

HOW READY ARE WE?;
 HOW WOULD CARDIFF COPE WITH LARGE TERROR ATTACK?

BYLINE: Steve Edwards Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 764 words


IF Britain was hit by a large-scale terror attack would the Welsh capital be
able to cope?

The news that a draft bill will be put before Parliament next year, forcing
councils to put together emergency plans on how to deal with biological, nuclear
and chemical attacks, lends the question what is in place now?' Since September
11 last year, Britain has been on red alert to possible attacks by al-Qaeda.

While Prime Minister Tony Blair has said there is no specific terror threat, the
public have constantly been urged to be vigilant.

News of the proposed peacetime civil protection laws, which according the
Cabinet Office will provide "a structure for civil defence for the 21st
Century," follows warnings from the Government's former emergency planning
chief, Eric Alley.

He believes the UK is not doing enough to ensure it could cope in the wake of
September 11-style attacks.

The new proposals will update post-war legislation from 1948 and 1986 that
reflected Cold War threats. A Cabinet Office spokesman said: "We are consulting
with local authorities, experts and emergency planners.

"This is a significant piece of legislation and we want to get it right," he
said.

But what would happen if the terrorists struck tomorrow - could the city of
Cardiff cope?

A spokeswoman from Cardiff Council insisted adequate measures were already in
place.

"If a major incident or terrorist attack was to take place, the local
government's role would be to support the emergency services. "South Wales
Police would provide intelligence and advise the council, and any necessary
medical equipment would be provided by the health service.

"There are four council officers who are dedicated to dealing with any major
incidents in Cardiff or the Vale of Glamorgan and the council's major incident
plan was reviewed following September 11 last year."

South Wales Police say they are also prepared for an act of terrorism.

Cardiff Chief Superintendent Jeff Cooksley said: "The police constantly review
and update our contingency plans for any eventuality and we have a number of
officers based in Cardiff with specialist knowledge in various areas which we
would utilise in the event of an attack.

"The threat level is assessed on a daily basis," he added.

But if the city was hit by a biological attack, such as smallpox, it would be
the health service that theoretically would be stretched the most.

Last month several NHS hospitals in Britain were put on alert for a terrorist
attack involving chemical or biological agents. Public health officials issued
guidelines to doctors telling them how to identify and treat patients caught up
in an attack involving the deliberate release of anthrax, smallpox, botulism and
plague.

But a report by the National Audit Office (NAO) said the NHS would struggle to
cope in the event of a major attack and that many hospital and ambulance trusts
were not equipped to deal with "significant" terrorism.

A spokesman from Bro-Taf Health Authority, which would invoke a major incident
plan in the wake of a terrorist attack, said: "Since September 11 last year, the
National Assembly has worked closely with the Department of Health and other UK
health departments to examine and improve health resilience in responding to
biological, chemical or nuclear threats.

"There is a commitment to a UK health approach and we will look very carefully
at proposals for raising public awareness of what to do in such an event.

"The NAO report is concerned with arrangements in England. The situation in
Wales is that we continue to build on NHS major incident plans in seeking to
address these new threats and much has been achieved."

Firefighters in the city regularly carry out emergency planning drills but the
September 11 attacks on America illustrate how impossible it is to tackle a
completely unpredictable event.

However, a spokeswoman from South Wales Fire Service said: "We are constantly
looking at contingency plans for every eventuality including terrorist attacks."

The question of whether Cardiff is fully prepared for terrorist attack still
remains largely unanswered.

During September 11, New York's emergency services were overwhelmed and it is
hard to believe Cardiff's infrastructure could cope with a cataclysmic attack.

Understandably, details of key emergency plans are deliberately kept secret to
prevent terrorists trying to sabotage them.

But the Government's proposals suggest a cloud of uncertainty does hang over
current emergency planning provisions.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POSSIBLE TARGETS Landmarks in Cardiff such as Stadium House, Park;
Street and City Hall could be the target of terrorists just like New York's;
World Trade Center when it was attacked on September 11, 2001.

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           January 1, 2003, Thursday

PM WARNS BRITAIN IS FACING DANGERS

BYLINE: Jamie Lyons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 236 words


BRITAIN faces an unprecedented number of "difficult and dangerous" problems in
the coming year, Tony Blair warned today.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister said in his New Year
message.

But Mr Blair insisted: "Britain is well placed to face up to them."

His hard-headed assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posed by
Iraq, al-Qaida, the Middle East and North Korea.

Those threats will not help the fal-tering world economy, Mr Blair warned.

"I cannot recall a time when Britain was confronted, simultaneously, by such a
range of difficult and, in some cases, dangerous problems," he said. However,
the Government was tackling each problem and would not be deterred by short
-term unpopularity, Mr Blair pledged.

"Amid these twin concerns over world security and the world economy my message
is this: that though the concerns are real and justified, Britain is well placed
to face up to them," he said.

The most dangerous reaction would be to "dismiss the importance of politics and
political decision".

"Whether we survive and prosper or decline in the face of this insecurity
depends crucially on the political decisions Britain now takes," he said.

On Iraq, Saddam Hussein must be disarmed because failure "would make the world a
very dangerous place in the future".

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           January 1, 2003, Wednesday

PM WARNS BRITAIN IS FACING DANGERS

BYLINE: JAMIE LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 238 words


BRITAIN faces an unprecedented number of difficult and dangerous'' problems in
the coming year, Tony Blair warned today.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister said in his New Year
message.

But Mr Blair insisted: Britain is well placed to face up to them.''

His hard-headed assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posed by
Iraq, al-Qaida, the Middle East and North Korea.

Those threats will not help the fal-tering world economy, Mr Blair warned.

I cannot recall a time when Britain was confronted, simultaneously, by such a
range of difficult and, in some cases, dangerous problems,'' he said. However,
the Government was tackling each problem and would not be deterred by short-term
unpopularity, Mr Blair pledged.

Amid these twin concerns over world security and the world economy my message is
this: that though the concerns are real and justified, Britain is well placed to
face up to them,'' he said.

The most dangerous reaction would be to dismiss the importance of politics and
political decision''.

Whether we survive and prosper or decline in the face of this insecurity depends
crucially on the political decisions Britain now takes,'' he said.

On Iraq, Saddam Hussein must be disarmed because failure would make the world a
very dangerous place in the future''.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 30, 2002

RAF IS LEFT EXPOSED TO TERROR ATTACK; TOP GUNS TOO 'RUSTY' TO STOP TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: ByTim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 670 words


THE RAF's top guns are being starved of combat practice by budget cuts, leaving
Britain vulnerable to September 11style terrorist attacks.

In what ex-Chief of the Defence Staff Lord Craig of Radley has branded
"ridiculous folly", the RAF's elite fast jet pilots spend two-thirds of the year
flying fewer than the minimum number of hours considered safe. The four Tornado
F3 fighter squadrons, our main defence against kamikaze attackers, have been
among the worst hit.

Last night the Tories branded the cash cuts a "ludicrous risk".

And Lord Craig, Britain's most senior officer during the Gulf War, warned that
RAF pilots must spend "an absolute minimum" of 18-20 hours in the air each month
or risk losing the edge that can be the difference between life and death.

But official Ministry of Defence figures reveal that pilots with 10 of the RAF's
15 frontline fast jet squadrons are airborne for fewer than 18 hours a month.
None gives its pilots an average of 20 hours.

Of greatest concern is the fate of the F3 pilots - the modern-day equivalents of
"The Few", those Spitfire and Hurricane pilots who reached for the skies during
the Battle of Britain.

The four squadrons, based at RAF Leeming in North Yorkshire and RAF Leuchars in
Fife, all flew for less than 18 hours during most months last year.

They were already under strain after cash cuts and a chronic shortage of pilots
forced the closure of 5 Squadron at RAF Coningsby, which had been charged with
the air defence of London.

The figures also reveal that pilots with 14 Squadron failed to get 18 hours
aloft during any of the past 12 months. Some Tornado, Jaguar and Harrier
squadrons managed as few as four or five hours of flying a month. The MoD
refuses to disclose, on security grounds, the minimum number of flying hours
that Nato recommends.

But Lord Craig told the House of Lords: "Fast jet pilots need an absolute
minimum of 18 to 20 hours flying per month, depending on their role and the
weapons systems concerned, if they are to achieve and maintain their operational
expertise.

"The provision of new smart weapons, but without full and complete training and
preparation for their use before crews are sent to a combat zone, would be
ridiculous folly."

Shadow Defence Secretary Bernard Jenkin said: "Obviously, Lord Craig's views
should be taken very seriously. The Government is taking ludicrous risks,
particularly at a time of high alert for terror attacks which would be bound to
be something unexpected.

"The reason for the shortage of flying hours is money. The Government has
underfunded what they promised to deliver in their 1998 defence review.

"Is it any wonder that we have a shortage of pilots when they get fed up and
frustrated because they can't get their flying hours?"

An MoD spokesman said: "The RAF is satisfied we fly the number of hours we need.
We continue to meet all our operational commitments."

Officials insist the same number of aircraft are available for defence of the UK
as before the closure of 5 Squadron and that our pilots - among the best in the
world - are ready round the clock to intercept any incoming threat.

But defence chiefs are conscious that US jets did not react quickly enough on
September 11 to shoot down the aircraft hijacked by Al Qaeda and they would have
just minutes to react.

Tony Blair would personally have to authorise RAF pilots to shoot down a
civilian plane. The final decision would be relayed over a special
communications system carried with the Prime Minister at all times.

F3s could scramble within five to 10 minutes of a threat being identified.

Details of the effect of budget cuts come as the RAF is suffering from a
critical shortage of pilots and low morale.

Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram admitted earlier this year that pilots from
New Zealand have had to be brought in to plug the personnel gaps.

The last available figures show the RAF is 131 fast jet pilots short of its
target of 1,484.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 28, 2002, Monday

WARNING AGAINST RACIST BIGOTRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 323 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett has urged British people to stand up to the
"bigotry and prejudice" that still exists in society and to continue the fight
against racism.

At the Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony in Manchester, Mr Blunkett warned that
"evil is ever present" and constant vigilance was necessary to avoid the
atrocities the world has seen recently in Bosnia and Kosovo.

The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith and
Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy joined Mr Blunkett at the ceremony at
Bridgewater Hall.

Actors Sir Ben Kingsley and Sir Antony Sher were also attending, along with
survivors of the Holocaust.

"It's fundamental to our moral horizons that we understand the Holocaust and why
we need to oppose racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry, victimisation and prejudice,
whatever its form and wherever it arises, " Mr Blunkett said.

"One thousand Jews found refuge in Britain during the 1930s and several hundred
survivors of the death camps came to Britain after the war. Many became citizens
and built families here."

Mr Blunkett said it highlighted the willingness of Britain to accept its duty
and responsibility to helping others.

The Home Secretary said the survivors of the Holocaust would remember the
"living Hell" they were put through, adding that it should "remind us that evil
is ever present and that constant vigilance is necessary".

He continued: "Bigotry and prejudice still exist in British society. We see this
not just in the heinous activities of extremist right-wing groups but also in
the way innocent lawabiding Muslims and others were abused after the terrorist
attacks on September 11.

"All of us have a fundamental responsibility to stand up against those who
spread prejudice and whip up hatred in order to eliminate democracy.

"If we do not stand up for our brothers and sisters, who will be left to stand
up for us?"

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 24, 2002

VICTIM'S VOW OF COURAGE

BYLINE: By Geoff Maynard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 356 words


BRAVE Laura Giddings, who lost her left leg in a bomb blast four years ago,
vowed yesterday to swim for Britain in the 2008 Paralympics.

She was lucky to survive the terrorist attack at a restaurant in South Africa
which left three people dead, but the youngster - now 11 - refused to let her
disability hold her back. Since taking up competitive swimming last October, she
has become one of Britain's leading junior disabled swimmers.

Her mother Mandy, 37, said yesterday: "Laura knows that she'll never be able to
beat girls on the athletics track but she can in the pool. She can swim faster
than most girls her age and she has only got one leg. This has given her so much
confidence."

Tragedy struck when Laura's parents Mandy and Tony, 39, took the family on
holiday to Cape Town in August 1998. They were walking to Planet Hollywood in
the city's waterfront area for dinner when a bomb went off outside the
restaurant.

Laura, then eight, her parents, brother and grandfather all suffered shrapnel
wounds. Her grandmother escaped with minor injuries.

The schoolgirl's left leg was amputated below the knee, but she made an
incredible recovery with the help of her silicone artificial limb - nicknamed
Peggy. Now Laura is in the pool four times a week and can swim a mile and a half
in an hour, completing 70 lengths with ease.

Her latest triumph was at the BT National Junior Disabled Swimming Championships
in Darlington last March where she won bronze in the 50-metre freestyle event.
Her ambition is to be selected for the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne,
Australia and the Paralympics in 2008.

Mrs Giddings, of Bramshaw, Hampshire, who with her husband runs the charity
Peggy and Friends, which help child amputees, said: "She is so determined. When
she first lost her leg she was down and depressed. But she met the model Heather
Mills and that really turned her around.

"Now she is more determined than she ever was before her leg was amputated. Her
coach says Laura has the potential to go all the way and at the moment that is
what she really wants. We are very, very proud of her."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 18, 2002

Forces plea is snubbed;
 Budget 2002 - Families

SECTION: Budget 2002, Pg.31

LENGTH: 81 words


THERE were no major spending increases for Britain's armed forces, despite
growing international commitments. Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon had been
rumoured to be seeking an extra 1billion.

But the Chancellor would only pledge: "We will continue to meet our
responsibilities internationally and to our armed forces."

He pointed out that since the terrorist attacks of September 11, the Government
had allocated 50million for domestic security and 950million for defence.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            December 8, 2002, Monday

REAR WINDOW: WHEN THE MEN IN WHITE CAME TO TAKE AWAY MY GREAT- GRANDPARENTS;
 SMALLPOX KILLED SEVERAL OF KESTER ASPDEN'S RELATIVES IN THE 1950S

BYLINE: Kester Aspden Flashback: Mary and John Noon, the writer's great-
grandparents, who both caught smallpox in 1953. She died but he survived

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 808 words


Extra supplies of vaccines against smallpox - one of the oldest and deadliest of
diseases - are to be acquired by the Government to inoculate the population in
the event of a germ attack by terrorists.

Until the 1930s the disease was endemic in Britain. It blinded, maimed and
killed thousands of people, starting first with a slight fever, and ending with
chills, headache, nausea, vomiting, muscle aches and an uncontrollable cough. It
was after four days that the virus, variola, would cause the unmistakable
smallpox rash to appear.

The last smallpox outbreaks in Britain were in the Rhondda Valley of south Wales
and in Bradford, West Yorkshire, in 1962. But imprinted in my family's memory is
an earlier, more serious outbreak, the one in Todmorden in the West Riding of
Yorkshire in 1953. Three members of my great-grandparents' household were among
the six who died.

In 1953, Todmorden had a population of 20,000. This insular Yorkshire town was
overwhelmingly dependent on cotton, the industry typical of the county just
across the border, Lancashire. One of the largest employers was Mons Mill. It
was here that John Noon, my great-grandfather, worked as a carder, disentangling
the fibres before spinning. It was through this work, at the early stage of the
handling process, that he came into contact - so it was thought later - with
infected raw cotton.

When John Noon became feverish on 28 February and developed a rash on 4 March,
his GP diagnosed chickenpox. This was understandable. Doctors had no practical
experience of smallpox, a deadly fact of English life until the beginning of the
20th century. The last recorded death from the disease in Todmorden had been
back in 1893.

The situation changed dramatically on 12 March when the Ministry of Health was
informed that Albert Jones, a bagger of cotton waste at Mons Mill, was a
smallpox case. Local GPs were told to report any recent unusual or adult cases
of chickenpox. On 15 March, John and his wife Mary, who had been vomiting and
complaining of severe backache, were taken by "men in white" to an isolation
hospital.

The late diagnosis of John Noon meant that the vaccinations of family contacts
came too late to afford protection. The brusque German doctor who visited the
Noons' 32-year- old daughter, Theresa McLachlan, in quarantine, commented:
"Don't worry, my dear, if you're having smallpox you've got it now."

While John Noon recovered (he had been vaccinated some years previously), Mary,
their son Alban, 19, and lodger Kathleen Shaw died. The youngest son Desmond,
14, survived. In the isolation ward on the night before Alban died, Desmond
remembers Alban in a feverish state calling out: "Can you come? The locker's
fallen on me." But the locker was an hallucination. Surprisingly, although
Desmond's feet were heavily blistered, there was no disfigurement. He was left
with a few faint facial scars. But he remembers vividly the face of another
victim in the smallpox hospital: "It was covered in spots that looked like
berries."

For the family contacts, quarantine was a traumatic yet tedious experience. They
missed the funeral of Mary Noon, who was buried in a lead-lined coffin. But it
was also a trauma for the entire town. The victims lived in a tightly knit
community. Medical officers were bombarded with the same question: "Am I a
contact?" A sense of foreboding gripped the town. Mons Mill was closed for 10
days. There was some relief in the Ministry of Health that "people in industrial
towns do not travel much".

Smallpox raised the sensitive subject of mass vaccination. The chief medical
officer considered mass vaccination undesirable, but almost immediately the
local medical centre was overwhelmed by demand. There were 10,000 vaccinations
in Todmorden alone. The total that year for the West Riding was 70,000, a
10-fold increase on vaccinations from the previous year.

Todmorden was vivid in the memory when the last major outbreak in England
occurred, in Bradford. There was considerable public confusion about the
disease. Most GPs were ignorant of developments in smallpox epidemiology and
could not understand why mass vaccinations were being withheld by medical
officers in some areas. And the media played their part in creating an
impression that this was the normal method of dealing with outbreaks. Expert
opinion was that the disadvantages of mass vaccination far outweighed any
benefits: it diverted health staff away from the major task of surveillance of
contacts; it caused widespread illness and absenteeism; more deaths would result
from vaccination than would be caused by a small outbreak controlled by "ring"
vaccination. But such was the ignorance and anxiety around smallpox that
informed opinion never made itself heard.

Dr Kester Aspden is an historian at Leeds University

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               November 11, 2002

Blair warning on UK terror attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.  His warning comes just days after the Government was accused
of unnecessarily sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing
- a statement detailing possible al Qaida tactics including "dirty" nuclear
bombs and attacks on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, he will say. Britons cannot afford to assume that they are
safe simply because the UK has so far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to
the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida, and the UK must
work with its international allies and partners to confront them, he will add.

Mr Blair's speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of London is his major
foreign policy statement of the year. It will range over terrorism, the Iraq
crisis, world poverty and the Doha talks on trade liberalisation, stressing the
importance of international co-operation in dealing with all these problems.

It was foreshadowed yesterday by Home Secretary David Blunkett, who warned that
the UK was in the "front line" for terrorist attacks.

Terrorists could be expected to target public events such as yesterday's
Remembrance Day ceremonies or try to disrupt everyday life in the run-up to
Christmas and the New Year, he said.

And he admitted that the security and policing services could not guarantee
public safety at all times.

Although he gave no details of specific intelligence of an expected attack, Mr
Blunkett said: "There is always a danger, because we are literally in the front
line." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 14, 2002, Thursday

Bin Laden 'alive' and threatening attack on Britain in terror tape

BYLINE: By Toby Harnden in Washington

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 775 words

BRITAIN has been named as a target in a new taped threat that the CIA said last
night was almost certainly the voice of Osama bin Laden.

Reacting to suggestions that bin Laden probably was still alive, President
George W Bush said the world had been put "on notice" for further terrorist
attacks.

The recording comes just days after Tony Blair warned that al-Qa'eda was seeking
to carry out ever more dramatic attacks.

The CIA and the US National Security Agency was analysing the four-minute tape,
released through al-Jazeera, the Arab television network, and comparing it with
existing "voiceprints" of the al-Qa'eda leader. Officials said the initial
assessment was that it was authentic.

Bin Laden had not been heard from since the battle of Tora Bora in Afghanistan
almost a year ago and some senior US officials had believed he was dead.

There were intense fears in Washington that the message, which specifically
mentioned British citizens as a target, could have been the signal for an
imminent terrorist outrage and possibly even contained a codeword ordering an
al-Qa'eda cell to activate a plan.

Mr Bush said: "The message is a serious message and it should remind all of
America and remind our friends and allies that there is an active enemy that
continues to hate, is willing to use murder as a way to achieve their goals.

"Whoever put this tape out has put the world on notice yet again that we're at
war and that we need to take these messages very seriously. And we will."

If the voice is confirmed to be that of bin Laden it would be proof he was alive
less than three weeks ago because the message referred to the ending of the
siege in a Moscow theatre on Oct 26.

The tape was handed to al-Jazeera in Pakistan, where it has long been suspected
that bin Laden had taken refuge close to the Afghan border.

As well as Britain, the taped voice also threatened France, Italy, Germany,
Canada and Australia.

Six days after the September 11 terrorist attacks, Mr Bush declared that bin
Laden was wanted "dead or alive".

The previous day, his vice-president Dick Cheney had said that he would
willingly accept bin Laden's "head on a platter". Some senior Bush
administration officials were dismayed at the comments, believing they
personalised the war against terrorism and opened Mr Bush to criticism should
bin Laden prove more elusive than hoped.

Yesterday, Mr Bush bristled at the suggestion that bin Laden should already have
been captured or killed. "We're making great progress in the war on terror," he
said.

"Slowly but surely we are dismantling the terrorist network. We're finding their
sanctuaries. We're holding people to account.

"Our coalition of freedom-loving nations is up to 90 now. There is an
international manhunt on. We'll chase these people down, one at a time. It
doesn't matter how long it takes; we'll find them and bring them to justice."

CIA analysts worked through the night to come to a definitive conclusion about
whether the voice was bin Laden's. The analysis uses samples of speech from a
person to create a "library" of vocal tones and frequencies.

These samples are compared electronically with the contents of a tape to assess
whether it is the same voice.

An official said: "It's likely that it's bin Laden's voice, but it cannot be
said with absolute certainty at this point."

Several independent experts identified the voice as bin Laden's last night.
Matsumi Suzuki, a Japanese acoustics specialist, said that he was 99.9 per cent
certain that it was the Saudi terrorist. He said that the speaker's weak
enunciation of certain words was typical of someone suffering from a chronic
internal organ disease. Bin Laden is known to have kidney disease.

Mr Suzuki said that a comparison with earlier recordings suggested that bin
Laden's health had deteriorated.

The CIA official added: "It's an attempt to boost morale among the rank-and-file
and let them know that some of the top leaders who they haven't heard from are
still around. But it also could signal future attacks."

The message could give added impetus to opponents of war with Iraq who say it is
a diversion from the real objective of the war on terrorism - closing down
al-Qa'eda.

But the Bush administration appears committed to war with Iraq and the
re-emergence of bin Laden, even if followed by another attack on America, would
probably complicate but not derail military plans.

Gen Richard Myers, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said the US had "lost
a little momentum" in the battle against al-Qa'eda. He called for further
efforts to shore up the Afghan government.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 21, 2002

Blair appoints 'homeland security' chief

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words


TONY BLAIR has appointed a senior civil servant to head Britain's "homeland
security" amid the continuing threat of a terrorist attack by Islamic
extremists.

Sir David Omand will move into the new post in the wake of criticism that the UK
remains worryingly unprepared for an assault by al Qaeda. Sir David, 54, is to
take the title of security and intelligence co-ordinator and permanent secretary
in the Cabinet Office.

He will take over responsibility for co-ordinating the work of the security
services, MI5, MI6 and the GCHQ listening post, from Cabinet Secretary Sir
Richard Wilson.

The appointment has seen comparisons drawn with President Bush's much-trumpeted
decision to create a

new Cabinet-level department of homeland security under governor Tom Ridge,
although Sir David will have a much lower profile.

He was permanent secretary at the Home Office before stepping down last year
when he was diagnosed as having lymphatic cancer.

His Whitehall return sees him become one of Mr Blair's closest advisers, with a
seat on the key Joint Intelligence Committee which provides security assessments
for the Prime Minister.

He will also oversee the work of the Civil Contingencies Committee, responsible
for dealing with the

aftermath of a disaster, such as a terrorist attack.

Whitehall sources said he would be Mr Blair's "eyes and ears" on national
security and would have an unprecedented role in preparing the Government to
counter any future al Qaeda plots.

Sir David has previously served as director of GCHQ and in a top policy post at
the Ministry of Defence.

The appointment follows a warning from Mr Blair yesterday that the threat of a
terrorist attack on Britain is "high".

He told a Downing Street news conf e rence that operations in Afghanistan had
virtually eliminated al Qaeda inside the country but that the danger of an
attack that might have been planned before 11 September last year remained. He
said: "The threat levels are still there.

They are high. We are dealing with that situation all the time in government.

"People would be making a very big mistake if they thought this issue was off
the agenda. It is not."

His comments followed a report by Parliament's all-party foreign affairs select
committee on the terrorist threat post 11 September, which also claimed Britain
faced a high risk despite the removal of the Taliban regime.

MPs said all Western countries were "appallingly vulnerable" without top-quality
intelligence information, and urged the Government to give the secret services
all the funding they needed.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 18, 2002

Terrorism warning from Bury College student.

BYLINE: Murray Walker

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 410 words



A FORMER Bury College student, who has warned of new terrorist attacks in
Britain and America, is being investigated by intelligence chiefs.

Hassan Butt claims to have recruited more than 200 British Muslims to fight for
the Taliban regime with many prepared to launch fresh terror attacks on their
return to the country.

Speaking from his new home in Lahore, Pakistan, Butt said he would personally
encourage attacks on political and military leaders and government buildings in
Britain.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme on Monday (Jan 7) that many of the British
Muslims who fought alongside Taliban forces in Afghanistan were now in Pakistan
"organising operations".

He added: "If they do return I do believe they will take military action within
Britain.  The 22-year-old militant, who hails from Prestwich, also boasted how
he slipped through British security to return home for three weeks in December.
He tried and failed to sell his story of his experiences recruiting British
Muslims for Osama bin Laden to a national newspaper for GBP 100,000.

Born in Luton, Butt and his family moved to Prestwich when he was three. He
studied for a time at both Prestwich High School and Bury College.

In May of last year, he emigrated from England to Pakistan.

As well as recruiting British Muslims to fight the Taliban cause, Butt also
claims to have helped more than 1,000 Taliban soldiers escape from Afghanistan
into Pakistan.

Since his comments on the radio, Muslim organisations in Britain have distanced
themselves from Butt.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, a spokesman for the al-Muhajiroun group based in
London, said Butt was no longer linked to the organisation.

He added: "In what he is doing he does not have our support. He no longer even
exists in our offices in Lahore. He is now, I think personally, functioning as
an individual or has his own organisation."

And Dr Ghayasauddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain,
said Butt's comments were "more fantasy than realism".

The Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin described Butt's support for the Taliban
as "traitorous".

Downing Street is treating Butt's claims with caution while the Home Office said
it was aware of Hassan Butt and other people who claim to be actively recruiting
and said it was something for the police to investigate and bring prosecutions
where necessary if there was any real evidence of any terrorist activity.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

WORLD'S 24 HOURS ON A KNIFE EDGE

BYLINE: Samantha Clarke & Dean Valler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2/3

LENGTH: 622 words


THE whole of Britain was today on high-security alert for the anniversary of the
September 11 terror attacks in America.

Extra police were brought in at major airports across the UK, on top of the
increased security which has been in force since the attacks in New York,
Washington and Pennysylvania a year ago.

The move follows a warning last week from Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs that
lone terrorists, unconnected to al Qaida, could strike today.

In the West Midlands, police stepped up their presence at "vulnerable areas" in
the region.

A force spokeswoman said: "There is no specific threat to the West Midlands and
the UK in general, and we encourage people to go about their business as usual.

"As usual, we encourage people to be aware of what is around them and be
vigilant about anything suspicious or unusual. Anything unusual or suspicious
should be reported to the police."

The armed forces have been called in to help step up security patrols throughout
Britain.

At Heathrow Airport, 18 of today's scheduled transatlantic flights were
cancelled by operators BA, Virgin and American Airlines.

And at Gatwick, vehicle checks and armed patrols have been stepped up.

A spokesman for Birmingham International Airport said staff were continuing to
operate on a heightened state of security since last year. Two American flights
were due to fly today - one to Chicago and one to New York.

The airport was planning to observe a one-minute silence.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Squad, said: "We shouldn't just think about the ghastly spectacular attacks that
have already taken place, but also the range of possibilities that smaller
groups and individuals may use.

"There may be individuals who think here is an anniversary which is a world
stage in terms of publicity and, for their own reasons, they might attack. We
shouldn't underestimate these individuals."

Britain was today joining nations around the world to remember the horrors of
September 11.

A service of remembrance was taking place at Coventry Cathedral led by the Dean
of Coventry, the Very Rev John Irvine. The Lord Mayor and Deputy Lord Mayor of
Coventry, Cllrs Ken Taylor and Peter Lacey, were among the guests invited to the
service.

In London, security was being stepped up at high-profile buildings in
Westminster and Whitehall, including Downing Street, the Houses of Parliament
and departments of State.

The rest of the world was also on high alert as memories of September 11
intensified fears of more terrorist attacks.

US embassies and those of America's closest allies closed in nine countries and
police and troops surrounded diplomatic compounds.

Fears of new attacks also meant stricter security at airports, government and
private offices, US social clubs, tourist spots and other key sites that could
become targets.

Tension was highest in South-east Asia, a region sometimes called a second front
in the US-led war on terror. Islamic extremists linked to the al-Qaida terror
network have been reported in Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia and
Singapore.

Washington signed an anti-terror pact with the region's governments last month,
and has sent military trainers to the Philippines.

Seven US diplomatic offices in the region - embassies in Malaysia, Indonesia,
Cambodia and Vietnam and consulates in Indonesia and Vietnam - closed today
after what officials called "credible and specific" threats to security.

Embassies were also closed in Pakistan, Malawi, Tajikistan, United Arab Emirates
and Bahrain, where credible indications were received that further terrorist
acts are planned, the US government said.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 1, 2002

QUEEN ON ALERT OVER JULY 4 TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words


SECURITY around the Queen and Prime Minister has been stepped up amid fears of a
July 4 terrorist plot by Osama Bin Laden's supporters.

Round-the-clock armed bodyguards were said to have doubled for both Her Majesty
and Tony Blair after specific warnings from the CIA and MI6 of a possible attack
on US Independence Day this Thursday.

Britain's role as America's ally in the war on terror has led to an increased
risk from Al Qaeda members operating in this country and being shielded by
extreme Moslem clerics.

The security services are on high alert for all possible threats - from Middle
Eaststyle "suicide bombers" on London's streets to the possibility of sniper
attack. Senior sources in Whitehall last night confirmed that big increases in
bodyguards, armed police and other security measures had been approved since the
September 11 terror attacks.

"Security has certainly been significantly tightened around the Prime Minister,
" said one source. "Of course, July 4 is a highly symbolic date and everyone is
aware of that."

Another added: "People looking from outside in terms of establishing risk would
no doubt put a red circle around that date for perfectly intelligent reasons.
But to be honest there is a very high level of security around senior figures at
all times post-September 11.

The Queen is watched very, very carefully."

The Queen is understood to have a series of public engagements in south London
on Thursday and intends to carry them out as normal. Extra armed police are
likely to take over surrounding office blocks and other vantage points.

Buckingham Palace last night refused to comment on the Queen's security. Mr
Blair will also undertake his normal duties on Thursday, but Downing Street
refuses to give his movements in advance.

Last night US Secretary of State Colin Powell admitted that a variety of
intelligence reports "suggest we ought to be especially vigilant as we go into
the Fourth of July season".

He said: "In the course of the next couple of days we'll be meeting on a regular
basis to make an assessment of any additional threats that might be coming our
way."

Condoleezza Rice, the US President's national security adviser, said: "A lot of
preparations are being made to try to secure obvious sites."

She added: "It is a time for enhanced vigilance."

Last night it was claimed Bin Laden was alive as of late December, which means
he survived a US assault on caves in Tora Bora in Afghanistan.

America's Time magazine reported that a letter from Bin Laden was found on his
operations chief Abu Zubaydah when he was arrested in Pakistan in March. The
hand-written note urges Zubaydah to continue fighting the US even if something
happens to Bin Laden.

Other papers seized in Zubaydah's hideaway in Faisalabad, Pakistan, include
plans for attacks on tankers and cruise ships. Zubaydah is now in US custody.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 15, 2002, Thursday

MUSLIM WARNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 76 words


RADICAL Muslim leaders were today warning Tony Blair and George Bush that a war
against Iraq could spark September 11-style terrorist attacks in Britain and the
US.

London-based fundamentalists were issuing a joint 'Islamic verdict' condemning
plans for US-led military action against Saddam Hussein.

At a press conference today, several extreme Islamic groups were warning that
the inevitable consequence of such a war would be retaliation.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 30, 2002

UK 'buys wrong vaccine to tackle smallpox attack'

BYLINE: Michael Clarke

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words


BRITAIN risks not being protected from a terrorist smallpox attack because the
Government has bought the wrong vaccine, influential research claimed last
night.

The report from American scientists reignites the row over Downing Street's
decision to hand the lucrative smallpox vaccine contract to a Labour Party
donor.

The GBP 28million order for the vaccine to protect the nation went to
PowderJect, the company headed by Paul Drayson, who has given Labour GBP
100,000.

The Tories said the latest evidence deepens suspicions that the contract was
awarded in return for a big boost to the cash-strapped party.

Scientist Steve Prior, of the Potomac Institute research centre, said the
vaccine chosen by Britain was unlikely to beat the strain of smallpox most
likely to be used in an attack by Al Qaeda terrorists or Saddam Hussein.

He said a strain developed by the New York City Board of Health had been shown
to work against smallpox in India. That is the same strain of the deadly disease
thought to have been passed to Iraq and, possibly, Osama Bin Laden.

But the Department of Health chose to order the Lister vaccine, which is not
proven to be effective.

Dr Prior, in an interview with The Times, said Britain faced the nightmare
scenario of finding out in the aftermath of a terrorist attack that it had
chosen the wrong strain of vaccine.

'There will not be a second chance to get this right that is the problem,' he
said. 'We will never use these vaccines until someone is convinced that the
threat is real and at that stage it is too late to say, "Do you think we got the
right strain?" ' Dr Prior added: 'For the Department of Health to suddenly come
out and say, "We know something about the threat that nobody else knows that
means we have to have Lister" was very surprising.

'When you are making decision of this magnitude, you cannot afford to make the
wrong one.

'And you certainly cannot afford to make it for the wrong reasons. I think it is
indefensible.' The U.S. has bought 209million doses of the New York vaccine
which when added to existing stocks will give them enough for every American.

Tory health spokesman Dr Liam Fox said last night: 'It is disturbing to think
that the Government has got the wrong vaccine which could leave the public at
risk and even worse, that it could have bought the wrong vaccine simply to send
business the way of a Labour donor.' Labour MP Ian Gibson, chairman of the
Commons science and technology committee, said: 'I am concerned that if there
was an attack, would our vaccine be effective against the particular strain
used?

'This new evidence suggests that we may be barking up the wrong tree.' The
Department of Health has repeatedly insisted that Powder Ject was awarded the
contract because no other company could provide the quantity of vaccine required
in the time available.

The choice was based on secret research, the department said.

Warning to Blair on Iraq invasion Page FOUR m.clarke@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                August 15, 2002

Muslim revenge threat

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 80 words


NATIONAL: Radical Muslim leaders were today warning Tony Blair and George Bush
that a war against Iraq could spark September 11-style terrorist attacks in
Britain and the US.

London-based fundamentalists were issuing a joint "Islamic verdict" condemning
plans for US-led military action against Saddam Hussein.

At a press conference at a central London hotel, extreme Islamic groups were
warning that the inevitable consequence of such a war would be retaliation.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              July 1, 2002, Monday

CHERIE SEX BID SHOCK IN GEORGE'S NEW VIDEO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words


THE video for pop star George Michael's new single Shoot The Dog shows the
singer trying to have sex with Cherie Blair.

Out this week, it depicts the singer dressed in a leopard-print thong trying to
approach the Prime Minister's wife. Tony Blair also appears in the animated
video, portrayed as US President George W Bush's poodle.

Michael has another dig at Blair, showing him as a ship's captain steering
Britain, in the form of a boat, to America. As he sets off across the Atlantic,
Blair fails to notice the country is still moored to Europe.

Michael is concerned about the growing relationship between Blair and Bush.

He said: "It occurred to me that Britain was starting to become a more dangerous
place than it used to be.

"I simply wanted to write a song that said to everybody, 'People, let's be aware
of this situation and understand there are some very p***ed-off people out
there, and that the US - and us, for that matter - need to listen to them'."

He said he cried when he saw the terrorism attacks on September 11, but felt he
had to question America and Britain's attitude in the aftermath. Michael added:
"I've been advised that radio stations that rely on Government licences might
ban it, but I want it heard, not banned.

"It could get slated, it could land me right in the s**t. But I hope it just
gets people debating, because there's never been a more important time to talk
than now."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 6, 2002, Saturday

LOGGING ON TO TERROR;
 EXCHANGE SECRETS SHOWN

BYLINE: Phil Banner HIDDEN: Exchange beneath the tower

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 362 words


BIRMINGHAM'S best kept secret - a telephone exchange 100 feet below the city -
could be in danger of a terrorist attack now it has its own computer website, it
emerged today.

The hush-hush Anchor exchange was built in 1957 to maintain essential
communications in Britain in the event of a nuclear attack during the Cold War.

It is beneath the existing BT Tower, which dominates Birmingham's skyline, and a
network of 25 ft high tunnels under surrounding streets carry cables handling
the city's millions of daily calls. For more than a decade the project was the
subject of a Government 'D' notice preventing the publication of details.

It was unveiled in the late 1960s when it became obsolete, although it has
always been controlled by strict security. But a website created by father of
two Sebastian Ballard, of Kings Norton, discloses vital information about the
nervecentre, including the location of of ventilation shafts across the city
centre and links to telephone exchanges where the tunnels end.

BT admitted it was apprehensive that the underground complex might have been
targeted during the 1970s when the IRA bombed two Birmingham pubs, causing the
biggest mainland atrocity in Britain.

Bosses are understood to be concerned again about a terrorist threat in the wake
of the September 11 twin towers mayhem in New York.

Mr Ballard, 26, insisted that he launched the website last year, before the
tragedy which rocked the world.

'I heard about the underground exchange, became very interested and made
inquiries and travelled all round Birmingham looking for the ventilation shafts
and as much information as possible,' he explained. 'I thought it was harmless
at the time, but I can see that all the details I have provided could perhaps be
useful to terrorists and if BT ask me to I will take the website down straight
away.'

A BT spokeswoman said: 'BT takes the issues of safety and security extremely
seriously. However, this website contains information already in the public
domain.'

In recent years the water table has risen above it and BT has to pump out
thousands of gallons each week to protect equipment.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 1, 2003, Wednesday Edition 1

Mr Blair warns of difficult times ahead

BYLINE: By James Lyons, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 323 words


   Britain faces an unprecedented number of "difficult and dangerous" problems
in the coming year, Tony Blair has warned.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister said in his New Year
message.

But Mr Blair insisted: "Britain is well placed to face up to them."

His hard-headed assessment of the 12 months ahead cited the threats posed by
Iraq, al-Qaida, the Middle East and North Korea. Those threats will not help the
faltering world economy, Mr Blair warned.

"I cannot recall a time when Britain was confronted, simultaneously, by such a
range of difficult and, in some cases, dangerous problems," he said.

However, the Government was tackling each problem and would not be deterred by
short-term unpopularity, Mr Blair pledged.

"Amid these twin concerns over world security and the world economy my message
is this: That though the concerns are real and justified, Britain is well placed
to face up to them," he said.

The most dangerous reaction would be to "dismiss the importance of politics and
political decision", according to Mr Blair.

"Whether we survive and prosper or decline in the face of this insecurity
depends crucially on the political decisions Britain now takes," he said.

At home, Mr Blair said the public sector investment which will bring tax rises
in April must continue.

"This new investment, despite the critics, is visibly improving our schools and
hospitals," he said.

Reform of those services will also continue, including the controversial changes
to university funding where "without change Britain will lose a vital strategic
national asset".

"I believe more than ever before that the central message of the Government is
right at home and abroad. We need measures that combine a tough, hard-headed
approach to the economic and security threats we face with a vision of a more
equal society.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           February 25, 2002, Monday

AGENDA 2002: SELLAFIELD CLAIMS SPARK SAFETY FEAR

BYLINE: Mark Sage

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 411 words

HIGHLIGHT: NUCLEAR FEARS: Irish students and Green Party representatives
demonstrate against the opening of the new mixed oxide (MOX) plant at the;
Sellafield site in December 2001


THE Sellafield nuclear power plant should be closed after a series of staggering
accusations about its safety record, a member of Ireland's parliament said
yesterday.

Fianna Fail member Pat Carey said claims by a nuclear physicist, who is taking
legal action against the plant's owners British Nuclear Fuels Ltd (BNFL) for
constructive dismissal, showed a "flexible attitude" to safety.

Scientist Ronald Hanas alleged at an employment tribunal on Thursday that
radioactive material was often left unsupervised and there was a reluctance to
deal with safety lapses "due to an unwillingness to disrupt operations or draw
attention from the head of the site".

Sellafield has been a constant sore in otherwise good relations between the
governments of Ireland and Britain in recent years.

The row hit an all-time high recently with the opening of the new MOX
reprocessing facility and fears of a terrorist attack on the complex.

Ireland is currently taking action against Britain under the UN Law of the Sea,
and won a partial victory last year when a Hamburg-based UN tribunal told
Britain to co-operate with Ireland and not to exacerbate Irish fears.

Bertie Ahern has raised the issue on numerous occasions with his British
counterpart, Tony Blair, reminding him that Dublin, and particularly parts of
the Irish east coast, are closer to Sellafield than London.

Fresh controversy erupted with the allegations of Mr Hanas, who monitored the
control of plutonium and uranium at the plant. He told the tribunal that workers
had been exposed to radiation due to an "institutionally cavalier" attitude to
safety.

His remarks prompted Dublin politician Mr Carey, to demand an explanation by
BNFL managers.

He said: "A series of embarrassing accusations have now been made that underline
our worst fears about this nuclear facility just 60 miles off our coast.

"He (Mr Hanas) has also claimed, in a constructive dismissal case against the
plant, that, perhaps most worryingly, an inspection by the Environment Agency
into the storage of radioactive materials was treated as a 'bit of a joke'."

He added: "If these accusations are true - and they do fit in with the pattern
of safety lapses that we have witnessed to date - they are extremely worrying
and further point to the need to close Sellafield.

"I fully expect that BNFL will address these issues during the course of this
case - and I look forward to their explanation."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 21, 2002

GOVERNMENT PREPARES FOR STATE OF EMERGENCY; BRITAIN GOES ON A WAR FOOTING

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 2

LENGTH: 711 words


OFFICES, hotels and even some homes could be seized by the Government under new
state of emergency powers to cope with terrorist attacks, the Daily Express can
reveal.

Warehouses, machinery, lorries and workers in some industries could also be
requisitioned when ministers' proposals come into force.

The move follows the news that armed guards will fly on some UK passenger planes
and a warning by senior security officials of a "high" risk of attack against
Britain.

The new emergency laws are far more wide-ranging than those in force now and
ministers would be allowed to use them far more frequently.

Under plans seen by the Daily Express, the Government will also have the power,
in an emergency, to take over workers who could help in a crisis, and to ban
everyday activities which could make any crisis worse, such as buying food from
contaminated areas.

The powers will also allow laws to be passed without Parliamentary approval and
health and safety laws to be relaxed to allow more junior staff to do work from
which they are normally barred.

Simon Reeve, author and terrorism expert, said:

"Clearly, in the event of a biological terrorist attack on Britain, the
Government would need to move quickly.

This proposed legislation would enhance their emergency powers and could be used
to requisition large buildings for use as casualty reception centres or ban
people from buying food in a contaminated zone.

"If there was a 'dirty' bomb attack in London, the Government would need to
evacuate a large area of the city, possibly thousands of people, and would need
to take immediate control of hotels and buildings to house them. And if there
was a smallpox attack, officials might need to suspend health and safety rules
to order NHS personnel and army medics into the danger area to deal with the
virus' spread."

The leaked Whitehall document showing ministers' plans for a new law dealing
with a state of emergency says central and local Government must be prepared for
unprecedented horrors.

"Organisations also need to be able to deal with catastrophic incidents,
particularly when simultaneously occurring in diverse locations, arising from
terrorist attack, " it says. "While current arrangements for dealing with
terrorist attack are well established, the unconventional nature of events such
as September 11 has required a more fundamental rethink."

But controversially, ministers are planning to use emergency powers even in
non-terrorist situations, including future fire service strikes, BSE-type crises
and weather disasters.

Others include natural disasters, major accidents including nuclear incidents,
and epidemics in humans and animals or plants, economic crisis, disruptions to
the essentials of life such as food, energy, water, energy, fuel, communications
and the proper functioning of Government.

Under the planned new law, which could be passed by Parliament next year, an
emergency would be declared if "in the opinion of the monarch" it is needed -
although in reality the Government would decide.

Simon Reeve, author of The New Jackals, the first book on Osama Bin Laden, said
he was uncomfortable at the scope of the proposed legislation, and the
possibility it could be used to tackle situations such as the firefighters'
strike or foot-andmouth. He said: "While both obviously cause damage to the
national infrastructure, they are nothing compared to the potential crisis
caused by an apocalyptic terrorist attack.

The draconian measures now being proposed should only be used in the event of
serious threats to the UK."

But John Wadham, director of civil rights group Liberty, said the planned new
law was "incredibly dangerous".

"Taking state-of-emergency powers is the most extreme step a democratic
government can take. It's for acute crises, where the very existence of the
state is under threat.

"But this plan covers problems every government has:

it's their job to deal with them, not to remove democracy every time.

"Existing emergency powers were extensive enough for world war, depression,
social turmoil - and they kept Parliament involved. The powers may need
tinkering to meet the electronic age, but not such brutally draconian change."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 5, 2002, Saturday

BLAIR SLAMS ATTACKS ON INDIA MEAL: Cherie Blair joins children for lunch in
Bangalore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 84 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair today condemned the terrorist attacks in India which
sparked the tensions leading the region to the brink of war.

Mr Blair, speaking in Bangalore, southern India, on the latest leg of his tour
of the sub continent, also used his speech to outline Britain's role in world
affairs after the US atrocities of September 11.

Addressing the Confederation of Indian Industry, he said the attacks - blamed by
India on militant groups based in Pakistan - were an outrage.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 31, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

World back on alert for terror atrocities

BYLINE: By Jon Smith, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 349 words


   ANTI-terrorist detectives in Britain are on alert after pre-New Year terror
arrests in France and a terror attack on American missionaries in Yemen.

French police said yesterday a baggage handler was held at Charles de Gaulle
airport, Paris.

In Yemen a suspected Muslim extremist was arrested after three American
missionaries were shot dead and a fourth seriously wounded by a gunman at a
hospital.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad is being kept informed of developments in
both countries.

Squad members have been given photographs by the FBI of five other terror
suspects who are believed to have entered the United States on or around
Christmas Eve.

Sources said there was no indication of a particular connection with Britain but
the photographs had been sent to the UK as well as to other law enforcement
agencies.

Foreign Office minister Mike O'Brien yesterday condemned the killing of the
three American missionaries in Yemen. A lone gunman, a suspected Muslim
fundamentalist, was arrested after the attack at Jibla's Maaden Hospital.

One of those killed was the hospital director. Two others, one a doctor, were
women. A fourth American, the hospital's pharmacist, was seriously injured.

The attacker entered the hospital cradling a semi-automatic rifle like a child,
then opened fire, killing the three instantly as they held a meeting.

He then headed to the hospital's pharmacy and shot and wounded the pharmacist.

Jibla, in Ibb province, is about 125 miles south of the Yemeni capital San'a.

Mr O'Brien said: "I condemn this dreadful attack. It is particularly shocking
that those who dedicated themselves to caring for others should be the victims
of such violence. My thoughts are with the friends and relatives of those
killed."

An anti-terrorism investigation was underway in Paris after the baggage handler
was arrested.

The 27-year-old man, who is reportedly of Algerian origin, was arrested on
Saturday after two automatic weapons, plastic explosives and a detonator were
found in his car.

He can be held for up to four days without charge.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 29, 2002, Saturday

Beckham & Co draw Japanese to Britain

BYLINE: By John Crowley and Rosemary Behan

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 244 words

David Beckham's star turn on football's global catwalk, and the good behaviour
of the English supporters during the World Cup, have got the Japanese dreaming
of Albion.

The Tokyo office of the British Tourist Authority (BTA) has been deluged by
Japanese people expressing an interest in visiting Britain.

Katsue Takeshima, a BTA spokeswoman, said: "Japanese people had been afraid of
English hooligans before the World Cup, but the English supporters were so
friendly and cheerful and they mixed with the Japanese fans very well. It gave
such a good impression. It is clear that the World Cup has raised awareness of
England.

"We believe that Japanese people's interest and passion for the team will bring
them to England in the future."

Tourism representatives in Britain would certainly welcome more visitors from
Japan. The combined effects of the foot and mouth epidemic and the terrorist
attacks of September 11 led to a 34 per cent drop in Japanese visitor numbers
last year.

Mike Bevans, of the Linthwaite Hotel at Windermere in the Lake District, plans
to intensify his marketing efforts in Japan.

"We are hoping that the North-West will see a surge in visitor numbers from
Japan. They can visit Liverpool for Beatles memorabilia, see Beckham play in
Manchester and then visit the home of Beatrix Potter in the Lake District," he
said.

"I expect we will win a lot more business from Japan in the future."

[PS]Travel: [ES]

News:

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 29, 2002

Finance: ONS revises output figures in light of building boom

BYLINE: Charlotte Denny

SECTION: Finance; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 317 words


Britain's booming construction industry rescued the economy from stagnation
during the first three months of the year, the government said yesterday.

Initial estimates had suggested that the economy failed to grow at all during
the six months since the terrorist attacks on the US. But the office for
national statistics now believes output rose - albeit by a meagre 0.1% in each
of the last two quarters.

The slight upward revisions put Britain's longest post-war expansion back on
track, with the economy having grown without a pause for nine-and-three-quarter
years.

City analysts said the revised growth picture was unlikely to influence the Bank
of Egland's monetary policy committee when it meets to decide interest rates
next week.

"The small upward revision to GDP is probably too old to have any impact on next
week's MPC decision," said Jeremy Hawkins, an economist at Bank of America in
London.

"More important is the hefty fall in business investment reported this week.
This must raise some fresh concerns about hiking rates prematurely, especially
in the light of the renewed volatility of the stock market."

The Bank cut rates to a 38-year low of 4% last year as the world economy slowed,
but MPC members are now worried that cheap mortgages may be inflating a housing
market bubble. While City economists do not expect rates to change next week,
some think the first upward move could come at the following meeting.

Yesterday's GDP revisions were the result of a rosier picture for the
construction industry. Output rose by 3% in the first quarter - the best
performance in more than 10 years and well above the ONS's first estimate of 1%.

But the service sector, the economy's main motor for the past five years,
recorded a meagre 0.2% rise in the first three months of the year, the lowest
quarterly figure since the second quarter of 1995.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 14, 2002

Crisis role for 40,000 'weekend warriors'

BYLINE: Matthew Hickley

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 341 words


BRITAIN'S 'weekend warriors' are poised to take on a greater role in home
defence in a shake-up of the armed forces following the September 11 terror
attacks.

Territorial Army volunteers and other reservists could patrol airports, power
stations and other strategic sites in times of emergency to free up regular
troops for operations overseas.

At the same time the Army itself may face a radical restructuring to 'upgrade'
regular infantry units into more highly-trained, rapid reaction regiments
similar to the Paras.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon will today unveil plans for adapting the forces to
cope with the heightened state of alert.

The review comes amid growing concern over the nation's readiness for
large-scale attack.

Last week it emerged that the RAF fighter squadron guarding airspace over
southern England is to be disbanded due to pilot shortages.

The Hoon review will cover 160 'key points' which the armed forces are tasked
with protecting in times of emergency. A revamped TA currently numbering around
40,000 compared to 100,000 regular troops could be called out to help cope with
terrorist attacks or natural disasters such as flooding or disease, reducing the
burden on regular forces.

Special Forces have been at the heart of the review, but units such as the SAS
are cloaked in secrecy and any changes will not appear in the published report.

When he first announced the review before Christmas, Mr Hoon said: 'We cannot
build a fortress Britain. So we have to manage the risks.' As well as the
'crucial' role to be played by reservists, Mr Hoon said fighting terrorism meant
Britain must 'look very hard at whether we need more of our forces available at
high readiness and a better range of capabilities within those forces'.

Senior MOD officials yesterday told the Commons Select Defence Committee that
Britain's air defence capability, chemical and biological defences and military
bomb disposal units had all been improved since September 11.

m.hickley@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A KEY ROLE FOR THE RESERVISTS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 19, 2002

WEST BASES IN TERROR FRONT LINE

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.1

LENGTH: 162 words


THE West was thrust into the front line of Britain's war on terrorism yesterday,
with a mission to prevent September 11-style attacks.

Jets will be based at two sites in the region with the job of intercepting a n d
destroying rogue planes attempting suicide crashes at military bases and nuclear
installations.

The move should lift uncertainties over the future of RNAS Yeovilton, which has
been under a cloud since the announcement that its Sea Harriers are to be
retired.

And the world-famous Special Air Service, based near Hereford, will get an
enhanced new role in a radical strategy unveiled by Defence Secretary Geoff
Hoon.

He told MPs the elite special forces would be vital to a new "detect, decide and
destroy" policy to allow Britain to strike hard and fast at terrorist threats.

Mr Hoon has been given an extra 3.5billion by Chancellor Gordon Brown in his
comprehensive spending review and West firms will be looking to cash in.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

                                  June 6, 2002

Terrorist threat over Heysham

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

BYLINE: By Steven McDade

LENGTH: 312 words


Heysham Power Station is a likely target for suicide bomber and terrorist
attacks, defence experts have warned.

The installation is one of 350 buildings and sites across Britain to have its
security profile reassessed because of the threat posed by Osama Bin Laden's
group, al-Qaeda.

Following intelligence reports in America that power stations could be attacked,
the Government has taken extra security measures at all the UK's 15 nuclear
installations, including Heysham.

Other operations that could face attack include Government offices, oil
refineries, military barracks and communication centres.

Following September 11, the sites, which are viewed as crucial to the UK
economy, have been placed on a critical national infrastructure list to
re-evaluate any potential threats. The review was ordered following world-wide
concerns about the threat posed by suicide bombers and hijacked planes being
used as gigantic missiles.

In the wake of the attacks, experts from MI5's protective security branch have
visited the installations to check on security measures.

There are two nuclear reactors at the Heysham site, which neighbours Heysham
Port.

It is just three miles from large centres of population at Morecambe and five
miles from Lancaster city centre.

A spokesman for Heysham Power Station said: We work very closely with the
Government and their security advisers to discuss issues of this type and to
ensure security arrangements are in place to deal with any potential incidents.

We are in constant contact with the Government, taking advice on the best way
forward at any given time.

While our security arrangements are obviously confidential, following September
11 we took Morecambe MP Geraldine Smith and North West MEP Terry Wynne round the
site to show them our behind-the-scenes arrangements and they were very
impressed.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 2002

Man jailed for harassing Muslim after September 11 attacks

BYLINE: Rebecca Allison

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 430 words


A former leader of the Ku Klux Klan in Britain was yesterday given three months
in jail for racially harassing a Muslim shopkeeper following the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Allan Beshella, 52, of Maesteg in south Wales, was found guilty at Cardiff crown
court of racially aggravated harassment against Mohammed Nawaz and his family.
Beshella was also placed under a two-year restraining order.

Campaigners said they were disappointed with the length of the sentence.

Mr Nawaz said he would move away as soon as possible because of his fear
Beshella might return on his release.

The court was told that Beshella entered the shop and off licence on September
14 last year, and questioned Mr Nawaz and his wife on their religion and their
opinions of the terrorist attacks in the US.

Beshella told Mr Nawaz, 37, that he was a member of the Ku Klux Klan, the
American racist organisation. Before leaving he made other remarks that
frightened Mr Nawaz, such as repeating words to the effect of "Kill the Jews",
Ieuan Bennett, prose cuting, told the court. Beshella returned two weeks later
with a friend and began quizzing Mr Nawaz, who lives above the shop with his
wife, Nusrat, three children, and 75-year-old mother. He asked what Pakistan was
going to do about the Taliban, and why Muslim women wore a veil.

A female assistant told the police she heard Beshella use the term "black
bastard". The other man, who was not named, asked Mr Nawaz for two cans of beer
but allegedly refused to pay, saying: "You've got a pretty face. I'm going to
mess it up." He has also been charged in connection with the incident and is due
to appear in court at a later date.

When Beshella was arrested he denied making offensive remarks or trying to
frighten Mr Nawaz and his wife, but did admit telling them he was the "klan
man". Martyn Kelly, defending, said Beshella had been involved in "an
organisation" while in America.

Judge Christopher Llewellyn-Jones QC said Beshella's menacing comments had
frightened Mr Nawaz and his wife. "It's not so much the words, but the
underlying menace that is the aggravating factor in this offence," he told the
defendant.

Outside court, Mr Nawaz said: "I was expecting a lot longer sentence. I will be
moving out of the area if he is going to be coming back here in three months. It
really worries me."

Jeff Hurford of the Bridgend Coalition Against Racism said: "This is a man who
has terrorised an area for a long time. There's been a petition supporting the
family. It has got hundreds of signatures."


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 19, 2002, Tuesday

US ARMY TURNS TO LLOYD'S FOR COVER AGAINST TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Katherine Griffiths

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 364 words


THE AMERICAN army has been forced into the unusual move of insuring its
international bases against terrorist attack through Lloyd's of London in
Britain because US companies have refused to take on the risk.

The multi-million pound contract covers terrorist attacks on the property of
more than 10 US military bases around the world and was placed with a number of
specialist syndicates in Lloyd's last month. The contract covers buildings but
not military equipment or loss of life and will pay out for any kind of
terrorist onslaught apart from chemical or nuclear bombs.

This is the first time the US has insured its military property with companies
which are not American. The high-risk contract has been passed to Lloyd's
because many of the country's own insurers refused to cover terrorist risks as
part of general property cover after 11 September and want the US government to
step into the breach.

In the meantime a group of Lloyd's political risk specialists have formulated
the first ever policy for US companies or state bodies to buy insurance
specifically for terrorist attacks.

One underwriter close to the US military bases deal said the project was not so
risky it could not be covered. "There are people at Lloyd's who have decades of
experience of writing political risk and we apply complex models to the
situation - it is not guesswork," he said.

The specialist terrorist policy was written by Simon Koe, of the Lloyd's broker
Humphreys Haggas Sutton, and Ben Garston, a partner of MAP syndicate.

Mr Koe said: "This shows that Lloyd's is not just a load of old duffers. It is
what Lloyd's does best - spreading the risk of writing specialist cover and
respond quickly to demand in the market."

The US government has used the new Lloyd's terrorist cover policy to insure a
number of its embassies. The policy has also been taken up by companies with
property deals in high-risk areas such as Times Square in New York, which were
put on hold when US insurers withdrew terrorist cover.

Until 11 September, terrorist cover was included in US property policies
practically free because insurers thought the risk on US soil so low.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 24, 2002

Terror plans are attacked; FAILING: Report slams UK response to 9/11

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 351 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs
warnedtoday. The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's
response to the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of
'inadequate central co-ordination and direction'.

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of 'real deficiencies' in
theability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained 'fundamental
vulnerabilities'.

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a 'proper and
comprehensive' review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the 'slow progress' in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a 'strong central authority' was needed to lay down the law in
Whitehalland co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved
in emergency planning.

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in anti-terrorism operations within
the UK.

It called for a review of security at nuclear power stations, sea ports, and on
Royal Navy warships to ensure that they were properly prepared to counter the
heightened terrorist threat.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "There has been a lack of
grip and direction.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale or the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism." The committee
wasparticularly critical of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat, set up last
year before the September 11 attacks specifically to co-ordinate government
response to disasters, saying: "Instead of being the solution to the habitual
'departmentalism' of Whitehall, it has become a casualty of it."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 24, 2002

UK couldn't cope with terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 386 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs
warnedyesterday. The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the
Government's response to the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon,
complaining of "inadequate central co-ordination and direction". In a scathing
report, the MPs highlighted a series of "real deficiencies" in the ability of
the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing mount a "proper and
comprehensive" review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the "slow progress" in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a "strong central authority" was needed to lay down the law in
Whitehalland co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved
in emergency planning. The committee also urged ministers to consider
establishing a police National Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in
anti-terrorism operations within the UK. It called for a review of security at
nuclear power stations, sea ports, and on Royal Navy warships to ensure that
they were properly prepared to counter the heightened terrorist threat.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "We do believe that there
has been a lack of grip and direction on the part of central government.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale of the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism." The committee
wasparticularly critical of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat which was set up
last year before the September 11 attacks specifically to co-ordinate
governmentresponse to disasters.

"It was unable, however, to use its position at the heart of government to lead
a strategic response to the new threats post-11 September," the report said.
"Instead of being the solution to the habitual 'departmentalism' of Whitehall,
it has become a casualty of it."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 23, 2002

Etched deepest on Britain's memory, the day Diana died

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 482 words


HISTORY THERE were two world wars and a royal abdication. But the death of
Princess Diana has been voted the most significant date of the last century for
Britain.

Nearly a quarter of those taking part in a survey chose the day of her fatal car
crash in August 1997.

It was far ahead of the end of World War I in 1918 (eight per cent) or the start
of the Falklands War in 1982 (four per cent).

In a parallel survey on world events, 41 per cent voted for the September 11
terror attacks last year.

The end of World War II, marked by the dropping of an atomic bomb on Hiroshima,
was a distant second in the survey of 1,000 people by the History Channel cable
and satellite broadcaster.

Just nine per cent chose man landing on the moon and two per cent the
assassination of John F Kennedy.

While women winning the vote was rated the third most important British date
overall, one in eight men went for England's 1966 World Cup victory.

Historians say the findings show people feel a greater link to recent, televised
events than to dates in the more distant past.

This was reflected in the results from different age groups.

Only 28 per cent of those over 65 voted for September 11, 2001 as the most
significant date in world history. Dr Nick Barratt, consultant historian at the
History Channel said: 'The value and significance people place on historical
dates is strongly influenced by their own personal experience.

'The immediacy of the 24/7 information economy is having a big impact on the way
people feel about these events. Everyone has a memory of where they were on
September 11.' The poll also examined the way people feel about their family
history and found growing indifference. More than a third of men said they would
prefer a new car to a copy of the complete family story.

Only ten per cent said that, given a choice, they would rather have their
grandmother's memorabilia than an exotic holiday.

A third admitted having no memento of sentimental value to pass on to future
generations.

BRITISH DATES . . . 1 Death of Princess Diana (Aug 31, 1997) 2 Start of World
War II (Sep 3, 1939) 3 Women win vote (Dec 28, 1918) 4 Northern Ireland Good
Friday Agreement (Apr 10, 1998) 5 End of World War I (Nov 11, 1918) 6 England
win World Cup (Jul 30, 1966) 7 Elizabeth II's coronation (Jun 2, 1953) 8
Falklands war starts (Apr 2, 1982) 9 John Lennon killed (Dec 8, 1980) 10 Edward
VIII abdicates (Dec 11, 1936)

AND WORLD HISTORY

1 World Trade Centre attack (Sep 11, 2001) 2 Atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima
(Aug 6, 1945) 3 Berlin Wall falls (Nov 9, 1989) 4 Man lands on moon (Jul 21,
1969) 5 Nelson Mandela freed (Feb 11, 1990) 6 End of World War I (Nov 11, 1918)
7 John F. Kennedy assassinated (Nov 22, 1963) 8 Lockerbie disaster (Dec 21,
1988) 9 Vietnam ceasefire (Jan 23, 1973) 10 Tiananmen Square massacre (Jun 4,
1989)


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

MOMBASSA BOMBINGS: STRAW DENIES INTELLIGENCE COULD HAVE PREVENTED ATTACKS;
 WARNING

BYLINE: Paul Waugh And Ben Russell

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 219 words


BRITAIN, AMERICA and Australia had no intelligence information that could have
prevented the terror attacks in Mombasa, Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, said
yesterday.

He said there was no specific information about a threat, despite Australian
warnings ag-ainst travel to the Kenyan city.

Ministers have been under pressure to disclose whether they were told of the
threat after Alexander Downer, the Australian Foreign Minister, confirmed his
government received information more than two weeks ago of a possible risk.
Advice on 12 November warned Australians to put off all non-essential travel to
Mombasa because of "possible terrorist attacks".

In Britain, the Foreign Office issued a "generic warning" to travellers to
Kenya.

But in a letter to Michael Ancram, the shadow Foreign Secretary, Mr Straw said
last night: "No information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could
have prevented the attacks."

The Foreign Office issued a specific warning last night to Britons travelling to
Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, because of a "potential threat to Western
interests" there.

Kenya was "one of a number of countries in east Africa where there may be an
increased terrorist threat" and Britons should be vigilant, particularly in
public places frequented by foreigners.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                January 6, 2002

CHAMP CONQUERS FLYING PHOBIA; CHRIS COUNTS OUT FEAR

BYLINE: By Mark Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 209 words


FORMER boxing champ Chris Eubank has finally broken his fear of flying following
the terrorist attacks in America, and returned to Britain from the Middle East.

The flamboyant 35-year-old former world middleweight champion is back home with
his wife Karron in Brighton after several weeks holed up in hotels in Dubai.

And after they had enjoyed a meal out on the town with friends to celebrate his
return to the UK he revealed how he plans "to travel in the UK and abroad
teaching my own thoughts and philosophy".

And he added: "I am pleased to be back with my wife and my children.

I missed them a tremendous amount."

Karron, married to Chris for more than 10 years, said: "I am just pleased to
have him back." The Sunday Express reported last month that Eubank was on a
10-day business trip in Dubai when America launched its reprisal attacks on
Afghanistan in early October.

The former boxer, who converted to Islam in 1997, was already worried by the
terrorist attacks of September 11 and felt unable to fly back to his wife and
four children.

An eight-date tour around the UK of "An Audience with Chris Eubank" was shelved.

His personal assistant said at the time: "He is still being advised it's too
risky to fly."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 12, 2002, Friday

3AM: HOUNDED GEORGE;
 MICHAEL FEARS US BAN AFTER DOG SINGLE SMEAR CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Jessica Callan, Eva Simpson, Suzanne Kerins

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 693 words

HIGHLIGHT: OUTSPOKEN: George with partner Kenny


IT'S the controversial single George Michael admits could wreck his career.

And the lyrics of Shoot The Dog - which question the relationship between George
"Dubya" Bush and "poodle" Tony Blair - have so incensed one pathetic rag that it
attempted to whip up fury among Britain's leading radio stations.

The hate campaign has now become so vitriolic that George fears he may never be
allowed to return to the US.

It all started when the intelligence-free publication claimed Radio 1 and
London's Capital Radio had "sensationally" left George's song off their all
-important playlists. Trouble is, they haven't.

Both stations last night announced that George can look forward to all the
airtime a superstar of his standing is used to when it's released on August 5 -
just what you'd expect in a free country. A Radio 1 spokesman said: "George's
single is one of 55 tracks we have on our playlist. There was never any
intention of banning it."

But while it may not be banned on the Britain's airwaves, the former Wham! star
fears he may now be barred from America following the hysterical backlash
against the song.

The worried superstar said: "It's been heavily implied that I was actually an
al-Qaeda sympathiser.

"Because of that I cannot return to America, even though my partner lives
there."

George, who is dating Texan Kenny Goss and owns a mansion in Beverly Hills, also
hit out at right-wingers who he claims have launched a smear campaign against
him here because he is a "gay man with a big mouth".

On ITV's Tonight he answers critics, who have accused him of courting
controversy to boost his flagging career, when he tells Sir Trevor McDonald:
"This would be the most stupid publicity stunt anyone ever pulled.

"I mean look at the publicity I've got out of it. I'm not stupid. I knew I was
going to walk into a wall of criticism.

"If anyone really thinks I wanted to give up the possibility of going back to my
home in America and to actually put myself in danger by being open to
misinterpretation, then they're stupid."

The single features outspoken lyrics and is accompanied by a cartoon video
mocking Dubya's gung-ho response to the September 11 attacks.

Bush and Blair are depicted as gay lovers and George himself ends up in bed
between Tony and Cherie Blair. Clips will be shown for the first time with
McDonald's interview - screened tonight at 8pm.

Earlier this month, George, who has sold 67 million records worldwide, told how
he had been inspired to release the song by the Daily Mirror's "brave,
refreshing, bold and politically astute" coverage of the war on terror.

He said: "The Mirror kept asking more and more questions and I thought it was so
refreshing to see a paper doing this - not just accepting what the government
was saying."

But for speaking his mind, The New York Post - owned by Rupert Murdoch - called
George a "washed-up pervert", dozens of US radio stations banned the single. And
a campaign to officially bar George from the US is still gathering pace.

George said: "In order for me to speak out I have to open myself up - and my
loved ones, incidentally, because it's not just me it's happened to - to the
possibility of humiliation always based around my sexuality.

"Well, I don't think there's any connection between what I'm saying and the fact
I'm a gay man. But there's a lot of connection in the press as to those things."

He said he's furious Murdoch has continued the smear campaign here through The
Sun and Sky News. "This is about Rupert Murdoch and my making what he considered
to be statements that were anti-American at this time... obviously I'm the kind
of guy that has to be slapped down. I'm just saying I won't be slapped down," he
said.

"You might even take away my career. But I know I'm not going to let it happen
without a fight and basically I'm going to be at the centre of a war of PR with
Mr Rupert Murdoch if he doesn't leave me alone."

George insists he will respond by becoming "the most visible 39-year-old pop
star on the planet - Britney Spears with a flat chest and a big mouth if that's
what it takes".

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 14, 2002

TA troops called up to tackle threat of terror

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 196 words


ARMY reservists will be called up for the first time in 45 years - to help track
down terrorists who pose a threat to Britain.

More than 100 Territorial Army military intelligence specialists will be drafted
in to service, leaving their civilian jobs for up to a year. The call-up, the
first since the Suez crisis, is expected to be announced by defence ministers in
the Commons today.

There are already 500 TA volunteers in the Balkans.  The 100 TA intelligence
specialists will work in Afghanistan and in Britain, where defence intelligence
staff have been working seven days a week since the September 11 US terror
attacks.

The specialists will analyse information about the al-Qaida organisation, headed
by terror mastermind Osama bin Laden.  Those deployed in Afghanistan will help
MI5 and MI6 officers questioning captured Taliban and al-Qaida fighters,
investigating links with Britain and any evidence of their knowledge of nuclear,
biological and chemical warfare.

The Ministry of Defence is already drawing up plans for the TA to guard military
posts and other potential terrorist targets in Britain, including nuclear
installations.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 August 3, 2002

West stockpiles anti-nuclearpills

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 288 words


MILLIONS of anti-radiation drugs have been stockpiled in the West to protect
people from a terrorist nuclear attack.

The Government ordered the move after September 11 amid fears terrorists might
use a "dirty bomb" as a terrifying weapon.

Other increased security measures have included tightening nofly zones above
nuclear power stations and stationing jets at West air bases to shoot down rogue
aircraft.

The news of a massive increase in Britain's supply of anti-radiation pills was
revealed last night and Whitehall insisted details must be restricted for
security reasons.

But millions of potassium iodate tablets have been taken to secret locations
around the UK and there have been tests on how to distribute them to the
population.

These drugs protect the thyroid gland from the effects of radioactive iodine,
which some nuclear weapons contain.

Previously the tablets were stockpiled only in areas where there are nuclear
power stations and naval bases with nuclear submarines.

The Department of Health confirmed the drugs have been available at the West's
three nuclear plants, Hinkley Point in Somerset, Oldbury-on-Severn, near
Bristol, and Berkeley, Gloucestershire, in case of disasters.

The Department of Health said last night: "Following September 11 and a wider
review of supplies needed to counter any terrorist threat, we increased the
supply of the tablets.

"But there are many other forms of radioactive material against which there
simply is no protection of this kind."

A dirty bomb, which could fit in a suitcase, uses conventional explosives to
scatter radioactive particles, which could be obtained from nuclear power
station waste, or from X-ray machines.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 1, 2002

HUGE SECURITY AFTER WARNING OF BIN LADEN STRIKE THIS WEEK; QUEEN TERROR ATTACK
FEARS

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 585 words


SECURITY around the Queen and Prime Minister has been stepped up amid fears of a
July 4 terrorist plot by Osama Bin Laden's supporters.

Round-the-clock armed bodyguards were said to have doubled for both Her Majesty
and Tony Blair after specific warnings from the CIA and MI6 of a possible attack
on US Independence Day this Thursday.

Britain's role as America's ally in the war on terror has led to an increased
risk from Al Qaeda members operating in this country and being shielded by
extreme Moslem clerics.

The security services are on high alert for all possible threats - from Middle
East-style "suicide bombers" on London's streets to the possibility of sniper
attack. Senior sources in Whitehall last night confirmed that big increases in
bodyguards, armed police and other additional security measures had been
approved since the September 11 terror attacks.

"Security has certainly been significantly tightened around the Prime Minister,
" said one source. "Of course, July 4 is a highly symbolic date and everyone is
aware of that."

Another added: "People looking from outside in terms of establishing risk would
no doubt put a red circle around that date for perfectly intelligent reasons.
But to be honest there is a very high level of security around senior figures at
all times post-September 11.

The Queen is watched very, very carefully."

The Queen is understood to have a series of public engagements in south London
on Thursday and intends to carry them out as normal. Extra armed police are
likely to take over surrounding office blocks and other vantage points.

Buckingham Palace last night refused to comment on the Queen's security.

Mr Blair will also undertake his normal working duties on Thursday, but Downing
Street now refuses to disclose his movements in advance.

Last night US Secretary of State Colin Powell admitted that a variety of
intelligence reports "suggest we ought to be especially vigilant as we go into
the Fourth of July season".

He said: "In the course of the next couple of days we'll be meeting on a regular
basis to make an assessment of any additional threats that might be coming our
way."

Condoleezza Rice, the US President's national security adviser, said: "A lot of
preparations are being made to try to secure obvious sites."

She added: "It is a time for enhanced vigilance."

Last night it was claimed Bin Laden was alive as of late December, which means
he survived a US assault on caves in Tora Bora in Afghanistan.

America's Time magazine reported that a letter from Bin Laden was found on his
operations chief Abu Zubaydah when he was arrested in Pakistan in March. The
hand-written note urges Zubaydah to continue fighting the US even if something
happens to Bin Laden.

Other papers seized in Zubaydah's hideaway in Faisalabad, Pakistan, include
plans for attacks on tankers and cruise ships. Zubaydah is now in US custody.

Meanwhile, it also emerged yesterday that the US government has ordered military
commanders to stock up on antiradiation pills and make plans to give them to US
troops should they be exposed to radioactive fall-out from an attack.

Suppliers of potassium iodine say shipments to the military have increased in
recent months amid fears of new terror threats against US troops abroad and
domestic American targets, including nuclear power plants.

If taken immediately after exposure, the tablets can protect the thyroid gland
from diseases caused by radiation.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 9, 2002

Travel: News: More out than in

SECTION: Guardian Travel Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 241 words


The number of visitors to the UK is rising but the recovery from last year's
slump is slow. However, the British appetite for foreign travel is undiminished,
with an increase in overseas trips despite a drop in sales of package holidays.

This increase in the balance of payments deficit between overseas visitors'
spending in Britain and our spending abroad is confirmed in figures up to
September from the international passenger survey released last week by National
Statistics.

The number of overseas visitors increased by 7% in September compared with
September 2001, a not unexpected jump as trans-Atlantic flights were halted
after the September 11 terror attacks.

The figures for the three months to September provide a more reliable gauge:
they show a rise of just 1% on the same period in 2001 when tourism slumped
after the foot and mouth epidemic. Visitor numbers fell from a record high of 25
million in 2000 to 21 million in 2001.

The three-month figures for British visits overseas underline the impact of
growth in low-cost flights to Europe. Overseas visits have risen by 4% on the
same period in 2001 despite an estimated fall of 10% in the sales of holiday
packages this summer. Travel from Britain to North America is down 19%.

Incoming visitors to the UK spent pounds 2,880m in the last three months,
broadly the same as in 2001. But British expenditure abroad increased by 1% to
pounds 6,810m.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 16, 2002

LEADER COLUMN; NOW RIGHT-THINKING MUSLIMS MUST SPEAK FOR DEMOCRACY

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 292 words


EVERY one of us every day should count our blessings that we live in a
democracy, however imperfect it might be. We fervently believe that people have
a right to voice their opinions, however repugnant, as long as as they do not
threaten our democracy;

a rare, precious and fragile way of life that needs our constant protection.

So, before anyone defends the rights of extremist Muslim leaders to spew their
bile, they should think about what kind of Britain many of these men want. It
would be a Britain without democracy, without tolerance. There would be no room
for those who are different.

Women would be marginalised; Christians, Jews and homosexuals hounded.

Among the Muslims who yesterday warned Tony Blair and George Bush that a war
against Iraq could spark September 11-style terrorist attacks in Britain and the
US are those who want the flag of Islam raised above 10 Downing Street. Their
followers have already been seen with loudhailers calling for practising
homosexuals, adulterers and fornicators to be stoned to death.

Many at yesterday's meeting found sanctuary in Britain from their enemies in the
Middle East. With their bellies full from the handouts of our welfare state,
they hatch their plans and inflame the hearts of their followers, all the time
keeping just within the law.

The Muslim Council of Britain is to be congratulated for distancing itself from
this madness. We call on all Muslims among us who embrace our way of life and
our democracy - and we believe they are in the majority - to stand up and be
counted.

The police, M15 and the Home Office must redouble their efforts to oust those
who abuse our tolerance and preach intolerance. We must rid ourselves of these
evil people.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 21, 2002, Friday

Security gaps 'leave West open to attack' Terrorism

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 463 words

BRITAIN and its allies will remain "appallingly vulnerable" to terrorist attack
if they fail to make intelligence gathering a priority, MPs warned yesterday.

A unanimous report on the so-called war against terrorism published yesterday
praised the way Tony Blair has worked closely with the Bush administration in
the United States to take on al-Qa'eda and the Taliban.

The cross-party group of MPs made clear that the war would require additional
resources, in particular for the intelligence agencies responsible for
anticipating and preventing further attacks.

The Government should say whether it feels MI5, MI6 and the other services
involved in the fight against terrorism have enough money and manpower to
protect British interests against attack.

David Chidgey, (Lib Dem, Eastleigh) said his fellow committee members were
unable to tell if funding for the security services was sufficient. "We
unanimously agreed that the threat through international terrorism is such that
we want some guarantee that the no doubt considerable resources required to
combat it are not stinted."

The report stated: "If one lesson comes out of our consideration of why the
attacks of September 11 were able to succeed, it is that priority must be given
to the gathering, assessment and use of high-grade intelligence information.
Without that information, this country and its allies are appallingly
vulnerable.

"We recommend that, in its response to this report, the Government state whether
or not the British intelligence agencies on which the security of the UK depends
have the human, financial and other resources they require to offer the best
possible protection against terrorist attacks on the UK or on British posts and
facilities overseas."

It adds that detecting and preventing threats to the UK from terrorists using
weapons of mass destruction should be given "the highest priority" by the
Foreign Office, MI6 and GCHQ, the Government listening post.

The report also says that, in the wake of the row over the status of suspected
terrorists held by the United States at Guantanamo Bay, there ought to be a
review of the Geneva Conventions on prisoners of war.

Launching the report Donald Anderson (Lab, Swansea East), the committee's
chairman, said the war should be matched by efforts to tackle the "causes of
terrorism", in particular discontent in the Muslim world. "The continuing Middle
East conflict is a factor which severely complicates prosecution of the campaign
against al-Qa'eda and its sympathisers, adding even greater urgency to the need
for a settlement in the region," he said.

Andrew Mackinlay (Lab, Thurrock), said the West needed to remain vigilant,
despite al-Qa'eda's failure to follow up its September 11 attacks with further
outrages.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2002

BRITAIN ON THE BRINK AS FIREMEN SNUB PAY OFFER, THE ACTION WE ALL HOPED WOULDN'T
HAPPEN THREATENS SAFETY OF ENTIRE COUNTRY GOVERNMENT BLASTED FOR FAILING TO GET
DEAL INCASE OF TERROR BLITZ; OUR LIVES PUT ON THE LINE

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 769 words


FAMILIES cannot be protected from house blazes or terrorist attacks because of
the national fire strike, ministers said last night.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott held an urgent meeting with the Fire
Brigades Union in a bid to secure "disaster cover" as ministers scrambled to
shore up Britain's anti-terrorist defences.

The talks will continue today, but FBU leader Andy Gilchrist refused to give any
commitment that his men would race to the rescue if there was a major incident.

Downing Street acknowledged that the fire and rescue cover which the Army will
provide during the 48-hour strike, which begins at 6pm tonight, will be well
below par and admitted that public safety would be compromised.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The level of cover that will be
provided will not be as good as it usually is. That will have an impact on
safety. We have to acknowledge that."

He said Mr Blair regarded the strike as "unjustified, dangerous and wrong".

With a further eight-day strike due to begin next week, Whitehall insiders were
last night privately admitting it would take a "miracle" to get through the
dispute without deaths and injuries.

Today the Government's civil emergency committee COBRA will convene in permanent
session until the dispute is over.

Fire Service Minister Nick Raynsford claimed firefighters had opted to "walk
rather than talk".

He said: "We will do all we can to provide emergency fire cover, but this cannot
and will not replicate the existing service."

Some Labour backbenchers privately admitted ministers had "bungled" the
negotiations.

Tory frontbencher David Davis said: "The Government cannot hide from
responsibility for this strike. It has allowed unrealistic expectations of a
large pay rise to fester for too long.

"A culture of industrial militancy has been allowed to creep into our public
services, as shown by the growing number of disputes that will impact on us all.

"The very least the Government can do now is to focus on public safety. At this
time of heightened security fears, the public needs to be satisfied that
everything that can be done is being done.

"Since the beginning of this crisis, we have been pressing the Government to
train military personnel on the use of life-saving fire engines. They should end
their spurious excuses and commence such training immediately Today's strike
will be followed by three eight-day stoppages starting on November 22, December
4 and December 16. The final strike in pursuit of a 40 per cent pay rise will
end on Christmas Eve. Yesterday, employers offered 11.3 per cent over two years.

An angry Mr Gilchrist said: "The Government has successfully provoked a national
firefighters strike.

We have no alternative other than to reject the insulting offer which has been
made to some of the finest public servants in the world."

Shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin came under attack last night for
suggesting that firefighters were being paid by Saddam Hussein.

He told BBC London that firefighters should not be allowed to strike and added:
"You almost wonder whether the firefighters' union is being paid by Saddam
Hussein."

FBU officials said Mr Jenkin's comments were "outrageous and disgusting". Matt
Wrack, London regional organiser, said: "Our people put their lives at risk to
protect the public. A large number of our members served in the armed forces and
have seen action the Falklands. They have nothing to learn from the Tories."

Fire Engine Age: six years Weight:11 tonnes Top speed: 70mph Water capacity: 500
gallons Cost of equipment:

GBP 250,000 Crew: five firefighters wearing fire-resistant trousers and jackets,
with correct lines and vents to prevent overheating. Fire boots, gloves and
firehoods; helmets;

chemical suits and gas-tight suits; breathing apparatus Four ladders extending
up to 13. 5 metres Tools including bolt cutters, spades, shovels, saws, axes,
sledgehammers 27 high pressure hoses Lockers with high-tech rescue equipment
including hydraulic rescue equipment, cutting tools, chemical protection suits,
thermal imaging camera, breathing apparatus sets

WHAT WE HAD. .WHAT WE'RE GETTING

Green Goddess One 10-12 metre ladder Age 46-49 years Weight 8.4 tonnes Top speed
50 mph (when laden with water 35mph) Water capacity 300 gallons Two low-pressure
pumps, one lightweight and portable Four reels of hoses A first aid kit Crew:
six including a driver, standard combat uniform and protective headgear.

Specialist crews will wear unspecified "appropriate protective clothing"

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 13, 2002

Appeals for calm as Britain is warned of ferry terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 490 words


The Government last night took the unusual step of releasing its latest security
advice to ports and ferry operators in an attempt to calm fears of an imminent
terrorist attack.



Ministers were forced to act after details of the confidential circular issued
by Transec - the security division of the Department of Transport - were leaked
to the Press.

The memo referred to a recent warning from the French and Dutch authorities of a
possible terrorist act against ferries. The Dutch alert may be particularly
significant for this region because of ferries plying North Sea routes such as
Hull Rotterdam and Hull Zeebrugge - although the memo concluded there was no
credible information or intelligence to support the claim.

Nevertheless, it reminded recipients of the need to maintain increased vigilance
in the current heightened security environment.

A copy of the circular was obtained by Lloyd's List and featured prominently in
early morning news bulletins on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

It is feared that terrorists could drive a lorry packed with explosives onto a
ferry.

It followed hard on the heels of Tony Blair's speech on Monday night in which he
said British intelligence was receiving daily warnings and predicting the
country would have to pay a painful price to defeat terrorism.

However, with Ministers anxious to avoid creating mass panic, the Prime
Minister's official spokesman has urged journalists to exercise care in the way
they reported warnings.

There is a lot of intelligence around. Every piece of it in the hands of certain
journalists could, no doubt, lead the news.

But I think we have to ask whether that is, in the circumstances we find
ourselves, necessarily a helpful way to conduct the debate, the spokesman said.

The intervention by Downing Street again reflected the difficult balance that
Ministers have to strike between reminding people to remain vigilant and
avoiding panic.

Only least week the Home Office withdrew advice issued in error - warning of the
threat of a poison gas or so-called dirty bomb attack - to replace it with a
more general warning.

The text of the Transec warning released by the Department of Transport, said:
Despite the recent warnings from the French and Dutch authorities of a possible
terrorist act against ferries, we do not assess that there is any credible
information or intelligence in support. Threat levels to British maritime
interests remain unchanged.

The warning continues: However, due to the heightened security environment
generally, we would remind you of the need to maintain increased vigilance, to
continue to operate the recently enhanced security measures and to report any
significant developments to the Transec duty office.

A spokesman for P&O Ferries said that the firm always adhered to national
guidelines on safety and had been operating in a high state of security for some
time.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 20, 2002

Riding shotgun at 30,000ft over Britain

BYLINE: Matthew George Political Correspondent

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.3

LENGTH: 502 words


ARMED undercover police will take to the skies across Britain to fight off
skyjackers in the most controversial anti-terrorist move since September 11, it
was revealed last night.

The plans to put gun-toting sky marshals on UK passenger jets provoked a storm
of protest among pilots, airlines and MPs.

They said shootouts at 30,000ft could lead to disaster and warned of the
nightmare scenario of terrorists grabbing the guns.

But ministers believe the atrocities of September 11, when armed gangs of
Islamic extremists stormed aircraft and crashed them into the Twin Towers of the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon, could be repeated in Britain.

Tony Blair has given permission for the specially-trained plain-clothes police
officers to ride shotgun on scheduled and chartered flights.

But last night the exact details of the scheme remained shrouded in mystery with
Downing Street insisting they must keep one jump ahead of the terrorists.

The Prime Minister reluctantly sanctioned the move following warnings by spy
chiefs of a genuine threat to Britain from al-Qaeda fanatics. It is believed
September 11-style attacks by suicide squads are a real possibility, with high
profile prestige targets such as the Houses of Parliament and Tower Bridge most
at risk.

As the Western Daily Press revealed after September 11, terrorists could also
target nuclear power stations, such as the three in the West.

Ministers have already agreed fighter jets will be stationed at West air bases
with instructions to shoot down rogue aircraft.

They say the crackshot air marshals will be able to overpower hijackers in the
first vital seconds of any terrorist attack, preventing them getting to the
pilot.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "These people will be specially trained.
This is not taking a bobby off the beat and putting them on an aeroplane."

He added: "The capability is there. For very obvious reasons we are not going to
get into the detail of what, where or when.

"I think the important point is that people know this capability now exists. It
has been developed, it's there, the training is there."

The authorities may place covert, armed police officers aboard any UK civil
aircraft whenever it is considered necessary.

Transport Secretary Alistair Darling said: "We are living in difficult and
unpredictable times, it is essential we take every reasonable step to deter
terrorist activities."

The Department for Transport, which oversees aviation security, will not say how
many flights the marshals, who usually work in pairs, will operate on, or what
firearms they will carry. But they may board domestic and international flights
to destinations such as Australia and New Zealand.

Israeli carrier El Al, the world's top hijack target, has used sky marshals for
30 years and German airline Lufthansa also employs them.

US airlines, which were notorious for their lax security, reintroduced them on
domestic flights after September 11.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 15, 2002, Friday

TA soldiers 'didn't join to defend Heathrow'

BYLINE: By Michael Smith Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 581 words

GEOFF Hoon, the Defence Secretary, reiterated his view that Britain's reserve
troops should take a greater role in "homeland defence" yesterday, telling MPs
he hoped to use reserves more in their local communities.

He has spoken repeatedly in recent months about using the TA to protect key
installations in Britain against terrorist attacks rather than "highly trained"
regular troops.

But senior defence sources appeared to pour cold water on the idea, pointing out
that the TA was made up of volunteer soldiers who joined up to take part in
military operations overseas, not to act as security men in Britain.

"The motivating ethos of the TA is certainly not static guarding," one source
said. "The reason people join the TA is to do exciting things in exciting
places. It's not to guard Heathrow or Sellafield.

"It is very much to be negotiated with the reservists themselves. We cannot
invent roles for the TA that act as a disincentive for recruitment and
retention."

Mr Hoon was launching an MoD "public discussion paper" in the Commons. It will
be placed in libraries across Britain so that members of the public can comment
on what they think the armed forces should do in the war against terrorism.

But the paper came under fire from the Conservatives for its lack of firm
proposals and its apparent willingness to leave any concrete suggestions to the
public.

The Tories said that after five months of discussion the Government had come up
with no real new ideas on how to fight the war against terrorism.

"This takes us no further forward than the Commons defence select committee's
report in November and the Secretary of State's own speech to King's College in
December," said Desmond Swayne, the Conservative defence spokesman.

"It really beggars belief that in the five months since September 11, we are
still at the stage of asking this kind of question."

Mr Swayne, a serving member of the TA, welcomed the suggestion that more use
should be made of it but warned that it had "other vital roles" in support of
the regular Army.

He pointed out that the 1998 Strategic Defence Review had cut the TA's numbers
from 61,000 to 49,000.

"If it is to both carry out the new role and also support the regular Army, he
must tell us where the manpower is coming from. He has to repair the damage that
his cuts have done to the Territorial Army." The Liberal Democrats welcomed the
increased role for the TA. But Paul Keetch, the defence spokesman, warned that
the Government would have to fund the extra cost.

"If the TA's role is to change, it will require extra training and extra
equipment. That will inevitably place further strain on the Government's already
stretched defence budget."

Nicholas Soames, a former Conservative defence minister, praised the armed
forces' role in the "brilliantly executed campaign" in Afghanistan and said the
Government simply did not appreciate its servicemen enough.

He added his voice to the warnings against Mr Hoon's proposals for the volunteer
reserve forces.

The TA had "much more to contribute" than just guard duties and if it was turned
into "some kind of Home Guard" it was unlikely to attract recruits.

Mr Hoon said the Government would consider the "volunteer ethos" of the reserves
and promised to consult reservists and their civilian employers.

The MoD had provided a month for responses to the document and expected to
publish some conclusions in the spring or early summer.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 12, 2002

US airport searches after Thermos flask 'bomb' found in raid

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell;Robert Fox;Patrick Sawer

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 512 words


AUTHORITIES in the US are on the watch for a new kind of terrorist weapon - the
Thermos bomb.

In one of the the most specific warnings issued since the 11 September attacks,
US immigration officials have ordered that all Yemeni nationals, except those
carrying diplomatic passports, be searched before entering or leaving the US,
with particular attention given to whether they are carrying Thermos flasks.

In a memo circulated to all ports of entry and exit, and at border stations,
immigration agents have been told to look for large sums of currency, night
vision goggles and the flasks.

Under no circumstances, they have been warned, are they to open and flask found.

These orders come after a recent raid somewhere in the north-east of the US, of
an apartment occupied by a number of Yemeni nationals, according to CBS.

FBI agents discovered "dozens" of Thermos flasks, some rigged with batteries.

Wire was also found.

These components, the FBI says, could have been used to make bombs.

Yemen has been a haven for al Qaeda operatives. Less than a year before 11
September terrorists blew up an American ship, the USS Cole, at a Yemen port.

President Bush has said there is a "full-scale manhunt" for those planning
terror attacks on America. "We will run down every lead, every hint," he told
reporters.

The Bush administration is determined not to run the risk of being seen as lax
in checking and coordinating all intelligence about terrorist attacks, mindful
of the public reaction to revelations that the 11 September strikes could have
been prevented if the intelligence agencies had been more alert and more
suspicious.

Meanwhile, Britain's new 6.000 strong antiterrorist force is due to be announced
today by Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon.

The force will be drawn from volunteers in the Territorial Army and will be
tasked to defend vital installations in times of threat from terrorist attack.

Reservists from the Royal Marines as well as the Army will be called out to
protect sensitive installations such as atomic power stations, airports, and
sites like GCHQ in Cheltenham - Britain's main listening post.

The force will be part of the new package of defence policies and measures due
to be announced in a few weeks' time as the UK's response to the new threats of
global terrorism.

Under the new scenario, which will be enshrined in a new section to the
Government's Strategic Defence Review of 1998, Britain's forces must be prepared
to assist their allies in "up to six small wars or antiterrorist operations at
the same time" according to one Whitehall defence adviser.

Patrick Sawer writes: MI5 warned the Royal Navy "weeks ago" that al Qaeda
terrorists inside Morocco were planning to attack British and US ships in the
Strait of Gibraltar, it emerged today.

News of the warning comes as the extent of the Moroccan connection to al Qaeda
becomes increasingly clear. The operation to arrest the terrorist cell involved
close liaison between British, French, Spanish and US intelligence.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               September 30, 2002

'Forgotten' veterans meet

BYLINE: C. HRIS MILLS

SECTION: News; People; Appeals/campaigns; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 286 words


Veterans of one of Britain's forgotten conflicts of the 20th Century have formed
their own club in Exeter.  Around 20 former servicemen gathered at the White
Ensign Club on South Street for the first meeting of the Devon and Exeter group
of the Aden Veterans Association.

Aden, on the Southern tip of Arabia, was a vital staging post and naval base for
Britain for more than a century.

British forces famously led by Colonel Colin Mitchell had to face continual
attacks from nationalist terrorists before the withdrawal of 1967.

Many veterans believe their efforts have gone largely unappreciated because Aden
was viewed by many as a small and faraway colonial conflict.

Dick Needham, 79, who served with the RAF in Aden in 1966 and 1967, said: "It
was a bit better than Cyprus in terms of killings and terrorism. It was always
very hot, up in the 120s and 130s Fahrenheit on some days.

"Most of the civilian population have no idea what went on or what we were
doing. In fact, I would say half of the population don't even know where Aden
is." Joe Partington, 69, from Heavitree, served with the RAF Regiment in Aden in
the early 1950s.

He added: "It was always seen as a punishment duty in the forces as it was the
hottest part of Arabia.

"That said, I wouldn't have missed my time there for the world. I could never
have afforded to travel to all the places I went to during my time in the
forces.

"Though I have to admit two years in Aden was probably enough for anyone." The
veterans presented a pennant with their crest to the White Ensign Club.

Anyone interested in the Aden Veterans Associations in the South West should
call Martin Musgrave on 01752 550365.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                November 8, 2002

Lasting Legacy Of Terror Attack

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.39

LENGTH: 193 words


The US Director of Homeland Security last night said America would "wrestle
forever" with the impact of September 11. In his first official speech in
Britain, Governor Tom Ridge insisted that the threat from al Qaida and other
groups was "unlike any other we have faced". After a speech at King's College,
London, he was questioned by comedian Rory Bremner, who was in the audience,
about his country's "catastrophic failure" to avoid the September 11 hijacks. Mr
Ridge said: "There are literally thousands and thousands of analysts and
think-tanks as well as the Congress of the United States looking into that
incident to better understand how it happened and how it could have been
avoided."

Seal epidemic over

AN epidemic that has wiped out thousands of seals no longer appears to be
killing animals in the Danish waters where it started, scientists said
yesterday. The phocine distemper epidemic broke out in Denmark in May and is
believed to have killed 21,000 seals as it spread along the northern European
coasts, from the Netherlands to Norway. "We estimate that no more seals are
dying," said a Danish Forest and Nature Agency spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

WE TRIED TO GET POLICE TO ARREST THIS TRAITOR.. NOW HE'S SAFE IN PAKISTAN AND
INCITING TERROR ATTACKS ON BRITAIN;
 YARD PROBE BUTT'S NEW THREAT

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words

HIGHLIGHT: RAVING: Hassan Butt in Pakistan; CAUGHT: Mirror finds the traitor in
London; EXPOSED: Butt meets The Mirror; FANATIC: Hassan Butt has message of hate


A FANATIC tracked down by The Mirror called yesterday for terror attacks on
Britain by Islamic fighters he claims to have recruited in Pakistan.

British-born Hassan Butt, 22, slipped into London last month and demanded pounds
100,000 for his story. The Mirror refused to pay - and told police where he
could be arrested.

But the traitor flew back to Pakistan to carry on his hate-filled mission.

Butt used a radio interview to claim he had recruited more than 200 British
Muslims to fight for Afghanistan's former Taliban regime, and said many of them
would be returning to Britain for military action".

He said the targets would be "military and Government institutes, as well as
British military and Government individuals"."

Scotland Yard are now investigating whether Butt can be prosecuted.

One detective said: "We are carrying out a full investigation into his
activities, his background and all his associates in Britain.

"In hindsight it probably would have been better if we had detained him for
questioning while we had the chance."

Butt, born in Luton and raised and educated in Manchester, went to Pakistan
before the September 11 attacks on America.

A mysterious go-between named "Mr Ahmed" set up last month's meeting with The
Mirror in Trafalgar Square.

Scotland Yard at first declined to act, saying they could find no evidence that
Butt had committed offences in this country, even though Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw and Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon had warned that British citizens who
preached war against the UK or helped our enemies would be arrested when they
returned.

After we secretly photographed Butt lurking in Trafalgar Square, and ran the
story on the front page, the police decided they wanted to question him after
all.

Anti-Terrorist Chief, Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, ordered an immediate
investigation into his background, both in Britain and abroad. But by then Butt
was on his way back to his sanctuary in Pakistan.

Yard detectives later asked us to give a full account of our dealings with him
and Ahmed.

In his latest rant, Butt urged returning British "mujahedeen" to take up arms
against the Government and leading politicians.

On BBC Radio 4's Today programme, he warned that Britain was about to face a
"new phase" of terrorism organised from within. He said: "When they return to
Britain I believe they will take military action within the country.

"The mujahedeen will strike at the heart of the country, within Britain - I have
always been in favour of this."

Butt said some British volunteers had been "martyred" in Afghanistan, and others
were in Pakistan organising operations.

He added that he was not worried about any investigation into his activities.

The authorities had not managed to track him down when he spent three weeks in
Britain last month.

Butt, who has been based in Islamabad, said: "The fact that the British
Government had no idea I was here shows the incompetence and vulnerability that
Britain has when dealing with the mujahedeen and the Muslims."

Butt's comments were condemned by mainstream Muslim leaders, and Downing Street
warned that his claims should be treated with caution.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "Attention-seeking does take many
different forms. We have to be slightly careful in giving too much credibility
to claims like this.""

A Yard spokesman said: "The Met is working closely with the Crown Prosecution
Service to examine comments made on the radio today, to establish if any
offences have been committed."

The al-Muhajiroun group, which Butt has claimed to represent, said he was no
longer linked to the London-based organisation.

Sheik Omar Bakri said: "He does not have our support. We are an ideological,
political party.

"We do not recruit people to go and fight on behalf of anybody or to indulge in
any military activities."

Butt studied for a law degree at the University of Wolverhampton but his ravings
got him expelled last summer.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin said last night that it was not known if
Butt was "largely fantasising".

But Mr Letwin added: "There is a real threat here, and we are not going to be
able to protect ourselves against it unless we have adequate security."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 July 23, 2002

Security plans weak

BYLINE: Rob Sutton

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; NEWS; Pg. 4-NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEW

LENGTH: 86 words


Security plans weak A PARLIAMENTARY committee has attacked Britain's security
plans for being too lax against the threat of a terrorist attack.

The Defence Select Committee's report, due to be published tomorrow, will claim
that poor organisation and under funding mean the country is ill-prepared for a
terrorist attack, according to the Guardian newspaper.

The report will call for more money to be spent on the Ministry of Defence and
questions the merits of a new civil defence funding system.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                December 2, 2002

BRITAIN ON ALERT FOR TERROR BY SMALLPOX;
12 disaster centres being set up to treat any victims of biological warfare
attacks

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 463 words


DRAMATIC emergency plans to counter a biological warfare terrorist attack on
Britain were announced by the Government today.

Within the next eight weeks, 12 disaster centres will be set up in London and
across the United Kingdom ready to meet an attempt to spread smallpox among the
population. In addition, some 700 key medical and Ministry of Defence staff are
to be vaccinated against the disease to act as the front line against any
attack.

The 12 "regional smallpox response groups" will hold supplies of vaccine under
guard ready for rapid use.

The groups, including doctors, scientists, nurses and other health staff will be
effectively combat-trained to counter an attack.

The Health Department and the Ministry of Defence, in a joint announcement, said
there was "no evidence of a specific threat of a smallpox attack on the UK" but
that it was "sensible and prudent" to ensure that any potential attack could be
effectively dealt with.

Smallpox has always been seen as by far the most deadly of the biological
weapons that could be available to al Qaeda or some other terrorist group. It is
spread more easily and more rapidly than other germ warfare agents, with lethal
effect.

The emergency plan lays down a series of "scenarios" for a terrorist strike and
the proposals to deal with it.

The "primary" strategy would be to "contain and 'ring vaccinate' around any
outbreak". The teams of key staff already vaccinated, says the government plan,
are "central" to delivering the strategy.

The moves are the clearest sign yet of the seriousness with which the Government
is treating the threat of a major attack.

Health Minister John Hutton said stocks of smallpox vaccine had already been
substantially increased and announced that a "second procurement" had recently
begun to add to supplies.

Today's proposals will be discussed over the coming weeks before they are
finalised, to come into effect in January, Downing Street said.

Mr Hutton said there were three components to the response: "Improved vaccine
stocks, a plan of action and a cohort of immunised staff to deal safely with any
potential smallpox cases."

The 12 regional response groups, Mr Hutton went on, would include infectious
disease physicians, public health physicians, microbiologists, acute care and
communicable disease control nurses and occupational health staff.

"This core group of NHS staff will need to be immune to smallpox and therefore
able to react quickly and work safely with patients with actual or suspected
smallpox. Preparation for the vaccination of these key workers is now under
way."

Downing Street said it had no knowledge of vaccination plans for ministers.

Essential staff will be vaccinated on a voluntary basis.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 10, 2002

Ministers plan reaction force to guard UK against terror

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 413 words



MINISTERS are drawing up plans for a 6,000-strong "reaction force" drawn from
the armed forces reserve to aid the police if terrorists strike Britain in an 11
September-style attack.

The Ministry of Defence is expected to publish the proposals tomorrow after
months of studying the potential terrorist threat to the UK.

The plan does not go nearly as far as the big domestic shake-up already
announced for the US by President Bush, which includes a full-scale department
of homeland security.

The MoD's plan does not include proposals to set up special military units
dedicated to home defence, causing senior defence staff to claim it does not go
far enough. Instead, the planned force would hand new responsibilites to the
50,000 existing volunteerists who are drawn from civilians. They have been under
threat from cutbacks after 1998's Strategic Defence Review.

The reservists are to be brought into play because of the large numbers of
regular forces deployed overseas and in Northern Ireland. They are set to
receive about "five or six" days extra training a year on top of their
warfighting duties.

The report claims terrorist attacks on Britain are likely to be "infrequent and
unpredictable" while the use of chemical, biological and nuclear devices "cannot
be ruled out". The new force could deal with mass casualties, trans-

port, communications, site clearance and other operational tasks.

Its key elements would be on offer to the police "within a few hours" of any
attack.

Meanwhile, Scotland Yard is probing claims that British Muslim terrorists in
Kashmir are behind attacks which have brought India and Pakistan to the brink of
nuclear conflict.

Inquiries centre on an east London charity, the Kashmir International Relief
Fund, and the Regent's Park mosque, where clerics have reportedly admitted that
money raised by

worshippers was being sent to "freedom fighters" in Kashmir.

It is claimed that the mosque and the charity are involved in transferring money
to banned terror groups - including Lashkar-e-Toiba, which killed 14 people in
an attack on the Indian parliament, and Jaish-e-Mohammed, whose members murdered
US journalist Daniel Pearl.

Both organisations were banned in this country in January. Recently a dossier
was passed to the Government by the Indian authorities outlining how the two
groups are illegally raising up to £5 million a year through clandestine
supporters in this country.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 19, 2002

Don't listen to the pen-pushers

BYLINE: The notebook of Chris Moncrieff

SECTION: Features :General :Columnist, Pg.17

LENGTH: 837 words


THE small-mindedness of those Whitehall mandarins in refusing to award a
posthumous honour to Cornishman Rick Rescoria for his heroism in saving hundreds
of lives in the September 11 terror attacks on the World Trade Center defies
belief.

They seem to be actively looking for reasons why this should not happen, poking
around the small print of dusty files simply, it would seem, to put obstacles in
the way of recognising this brave man.

No wonder Sir Teddy Taylor, Conservative MP for Rochford and Southend East, has
described this affair as "scandalous" and is pressing in the House of Commons
for action to be t a ke n .

It is pathetic that pen-pushers in Government departments should say that
Rescoria, who was given US citizenship in the late 1960s, does not meet their
criteria because the majority of people he saved were Americans.

Well, so what?

Why on earth should it matter that the majority of people whose lives Rescoria
saved - at the cost of his own - were non-British?

Does that not, in itself, smack of a form of racism?

Nor let it be forgotten that Britain does frequently honour nonUK citizens,
people with a far more tenuous link with the UK than Rescoria.

You need look no further than Henry Kissinger, the former United States
Secretary of State, and Bob Geldof, the one-time pop icon. There are scores
more.

No-one would deny Kissinger, Geldof and all the rest their honours. But what
Rescoria did was specific and way beyond the call of duty.

There should be no more ifs and buts, evasions and feeble excuses. Bureaucracy
must never be allowed to stand in the way of recognising one man's bravery.

STRANGE, is it not, how only a few weeks ago, Labour ministers would throw up
their hands in horror at any suggestion that they would be introducing top-up
fees for university s t u d e n t s.

Nothing, they were insisting, could be farther from the truth. What a contrast
to what we hear now.

Suddenly, Ministers are openly saying that this is going to happen, even in one
case picking up on Margaret Thatcher's old mantra when she declared, in another
context: "There's no such thing as a free lunch. . ." It was clever sleuthing by
Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith which forced this admission out of them.

Twice in successive weeks in the Commons he caught the PrimeMinister on the hop.

Today, we are being conditioned to the inevitability of the introduction of
top-up fees, which will cost some people thousands of pounds. A few weeks ago,
ministers were pointing to their election pledge not to introduce them and
saying it wasn't even a starter, never mind a runner.

THE week-long debate on the Queen's Speech - setting out the Government's
programme for the new session of Parliament - is nearly over.

The excitement of the first day and the pageantry of the State Opening have all
disappeared. Boredom has set in.

As each day passes, fewer MPs are to be seen in the Chamber, and the Government
could be faced with the humiliation that these important debates may fizzle out
embarrassingly because so few can be bothered to stand up and make a speech.

What happens on these occasions is that the Government whips tour the crowded
dining rooms and even more crowded bars in the Palace of Westminster, dragging
unwillingMPs into the Chamber to make speeches on subjects of which they are
ignorant, just for the sake of appearances. When things get really dire, MPs
even get dragged out of the lavatories.

The reason why tedium has set in so quickly this year is that almost the
entirety of the Queen's Speech was deliberately and systematically leaked in
adva n c e.

The only surprise was a negative one:

the omission of a proposed Bill on mental health.

And on two key issues, the euro and hunting, the Government underlined its
mastery of the fudge.

Fireworks, this year, went on long after November 5. But the next 12 months
atWestminster will not be punctuated by big bangs and brilliant flashes. Just a
series of very damp squibs.

THE Prime Minister's assertion, when he came to power, that the trade unions
could expect no special favours from a Labour Government, is now being put to
the test.

The language that Mr Blair and his deputy John Prescott are using in relation to
the firefighters' dispute is tough and uncompromising.

But so was the language of their predecessors, Harold Wilson and Jim Callaghan
when faced with similar crises, but they caved in and the British economy paid
the price.

Blair and Prescott must now display the same steeliness demonstrated by Margaret
Thatcher when she was confronted by Arthur Scargill and the miners in the
mid-1980s.

Otherwise, as militancy begins to flourish again in the trade union movement,
there will be an onrush of impossible demands, and the economy will go down the
pan again.

Blair is only too well aware of what happened to the Callaghan Government after
the Winter of Discontent.

He certainly does not want an enc o re. . .

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 28, 2002

Soldiers will defend West terror targets;
 Government admits vulnerability of nuclear plants and airports

BYLINE: Brian Price

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.11

LENGTH: 555 words


TROOPS will be posted at West airports, nuclear power stations and key
Government buildings to protect Britain from terrorist attacks, it was revealed
yesterday.

No potential target is to be considered safe as advisers go on hand to assist
councils, police forces and fire services in the fight against terror.

Key points, including the power stations at Hinkley Point and Oldbury-on
-Severn, Bristol International Airport and the GCHQ spy base in Cheltenham,
could see soldiers deployed during emergencies.

The Ministry of Defence believes UK defences have been neglected as armed forces
have concentrated on actions in Afghanistan.

Now, with 10,000 followers of Osama bin Laden still on the loose, military
advisers are drawing up plans for responding to terrorist attacks on home soil.

Senior officers are to decide how full- and part-time soldiers should guard
buildings and strategic sites nationwide, and experts will help every town hall
in Britain plan for emergencies.

Last November, the Western Daily Press revealed the ease with which would-be
terrorists could target Hinkley Point, in Somerset, by plane, prompting the
Government to install no-fly zones over nuclearpower plants across the country.

Now the MoD has admitted military efforts were being concentrated on missions in
Kosovo, Sierra Leone and Afghanistan, while the possibility of terrorist attacks
on home soil was being neglected.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said a new balance had to be struck between
operating abroad and protecting the UK.

"We will make more staff available in regional brigade headquarters for
contingency planning and emergencies, " he said.

A senior Government defence source said: "We want all police forces, fire
services and local authorities to have a named person they can ask for help."

In a speech earlier this year, Prime Minister Tony Blair said people must
realise the full extent of the threat from terrorism.He said there was no longer
any "leafy suburb" safe from weapons of mass destruction, religious fanaticism
and terrorism.

In February, a Government discussion paper asked a range of organisations and
members of the public some key questions about defence. Mr Hoon told MPs the
responses the Government received had been "very encouraging".

One of the key issues raised through the discussion paper was widespread concern
over how the Government planned to prevent terrorist attacks in the UK.

UK defence policy expert Sir Timothy Garden agreed the Government should remain
vigilant about terrorist threats in the UK. Sir Timothy said: "The capture of
bin Laden is important for reasons of justice, but it does not make our citizens
any safer in the immediate future. Some 10,000 terrorists passed through his
training organisation and are already dispersed around the world waiting for an
opportunity to strike.

"The counter-terrorist authorities in the UK are well aware of this and are
working hard to reduce the risks.

It appears that extra money has gone to the intelligence agencies, which is a
start. But redirecting the intelligence effort takes time.

"The enhanced police presence in London is a visible sign of greater
preventative security, but is as much a reassurance to the public as a defence
against the next mass killing attack."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 4, 2002

Blair jets in to talk war and peace;
 Prime Minister warns of global disaster as bad as September 11

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News :Other :War, Pg.5

LENGTH: 576 words


WAR between India and Pakistan would trigger a second global crisis as bad as
the September 11 terror attacks, Tony Blair warned yesterday.

The Prime Minister was speaking as he began a six-day mission to prevent
conflict between the two nuclear rivals.

The soaring tension has been caused by the long-standing dispute over Kashmir
and Mr Blair has no plan to resolve that issue. But he will urge both countries
to "cool it" as he seeks to use Britain's historic influence in the region.

Mr Blair and his wife Cherie arrived in the Bangladesh capital Dhaka soon after
police ended a demonstration by hundreds of Muslims angry about the visit.

He said he had just spoken to President George Bush about the crisis, caused by
an attack on the Indian parliament last month which left 14 people dead and has
been blamed on Pakistan-based terror groups.

"This is a very serious issue, with potentially damaging and far-reaching
consequences if the tension gets out of hand, " Mr Blair said.

"As we saw from the events of September 11, the danger is that when these events
do occur, they don't stop at the border of any one country."

And Mr Blair added that there would be no let up in the struggle against
international terrorism, cautioning that there was still "a great deal to do"
despite the coalition's early successes in Afghanistan.

"We don't let up in the battle against international terrorism, that's for
sure." he added.

"We have had a successful start in that campaign, we have closed down
effectively the terrorist networks in Afghanistan, and we have sent a hugely
strong message as a result of that right across the world that we will take
action against terrorists who commit these atrocities. But there is still a
great deal to do."

Mr Blair said he did not want to exaggerate his hopes but he wanted to have a
"calming influence" on his six-day trip which will also take in India and
Pakistan .

But he is expected to hold talks with India prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee
tomorrow and Pakistan's president General Pervez Musharraf on Monday.

But his first task will be to urge Bangladesh to contribute troops to the
British-led international peacekeeping force for Afghanistan.

And prime minister Khaleda Zia said last night during a break in talks that
Bangladesh was willing in principle to help.

"We are ready to participate.

We are working together, " she said.

Meanwhile, India's prime minister said he had no intention of meeting Pakistan's
president at a forthcoming regional summit, but he did suggest that diplomacy
could avert a war.

"War is not a must, " Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee said before flying to
the meeting in Nepal's capital Katmandu .

"Efforts are being made to avoid war through diplomatic channels. If that
succeeds, there will be no need to opt for other alternatives."

Pakistani President General Pervez Musharraf was in Beijing, consulting with
Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji, a key ally, before arriving in Katmandu.

Earlier speaking to reporters who had travelled with him from Cairo, where he
and his wife Cherie had been on holiday, Mr Blair said there would be "enormous
problems" for the whole world if current tensions between India and Pakistan got
"out of hand".

Mr Blair said his visit came at "an opportune time because of the tensions that
exist between India and Pakistan and the potential for that to get out of hand".

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               November 16, 2002

Rebuilding their lives after horror of attacks .

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 427 words


image large="650770.vii.af.jpg" small="650770.vii.at.jpg"image

Prime Minister Tony Blair this week warned Britain was in danger of falling
victim to a terrorist attack, following the tragedies in Bali and the USA in the
last 14 months.

But for two Sutton women, these atrocities were not distant events beamed to
their television screens from the other side of the world, but real life
experiences that changed their lives.

It's more than a year since we reported on Sarah Lippitt's dash to safety from
her office building during the New York attack on September 11, 2001. As we
watched the live, incredible destruction unfold from the comfort of our office
or armchair, Sarah, now 23, wondered if her neighbouring building, in which she
stood terrified on the 22nd floor, would be next.

"I saw poor souls trapped in the buildings leaping out," said the former pupil
from Nonsuch High School for Girls.

Emma Kirby, also 23, whose stay is told in an email sent to the Comet, suffered
a similar experience in Bali last month.

The Comet first learnt of Emma's narrow escape when a friend from Bali contacted
us in a desperate attempt to find the former Glenthorne High School pupil.

Nikki Bromsfield, 27, of Ascot, who witnessed the explosion from Emma's balcony
on October 12, lost contact with her the day after the bombing.

Nikki had flown back to Heathrow while Emma was still trying to get a flight out
to Australia.

Emma who had made friends with Miss Kirby and a group of Australian footballers
while in Bali, told us: "I just want to make sure she and the Aussie lads are
okay and managed to get out of there."

After we tracked down Emma parents, of Wordsworth Drive, and put her in contact
with Nikki, her mum Jean told us of their daughter's ordeal.

She explained how she and Emma's father had advised their daughter to choose
Bali, thinking it would be the safest out of the five other possible stop-off
destinations en route to her year abroad in Australia, she said: "How wrong can
you be?"

Emma has since been to a counselling session with fellow survivors.

The bomb, which exploded just before midnight on a Saturday the most popular
time of the week for the club - killed 11 Britons while 20 are still unaccounted
for. It is thought the blast killed 200 people.

Sarah, who is still living in New York, said in an e-mail to us on Tuesday: "I
feel there is no reason not to carry on with things as planned, but I do
remember jumping whenever I heard a large bang for months afterwards."

November 16, 2002 10:00

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               November 15, 2002

Rebuilding their lives after horror of attacks.

SECTION: News; Features

LENGTH: 425 words


image large="650586.vii.af.jpg" small="650586.vii.at.jpg"image

Prime Minister Tony Blair this week warned Britain was in danger of falling
victim to a terrorist attack, following the tragedies in Bali and the USA in the
last 14 months.

But for two Sutton women, these atrocities were not distant events beamed to
their television screens from the other side of the world, but real life
experiences that changed their lives.

It's more than a year since we reported on Sarah Lippitt's dash to safety from
her office building during the New York attack on September 11, 2001. As we
watched the live, incredible destruction unfold from the comfort of our office
or armchair, Sarah, now 23, wondered if her neighbouring building, in which she
stood terrified on the 22nd floor, would be next.

"I saw poor souls trapped in the buildings leaping out," said the former pupil
from Nonsuch High School for Girls.

Emma Kirby, also 23, whose stay is told in an email sent to the Comet, suffered
a similar experience in Bali last month.

The Comet first learnt of Emma's narrow escape when a friend from Bali contacted
us in a desperate attempt to find the former Glenthorne High School pupil.

Nikki Bromsfield, 27, of Ascot, who witnessed the explosion from Emma's balcony
on October 12, lost contact with her the day after the bombing.

Nikki had flown back to Heathrow while Emma was still trying to get a flight out
to Australia.

Emma who had made friends with Miss Kirby and a group of Australian footballers
while in Bali, told us: "I just want to make sure she and the Aussie lads are
okay and managed to get out of there."

After we tracked down Emma parents, of Wordsworth Drive, and put her in contact
with Ni, her mum Jean told us of their daughter's ordeal.

She explained how she and Emma's father had advised their daughter to choose
Bali, thinking it would be the safest out of the five other possible stop-off
destinations en route to her year abroad in Australia.She said: "How wrong can
you be?"

Emma has since been to a counselling session with fellow survivors.

The bomb, which exploded just before midnight on a Saturday the most popular
time of the week for the club - killed 11 Britons while 20 are still unaccounted
for. It is thought the blast killed 200 people.

Sarah, who is still living in New York, said in an e-mail to us on Tuesday: "I
feel there is no reason not to carry on with things as planned, but I do
remember jumping whenever I heard a large bang for months afterwards."

November 15, 2002 14:00

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              May 6, 2002, Monday

AUTHOR IS BIN LADEN'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 162 words


TERROR mastermind Osama bin Laden is alive and recruiting fresh support in
Britain and Europe, according to an expert on al Qaida.

The Saudi-born militant was the author of a defiant message posted last week on
an al Qaida website, claims Dr Rohan Gunaratna, a world authority on Islamic
terrorism.

The statement was posted last Friday on Arabic website alneda.com in response to
criticism levelled at al Qaida for its role in the September 11 terrorist
attacks on the US, Dr Gunaratna said. Dr Gunaratna, who is based at St Andrews
University, Fife, said: "From the style of that message and the way in which
it's been issued it's very clear that this is from Osama bin Laden himself.

"It's a very serious decision for a terrorist group to admit to its role in an
attack and that can only come from the very top. Only Osama bin Laden could
authorise that."

The website aims to attract funding from sympathisers across Europe and Britain,
he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 2, 2002, Wednesday

LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE: BLAIR: DO NOT FORGET ISRAELI VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS;

 MIDDLE EAST

BYLINE: Marie Woolf Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 306 words


TONY BLAIR made a heartfelt call for an end to Palestinian terrorist attacks on
Israel last night and said the IRA bombings of the 1970s were "a mere fraction
of what Israel has suffered".

The Prime Minister, addressing a meeting of Labour Friends of Israel in
Blackpool, urged the British public not to forget the suicide attacks Israel has
been subjected to when criticising Israeli aggression towards the Palestinians.

"When we are worrying about the actions that Israel is taking I think sometimes
we in Britain should think back to the 1970s when we were subject to what for us
was an extraordinary terrorist campaign by the IRA at that time. And yet
actually if we proportion it up in terms of our population, it was a mere
fraction of what Israelis have suffered."

His remarks delighted his pro-Israeli audience but are likely to dismay some
British Muslims. Mr Blair, who was accompanied by his wife Cherie, condemned
Palestinian terrorist attacks and said that their "sheer arbitrary nature" was
despicable. "I only wish we could get to a situation where people could see that
terrorism is the obstacle to a proper solution," he said.

Mr Blair said the solution to the Middle East conflict was a "secure Israel" and
a "viable Palestinian state". He added that it was only by Israelis and
Palestinians working together that they could create a peace of "lasting value".

Mr Blair also praised the contribution of Britain's Jewish community. He said he
shared their "principles of solidarity and justice for all" and payed tribute to
their work in the charitable sector.

Earlier yesterday Charles Clarke, the party chairman, spoke at the inaugural
meeting of Muslims for Labour and said that he would work to ensure that the
Muslim community's views were more fully represented in the Labour Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 26, 2002

Iraq war would trigger terror in Britain

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 206 words


WAR against Iraq would trigger a wave of terror attacks in Britain and a
worldwide campaign of violence against its people, experts have warned.

The International Institute for Strategic Studies claims an assault on Saddam
Hussein will encourage many more extremist recruits.

British tourists, diplomats and UK-owned businesses would all be at risk and
military personnel at home and abroad would face their worst threat since the
height of the Northern Ireland violence.

High-profile targets in the West, including the GCHQ listening base at
Cheltenham, and Hinkley power station in Somerset, could be on the hit-list.

The IISS, the think-tank which compiled the first dossier on Iraq's weapons of
mass destruction, presents a bleak outlook.

Its experts also believe UK and US-led military action against Baghdad could see
its chemical and biological weapons being switched to al-Qaeda.

A briefing note prepared for the Commons foreign affairs committee paints a
chilling picture of what will happen if there are military strikes on Iraq.

Many Muslims will see it as evidence of the systematic conquest of the Muslim
world which Osama bin Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders claim is already
happening.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 3, 2002, Tuesday

700-STRONG SMALLPOX SQUAD VACCINATED TO TACKLE TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: Judith Duffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 497 words


HUNDREDS of doctors, nurses and soldiers are to be vaccinated against smallpox
in case terrorists attack Britain with the virus.

Ministers insisted the move is a precaution and stressed there has been no
specific warning of an attack.

But a spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "Post-September 11, we have
to be live to the threat of terrorism.

"The Government would be failing in its duty if we did not plan for a scenario
everyone hopes will not come to pass."

Some experts say smallpox is part of Iraq's germ warfare arsenal and that al
-Qaeda has tried to produce its own strain.

The Government plans to set up 12 anti-smallpox teams around the UK, made up of
specialist doctors and nurses. The Scottish Executive will publish its own plans
for dealing with an attack.

The team members, all volunteers, need to be vaccinated so they can work safely
with infected patients. About 350 medics will get the jab by the end of January.

Injections will also be given to about the same number of soldiers, specialists
in dealing with biological weapons.

Health minister John Hutton said: "We have no evidence of a specific threat of a
smallpox attack.

"However, it is sensible and prudent to ensure that the NHS can deal effectively
with any potential threat."

Hutton said the anti-smallpox teams would vaccinate people around the site of
any outbreak to stop the virus spreading.

Jabs can work for several days after patients have been infected.

The Government has been stockpiling smallpox vaccine since September 11, and has
promised enough supplies to protect everyone in Britain.

Some vaccines were bought from a firm called Powderjet, whose boss gave pounds
100,000 to the Labour Party.

Critics of the Government have claimed that the vaccine supplied by Powderjet
would be less effective against a terrorist attack than the strain being used in
America. Ministers insist the British stocks would work well.

Government officials say a smallpox attack is unlikely, and researchers into how
the virus spreads have urged people not to worry.

One expert, Elizabeth Halloran, said: "The last thing you want is thousands of
people running out to get vaccinated.

"The idea is that people should just stay calm and stay home."

A-LIST DANGER

SMALLPOX is highly contagious and kills around a third of people infected.

The disease was declared extinct in 1980 after a worldwide vaccination
programme, but experts fear it still exists in labs and could fall into
terrorist hands.

Smallpox spreads rapidly, mostly by skin contact. It is on America's "Category
A" list of the most dangerous germ weapons, along with illnesses such as anthrax
and plague.

The early symptoms of smallpox are similar to flu - a headache, backache and
high fever.

Then a rash of painful blisters spreads all over the body.

Patients can take two weeks to die. Most recover, but many are scarred for life
or even blinded.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 11, 2002

Widening trade gap is blamed on strong pound

BYLINE: Heather Stewart

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 360 words


A sharp fall in Britain's exports expanded the trade deficit to pounds 3bn in
March as manufacturers struggled to sell their products in depressed European
markets.

With Britain's big-spending consumers sucking in goods from abroad, and the
strength of the pound continuing to take its toll on exporters, the office for
national statistics warned that Britain's trade position was worsening.

Analysts said the deteriorating trade picture reinforced the argument that the
pound is overvalued against the euro. "Many economists argue that sterling is no
longer overvalued, but the trade data would suggest otherwise," said Danny Gabay
at JP Morgan.

He also pointed to a sharper deterioration in the terms of trade with euro
members than non-members as tentative evidence that Britain's decision not to
join the single currency is hitting exports.

Bank of England policymakers are worried by the imbalances in the economy, with
industry cutting output while services firms capitalise on strong domestic
demand.

Britain's trade surplus on services was stable in March at pounds 0.7bn, the ONS
said, making the overall trade deficit pounds 2.3bn, compared with pounds 1.9bn
in February.

Shadow chancellor Michael Howard warned that higher national insurance
contributions announced in the Budget would make life even harder for firms
already having difficulty selling their goods abroad.

"From next year, exporters will have their task made harder still by the tax on
jobs that Gordon Brown announced in the Budget, further undermining Britain's
competitive position."

Struggling exporters appear to have cut prices over the past year to try to
boost sales, with exports in the three months down 12% by value on the same time
a year ago and 8.7% lower in volume terms.

Trade with the US has recovered strongly after collapsing in the aftermath of
the terrorist attacks of September 11.

Britain recorded a pounds 618m surplus with America in the three months to
March, up from pounds 369m in the previous quarter.

Exports to France, Germany and most of Britain's main European Union trading
partners fell in March.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 16, 2002

BLAIR FACING PEACE APPEAL IN PUBLIC CLASH WITH SYRIA LEADER LINKED TO TERRORISM;
STOP THE WAR, TONY

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 361 words


TONY Blair today faces an embarrassing public clash with Syria's hardline
president over the case for war with Iraq.

The Prime Minister and Bashar Assad are due to hold a joint press conference at
Downing Street after talks on Iraq and the Middle East peace process.

Mr Blair received a dressing down over the Afghan conflict from the Syrian
leader when he made a visit to Damascus last year.

At a joint press conference then, Mr Assad backed terrorist attacks on Israel
and warned of a rising tide of Arab anger against Britain and the US.

A similar joint press conference with Mr Blair and Mr Assad is planned at No 10
today before the president has an audience with the Queen.

Yesterday anti-terrorist campaigners condemned the invitation to Mr Assad,
saying he had done nothing to deserve the red carpet treatment.

A spokesman for the Victims of Arab Terror group said it "strongly condemned"
Britain for "hosting and honouring the despotic president of Syria".

British officials were last night making clear that "home truths" would be
delivered in private to Mr Assad.

While Syria backed the US-UK resolution on Iraqi disarmament adopted by the
United Nations, the Arab country sees it as a method of avoiding American
strikes. Last week Mr Assad predicted the consequences of a western war against
Iraq would be felt across the entire Middle East.

"We are a better judge of this because we live in the region, " he said. "I
think the bigger problem is that any country should interfere in the internal
affairs of another country."

Britain is keen for Syria to rein in the extremist pro-Palestinian groups
operating in Damascus, but an attack on Israel by one of these groups during the
visit would be highly embarrassing for British officials.

Syrian diplomatic sources signalled there would be no softening of Mr Assad's
anti-Israel stance during his visit.

British diplomats hope that engagement with the Damascus regime will encourage
modernisation and maintain a dialogue on the Middle East.

A Royal Navy task force of six vessels, led by the carrier Ark Royal, is set to
arrive in the Gulf next month.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 5, 2002, Tuesday

AGENDA 2002: ONE YEAR ON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 31 words


Britain was on high alert for terrorist attacks as Prime Minister Tony Blair
prepared to take part in round-table talks aimed at stabilising the Northern
Ireland Peace Process.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 15, 2002, Monday

CIVIL DEFENCE: NUCLEAR CATASTROPHE TEST DESCENDS INTO FARCE AS SERVICES FAIL TO
COPE;
 OFFICIALS SENT TO WRONG POWER STATION IN SIMULATED TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean And Severin Carrell Cold comfort: Bradwell power station,
near Chelmsford in Essex, was the setting for the disaster simulation that ended
in chaos MICK GELL, SION; TOUHIG/GETTY IMAGES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 671 words


It was like a day-long episode of The Keystone Cops when Britain's elite
emergency nuclear squad struggled to cope with the simulated effects of a 747
cargo jet being flown into a nuclear reactor, setting it alight.

Operation Isis - specifically ordered "at the highest political level" to
reproduce a terrorist attack, and the biggest exercise for five years to address
the effects of a nuclear catastrophe on the public - began at 6.40am on Friday
10 May, when Essex police reported "a major incident at Bradwell power station".

However, the confidential official report admits, "there was no information on
the type of incident, wind direction, wind speeds, etc", all vital for working
out how to tackle the accident and to protect the public.

Five minutes later, further notification was received from the Essex ambulance
service but "the on-call doctor could not contact the ambulance paging service
to confirm the veracity of the information". Another alert "left an incomplete
message" on an automatic system at the Department of Trade and Industry, the
owner of British Nuclear Fuels which operates the reactor.

Confusion descended into farce when yet another alert to the Food Standards
Agency led officials to concentrate on the wrong nuclear power station, thinking
that the disaster was at Sizewell, 45 miles away. Yet another alert turned up,
"not for the first time", at "the wrong place".

It got no better when around 50 emergency experts - from government departments,
key official agencies, local authorities, the nuclear industry and the police,
fire and ambulance services - had trouble in finding their way to the "main
strategic co-ordinating centre" at Essex police headquarters at Springfield, in
Chelmsford.

"The direction maps were difficult to follow," says the report. "When the HQ was
found, it was not clear where anyone was supposed to go." Alarmingly for
security, "there was no identification check on entering".

Once there, the experts were soon caught up in a shambles in "very cramped" and
"noisy" conditions, where people had difficulty even finding the lavatories.
Some key officials were not allocated phonelines and other telephones "kept
being cut off". Fax messages "were not picked up" and "some replies from the fax
machine were not getting through until several hours after they had been sent".

Papers "became disorganised", notice boards "were not updated frequently
enough", and lettering on the computer screens was in white, making it
"invisible when printed".

The quality of the operation reflected the chaos in the control room. A
direction from the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate caused "a considerable
delay in putting out the reactor fire. There was "very little information about
the nature of the release" of radioactivity, and meteorological information,
particularly vital to determine where the fallout would go, was "lacking until
late in the day".

There was "little communication" with the health authority early in the day, and
it was often advised too late that radioactive emissions from the reactor had
increased.

But most alarming of all, there was a delay of more than five hours before the
public could be given potassium iodate tablets, which must be taken immediately
to protect the thyroid against radioactivity.

The report says: "Decisions to protect the public were made by the health
authority at 0900 hrs when Essex ambulance service requested to order stocks of
potassium iodate from the Department of Health/ NHS Logistics.

"Significant delays in the response from the DoH/ NHS Logistics resulted in
access to the tablets being agreed at 12.20 hrs, with their despatch at 12.30
hrs and their delivery to Ambulance HQ at 14.20hrs."

But there was some good news. The report says: "There were plenty of
refreshments throughout the day".

The report, written by BNFL, concludes that the exercise was "a successful
demonstration of the ability to extend existing detailed emergency
arrangements".

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 10, 2002, Thursday

Police monitor '100 bin Laden extremists in Britain'

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 604 words

MORE than 100 suspected Islamic extremists supporting Osama bin Laden's
al-Qa'eda group or other terror groups linked to him are believed to live in
Britain, according to senior police sources.

Though the number willing to commit acts of terror is thought to be a small
core, the scale of support for Islamic terror groups has only emerged in police
investigations since September 11 and is larger than previously suspected.

British police forces are setting up a national network of Special Branch
officers, co-ordinated by Scotland Yard and linking with the security service
MI5, to monitor the activities of the suspects.

No evidence has emerged of planning of the September 11 hijack attacks in
Britain, but senior police sources said there was intelligence to suggest a pool
of supporters in three categories.

A handful are suspected direct activists in al-Qa'eda and others fit the profile
of Richard Reid, the Londoner who converted to Islam in jail and allegedly
became involved in terrorism to the extent that he was prepared to blow up
explosive in his shoes on a transatlantic jet.

The bulk of the suspects, however, are thought to be members of terrorist groups
linked to extremism in Egypt, Algeria and, more recently, Kashmir, which have
been willing to link with al-Qa'eda as well as follow their own terrorist agenda
against the governments in their home nations.

Police chiefs say there is no intelligence of imminent terrorist attacks in
Britain but the assessment of the danger from international terror - principally
Islamic extremists - remains high. Since September 11, the Metropolitan Police
and other forces have been assessing the risk of suicide attacks or terrorist
assaults on the transport system.

It is believed that many European countries have similar "pools" of terrorist
supporters and the US has identified hundreds in its midst.

Following an initiative by Scotland Yard, police and prosecutors in the 15 EU
countries are discussing the establishment of a pan-European anti-terrorist task
force, designed to take on international terror groups.

David Veness, the assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, who heads
its security squads, said the discussions were at a "very preliminary stage" and
that, regardless of their success, there was increasing informal co-operation
between nations.

However, he said, experience since September 11 had convinced the Yard that the
intelligence agencies were "ahead" of police and other investigators in terms of
collaboration across borders against trans-national terror groups.

He said: "If you look at the track record in dealing with terrorists who operate
across borders, then it is not as compelling as it might be. The problems are
around co-operation."

The aim, he added, was "a policy which is more internationally imaginative and
has greater impact on al-Qa'eda.

"It's about bringing what we term the 'golden thread' of intelligence into
investigation and prosecution."

If agreement was reached, he suggested, there would be an increase in the
numbers of liaison officers from each of the 15 EU countries working with
investigators in other nations. He said that, in the longer term, the creation
of a united task force to tackle the al-Qa'eda network of Osama bin Laden was
possible.

It is envisaged that Scotland Yard would play a "bridging role" between the
European group and the FBI, which is investigating Islamic extremist terror
after September 11.

Mr Veness stressed that a task-force would not involve pan-European law but
would work within existing legal frameworks in member states, and in the US.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               November 29, 2002

Rebuilding their lives after horror of attacks.

SECTION: News; Features

LENGTH: 258 words


image large="656457.vii.af.jpg" small="656457.vii.at.jpg"Emma Kirby, far left,
with friends just days before the bomb which devastated Bali.image

Prime Minister Tony Blair has warned Britain is in danger of falling victim to a
terrorist attack, following the tragedies in Bali and the USA in the last 14
months.

But for two Sutton women, these atrocities were not distant events beamed to
their television screens from the other side of the world, but real life
experiences that changed their lives.

It's more than a year since we reported on Sarah Lippitt's dash to safety from
her office building during the New York attack on September 11, 2001. As we
watched the devastation unfold from the comfort of our office or armchair,
Sarah, now 23, wondered if her neighbouring building, in which she stood,
terrified, on the 22nd floor, would be next.

"I saw poor souls trapped in the buildings leaping out," the former pupil from
Nonsuch High School for Girls said at the time.

Emma Kirby, also 23, whose ordeal is described in an email sent to the Comet,
suffered a similar experience in Bali last month.

The Comet first learnt of Emma's narrow escape when a friend from Bali contacted
us in a desperate attempt to find the former Glenthorne High School pupil.

Nikki Bromsfield, 27, of Ascot, who witnessed the explosion from Emma's balcony
on October 12, lost contact with her the day after the bombing.

Nikki had flown back to Heathrow while Emma was still trying to get a flight out
to Australia.

November 29, 2002 10:00

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 9, 2002, Saturday

AFTER 2000;
 QUEEN ELIZABETH II: 50 GOLDEN YEARS - 1952-2002

BYLINE: Laura Capewell

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 457 words


THE millennium dawned with a rare public show of affection between the Queen and
the Duke of Edinburgh when they kissed at the stroke of midnight in London's
ill-fated Dome.

But no one could have known the terror that the new millennium would soon
witness.

The year 2000, or Y2K, ushered in the "naughties", or "noughties", and was a
year of celebration, if not naughtiness, for the Royal Family and royalists.

On August 4, the Queen Mother turned 100 years old and received a "telegram"
from her daughter, the Queen. It was safe ground for the royals as the nation
wished their favourite Windsor "Happy Birthday".

Less certain was the public reaction to the increasingly overt relationship of
the Prince of Wales and his long-time love Camilla Parker Bowles.

However, thanks largely to a carefully spin-doctored public relations campaign
at St James's Palace, opinion began to turn in the heir to throne's favour as
Camilla was brought in from the cold after the death of Diana.

The health of the Queen Mother raised concern on her 101st birthday when she was
diagnosed as suffering anaemia.

But her 71-year-old daughter, Princess Margaret, looked the frailest royal after
the ravages of two strokes.

Meanwhile, Britain was in the grip of its worst outbreak of foot-and- mouth
disease. Millions of cattle and sheep were culled as large parts of the
countryside were put out of bounds.

Tony Blair's New Labour government faced the new era and an onslaught from fuel
protesters. A group of farmers and truckers set out to protest about the high
cost of fuel, blockaded oil refineries and came close to bringing the country to
a standstill.

The rail network was plunged into chaos after two fatal crashes at Hatfield and
Selby. Although more than a little shaken, Labour was returned to power in June
2001 and the Conservative Party thrown into disarray, eventually electing Iain
Duncan Smith as new leader, replacing the defeated William Hague.

But Britain and the world was turned upside down when, on September 11, 2001,
America suffered the worst terrorist attacks in history.

Two hijacked passenger jets were flown into the twin towers of New York's World
Trade Centre, demolishing the giant buildings and killing more than 5,000
people. A third jet crashed into the Pentagon, America's defence department in
Washington DC, and a fourth crashed in Pennsylvania.

The terror attacks, thought to be the work of Islamic extremist Osama bin Laden
sheltered by Afghanistan's Taliban regime, unleashed a military counter-attack
by a broad coalition of nations led by the US and including Britain.

The terrorists upped the stakes with anthrax attacks in America and the world
held its breath.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           November 10, 2002, Sunday

BLAIR PUTS UK ON DIRTY BOMB ALERT;
 NEW BIN LADEN ATTACK FEAR

BYLINE: Exclusive By Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 237 words

HIGHLIGHT: SPEECH: Tony Blair


BRITAIN will beon full alert from tomorrow against "dirty nuclear bomb" or
poison gas attacks by Al-Qaida terrorists. Spy agencies believe Osama bin Laden
is plotting a a September 11-style attack in Europe - possibly in the UK - at
the same time as targeting the United States.

Premier Tony Blair will use a major speech at the Lord Mayor's Banquet in London
tomorrow to issue his chilling warning.

But specific advice on how to protect ourselves will only be issued when an
attack is imminent - to avoid spreading panic.

A No 10 insider said: "There is a likelihood of something happening, we're not
crying wolf.

"But the PM has to get a balance between ensuring we are vigilant without
paralysing the nation."

To combat the threat, pounds 53 million is to be spent on mobile decontamination
units for use after a nuclear or nerve gas atrocity.

Emergency staff will also be given protective clothing and injected against
smallpox and anthrax.

Meanwhile a worldwide hunt was on last night for one-legged chemical warfare
expert Abu Mussab al-Zarqawi.

He has been named as the mastermind preparing the assaults in Europe.

-Voice of The People: Page 8WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCY1. DON'T panic.

2. HAVE a portable radio handy for info.

3. AFTER dirty bomb attack breathe througha damp handkerchief.

4. PUT contaminated clothing into plastic bags and seal.

5. WASH thoroughly.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 20, 2002

Riding Shotgun At 30,000ft Over Britain

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words


Armed undercover police will take to the skies across Britain to fight off
skyjackers in the most controversial anti-terrorist move since September 11, it
was revealed last night.  The plans to put gun-toting sky marshals on UK
passenger jets provoked a storm of protest among pilots, airlines and MPs.

They said shootouts at 30,000ft could lead to disaster and warned of the
nightmare scenario of terrorists grabbing the guns.

But ministers believe the atrocities of September 11, when armed gangs of
Islamic extremists stormed aircraft and crashed them into the Twin Towers of the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon, could be repeated in Britain.

Tony Blair has given permission for the specially-trained plain-clothes police
officers to ride shotgun on scheduled and chartered flights.

But last night the exact details of the scheme remained shrouded in mystery with
Downing Street insisting they must keep one jump ahead of the terrorists.

The Prime Minister reluctantly sanctioned the move following warnings by spy
chiefs of a genuine threat to Britain from al-Qaeda fanatics. It is believed
September 11-style attacks by suicide squads are a real possibility, with high
profile prestige targets such as the Houses of Parliament and Tower Bridge most
at risk.

As the Western Daily Press revealed after September 11, terrorists could also
target nuclear power stations, such as the three in the West.

Ministers have already agreed fighter jets will be stationed at West air bases
with instructions to shoot down rogue aircraft.

They say the crackshot air marshals will be able to overpower hijackers in the
first vital seconds of any terrorist attack, preventing them getting to the
pilot.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "These people will be specially trained.
This is not taking a bobby off the beat and putting them on an aeroplane." He
added: "The capability is there. For very obvious reasons we are not going to
get into the detail of what, where or when.

"I think the important point is that people know this capability now exists. It
has been developed, it's there, the training is there." The authorities may
place covert, armed police officers aboard any UK civil aircraft whenever it is
considered necessary.

Transport Secretary Alistair Darling said: "We are living in difficult and
unpredictable times, it is essential we take every reasonable step to deter
terrorist activities." The Department for Transport, which oversees aviation
security, will not say how many flights the marshals, who usually work in pairs,
will operate on, or what firearms they will carry. But they may board domestic
and international flights to destinations such as Australia and New Zealand.

Israeli carrier El Al, the world's top hijack target, has used sky marshals for
30 years and German airline Lufthansa also employs them.

US airlines, which were notorious for their lax security, reintroduced them on
domestic flights after September 11.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 4, 2002

Changed tactics on smallpox vaccine

BYLINE: Rob Evans

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 237 words


The government is secretly considering buying a further 20m doses of smallpox
vaccine to protect more of the British population from a biological attack, the
Guardian has established.

This time it is hoping to avoid accusations of sleaze - companies may be allowed
to submit bids, according to industry sources, in a tacit admission that
ministers made a mistake earlier this year when they agreed to pay pounds 32m to
a Labour donor's company for vaccines rather than introducing a bidding process.

It was claimed at the time that Britain, fearful of terrorist attack, had no
alternative but to buy from Paul Drayson's firm Powderject, after he tied up a
lucrative exclusive deal with the only Danish manufacturer of the specified
strain.

Dr Drayson had donated pounds 100,000 to Labour in the past year.

Powderject is making up to pounds 20m profit after buying the drug supplies from
the Bavarian Nordic company of Copenhagen for pounds 10m.

But the Guardian has discovered that the Dutch ministry of health offered to
supply the Lister strain vaccine more cheaply and as quickly, saving millions of
pounds of taxpayers' money. It has already produced 20m doses for the
Netherlands.

The Department of Health last night said the question of buying more vaccine was
"under review". The national audit office is investigating the Powderject deal
because of Dr Drayson's donations to Labour.


LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

UK A FRONT LINE' TARGET FOR TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 276 words


BRITAIN'S tough line against those responsible for the September 11 atrocities
has made it a "front line" target for terrorists, Home Secretary David Blunkett
warned yesterday.

He was speaking ahead of a speech by Tony Blair today, when the Prime Minister
will spell out the need for Britons to be vigilant against terror attacks in the
UK.

Events like the Remembrance Day ceremonies must be regarded as potential targets
for Al-Qaeda, who might also strike in the runup to Christmas and the New Year.
He acknowledged that the security services could not guarantee that British
people were safe against outrages.

In today's foreign policy speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of
London, Mr Blair is expected to warn that, despite successes over the past year,
such as the overthrow of the Taleban, the threat from AlQaeda remains real and
serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune against attack by Osama bin Laden's terror network, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume they are safe simply because the UK has escaped
atrocities for more than a year since September 11.

Mr Blair will also stress the importance of avoiding over-reaction. He will
speak of the difficult decisions he and his ministers have to take in order to
maintain public awareness of the nature of the threat without stoking fear to
the extent it paralyses everyday life.

Terrorists hope to inflict damage by their actual attacks and by the disruption
to society and the economy caused by the fear of attack, he will say. It is
vital not to do their work for them by submitting to fear.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blunkett

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 23, 2002

Capital con

SECTION: 086, Pg.4

LENGTH: 842 words


Once upon a time, being threatened by someone from Belfast was a serious
business.

Perhaps it still is - after all, it's still rare to see a litter bin in a
railway station, and the cameras that once prevented the likes of Maggie
Thatcher from terrorist attack have been introduced into every high street in
the country, making Britain into the surveillance capital of the world.

Now, a new threat has emerged from across the water, but it doesn't come hidden
in a parked transit van, waiting to blow up in our faces. These days it's
contained in a handbag, just like the one you used to dance around at the disco.

Can you believe that a city with a reputation like Belfast's has put its
collective hand on its hip and bragged about having "the best restaurants and
bars in Britain"? And all because it wants to win the title of European Capital
of Culture 2008.

I don't know about you, but when I think of Belfast, I think of masked men at
big funerals and small children being spat on as they walk to school.

I'm sure - in fact, I know from personal experience - that there is more to the
city than that, but nibbling sushi at the very latest pan-Asian refuelling
station on Donegal Quay is not an image which springs to mind easily.

But, to the shame of the other cities taking part in the big 2008 makeover
exercise, Belfast's camp, catty claim is actually being taken seriously.

Instead of saying: "Go hang yourself, you bunch of murdering hicks", and getting
stuck into a really decent brawl, we have the likes of Bristol's Nick Rylance
retorting: "We believe that anyone who has ever lived or visited Bristol will
dispute this claim and champion that Bristol has a vibrant scene to rival that
of even the capital, let alone Belfast." Oooohh. Get you. The hard men of the
IRA and the UDA would be quaking in their boots if they weren't so busy ferrying
2008 "ambassadors" around in their lucrative taxi businesses.

And to think that this flim-flammery is simply because one provincial city will
be awarded the dubious Capital of Culture honour over another provincial city.

This is not to decry Bristol at all.We're just as deserving as anyone else, if
indeed the title is really worth having.

And this is what puzzles me.Who, apart from a few trendies who never set foot in
any other area of Bristol than Clifton and assorted arty festivalorganising
types, is going to benefit from Capital of Culture status? The bloke on the bus
to Bedminster?

What's he getting out of it, apart from the inevitable rise in his council tax
to pay for the thing, and threequarters of his native city being redeveloped
into apartments for an increasingly rich and elitist section of Bristol's
population?

It's also interesting to see how 2008 is being used as a lever by various
pressure groups to get their message across.

We need to get the trams sorted out, we need to get the centre sorted out, we
need to fine the shopkeepers for leaving their rubbish out - and all because we
won't win the 2008 bid if a horrified judge happens to see the odd chip paper
blowing up Park Street.

Well, bollocks, frankly. This city council has messed up time and time again,
and has missed golden opportunities to get its act together time and time again.
Does anyone seriously believe it won't mess up and miss out again, even with a
fat wad of cash from the EC?

Whenever the Capital of Culture contest is mentioned, the phrase "look what it
did for Glasgow in 1990" follows close behind.

And what did it do for Glasgow? Did it do anything for more than half the city's
homeless under-35s who are addicted to hard drugs? Did it do anything for those
in Glasgow's poorer communities where drug-related hospital admissions are 200
times higher than in other parts of the city? Did it do anything for any of
Glasgow's householders, who lose 190 million of property on average each year to
drug-related theft?

No, it didn't, but Glaswegians did get the Royal Concert Hall, presumably a
great place to spend your time - under a blanket and dying of opiate addiction.

Great cities are born, not made, and great cities will always be great cities
whether or not they have the right to stick a smiley-faced 2008 logo next to
their name.

Bristol is a great city for lots of reasons, but these aren't the reasons you
can package up and gloss into a kind of Miss World contest for cities.

If we don't get it, so what? Hopefully, there are enough people around here with
what is horribly termed "the vision thing" to make and continue making Bristol a
vibrant and unique place to be, Capital of Culture or not.

Let's leave the cosmetic exercises to cities that really need them, such as
Belfast, whose 2008 bid spokeswoman Shirley McCay was quoted as saying:

"The history of Belfast is all about its cultural diversity, but that has never
been packaged positively. The turbulent history has resulted in creative
tensions." Creative tensions? I never knew the Provos were such a bunch of
luvvies, but I do now.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 March 08, 2002

Opting for a radical form of Islam;

SECTION:  Pg. 47

LENGTH: 477 words


tvchoice THE HIDDEN JIHAD (Channel 4, 7.30pm) THE first programme in Channel 4's
Muslim and British Season examines the reality of living across the UK's
cultural divides.

Returning to his roots in Peterborough, writer and DJ Imran Khan meets, for the
first time in 10 years, the friends with whom he spent a carefree adolescence
clubbing, drinking and learning about women.

He is shocked to find those friends are now bearded and dressed in traditional
clothing, having abandoned what they see as western decadence in favour of a
separatist and radical form of Islam.

He is also stunned when they question whether young Muslims can reconcile their
beliefs with modern Britain.

Back in London, Imran meets people with similar views, who appear to live
mainstream lives. He discovers extreme Islamic ideologies existed long before
the terrorist attacks of September 11 and that a number of young British Muslims
regard their religion as incompatible with British life.

Perhaps most worryingly of all, they hold no allegiance to Britain or any other
country, regarding all non-Islamic political, financial and legal systems as
invalid.

This disturbing programme investigates whether these people, who have set
themselves apart from other British Muslims, are 'sleepers' waiting for the
moment when the 'true Islamic state' can be established, and asks if they
believe such a time would be the beginning of the 'real holy war - the Jihad'.

moviechoice STALAG 17 (BBC2, 1.10pm) WILLIAM HOLDEN won an Academy Award for his
role in this second world war tale, for which Billy Wilder produced, directed
and co-wrote the screenplay.

It follows the fortunes of American servicemen trapped in a Nazi prisoner-ofwar
camp, and neatly mixes drama and comedy, standing out as one of the best films
of its kind.

Good support comes from Otto Preminger, Don Taylor and Sig Ruman.

Comic relief is provided by Robert Strauss as a hulking, stupid, childlike man
who is obsessed with Betty Grable. (1953) TWO FOR TEXAS (Channel 5, 9pm) KRIS
KRISTOFFERSON is the best thing about this western drama centring on two escaped
convicts who take an Indian woman hostage.

Scott Bairstow plays his partner in crime, and it isn't long before one of them
falls for the damsel in distress, jeopardising their chances of freedom.

The middling script and average direction alone fail to grab your attention, but
the always watchable Kristoffersonmakes it worth a look. (1998) MARTY (RTE1,
1.55am) ERNEST BORGNINE'S rugged looks suited this romantic drama perfectly. An
Oscarwinning performance in which his New York butcher character falls in love
proving there's someone out there for everyone no matter how unhandsome they
are. But the course of true love does not run easily for Ernest and he meets the
disapproval of family and friends. (1955)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRASIER, CHANNEL 4, 10PM: When his boss turns bully Martin (John
Mahoney), left, is surprised by an unsolicited offer

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 17, 2002

Police in alert on festive terror threat

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 414 words


POLICE yesterday appealed for vigilance over the festive period because of the
continuing threat of terrorist attacks on Britain.




The Metropolitan Police's Anti-Terrorist Branch urged the public to be extra
cautious during the festive season as it has been a target for terrorists in the
past.

The warning follows a series of terrorist alerts in London in recent months.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch,
said London and the rest of the UK faced a range of terrorist threats from
different groups.

The threat from Irish dissident republican terrorism continues to be of great
concern to us.

During the festive period - which in the past has been targeted by terrorist
groups - we need the public to be extra cautious, he said.

The public was urged to be vigilant when out and about this Christmas,
especially if people saw suspicious packages, objects or vehicles.

Mr Clarke urged anyone who might have information about possible terrorist
activity to contact police.

Terrorists need somewhere to live, somewhere to store equipment, and they need
vehicles to move around in.

If you let your property or storage space and you have noticed something
suspicious please contact us.

Terrorists also need money, and often commit fraud to finance their activities.

Perhaps you have had dealings with somebody who has given you cause to be
suspicious. If so, don't hesitate to contact us, Mr Clarke said.

Last month The Sunday Times reported that police had foiled an attack on the
London Underground which involved releasing cyanide gas on a crowded carriage,
although this was not confirmed by Scotland Yard.

Three men were charged over the possession of articles for the preparation,
instigation and commission of terrorism acts after a series of raids.

Last year saw a series of incidents involving car bombs, starting in March when
a taxi exploded outside the BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's Bush, west
London, slightly injuring an Underground worker.

Five months later, on August 3, another car blew up in a street in Ealing, west
London, injuring 11 people.

On November 3 last year, there was another car bomb near the Bull Ring in
Birmingham, but it did not detonate properly.

Mr Clarke added: The Metropolitan Police is doing everything possible to combat
the threat of terrorism but it is only with the help and support of the public
that we can reduce the harm which it causes.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          October 30, 2002, Wednesday

UK TOURISM STILL DOWN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 77 words


THE number of tourists visiting Britain is still well down on pre-September 11
levels, new figures out yesterday showed.

But numbers of foreign visitors last month did rise compared with September 2001
when numbers were badly affected by the terrorist attacks.

The latest total was 20pc down on September 2000 - which is regarded as the last
"normal" year.

The statistics were given by the British Incoming Tour Operators Association
(BITOA).

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 9, 2002, Wednesday

SMALLPOX JAB ALERT;
 VACCINATION TO COMBAT BIO ATTACK

BYLINE: Tony Collins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 351 words


EVERY man, woman and child in the West Midlands could be vaccinated against
smallpox in the event of a bio-terrorist attack, it emerged today. The
Government is preparing for a mass smallpox vaccination of the entire British
population.

Chief medical officer Sir Liam Donaldson said key health care workers in each
area of the country, such as GPs and accident and emergency workers, would be
vaccinated as a precautionary measure so they could respond to any outbreak. The
Department of Health stressed, however, that preparations were ongoing and there
was not an increased risk of attack.

The last case of smallpox in Britain was at Birmingham University in 1978.

Although the disease was eradicated throughout the world more than 20 years ago,
an increased threat of attack by terrorists has put world leaders on alert.

The US government aims to vaccinate all 228 million Americans within seven days
of any terrorist biological attack.

The contract was awarded to drugs company Acambis, founded by Birmingham
University scientists ten years ago following research into a hi-tech smallpox
vaccine.

Acambis, now based in Cambridge, lost out on a similar order to vaccinate the
British population.

Sir Liam said he believed plans needed to be in place to search and contain a UK
outbreak.

'It's when rather than whether, and it is who should be vaccinated. A proper
counterplan to a smallpox attack would involve having a group of essential
workers who were immune to the disease through vaccination,' he said. If an
outbreak did occur, the population in that area would be offered jabs. Only if
there were numerous outbreaks would the Government consider mass vaccination.

A Department of Health spokeswoman insisted there was no increased risk of
attack.

'Lots of other countries around the world are doing the same thing,' she said.

Birmingham's director of public heath, Dr Jacky Chambers, welcomed the move,
saying: 'It's wise to have contingency plans as the risk of attack increases.

The World Health Organisation warned of side effects, she added.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 22, 2002

FURY AT UK ALLOWING RALLY BY GROUP PLOTTING TO ATTACK US IF IRAQ IS INVADED; BIN
LADEN FANATICS ON THE MARCH

BYLINE: By John Twomey Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 420 words


POLICE have launched a major security operation for a controversial rally of
Islamic extremists in Trafalgar Square - 18 days before the first anniversary of
the September 11 atrocities.

Special Branch officers were being briefed about the event, organised by the
fundamentalist Al-Muhajiroun group, as a row grew over the decision to allow the
march.

Lord Janner, ex-president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, said: "It is
horrendous that they will be marching through our tolerant and peaceful city so
close to September 11."

Leading Jewish groups questioned why Britain's anti-racism laws have not been
used more vigorously against the Bin Laden fanatics for both anti-Semitic and
antiChristian propaganda.

Several hundred AlMuhajiroun supporters are expected to turn up for Sunday's
rally.

The Al-Muhajiroun group, whose leading supporters include "sheikhs" Abu Hamza
alMasri and Omar Bakri Mohammed, has warned Britons will "choke on the smoke" of
revenge attacks if there is a military strike against Saddam Hussein's Iraq.

Officers from Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch and Special Branch are
examining material, including videos, linked to the group in case they breach
the Terrorism Act.

The extremists, who are condemned by the majority of peace-loving Muslims in
Britain, want the UK to be incorporated into a European Islamic state. It is
understood Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens has told the
Metropolitan Police Authority that prosecutions will be mounted if there is
evidence.

Senior officers dismiss charges that police have taken a "soft" approach to the
fundamentalists.

In reality, most Muslims are appalled by the bloodthirsty outbursts from the
selfstyled sheikhs and their hangers-on and would prefer police to take a harder
line.

Last week the Daily Express reported how MPs were pressing the Government to
bring in new laws to deport extremists who pose a threat to public order by
inciting racial hatred.

The legislation would aim to kick out foreign nationals who have been ejected
from their own countries because of their abhorrent views or terrorist activity.

Once here, some have claimed political asylum and lived on benefits while
continuing to attack the British way of life.

City of London officers stopped more than 1,800 people under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act over the last 18 months, compared to 1,056 in the previous period,
a new report reveals. They made 52 arrests under the Act, up from 13.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 12, 2002

Muslims pay respect to the dead, but others point to 'God's punishment'

BYLINE: Kay Jardine

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words


MUSLIMS around the world yesterday remembered the terrorist attacks and the
victims of September 11.

In Britain, a service of commemoration was organised by the Islamic Society of
Britain and Young Muslims UK, which have consistently condemned the attacks on
the World Trade Centre.

A cleric read from the Koran and Joe Ahmed-Dobson, son of Frank Dobson, the
Labour politician, and a prominent convert to Islam, told the gathering: "Today,
we remember those who died in the attacks on America 12 months ago, including
the many Muslim victims, and among them a number of British Muslims."

However, his message of moderation was not echoed by al-Muhajiroun, Britain's
most radical Islamic group, which was last night at the centre of a tense stand
-off at a mosque holding a controversial conference on the September 11 terror
attacks.

The Islamic conference, September 11: A Towering Day In History, was due to hear
from some of the most radical Muslim clerics in Britain at the Finsbury Park
mosque in north London.

Muslims inside the mosque were penned in by dozens of police officers as about
100 British National Party supporters and 30 Anti-Nazi League demonstrators
chanting outside.

They were kept apart by steel barriers and lines of police officers.

Journalists were also kept outside after Omar Bakri Mohammed, the mosque's
leading cleric and leader of al-Muhajiroun, told them they were not allowed in.

The entrance to the mosque was guarded by a group of Muslim youths covering
their faces with headscarves.

Other youths hung banners from the windows of the mosque declaring "Islam the
future for Britain".

Earlier, a man who shouted abuse outside the mosque was arrested on suspicion of
possessing a knife.

Inside, the "positive outcomes" of the terrorist attacks on the US a year ago
were being discussed.

Guest speakers included Abu Hamza al-Masri, an Egyptian-born cleric who has been
linked to Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda network.

Masri, wanted on terrorism charges in Yemen, condemned Tony Blair, the prime
minister, as Washington's puppet.

Members of the Muslim community in Scotland joined other religious and political
leaders at a service of remembrance at St Giles' Cathedral in Edinburgh. Bashir
Mann, a Glasgow councillor, read two passages from the Koran.

In Iraq, the tone was quite different, with the terrorist attacks remembered as
"God's punishment" of America by Iraqis fearful and angry at US threats to
topple their leader.

Ali Ahmed, a 47-year-old Baghdad shopkeeper, said: "Events like September 11 are
sad, but it is an opportunity for the American people to feel what bombing could
do to nations. America has proven it has no respect for nations by wanting to
change the government in Iraq. How would an American feel towards somebody who
wants to change his government?"

Al-Iktisadi, the state-owned weekly newspaper, covered yesterday's front page
with a photograph of the burning World Trade Centre and a headline in red
saying: "God's punishment."

In Thailand, demonstrators chanted anti-American slogans outside the US embassy,
waving banners and wearing T-shirts with a picture of bin Laden printed on them.

Mobile phone text messages were sent around Kuwait and other Gulf states with a
picture of bin Laden and the World Trade Centre towers, carrying the caption:
"Many Happy Returns".

About 50 South African protesters marked the anniversary with an anti-American
demonstration, chanting: "Behind every Bush is a terrorist", and "Forward bin
Laden" in Zulu.

Several dozen members of a leftist group in the Philippines carried flowers and
paid tribute to the estimated 3000 victims of the suicide attacks, while waving
placards calling for peace, not war.

At the American embassy in Pakistan, more than 100 invited guests viewed a photo
exhibition of the terrorist attacks and their aftermath, and honoured the
victims.

In Kabul, the Afghan capital, the stars and stripes flew at half mast at the US
embassy above a memorial stone concealing two small pieces of wreckage from the
World Trade Centre.

About 200 American troops attended a ceremony at Bagram air base, the
headquarters of the coalition's military campaign.

In Ireland, more than 1000 people filled Dublin's main Roman Catholic cathedral
for a memorial mass, in which a lone piper played Amazing Grace.

Later, around 300, including relatives of the Irish victims of the twin towers
assault, attended a wreath-laying ceremony in the courtyard of the American
embassy.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNITED IN GRIEF: Mariam Habbak, with her mother and other Muslims,
offers a prayer in Los Angeles.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 30, 2002

Threat of war: Greek Cypriots turn against British bases

BYLINE: Helena Smith in Akrotiri

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 226 words


Thousands of Greek Cypriots protested yesterday against the presence of British
military bases on their island, and the prospect of the installations being used
in an attack on Iraq.

The protesters converged on the RAF communications base at Akrotiri, one of the
most important listening posts in the world, and vital for US-led intelligence
gathering on Iraq and Iran.

Dimitris Christofias, the island's parliamentary president and powerful
communist party chief, said Cypriots did not want the bases on their soil and
feared reprisals if they are used to launch attacks on Iraq.

The bases - kept as overseas territories by Britain when it granted independence
to Cyprus in 1960 - were used for the deployment of British troops during the
Gulf war.

"What worries us most is Britain's assertion that the bases have been targeted
by Iraqi missiles," said Green party MP George Perdikis, citing Downing Street's
dossier on weapons of mass destruction allegedly held by Iraq.

Mr Perdikis said there were fears that giant antennae being erected at the base
could be prone to terrorist attacks.

Violent riots have erupted over the masts in the past 18 months over fears that
they will damage the environment and impair the health of local residents. Mr
Perdikis branded yesterday's larger-than-usual protest as just "the start".


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 30, 2002

Shaking all over.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 275 words



ENFIELD residents felt the tremors of the earthquake that hit Britain during the
early hours of Monday.

The earthquake which measured 4.8 on the Richter scale was centred in the
Birmingham area but could be felt more than 120 miles away in London, Essex,
Wales and North Yorkshire.

The quake which had a force equivalent to 1,000 tons of explosive or the power
of a small nuclear warhead shocked the borough's householders, many of whom were
woken in their beds when the waves struck at around 1am.

Southgate resident Ritchie Gee, said: "My whole settee shook for three seconds.
At first I thought it was a bomb, I thought the house was going to fall down."

"I do remember another earthquake felt in Finchley about 20 years ago. It was
one of the worst things I have ever experienced. It was frightening."

A frightened Bernard Smith who lives in Cukoo Hall Lane, Edmonton phoned the
police to find out what was happening.

He said: "I was sitting in my chair watching tv and having a beer when I felt
around two or three tremors. I phoned Scotland Yard to find out what was
happening but was put on hold.

"I thought it was probably an earthquake but I was beginning to fear the worst.
I thought there could have been a terrorist attack."

"I also phoned my girlfriend in Finchley who said she could feel the tremors."

The most recent earthquake in Britain was in October 2001 when tremors measuring
4.1 on the Richter scale were felt in Melton Mowbray in Leicestershire.

Britain's worst ever quake happened about 80 miles off Great Yarmouth in 1931
measuring 6.1 on the Richter scale.


September 26, 2002 14:30

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 23, 2002, Monday

PROTESTS URGED IF IRAQ IS ATTACKED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 270 words


PLAID Cymru will urge businesses, schools and authorities to stage hour-long
protest meetings on the first day of any allied bombing against Iraq.

The party's MPs will return to the Commons to call on Tony Blair to oppose
threatened military action by the United States.

And they will denounce the hypocracy of the US and UK in using the existence of
weapons of mass destruction as an excuse for war.

Plaid said the "excuse" was hypocritical as Britain and the US had hoards of
weapons of mass destruction.

The party's annual conference also claimed President Bush's threat of war with
Iraq was motivated by his determination to secure control over cheap oil sources
and a desire for revenge for the September 11 terror attacks.

And the party demanded an immediate halt to economic sanctions against Iraq to
ease the plight of the poor in the country.

Plaid said United Nations weapons inspections should resume to ensure further
investigations into the existence of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons.

But members warned the bombing of Iraq would lead to unimaginable suffering for
ordinary people, especially children and prompt even more revenge terrorist
attacks against the West, increasing the danger of world war.

Adam Price, MP for Carmarthen East and Dinefwr, had travelled to the United
States to meet anti-war groups as well as US State Department officials.

"Ordinary Americans are declaring this war will not be in their name."

But officials told him "do it our way, or we will do it alone".

Mr Price said: "This isn't a war based on fact but based on fear.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  May 16, 2002

Terrorists attacks increase risk of nuclear disaster.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 410 words



RISKS of rail accidents and terrorist attacks mean nuclear waste should no
longer be transported through Watford, according to a spokesman for the Nuclear
Free Local Authorities (NFLA) group.

NFLA secretary Stewart Kemp said all cities and towns were threatened by
radioactive waste.

He said: "Here in Watford we have nuclear waste travelling through the borough
on the railway system".

And he said the material was carried at speeds the protective containers were
not designed to withstand in the event of a crash.

Mr Kemp said: "Direct Rail Services British Nuclear Fuels transportation arm
raised the speed limit from 45 mph to 60 mph, twice the speed they test the
flasks for impact safety".

He added: "There is the question of nuclear accident potential".

NFLA documents also criticise the containers' ability to withstand sabotage or
attack.

His warning, issued at a town hall meeting on Wednesday, came less than a week
after the rail disaster at Potters Bar and a month after the Royal Society,
Britain's science academy, said preparations should be made for "extreme
terrorist intervention" in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

Last Friday, Government disaster planners simulated a plane crash into the
Bradwell nuclear plant in Essex, less than 50 miles from London.

Waste from this power station, as well as Sizewell and Dungeness, passes through
Watford on the way to the Sellafield reprocessing plant in Cumbria, according to
NFLA.

Mr Kemp also said there was concern in the north London area about chronic low
level exposure to radiation from waste trains.

According to the NFLA, up to three waste carriers could pass through or close to
Watford in a week, despite the fact the council has been part of the "nuclear
free" group since 1982.

Mayor Dorothy Thornhill, one of a handful of people at the briefing, said
nuclear issues were serious and had been largely ignored.

She said: "Given current concerns about safety on the railways, I would rather
it didn't come through Watford , but the reality is this is happening at the
moment.

The mayor said legally raising speed limits was "ridiculous" and said there
should be "vociferous" lobbying to change the situation.

Mr Kemp said the Government still had no policy for managing radioactive waste,
and said the best solution until one was devised was to store it on site, rather
than transporting it hundreds of miles.

May 16, 2002 14:00

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 20, 2002

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 55 words


TONY Blair today warned that the risk of a major terrorist attack by al-Qaeda on
Britain was "high."

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon revealed that Britain has handed command of the
International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan to Turkey.

The UK's contribution to the ISAF will be cut from about 1,300 to 400.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 1, 2003, Wednesday Edition 1

A happy New Year to you all

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: CAPITAL OF CULTURE, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 229 words


   While people across the North East put their woes behind them to celebrate
the coming of 2003, Tony Blair warned Britain faces an unprecedented number of
difficult and dangerous problems in the coming year.

The threat of war, terrorist attacks and economic uncertainty pose major
challenges both at home and abroad, the Prime Minister stated in his New Year
message.

And it promises to be a tough year for the people of the North East.

However, it could also be a year of permanent change with the announcement of
who has won the Capital of Culture crown for 2008.

The joint Newcastle and Gateshead bid remains one of the front runners having
spent the best part of 2002 working hard to convince the judges the award should
come to the North East.

The announcement of who takes the title will be made in the Spring, and
hopefully it will give us yet another reason to celebrate, as the crown will
bring at least 700 million into the region.

So that's the region's target for this year, to become the Capital of Culture
2008. And it's not beyond our wildest dreams. It's an achievement, that if we
win it, will benefit every man, woman and child in the North East.

We are confident we will have even more to celebrate in 2003 than we did in 2002
and we take this opportunity to wish everyone of our readers, a happy, peaceful
and prosperous New Year.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 18, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

Perot in Gulf War probe call to Britain

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 144 words


   The Government has an "enormous obligation" to investigate suspected cases of
Gulf War Syndrome and to stop being in denial about the illness, former US
presidential candidate Ross Perot said yesterday. A delegation to London of US
Congressmen, joined by Mr Perot, heard evidence from Gulf War veterans and
medical experts about the illness, which campaigners say has affected 5,000
British Gulf War veterans.

Mr Perot, the Texan billionaire who has funded research into Gulf War veterans'
illnesses, said governments should go "at warp speed" to investigate the effect
of chemical and biological weapons in Iraq on Allied forces. The evidence could
help protect Britain and the US from any future chemical or biological terrorist
attacks, he said. The hearing formed part of the US congressional committee
investigation into Gulf War illnesses.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

TWELVE HELD ON KENYA BOMBS;
 ROW OVER WARNINGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 336 words


TWELVE people were being questioned last night over Thursday's al- Qaeda terror
attacks in Kenya.

An American woman, Alicia Kalhammer, from Florida, and her unnamed Spanish
husband were held when they tried to check out of their hotel 90 minutes after
the suicide bombing of the Israeli-owned Paradise Hotel.

The couple were staying in a resort only three miles from the Paradise, near
Mombasa, where three suicide bombers and 13 others died. But sources said they
may have been arrested by mistake.

Ben Wafula, manager of Le Soleil Beach Club, said they were detained after his
staff made a routine call to police, who had asked all hotels to notify them of
any people checking out after the blast.

Six Pakistanis, four Somalis and a Kenyan have also been arrested.

Police said nine of them had "suspicious" passports when they were arrested on a
beach in the Mombasa area yesterday morning.

It is possible to obtain passports in less than an hour in neighbouring Somalia.

Meanwhile, Downing Street was refusing to comment on whether British
intelligence had received warnings of a possible al- Qaeda attack in the area.

As in the aftermath of the Bali nightclub bomb, they declined to say what
information they received.

The Australian government confirmed yesterday they received information more
than two weeks ago which led them to advise Australians to put off all non
-essential travel to Mombasa because of "possible terrorist attacks against
Western interests".

In Britain, the Foreign Office simply issued a "generic warning" to travellers
to Kenya alerting them to the danger of "indiscriminate attacks" in public
places.

Tony Blair's official spokesman said yesterday that Britain did routinely share
intelligence with the Australians, but refused to say whether information on the
threat to Mombasa had been passed on.

Earlier, Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Alexander Downer confirmed their
advice was issued as the result of an intelligence warning.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 10, 2002

Insurers can't deal with foot-and-mouth

SECTION: Features, Pg.28

LENGTH: 413 words


IT would probably be impossible to insure against another major foot-andmouth
epidemic in Britain, the head of the country's largest agricultural insurers has
warned.

Ian Geden, managing director of NFU Mutual, has shot down in flames government
suggestions that farmers should have to take out compulsory footand-mouth cover.

He says, by the time insurers have paid out on all the claims associated with
the September 11 terrorist attacks, the worldwide reinsurance market would be
unlikely to have the capacity to carry such a major risk.

The cost of last year's epidemic is now put at around 9billion, after taking
into account the compensation payments to farmers, the culling and disposal
operations and the consequential losses experienced by other sectors, including
tourism.

Only around a quarter of farmers were carrying footand-mouth insurance - which
provides cover for consequential losses when the farm is shut down and unable to
trade - when the disease struck.

Many producers had taken the view that there was no risk, since Britain had been
free of the disease for more than 30 years.

Others had decided that insurance was one area where they could afford to make
economies as the industry slid into recession.

But as soon as the costs of the cull began mounting, ministers started calling
for all farmers to be obliged to carry foot-and-mouth insurance. One idea was
for a compulsory livestock levy which could be paid into a special contingency
fund, with the government making a one-off contribution to set it up.

But, Mr Geden told the European Parliament's foot-and-mouth inquiry, not only
would it be unlikely that full cover could be obtained, it would be unreasonable
to impose the total cost of compensation on the industry.

"Whilst farmers could take limited steps to control the spread of the disease,
once an outbreak occurred it is up to the government to implement the necessary
risk prevention measures, such as controlling illegal meat imports at a national
level, " he said.

"It is the government that has to decide on the appropriate control measure -
either slaughter or vaccination - and it is therefore appropriate that it meets
the full costs of such measures, leaving the industry to insure against
consequential losses as at present."

NFU Mutual stopped providing foot-and-mouth cover as soon as the disease took
hold last year. It is on offer again but few farmers have decided to take it up.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 15, 2002, Friday

Danger zones

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 124 words

SIR - In the aftermath of the Bali bombing tragedy, the British Government and
others issued travel warnings urging their nationals not to visit Indonesia and
those of us who live there to leave. Consequently, it is now almost impossible
to obtain travel insurance to visit Indonesia and tens of thousands of ordinary
Indonesians face economic ruin.

In the light of the Prime Minister's warnings of an imminent al-Qa'eda terrorist
attack, is the same withdrawal of insurance and warning on travel being proposed
for Britain and other EU countries? As a British resident living in Indonesia
but visiting Britain, I have to say I feel a great deal safer in Indonesia.

Deborah Martyr

London SW2 [PS]Features: [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                October 28, 2002

Mark Thomas calls Labour voters to action; Bush wants war with Iraq and will use
any excuse - like Saddam Hussein has infringed the copyright law on Stalin's
moustache, or Tariq Aziz has stolen Dennis Taylor's glasses, writes Mark Thomas

BYLINE: Mark Thomas

LENGTH: 781 words


It is amazing that, after terrorist attacks in Pakistan, the Yemen, Malaysia,
Tunisia, the Philippines, Bali, Afghanistan and Kuwait, some people in Britain
feel that the way to stop all this is to go to war with Iraq. Surely, a
rudimentary map, compass and a re-marked A-level geography paper show how
illogical this argument is.

I know Saddam Hussein is a certified 'evil madman' but if he, a secular
dictator, is responsible for terrorist attacks committed by Islamic extremists
in these disparate places - even while Iraq is under a UN sanctions regime that
allows 54 cents per Iraqi per day to cover the nation's needs, and even as it is
regularly bombed by US planes - and is ready for a full-scale invasion, then he
must at least be getting help from Lex Luthor. In which case we should consider
placing Kryptonite on the weapons inspectors' list.

Not surprisingly, the most ardent supporter of this geographically challenged
view is George Bush. It doesn't matter if the UN weapons inspectors give Iraq a
clean bill of health. Bush wants war. Any excuse will be found, whether it be
that Saddam Hussein has infringed copyright on Stalin's moustache, or that Tariq
Aziz has stolen Dennis Taylor's glasses.

Although Bush is determined to go in without UN support if necessary, he does
need one bit of support - from Tony Blair. Without his staunchest ally, Bush
would feel the chill wind of isolation (though it is unlikely that even this
would deter him from invasion).

Contrary to popular opinion, Blair is not a US poodle, an American stooge, nor
even Bush's talking haemorrhoid. Blair is his Achilles heel. If supporting Bush
becomes damaging domestically, Blair will have to reconsider. This could be how
to stop an illegal, immoral and grotesque war.

So how do we put this pressure on Blair? The correct answer is: the Labour
Party. I don't mean Labour MPs, as they are either on message or irrelevant, and
in quite a few cases they manage to be both. As for a revolt by Labour
backbenchers, they are about as rebellious as Cliff Richard, as effective as a
green goddess, and more of an oxymoron than 'independent police inquiry'.

No, the people who can stop the invasion of Iraq are Labour Party members. To
all the people who have campaigned, raised money and supported Labour: now could
be your finest hour. It is time for you to exercise real power; it is time to
leave the Labour Party and hit Blair's war plans where it hurts most.

Some who oppose war in Iraq will say they won't leave the Labour Party, as 'it
is the members who make up the Labour Party and not Tony Blair'. However, this
is merely a statement of fact, not an argument. The important questions are: who
is in control, in whose interest are they working, and how much power do members
have to stop Blair's war?

And if you need answers to those questions I ban you from reading any further.

Some will say it is better to stay and fight for change from the inside. Well,
how successful has that fight been so far? Are David Blunkett's racist asylum
laws any less odious because there are members fighting from the inside? If they
are, what position did your fellow members of the Labour Party compromise from?

How have you changed the Labour government's policy on PFI, Tube privatisation,
or its anti-union laws? Where are the legal changes on corporate killings?
What's happened to Nats? How have you changed things, when Blair himself helps
flog BAE Systems Hawk jets to India while conflict over Kashmir is still on the
cards? Are you going to stop Blair's 'post-comprehensive' education policy? Wake
up!

You are not going to change the Blair government by staying in the party and
being taken for granted. If your relationship with Labour were a domestic one
you would be in a hostel by now.

Others will use Tony Blair's favourite stand-by. Crudely put, this goes: 'Well,
it's better us than the Tories.'

Wrong. First, new Labour very nearly is the Tories. Second, if you accept the
'better us than them' line, then it is logical that when a car driver runs
someone over we should support the driver, because at least he's only driving
his car, and not a tank.

Labour Party members should test that argument on some Iraqi civilians. Explain
to them how Margaret Thatcher's bombs would have been a lot worse for them. Tell
them that John Major's sanctions would have bitten deeper than Labour's. Tell
them that you are supporting the people ordering the bombing because you can
change things from the inside.

Unless Labour Party members oppose the war and decide to leave, they will be
regarded as the people who said: 'We are the new master's servants now.'


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2002 New Statesman Ltd

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 27, 2002, Sunday

BRITON KILLED IN BALI BLAST IS BURIED WHILE OTHERS WAIT

BYLINE: Charles Begley And Andrew Johnson Jon Ellwood, above, was remembered by
250 mourners yesterday in a service at St John the Baptist Church in Aldbury,
Hertfordshire TIMOTHY; ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 580 words


Jon Ellwood was finally laid to rest yesterday, two weeks after the terrorist
attack in Bali which claimed his life. Despite the delays in repatriating the
38-year-old's body, his funeral was the first one to be held in Britain.

Fifteen Britons have been confirmed dead and another 12 missing from an
estimated 183 killed in the attack.

Jon's brother Tobias and sister Totty fought with the authorities to release his
body and had already said their goodbyes in Indonesia.

But in the village of Aldbury, in Hertfordshire, they and their parents were
thankful to be able to give him a dignified burial.

Rev Huw Bellis, the vicar of the Norman-built St John the Baptist Church, said
the family had been moved by the tide of public support.

"His mother Caroline has spoken of being helped by the wave of love and support
from all over the world. It's been a terribly difficult time for them, but their
thoughts and prayers are also very much with the families who have not been able
to bury their loved ones.

'Their thoughts are also with the friends he lost in the attack and his close
friend and fellow teacher Shane Walsh-Till, who also died."

Back in Bali, his coffin had no handles, name plates or ornate carvings. His
sister, who like Jon was an international teacher, had scored simply in black
felt tip: "Goodbye Jonathan, we will always love you."

This time, when the coffin was carried, it was adorned in carvings and wreaths,
and watched by 250 mourners.

The service, with readings from Shakespeare and the song "A Wandering Minstrel"
from Gilbert and Sullivan's The Mikado, reflected his passion for theatre.

Last year, he was made assistant director of the Pendley Shakespeare Festival.
And despite his love for travel, he had always returned home.

Honorary assistant curate Rev Janet Ridgeway, a family friend for more than 30
years, gave the main sermon and paid tribute to Jon's life.

"There can be no denial of the pain and the enormous loss for Jonathan's family,
as well as the pain and loss we all feel. But God's love is big enough to take
the anger and the pain, the whys and the wherefores."

There is growing anger among relatives at delays at bringing home the bodies of
their loved ones. Andy Bowler, whose 27-year-old brother Neil died in the Sari
club, has been told he will have to wait at least three more weeks to get his
brother's body home.

Even though Neil's body was identified by his rugby coach the day after the
tragedy, his brother said the Foreign Office are insisting on DNA
identification.

"They are not telling us anything," Mr Bowler said. "At one point I went to the
gates of Downing Street and said I wasn't leaving until I got some answers.
Baroness Amos the Foreign Office minister then phoned me on my mobile. But if
that's what it takes to get information then I'll stand outside Downing Street
every day."

He added: "The phone is ringing every five minutes with people wanting to know
when the funeral is. We want to be able to grieve and I'm concerned that some
people will already have started to move on before we can properly celebrate
Neil's life. My mother is going through hell."

So far, just three bodies have been repatriated while one has been buried
locally. A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "The scale of it is part of the
problem. This is what happens in any comparable terrorist event. We are doing
all we can to bring them back as soon as possible."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 17, 2002

Bali bombing: Intelligence: Could warnings have prevented tragedy?: UK and
Australia inquest after CIA reveals tip-off

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington, David Fickling in Sydney and Richard
Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words


The British and Australian intelligence services launched inquiries yesterday
into whether travellers to Indonesia should have been warned of the possibility
of a terrorist attack, after it emerged that the US reported a direct threat to
south-east Asian resorts.

The CIA had issued a warning to its stations in the region in September, naming
a list of "five or six" resorts - including Bali - as potential targets, US
intelligence sources said.

The White House also confirmed yesterday that the American embassy in Jakarta
had passed on details of the threat to the Indonesian government. The
information came from an interrogation of an al-Qaida suspect, Omar al-Faruq,
being held by the US at Bagram air base in Afghanistan after being deported from
Indonesia.

On the day of the blast itself, Indonesian intelligence officials were in Bagram
questioning the 31-year-old Kuwaiti to hear his account of the plot first-hand.

Amid reports that the CIA circulated warnings of a possible attack on western
tourists, Britain's intelligence agencies began an investigation into how much
they were told, although British sources insisted yesterday "no specific
material" had been received.

However, Australia's prime minister, John Howard, conceded yesterday that Bali
had been one of the targets specified in the US warning, and launched his own
inquiry, to be conducted by the country's intelligence watchdog, Bill Blick.

New Zealand's prime minister, Helen Clark, said yesterday that the information
being circulated had been too vague.

"I don't think it was specific enough for people to draw conclusions that Bali
would be a target," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"It was what you might describe as chat ter around, which was picked up by
intelligence agencies that somewhere in south-east Asia there might be an attack
on a holiday place . . . But then Bali is one of many holiday places in the
region."

Officials in Whitehall confirmed that the US had put out some warning, but the
sources insisted it was very general.

"There is nothing to indicate we received any specific threat warning about an
attack on Bali. There was nothing place-specific," a Whitehall source said.

The question at the heart of the inquiries in Britain and Australia is whether
special warnings should have been issued to nationals travelling to Indonesia.
The same questions were yesterday being asked in the US state department, which
was fully briefed on the threat by the CIA.

On the morning of the Bali blast, the British Foreign Office advisory stated:
"Most visits to Indonesia are trouble free."

Warnings last month of possible terrorist attacks led to Britain closing its
embassy in Jakarta and its high commission in Singapore. British officials say
that more recently there was a further general warning, which they describe as
"difficult to assess", about the possibility of an attack on "soft targets".

Travel advice issued by the Australian foreign affairs department at the end of
September warned of possible threats in Aceh, the Moluccas and West Timor, but
followed the customary line that visits to Bali were safe.

John McFarlane, a former head of intelligence for the Australian police, said
that the set-up of Australia's intelligence agencies often stopped vital
information getting through.

"There's a cultural problem, that most of the intelligence community are still
geared towards cold war situations," he said. "In addition there's often an
unhelpful gulf between law enforcement and the intelligence community." Warren
Reed, the former head of the Indonesia desk at the Australian spy agency ASIS,
told ABC radio that the failure would lie, as with the September 11 attacks,
within the managerial levels of the intelligence service.

"I suspect if there was a failure here, and it looks as though there is, it will
be in the same arena (as September 11)," he said. "In that sense we have learned
nothing, absolutely nothing in the past year."

The Indonesian officials who interviewed Faruq in Bagram are due back in Jakarta
today when they are expected to report back to the government, which will then
decide how far to go in its actions against militant Islamists.

Faruq is believed to implicate Jemaah Islamiyah and its leader Abu Bakar
Ba'asyir as accessories to al-Qaida operations in Indonesia.

But US officials, quoted by the New York Times, said that the Jakarta government
had been given repeated warnings about the threat of an al-Qaida attack
culminating in a briefing to President Megawati Sukarnoputri and her top
advisers by the American ambassador, Ralph Boyce, the day before the Bali
attack.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 27, 2002

How Legionnaire's toll was restricted

BYLINE: Nicholas Pyke

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 163 words


Anti-terrorism measures introduced after September 11 almost certainly saved
lives during Britain's biggest outbreak of Legionnaire's disease at
Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria.

Strategies designed to deal with chemical or biological attacks are credited
with cutting the death toll from the outbreak last August, a report by senior
health protection officers is expected to say next month.

Seven people died and 150 were infected through a poorly maintained air
conditioning system, but the number of deaths was lower than expected. Previous
outbreaks have seen up to 15% of cases prove fatal, but in Barrow only 5% were
killed.

The report from Cumbria and Lancashire NHS says the town's specialist health
protection unit, set up following the US terror attacks in 2001, could have been
a major factor.

Nick Gent, who led the outbreak control team, said: "As a result of those
measures, I could place a team of 10 people and provide a very rapid response."


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 30, 2002

Stay Out Of Nairobi Warning

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 263 words


The Foreign Office has issued a specific warning to Britons not to travel to
Nairobi in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Mombasa.  The warning about a
threat to ''Western interests'' in the Kenyan capital came as Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw insisted the Government had no advance intelligence of possible
terrorist activity in Mombasa in the run-up to Thursday's suicide bombing on a
hotel and failed missile attack on an Israeli airliner.

Mr Straw was under pressure to disclose whether officials were aware of any
warnings after it emerged that Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of ''possible terrorist attacks against Western interests'' in the
popular Kenyan tourist resort.

In a letter to shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram, who demanded an urgent
review of how Britain shared intelligence with its allies, Mr Straw said: ''No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa.'' The warning about Nairobi, issued by
the Foreign Office last night, heightened fears about a second wave of attacks
in a country popular with British holidaymakers.

''We believe that Kenya is one of a number of countries in East Africa where
there may be an increased terrorist threat,'' the new advice said.

''In particular there is a potential threat against Western interests in
Nairobi." The Foreign Secretary said he attached ''great importance'' to the
travel advice issued by the Foreign Office and that ''safety and security is
paramount''.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 18, 2002, Thursday

SUZY IN THE CITY: IT'S FTSE FEVER;
 BUYERS RACE TO GRAB 4BN SHARES STOCK MARKET SURGES BY POUNDS 40BN

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 347 words


LONDON'S stock market saw one of its busiest days of the year yesterday as
dealers tried desperately to buy shares and benefit from the surging FTSE 100.

More than four billion shares changed hands, making it one of the busiest days
of the year as the FTSE 100 recovered to soar 168.7 points to 4190, a four per
cent rise.

Massive hedge funds, many of which had sold shares they did not own at the end
of last week in the hope that they could pocket a fortune by buying them back at
a lower price, were caught out as the stock market rallied.

The process, called a bear squeeze, helped to turn round the FTSE 100, which has
had its worst week since the September 11 terrorist attacks.

As Britain's biggest 100 listed companies put on almost pounds 40billion, more
than 191,000 bargains took place - far higher than the average 155,000 keyed in
each day in June.

But one trader warned: "It is still early days. The market is very vulnerable.
Anything can trigger either a fall or a rise. There is no rhyme or reason to the
moves. It is just nerves."

American investment bank Credit Suisse First Boston helped the rise after it
told its clients to buy banking shares which have been hammered by worries about
the extent of their exposure to corporate scandals in America such as Enron,
Tyco, WorldCom and Xerox.

Royal Bank Of Scotland, which bought NatWest three years ago, jumped 119p to
pounds 16, while Abbey National, which is sitting on an estimated pounds
100million exposure to Enron, Tyco and WorldCom, inched up just 2.5p to 690p.

HBOS, which has lost more than pounds 9billion off its share price since the
beginning of June, managed to climb 51p to 607.5p, while Alliance & Leicester
also soared 51p to 766p.

On Wall Street the Dow Jones Industrial Average bobbed around almost unchanged
as traders took comfort from America Federal Reserve Bank Alan Greenspan's
comments to Congress on Tuesday. He indicated that interest rates were likely to
stay low for some time and tried to reassure traders that the US economy
remained strong.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             July 30, 2002, Tuesday

BRITAIN HAS THE WRONG POX VACCINE

BYLINE: Helen Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 346 words


THE Government has bought the wrong vaccine to protect the country from the
threat of a smallpox attack by terrorists, it was claimed today.

A leading American authority on the subject said the Lister vaccine ordered by
the Department of Health had not been proven to work against the so-called
"battle-strain" of virus obtained by Iraq.

Steve Prior, of the Potomac Institute, who has carried out new research on the
smallpox threat, told The Times that he believed Britain's vaccine choice was
"indefensible".

He said that the US government had selected an alternative vaccine which was
developed by the New York City Board of Health which had proved successful
against endemic smallpox in India from which the "battle-strain" was developed.

"I was very surprised...for the Department of Health to suddenly come out and
say we know something about the threat that nobody else knows that means we have
to have Lister' was very surprising," Dr Prior said.

"When you are making decisions of this magnitude, you cannot afford to make the
wrong one and you certainly cannot afford to make it for the wrong reasons...I
think it is indefensible."

However, the Department of Health, which placed the pounds 28 million order for
the vaccine, insisted that it was acting on expert medical and scientific
advice.

A spokesman said that it had chosen the same vaccine as other European nations.

"The decision to purchase the Lister vaccine was based on the expert medical and
scientific advice that we and the Ministry of Defence had," the spokesman said.

"As far as we are concerned, it is the best we can get, which is why we bought
it."

Dr Ian Gibson, the Labour MP for Norwich North who chairs the Commons science
and technology select committee, said there were questions to be answered about
how the vaccine was chosen.

"Some explanation is needed why the British strain was used to produce the
vaccine and not the American strain," he said.

"The Government should make public the scientific advice on which it made its
decision."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 22, 2002

CELTIC PARK PUT ON TERRORIST ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 196 words


CELTIC Park is one of a handful of sporting venues across Britain set to have
its security reviewed in the wake of September 11.

Along with Wimbledon, Old Trafford, Elland Road and St James's Park, the
Scottish giants' stadium is having new safety measures introduced to protect
spectators from possible terrorist threats.

Many venues seat tens of thousands of fans and could make prime targets for any
chemical attack.

As part of a national strategy, a group called Core Cities has been set up to
identify key buildings and arenas where terrorists could wreak most havoc. And
with impending action against Iraq, their inspections have been given top
priority.

A spokesman for Glasgow City Council said Celtic's ground was the largest
all-seater in Scotland and the second largest in Britain after Manchester
United's Old Trafford.

He said: "Every responsible authority has to consider the possibility of new
threats since September 11. We also have our own specific emergency planning to
deal with any major incidents at Parkhead, Ibrox or indeed Hampden."

A spokesman for Celtic said: "We would certainly give any review our full
co-operation."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 7, 2002

One year on: Britain on alert as Europe fears Sept 11 anniversary attacks

BYLINE: Steven Morris and agencies

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 518 words


Europe was bracing itself last night for terrorist strikes on the anniversary of
the September 11 attacks, after German police arrested a couple in possession of
explosives and chemicals near a US army headquarters in Heidelberg.

The arrests came as Scotland Yard warned that anniversary attacks might be
attempted in Britain by terrorists not connected to al-Qaida.

Anti-terrorist chiefs fear that lone bombers or gunmen could see the anniversary
as providing a "world stage" for their own causes.

This is adding to the huge task faced by security forces, who must now extend
their dragnet beyond the more obvious suspects.

The 25-year-old man arrested in Germany was Turkish - not one of the
nationalities usually associated with al-Qaida - and it is uncertain whether he
had actual connections with Osama bin Laden's organisation, though he does
appear to have been one of its admirers.

More alarming still for security forces, his fiancee - who was also arrested -
has dual German and American nationality and is a civilian working in a
supermarket at a US military facility.

In Britain, roadblocks staffed by armed officers will be among the defences in
London, and forces around the UK will carry out extra patrols of public
buildings.

Businesses in the City of London have been extensively briefed, and police have
liaised with leaders of groups which could be targeted.

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, assistant commissioner David
Veness, said there was no specific threat to the UK, and he urged the public to
be on a state of "alert but not alarm".

He said: "There may be individuals who think, here is an anniversary which is a
world stage in terms of publicity, and for their own reasons they might attack.
We shouldn't underestimate these individuals."

Mr Veness said it was important for the police notto assume that an atrocity in
London would be carried out by a suicide attacker. It could equally be a
traditional gun or bomb attack, or a hijack.

A spokesman for West Midlands police said officers would be paying particular
attention to buildings and public areas which "could be under threat" from a
terrorist attack.

In Paris, Roland Jacquard, director of the International Observatory on
Terrorism and a consultant to the French government, said al-Qaida had plans for
attacks using pesticide planes in the United States and a third wave of attacks
against landmarks in Europe.

"They wanted also to plan some terrorist attacks with chemical arms and
biological arms against even . . . Notre Dame in Paris, and probably some other
targets in London," he said in an interview, adding that other possible targets
were in Strasbourg.

But he doubted that al-Qaida would be ready to make an attack before the end of
this year or the beginning of next year.

US authorities and officials overseas say that since September 11 they have
prevented strikes against American targets or US citizens in Lebanon, Turkey,
Greece, Malaysia, Indonesia, France, Bosnia, Belgium, the Czech Republic, India,
Australia and Singapore.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 20, 2002, Wednesday Edition 1

Blair says public will be warned

BYLINE: By Gavin Cordon, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 58

LENGTH: 305 words


   Tony Blair pledged last night that the public would be warned if the
Government received specific intelligence of a terrorist attack against a known
target.

As Downing Street again denied weekend reports that MI5 had foiled a poison gas
attack on the London Underground, the Prime Minister briefed Tory leader Iain
Duncan Smith on the current level of threat from al Qaida.

Mr Duncan Smith pressed for a Commons statement by Home Secretary David Blunkett
to end confusion and prevent "alarmist" headlines.

He urged Mr Blair to spell out in as much detail as was consistent with
security, the measures it had in place to protect against a terror attack and
raised the question of whether ministers would invoke emergency powers to ensure
public safety in the light of the current terrorist threat and prospect of a
further firefighters' strike.

The Government has resisted demands for a Commons statement. Ministers have been
trying to maintain a balance between urging people to stay vigilant and avoiding
mass panic.

In an interview broadcast last night on ITV's Tonight programme, Mr Blair said
they would warn of any specific threat but had to be wary.

"If there is a specific threat against a specific target we, of course, will
warn people. But we have got to be very wary of acting on general information.

"The risk then is we unnecessarily alarm people, we end up doing the terrorists'
job for them."

Downing Street earlier stood by Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott's assurance
on Sunday that there was no evidence of any plans for a gas attack on the London
Underground.

Terror expert Professor Paul Wilkinson of St Andrews University said that the
current threat to the UK from al Qaida was very high: "We know that Britain has
been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a recent audio tape."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                January 19, 2002

When in Leeds, you should visit Bath...

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

BYLINE: BY NIGEL SCOTT - BUSINESS EDITOR

LENGTH: 292 words


Tourism bosses are trying to attract international visitors to Leeds by
promoting the splendour of... Bramley Baths.

The Victorian bathing house is listed alongside the upmarket Victoria Quarter
shopping arcade and the Royal Armouries Museum as "must see" places for
jet-setting globetrotters.

All are featured in a new free guide, UK City Experience, produced by the
British Tourist Authority in an attempt to woo travellers and their money back
to Britain.

Latest figures show that in 2000 there were 25.2m visitors to the UK, who spent
(GBP)12.8bn. Last year's figures are likely to have taken a dual hit from
foot-and-mouth and the September 11 terror attacks.

In all, 23 cities, including York, are featured in the guide which is designed
to attract visitors for either a short break or for part of a longer holiday in
the UK.

bExciting/bbrEach city gets a brief background description alongside sections on
top highlights, attractions, culture and nightlife.

In Leeds, the guide recommends the Armouries, the Victoria Quarter, Roundhay
Park and the Tropical World plant and wildlife centre. It also lists events,
including September's International Film Festival, and "how to get there"
information.

An "insider tip" suggests taking a Russian steam bath at the Bramley baths.

Jeff Hamblin, chief executive at the BTA, said: "Short breaks are becoming a
hugely popular option for tourists from overseas."

"UK City Experience has been designed to make a visit to Leeds both exciting and
attractive."

Printed in five languages, around 350,000 copies of the guide will be available
in the 25 countries where BTA promotes Britain as a destination.

A website - www.visitbritain.com/city - will be launched in March.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 26, 2002

100-STRONG TERROR CELL IN BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 104 words


MORE than 100 Islamic terror suspects were living in the UK before the September
11 atrocities, it was revealed last night.

The figure is higher than previously thought and paints a "darker" picture of
the extent to which Osama Bin Laden's terror network gained a hold before the
attacks on New York and the Pentagon.

Some left before the atrocities.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist
operations, said the figure was based on intelligence from suspects arrested in
Europe and North Africa.

Activists in the UK supplied communications equipment and logistic support.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 17, 2002

REVIEW; SUNDAY EXPRESS THROUGH THE YEARS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 394 words


5 Years Ago SUNDAY MARCH 18, 1997 John Major announces May general election
Conservative Prime Minister John Major will tomorrow announce that the nation is
to go to the polls on May 1, ending months of media speculation over the date of
the coming general election. But the PM faces a mountain to climb, with an poll
published today for NOP showing that Labour enjoys a 25 point lead, up from 18
points a month ago.

20 Years Ago SUNDAY MARCH 21, 1982 Rebel cricketers banned for touring South
Africa England cricketers Graham Gooch and John Embury, along with former Test
stars Geoff Boycott and Derek Underwood, are among a list of 15 players to be
banned from international cricket for three years this weekend. The Test and
County Cricket Board ruling comes in response to the rebel group's defiance in
accepting an invitation to tour apartheid South Africa.

55 Years Ago SUNDAY MARCH 23, 1947 Zionist terror leader heads most wanted list
Menachem Begin, leader of the Right-wing Jewish Irgun terror group, tops
Britain's international most wanted list this week. After a spate of terror
attacks in Britishcontrolled Palestine, in which 20 British soldiers and
civilians were killed, martial law is imposed on five Jewish areas. While groups
such as Haganah, the main Jewish defence organisation, support attacks on
railways and the smuggling of Jewish refugees into Palestine, other more radical
Zionist groups believe only an all-out terror campaign will force the British to
leave.

Britain was eventually to withdraw in 1948, when the state of Israel was
established. Thirty years later, Israel's Prime Minister Begin would sign the
Camp David peace accord with Egypt's Anwar Sadat.

80 Years Ago SUNDAY MARCH 19, 1922 Gandhi jailed for civil disobedience campaign
Mahatma Gandhi, the Indian nationalist leader, was sentenced to six years in
jail yesterday after pleading guilty to three charges of sedition. Preaching
disaffection against British rule had become "almost a passion with me", Gandhi
said, vowing he would continue to encourage non-violent insurrection after his
release, while conceding he would meanwhile "submit cheerfully to the highest
penalty that could be inflicted". The judge was forced to acknowledge that
Gandhi had attained the standing of great patriot and leader in the eyes of
millions of his countrymen.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 7, 2002

Britain on terror alert as two held in Germany;Police urge vigilance on 9/11
anniversary

BYLINE: Rob Crilly

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words


POLICE have placed Britain on an official September 11 terror alert, urging the
public to be extra vigilant in the run-up to the first anniversary of the
suicide attacks on New York and Washington.

Anti-terrorist officers who have been assessing the threat from suicide bombers
said yesterday that mobile armed roadblocks would be in place around London on
Wednesday.

The warning was issued as fresh evidence emerged that al Qaeda remains capable
of mounting terrorist operations, despite losing its Taliban protectors in
Afghanistan.

Last night German officials said they had arrested a Turkish man and his
American girlfriend on suspicion of plotting to bomb US military installations
in Germany on September 11.

Authorities found 287lb of chemicals and five unarmed pipe bombs along with a
picture of Osama bin Laden on Thursday in the couple's apartment near

Heidelberg, home to the US Army's European headquarters.

In Afghanistan, police made a wave of arrests in connection with an attempt to
assassinate Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's interim leader, and a car bomb that
killed 30 people in Kabul. Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network has been blamed
for both attacks.

Intelligence agencies throughout Europe last night warned that countries which
backed the military action in Afghanistan could be targeted by al Qaeda in the
near future.

People throughout Britain have been asked to maintain a state of "alert, but not
alarm".

Assistant Commissioner

David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, also warned that
lone terrorists unconnected with al Qaeda could use September 11 as a "world
stage" for their own cause.

He urged people to carry on "business as usual" but added that anything
suspicious should be reported.

He said: "We shouldn't just think about the ghastly spectacular attacks that
have already taken place, but also the range of possibilities that smaller
groups and individuals may use. There could be a range of terrorist methodology.

"There may be individuals who think here is an anniversary which is a world
stage in terms of publicity and for their own reasons they might attack. We
shouldn't underestimate these individuals."

He added that the threat should be viewed as a long-term risk and warned against
complacency after September 11.

North of the border, police said there was no intelligence to suggest a specific
threat to Scotland.

Chief Constable Andrew Cameron, president of the Association of Chief Police
Officers Scotland, said: "Police services across Scotland have been extra
vigilant since September 11, 2001.

"We are confident that as the first anniversary approaches well-tested plans and
procedures are in place to respond to any potential or real threat."

A spokesman for the Scottish Parliament said staff would be shown a video to
raise awareness of security next week and that a high level of security would
remain in place.

In recent weeks businesses in the City of London have been briefed in
preparation for Wednesday's anniversary. Security will be in place for memorial
events and Jewish holidays that fall around September 11.

Authorities in Germany said they suspected the couple arrested after a tip-off
from US authorities of intending to mount a bomb attack against military
installations in Heidelberg.

The 25-year-old man had a picture of Osama bin Laden in his apartment along with
Islamic literature and a book about building bombs.

Authorities were looking into whether the couple were acting alone or were part
of a network.

The 25-year-old Turkish man and his 23-year-old fiancee both indicated a hatred
for Jews. Neither were identified, but US officials in Washington said the woman
had dual American and Turkish citizenship.

Their occupations would have given both the access necessary to carry out the
planned attack, police indicated. The man worked in a chemical warehouse in
nearby Karlsruhe. The woman worked in a supermarket at a US installation in
Heidelberg, where some 16,000 American soldiers, family members, and civilian
workers are stationed.

In Afghanistan, President Karzai shrugged off Thursday's assassination attempt
and said his country had not been destabilised by the violence.

In his first public statement since the attack, Mr Karzai said the attempt on
his life was the work of members of Afghanistan's ousted rulers, the Taliban, or
the al Qaeda network.

He expressed regret that one of his Afghan bodyguards died saving his life, and
said he was more concerned at the high death toll from Thursday's huge car bomb
in central Kabul than his own narrow escape.

A man has been arrested in connection with the blast, which killed 30 people and
injured 167 in a packed marketplace.

Events to commemorate the victims of last year's attacks have begun in America.

Congress held a rare Friday session followed by a sombre visit to ground zero.

More than 300 House and Senate members came to Federal Hall in New York, the
massive marble-columned building on the site where Congress first met more than
two centuries ago, only a few blocks from where the World Trade Centre once
stood.

LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: REMEMBRANCE: US congressmen leave a joint session of Congress in New
York called to remember September 11 victims. Picture: Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 21, 2002

Threat remains despite fall of Taliban, MPs warn

BYLINE: Michael Settle Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 415 words


BRITAIN remains under threat from Islamic extremists despite the fall of the
Taliban in Afghanistan, and is "appallingly vulnerable" to attack without the
acquisition of high grade intelligence, MPs warned yesterday.

In light of this, members of the Commons foreign affairs committee called on the
government to say whether Britain's intelligence agencies had the "human,
financial and other resources they require" to protect against terrorist attacks
on British personnel and facilities at home and abroad.

At the launch of the committee's report, Foreign Policy Aspects of the War
Against Terrorism, Labour member Andrew MacKinlay said it highlighted the need
for the west to remain vigilant, despite al Qaeda's failure to follow up its
September 11 attacks.

"Both press and public have been lulled into a false sense of security because
there have been, mercifully, no comparable outrages since September 11,"
explained the MP for Thurrock in Essex.

"The thrust of this report is that the situation is as grave as it was in the
immediate aftermath of September 11 and everyone should be vigilant."

Donald Anderson, the committee chairman, pointed out that the war against
terrorism should be accompanied by efforts to tackle the roots of discontent in
the Muslim world, including the conflict in the Middle East.

This, he added, "is a factor which severely complicates prosecution of the
campaign against al Qaeda and its sympathisers, adding even greater urgency to
the need for a settlement in the region".

The war against terrorism must be accompanied by efforts to deal with all the
causes of Islamic extremism and of discontent among Islamic peoples, said the
Labour MP for Swansea East.

"Only by tackling those causes will support for al Qaeda be reduced and the
terrorists be exposed for what they are - evil men waging a vicious war which
lacks any moral justification," he added.

The report praised the UK and American governments for their response to the
September 11 attacks, saying that their resolve and determination was "tempered
with restraint and sensitivity".

However, the report cautioned against Britain being drawn into military action
against what president George W Bush has termed the "axis of evil", which is not
sanctioned by international law.

The US leader's identification of the axis of Iraq, Iran and North Korea has
sparked concern among European states that the US was planning unilateral
military strikes.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 29, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

Bali victim's body sent home

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 128 words


   The body of a man killed in the Bali bombing has been flown back to Britain,
allowing his family to begin to make plans for his funeral.

Ian Findley, 55, from West Pelton, Chester-le-Street, County Durham, was one of
more than 30 Britons who died in the blast which ripped apart the Sari Club on
October 12.

Mr Findley jointly ran a garage with his business partner and
fellow-holidaymaker Ian Stafford, 41, from Greencroft, Annfield Plain, County
Durham, who was injured in the terrorist attack. An inquest into his death was
opened and adjourned in Fulham yesterday.

Also killed in the blast was Wearside man Clive Walton, 34-year-old son of
Sunderland City Councillors Jack and Lilian Walton, who was touring Bali with a
Hong Kong rugby club.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                                 June 13, 2002

Time to stand up for country

BYLINE: Karin Havercroft

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Letters; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 335 words


n SO, the French are prepared to close Sangatte n but only if Great Britain is
prepared to take the immigrants.  No wonder Oliver Letwin (Shadow Home
Secretary) calls it the epolitics of the madhouse'!  France has consistently
lied and schemed its way through this whole sorry scenario. Firstly, by opening
Sangatte so close to the Channel Tunnel, and most recently, by failing to guard
the freight yard at Frethun.

Freight trains have been at a standstill and losses in income have been
enormous.

At a time when we are just beginning to find out about the pre-planned terrorist
attacks on Great Britain, the last thing we want is more illegal immigrants.

Especially those who are fighting among themselves with whatever lethal weapon
they can lay their hands on.

And the French know full well that even if they close Sangatte, nothing will be
done to stop the economic migrants making their own camps as they did before it
opened.

We are told many terrorists have already been smuggled into our country or
simply made their way here via the Tunnel.  I was castigated by the do-gooders
for suggesting this in the Telegraph many months back, so what do the
politically-correct have to say for themselves now?  And what is ePresident'
Blair going to do?  What a wonderful surprise if just for once he showed some
backbone, and said eNo France!  This is your problem!' Well maybe Alistair
Campbell will write him a script.  As long as Tone remembers his lines this
time!  Incidentally, in closing, I would just like my critics to know that I am
flying the St George Cross and the Union Flag from my property.  They will stay
there after the Golden Jubilee and the World Cup.

Not because I wish to offend the illegal immigrants, but because I am British
and proud of it!  If I am told to remove it, I will take my case to the European
Court of Human Rights!!  Watch this space!  Jenni Allison-Kirby, Overton Court,
Barton.

CONTROVERSIAL: The Sangatte centre at Calais.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 1, 2002, Friday

PAUL ROUTLEDGE'S COLUMN: NOD, NOD, IT'S POODLE BLAIR;
 BUSH IS TAKING HIM FOR A RIDE

BYLINE: Paul Routledge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 485 words


FROM now on, the Prime Minister wishes to be known as Tony Dubya Blair, so his
name reflects reality.

Downing Street will in future be known as The Little White House, and Chequers
becomes The Ranch House.

These name changes are being adopted to avoid any misunderstanding about
Britain's role as the 50-something state of the USA.

Such a conclusion is unavoidable after Dubya Blair's most recent behaviour.

Instead of criticising the American government for its degrading treatment of
prisoners-of-war, the Prime Minister blamed newspapers such as The Mirror for
reporting the truth.

He accused us of "very unfair reporting". I accuse him of very unfair abuse of
his position as Prime Minister of my country.

Dubya Blair enlisted Britain in America's war against the terrorists who
attacked New York and Washington. Fair enough, in so far as it went.

But President Bush now threatens to to take the war to Iraq, Iran, North Korea
and maybe the Philippines and Malaysia for good measure.

In his State of the Union address, Bush spoke luridly of "an axis of evil"
between these nations. It is a good soundbite, but it is tripe. Iran and Iraq
fought a long, bloody war against each other only a few years ago. North Korea
is a peasant economy, isolated from the rest of the world.

But in his relentless drive to exploit the events of September 11 to achieve a
hard-right Republican agenda at home and abroad, Bush will say anything.

And Dubya Blair will listen. Worse, he nods in agreement, implicating the rest
of us in his Atlantic cringe. This subservience to Washinton was embarrassing
enough when Bill Clinton was in the White House. Slavishly, we did America's
bidding in the Balkans and elsewhere.

But this president is infinitely more dangerous. He talks recklessly of
attacking any country that is a perceived threat to the USA. Where does it say
in the United Nations charter that one country shall have world domination
simply because it has more and bigger bombs than anyone else?

That is the reality behind the rhetoric. Yet Dubya Blair offers no criticism, no
words of sobering advice to the bomb-drunk Bush administration.

If he will not, others must. This newspaper will not be afraid to speak up, as
it did during the dark days of the Second World War. We spoke for the people,
and Churchill threatened to close us down.

Surely, however, it is time for the largely supine Parliamentary Labour Party to
find its voice. There are 300 Labour MPs who sit on the back benches and are not
on the government payroll.

Is it too much to ask that they get off their backsides and remind Dubya Blair
that we are a sovereign nation, not a client state of the USA?

In the Vietnam War, the voice of protest was heard here in the mother of
parliaments.

It is high time we heard it again, before the Prime Minister begins wearing a
ten-gallon hat.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 13, 2002

BACKLASH AFTER EUROPE MINISTER BRANDS IMMIGRANTS ISOLATIONIST; FURY OVER MOSLEM
'SLUR'

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 343 words


EUROPE minister Peter Hain yesterday provoked a backlash from Britain's Moslem
community after accusing them of being "very isolationist".

Mr Hain claimed their behaviour lay them open to targeting by extremist groups,
such as Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda terrorist network and far-Right
organisations.

He said that increasing numbers of asylum seekers from Islamic nations were not
willing to adopt British ways and were creating "real difficulties".

His remarks will cause concern in Downing Street, which has tried to maintain
good relations with the Moslem community since the September 11 terror attacks.

Mr Hain said: "Moslem immigrants can be very isolationist in their own behaviour
and their customs. That, in the end, is going to create real difficulties and is
likely to be ripe for exploitation from extremists, whether it is followers of
Bin Laden on the one hand or racists on the other."

Moslem Labour peer Lord Ahmed said rightwing extremists would seize on the
comments to justify their racist views. He said: "Peter Hain is not a racist. He
has all his life fought against racism and apartheid. He is my friend, but I do
not think he understands the problems of the Moslem community."

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, head of the Moslem Parliament in Britain, also called
on Mr Hain to withdraw his comments. But the Europe minister later sought to
play down the row by calling on Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith to rid his party
of racists. Mr Hain pointed to a councillor in the Tory party who posted an
article on his website called "There's nothing wrong with racism."

The article, by Graham Sampson, a Sussex University professor who sits on
Wealden council in East Sussex, argued there was "overwhelming" scientific
evidence that the races differed in average intelligence levels.

Mr Hain told the BBC1 Breakfast with Frost programme: "I think Iain Duncan Smith
should expel him from the party, and anybody like him, because there are many in
the Conservative ranks who clearly are racists and proud to be so."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 28, 2002

War warning

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 101 words


UK: A United States-led war on Iraq would heighten the risk of further terrorist
attacks by al Qaida, according to a report published today.

The report by the Oxford Research Group warned that the civilian death toll in
Iraq would reach 10,000 from conventional warfare alone, more than three times
the number killed in the September 11 attacks.

The Baghdad regime was bent on survival at any cost and would in retaliation use
"all available military means", including chemical and biological weapons, which
could in turn trigger a nuclear response from the US and Britain, the report
warned.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 15, 2002, Sunday

SEVEN DAYS

BYLINE: Simon O'hagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 376 words


In the week when America suffered the emotional ordeal of the first anniversary
of the September 11 terrorist attacks, the air was also thick with the
anticipation of war with Iraq. The feeling that the United States would simply
ignore the United Nations in its pursuit of Saddam Hussein was not entirely
borne out. President Bush did at least deign to address the UN, demanding that
it must force Saddam to give up his weapons of mass destruction or let the US
and its allies - Britain still prime among them - do the job themselves. In
giving the UN this opportunity, as President Bush would see it, the prospect of
immediate action was removed. If there is to be a UN resolution endorsing the
use of military force, it will probably not come for at least a fortnight.
Meanwhile the Prime Minister bowed to pressure to recall Parliament, which will
sit on 24 September to discuss Britain's involvement in any military action. At
the TUC conference several trade union leaders came out in opposition to a war.
The main focus of the 11 September anniversary ceremonial was on the site of the
World Trade Centre, where 10,000 mourners (above) heard the names of the 2,801
people who died there read out. A "circle of honour", comprising tributes,
flowers and gifts, was created in the 50ft-deep pit where the twin towers had
once stood, and there was a visit from President Bush. He also made a speech on
Ellis Island in which he said: "We value every life; our enemies value none; not
even their own." Those enemies appeared on a newly released video that showed
the 11 September hijackers making preparations, and there was a formal claim of
responsibility for the attacks from al-Qa'ida. A speech was made by Yasser
Arafat to the Palestinian parliament in which he challenged the Israelis to
negotiate for peace, and confirmed that elections would be held in January.
Issues that did not in some way touch on the crisis over the Middle East barely
got a look-in. Floods in southern France killed around 30 people. The meeting of
the British Association revealed that obesity is becoming such a problem among
children that many may be outlived by their parents. England drew the Test
series with India after rain washed out the last day's play.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 17, 2002

Anti-terror police warn of festive risk

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 250 words


Police yesterday appealed for vigilance over the Christmas period due to the
continuing threat of terrorist attacks in Britain.

The Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist branch urged the public to be extra
cautious during the festive season as it has been a target for terrorists in the
past. The warning follows a series of terrorist alerts in London in recent
months.

Deputy assistant commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the anti-terrorist branch,
said London and the rest of the UK faced a range of terrorist threats from
different groups.

"The threat from Irish dissident republican terrorism continues to be of great
concern to us," he said.

"During the festive period - which in the past has been targeted by terrorist
groups - we need the public to be extra cautious."

Last month, it was reported that police had foiled an attack on the London
Underground which involved releasing cyanide gas on a crowded carriage, although
this was not confirmed by Scotland Yard.

Three men were charged over the possession of articles for the preparation,
instigation and commission of terrorism acts after a series of raids.

There was a series of incidents involving car bombs last year, starting in March
when a taxi exploded outside the BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's Bush, west
London. Five months later, another car blew up in a street in Ealing, west
London, injuring 11 people. In November last year, there was another car bomb
near the Bull Ring in Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 24, 2002

Town will make history with Queen's Golden Jubilee visit to mosque

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Dave Mark

LENGTH: 427 words


THE Queen will step into the elaborate confines of a UK mosque for the first
time in her 50-year reign when she visits Scunthorpe in July.

It will be the first time a reigning British monarch has visited a mosque in
this country. Her Majesty will go to the Islamic Centre on Parkinson Avenue to
celebrate cultural diversity as part of her Golden Jubilee.

The visit will be one of a number to non-Christian groups during the year. This
is said to be a priority for the Queen, reflecting the important role played by
the various religious organisations in modern, multi-faith, multi-cultural
Britain.

Among the most significant changes to Britain over the past 50 years has been
the growth of religious and cultural diversity, a Buckingham Palace spokesman
said.

The Queen has reflected this in many ways over the years, including visits, her
Christmas messages and the annual Commonwealth Observance. The purpose of each
of these visits is to indicate respect for the diversity of faiths, to support
inter-faith dialogue and to show that non-Christian, as well as Christian,
communities are central to contemporary Britain.

The move has been welcomed by religious leaders across North Lincolnshire

Mohammed Afzal Khan, secretary of the Islamic Centre and mosque, said: This is a
real first. We are very honoured to have the privilege of the Queen's visit as
the Muslim community in Scunthorpe is only small.

It is a proud moment not only for the Muslim community but for North
Lincolnshire as a whole.

Canon Derek Brown, chairman of the Multi-Faith Partnership for North
Lincolnshire, said: The Muslim community throughout the world has been pilloried
since September 11 but that was a terrorist attack and not a Muslim one. The
Queen is making a symbolic and well-deserved gesture which I heartily applaud.

Details will be announced this week but it has been confirmed it is just one of
a number of goodwill visits the Queen and members of the Royal family will make
to non-Christian groups. Apart from the trip to the centre, the Queen will visit
a Hindu Temple in London, a Jewish museum and a Sikh gurdwara. The Duke of York
is to attend a Baha'i reception and the Earl and Countess of Wessex will visit a
Jain Temple and a Zoroastrian thanksgiving service.

A spokesman for North Lincolnshire Council, which is helping to co-ordinate the
Queen's visit, said: Naturally, we are delighted the Queen is visiting this area
and that the cultural diversity of North Lincolnshire will be recognised with a
visit to the Islamic centre.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 26, 2002

British economy defies world downturn

BYLINE: Charlotte Denny Economics correspondent

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 430 words


The British economy defied the sharpest downturn in the world outlook in 20
years to chalk up another quarter of growth in the final months of 2001,
government figures revealed yesterday.

Although the economy expanded at its slowest pace for three years, the 0.2%
increase in GDP in the fourth quarter means that the chancellor, Gordon Brown,
has exceeded his Budget forecast for growth over the year as a whole.

But the breakdown of the figures published by the office for national statistics
demonstrated that the economy was kept afloat by robust growth in the services
sector which offset the drag from the recession-hit manufacturing sector. While
service sector firms increased output by 0.9%, ONS statisticians said
manufacturing output had contracted for the fourth quarter in a row.

The strength of the service sector surprised City analysts who had been
expecting the terrorist attacks and foot and mouth to hit tourism and travel
firms. But a strong performance by business service firms and the government
sector more than compensated for these weak spots.

"Basically the economy grew at around trend at a time that the global economy
was seeing its sharpest slowdown since the 1980s recession," said John Butler,
UK economist at HSBC. "An impressive performance, but a performance that has
come at a cost in terms of widening existing imbalances in the economy."

The economy has now been growing for nine and half years, the longest expansion
since the second world war, twice the previous record. For 2001 as a whole, GDP
increased by 2.4%, close to its long-run average but down on the 3.0% expansion
recorded the previous year.

However, although weaker than in 2000, last year's performance is likely to put
Britain at the top of the G7 growth league and is comfortably above the 2.25%
increase Mr Brown forecast in November's pre-Budget report.

Industry leaders said the fact that Britain had continued to grow in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the US, while the world's three other
leading economies slipped into recession, was a tribute to the quick action
taken by the Bank of England.

"Our economy had everything bar the kitchen sink thrown at it during the last
quarter of 2001 and the fact that it still grew is testament to some nimble
footwork from the Bank of England and the spending power of consumers," said Ian
Fletcher, chief economist at the British Chambers of Commerce.

With the world economy expected to start improving this year, some analysts
believe interest rates have troughed at 4%.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 18, 2002

Death in paradise.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 441 words


image large="638366.vii.af.jpg" small="638366.vii.at.jpg"Mark Parker: Birthday
last week.image

Mark Parker, an "extremely popular" Clapham-based New Zealander from a famous
cricketing family, was among those confirmed killed in the Bali nightclub
terrorist attack, it was announced this week.

The young Kiwi, who celebrated his 27th birthday last week, had spent two and a
half years in Britain, and was on his way home to New Zealand with ambitious
plans to join the Wellington State team.

He was planning to spend Christmas with his family, and hoped to follow in the
footsteps of his father and uncle, both test cricketers for their country.

Instead, he was caught up in the horrific carnage at the Sari nightclub which
has claimed the lives of at least 180 people. Eleven Britons are confirmed dead,
but that number could rise to as high as 30.

Mark, who was travelling alone, was the first confirmed fatality from New
Zealand.

Cricketers planned to wear black armbands in Timaru, the home town of Mr Parker,
a banker for Schroders and a talented sportsman who divided his time between
Winchester, where he shone in the local cricket team, and a home in Clapham.

His friend Nick Kynoch described him as a "wonderful guy" who "had a fantastic
time in London, but then got caught up in events beyond his control."

He said a "big crew of his friends," who gathered together on Tuesday when the
news was confirmed, were planning a service for him in London. The New Zealand
embassy, where Mark was well-known, will fly its flag at half-mast from today.

The Parker family told New Zealand newspapers they had called "every hospital in
Australia, Singapore and Taipei" for two days, before Mark's body was identified
in a Bali morgue.

But Mark's uncle, John Parker, said the family wanted to thank "all the friends
in Timaru and around the world for their support. New Zealanders are at their
best when the odds are against them. They all pull together and try to help, and
we've had no end of support."

Andy Sharp, chairman of the St Cross Symondians cricket side, said: "Mark
treated everyone the same, regardless of their age and ability. Off the field he
was quiet, unassuming and very modest, keen to praise others rather than talk
about his own achievements.

"He was quite simply one of the nicest and most genuine people you could wish to
meet and those of us who had the pleasure of knowing him are undoubtedly better
people for it."

Arrangements are being made for Mark's body to be returned to New Zealand, and
many of his London friends are planning to fly to Timaru for his funeral.

October 18, 2002 10:00

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  $%Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland ireland

                             February 25, 2002 2002

Former mayor of New York thanks UK uk

SECTION: Pg. 8 8

LENGTH: 130 words words


Former New York City mayor Rudolph Giuliani has thanked the UK travel industry
for its support following the terrorist attacks of September 11.

Speaking at a Visit USA Association breakfast in London, Mr Giuliani said: "I am
very supportive of all your efforts in trying to promote tourism.  tourism.

"Bonds between New York, the US and Britain are stronger than ever.

"There could have been a sense of isolation, but to see the support we had from
around the world was great for morale."

Mr Giuliani said the number of tourists visiting NewYork was reviving quickly.

He added that continuing to travel was a way of showing that people would not be
deterred by acts of terrorism.

"We want to show the terrorists they can't stop us," said Mr Giuliani.



giuliani.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: English english

PUB-TYPE: Magazine magazine

                     Copyright 2002 CMP Information Ltd ltd

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 26, 2002

Threat of war: Sea lord warns of terror threat to ships

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 377 words


The government is increasing Royal Navy patrols off Britain and in the
Mediterranean in anticipation of attacks by al-Qaida, Britain's top naval
officer said yesterday.

"More attacks on shipping can be expected", the first sea lord, Admiral Sir Alan
West, warned. He pointed to the recent bombing of a French tanker off Yemen, and
the foiling of an attempt by al-Qaida terrorists against British and US ships
off Gibraltar. In response to the latter, the Ministry of Defence moved two fast
patrol boats from Northern Ireland to the Rock.

Yesterday, Sir Alan said that the MoD was considering ways to protect two
British sovereign bases on Cyprus, possibly by deploying Royal Marines equipped
with fast boats.

There were also plans to increase "policing of British waters". He pointed to
the danger of attacks on warships from terrorists in small, fast boats, or from
the smuggling of explosives on to innocent looking tugs.

Though there was no specific intelligence regarding British or US warships,
there were "consistent strands" warning of attacks. One answer, he said, was to
arm British warships with machine guns - which were more effective than missiles
or torpedoes in destroying small boats. Overall, he said, the aim should be one
of "keeping al-Qaida on the back foot, (to) get them worrying what we might do
to them".

Sir Alan spoke to journalists on board the frigate HMS Richmond moored near
Tower Bridge in London, in his first briefing since becoming first sea lord two
months ago.

The firefighters' strike was having an effect on navy training and deployment,
he said, the longer it went on, the impact would be "progressively worse".

One destroyer, HMS Manchester, had abandoned an anti-terrorist patrol in the
eastern Mediterranean so that its crew could be in Britain to help cover for the
firefighters.

In all, the crews of 20 warships were involved: seven crews would have been at
sea, the rest would have been training for future naval operations.

Sir Alan said the navy could now deploy two submarines with cruise missiles, and
a naval battle group, for any attack on Iraq; an amphibious group led by HMS
Ocean, the helicopter and marine commando carrier, would not be ready before the
new year.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 9, 2002

SURVIVAL PACK SENT TO ALL HOMES; BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: ByAlison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 616 words


BRITAIN is buying body bags and overhauling plans to deal with an Al Qaeda mass
terrorist attack, it was revealed yesterday.

The move comes amid chilling new claims that Osama Bin Laden's network still
poses a serious threat to the West.

It means that every householder could now get leaflets explaining how to survive
a catastrophe.

The revelation came as a leading Al Qaeda spokesman threatened faster, harder
strikes against America's "Jewish Crusader" coalition.

Sulaiman Abu Ghaith reportedly confirmed claims that Al Qaeda was behind the
recent attacks in Kenya which left 16 people dead, including Israeli tourists,
the intended target. And in the statement attributed to him, which was posted
yesterday on a militant website, he declared - using a term common among Islamic
militants for what they see as a US-Israeli alliance: "The JewishCrusader
coalition will not be safe anywhere from the fighters' attacks.

"We will hit the most vital centres and we will strike against its strategic
operations with all possible means."

The statement added: "We will chase the enemy with terrifying weapons. We have
to widen our fighting fronts and conduct more concentrated and faster
operations. . . so (the enemy) feels unsafe and unstable on land, air and sea."

Abu Ghaith is one of the leading Al Qaeda members hunted by America and its
allies since the coalition began bombing Afghanistan more than a year ago in
response to the September 11 attacks.

The Government has recently stepped up its campaign of warnings to the public
that they could come under attack. Yesterday, after repeated criticisms from
experts and the Opposition that it was not doing enough, more details emerged of
how it is preparing.

The Government has issued tenders for millions of pounds worth of equipment for
use in case of a chemical or biological attack.

It is buying 5,000 body bags, more than 120,000 decontamination suits to be used
immediately after an attack, 100,000 suits to be worn after initial treatment,
the difference in numbers said by experts to reflect likely deaths, and
thousands of special showers, shelters and stretchers.

The orders are due to be placed before Christmas and companies were told to
consider scenarios such as a terrorist attack on Trafalgar Square as well as on
Parliament, Canary Wharf and other big city centres.

Philip Ward, managing director of emergency equipment manufacturer Ferno UK,
told a Sunday newspaper his company was among those bidding for the contracts.

He said the first was for more than GBP 50million worth of equipment, including
suits, showers, shelters and specialised vehicles. A second contract was for
equipment including stretchers.

The deadline for delivering orders had been brought forward from July to June
and was widely expected to be brought forward again.

A spokesman for Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott's office, which is
coordinating the purchases, refused to comment on specific threats or orders of
equipment. Meanwhile, it was confirmed that the Government plans a wholesale
shake-up of the Cold War-era emergency planning system. Ministers will issue
draft legislation in the spring to create a national plan capable of dealing
with catastrophic incidents.

Local Government Minister Nick Raynsford, who is in charge of planning for
London, said: "We want people to know that we are ready for any eventuality
without alarming the public."

After consultation on the draft, ministers will seek to get the Bill made law.

At the weekend, health ministers from around the world agreed an action plan to
prepare for any deliberate release of the smallpox virus by terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 27, 2002

Can Blair back both Bush and Europe?

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 386 words


THE recent furore involving South West MPs, and the public generally, regarding
a possible UK involvement in Iraq raises a serious question about the quality of
judgement of our Prime Minister. From the moment he took office in 1997 he has
continually declared that he "wants the UK to be at the centre of Europe".
Furthermore he has made no secret of intending to join the euro as soon as he
can win a referendum of the British electorate.  And yet, from the moment of the
despicable terrorist attack on New York last year he has acted almost as if the
UK is another state of the USA.

These two views are manifestly incompatible in the long term, and must raise
serious doubts about Mr Blair's judgement on major issues.

He is helped by the fact that - because Britain has no formal constitution - any
Prime Minister has more power in his own hands than any other head of our
European partners. Even Mr Bush has to work within a rigid and wise Constitution
and carry Congress and the Senate with him.

I am sure that all this hasn't gone to Mr Blair's head, because he is a very
intelligent man, but it would help us all at this crucial stage if he would
kick-start an informed public debate on how he really sees the role of Britain
over the next two or three decades. Not just another TV commercial, with a flash
of the confident grin and a promise of goodies to come, but a serious and
detailed outline of the options for the future.

Sometimes I wonder whether Mr Blair realises it, but he represents the most
mature democratic electorate in Western Europe, and they don't take kindly to be
treated as a kindergarten.

It is a thousand pities that this state of affairs should have been allowed to
happen now when the present Government is at last trying to remedy the many
faults that beset this country.

Mr Blair should remind himself continually that his first duty is to the people
that have elected him, and ask himself whether we can truly afford to join the
US in a possibly endless series of wars against countries that Mr Bush has
decided are a danger to the American way of life.

One must accept that our PM is indeed a sincere Christian, wishing to right the
ills that beset the world, and honour him for it. But then, so was Oliver
Cromwell.

Stuart Harley Calstock, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 7, 2002

TERROR BOMBER ON LOOSE IN THE UK

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 368 words


A LONE bomber could pose the greatest threat of a terror attack as Britain goes
on red alert for the first anniversary of September 11.

Police yesterday launched a nationwide appeal for vigilance not only for next
Wednesday but for the weeks and months to come.

A major terror assault by organised groups of Islamic extremists linked to
warlord Osama Bin Laden is still a huge threat.

But Scotland Yard describes the danger of a one-off attack by a lonewolf killer
drawn to the anniversary of the atrocity in the US as a real possibility.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness was quick to point out that there is no
specific intelligence on an imminent attack.

He appealed to Britons to go about their normal business and not to be cowed by
the threat of terror.

"Public alert not public alarm will be needed for the foreseeable future, " he
said. Mr Veness revealed that extra uniformed patrols, some of them armed, will
be deployed in the capital on and around the anniversary.

Officers will be particularly visible at major public buildings, and armed
checkpoints will be stepped up to combat the threat from Islamic extremists.
Police forces elsewhere will put in similar measures.

The heightened state of alert was underlined yesterday when the RAF revealed
that two Tornado jetfighters were scrambled to intercept a light aircraft amid
fears of a terrorist attack on the Royal Family. There were fears that the pilot
might be on a mission to smash into the Queen's home at Sandringham, Norfolk, in
a re-run of September 11.

But it turned out to be a false alarm as the 1,400 mph fighters, armed with
missiles, followed the plane, which veered off to an airfield during the
incident last March.

Meanwhile, France claimed last night to have handed America crucial information
that could have prevented the September 11 attacks. Officials said they gave the
CIA a secret dossier on terror suspect Zacarias Moussaoui after his arrest in
the US in August last year - three weeks before the atrocities.

They also claimed Moussaoui may have been wrongly dubbed the 20th hijacker, and
could in fact have been plotting a second wave of hijackings for earlier this
year.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 24, 2002

HOME PRICE BOOM WON'T SLOW DOWN

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 307 words


BRITAIN'S property boom shows no sign of bust as confident homebuyers continue
to fuel the market.

An increase in the number of people w anting to buy new homes shows buyers are
optimistic about the economy, according to the Royal Institute of Chartered
Surveyors (RICS).

And confidence has returned to the market quicker than had been expected, after
falling back in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11.

During the last three months of 2001, enquiries from buyers to RICS members rose
by 12 per cent.

A quarter reported price rises compared to just 18 per cent in the previous
three months.

House prices accelerated for the first time since July and almost half of surv
eyors expect values to soar further during the next three months.

"There has obviously been a period of w ait and see for potential buyers, " said
RICS national housing spokesman Ian Perry.

"But people are now confident enough in the economic climate to take the
decision, whether first-time buyers or people seeking to move up the housing
chain.

"But the slowdown in the market over the past few months suggests buyers were
being careful so people should price their property realistically when they put
it on the market."

The rise in new inquires was matched by an increase in property prices, with 13
per cent more chartered surveyors reporting price rises in their area during the
final quarter than those who saw falls, compared with two per cent the previous
month.

Northern areas reported the biggest jump in prices in the three months to the
end of December. In Yorkshire and Humberside half of RICS members reported price
rises, while in the North West 42 per cent more saw an increase, and in the
North East 36 per cent.

In London and the South East prices stabilised after falling back slightly.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 21, 2002

RAIDS 'FOIL PLOTS AT 11TH HOUR'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 134 words


FOUR suspects accused of preparing a Christmas terror attack were caught in the
nick of time, the French Government said yesterday.

Three men and a woman, all Algerian, had bomb-making equipment at their Paris
home when they were seized in a police swoop on Monday, said Interior Minister
Nicolas Sarkozy. The four, said to have trained for "holy war" and to have
fought with Islamic extremists in Chechnya, were expected to be charged last
night.

The raid came as a result of information gathered in Britain after the arrest
last month of a suspect believed to be a key aide of Osama Bin Laden.

Kerim Chatty, 29, who was found with a gun in his luggage at Vasteras airport,
Sweden, as he was about to board a plane bound for London in August, was jailed
for four months yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2002, Saturday

Fears of terrorist attacks hit peak

BYLINE: Michael Evans, Rosemary Bennett and Roger Boyes

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 611 words


Blair to warn of rising threat to UK. MI5 intercepts talk of al-Qaeda plots

INTELLIGENCE intercepts of al-Qaeda suspects have uncovered a level of terrorist
plotting on the same scale as in the weeks leading up to the September 11
attacks, The Times can disclose.

The intense level of al-Qaeda "chatter" picked up by American and British
signals interceptions led to David Blunkett's sombre warning of a terrorist
attack.

The intelligence gleaned in recent weeks pointed directly to a terrorist threat
against Western interests, and the United Kingdom is believed to be on the list
of targets.

In the more alarmist version of Mr Blunkett's assessment of the threat that was
put out by the Home Office in error - and then rapidly retrieved - the Home
Secretary gave a warning of the possibility of Britain being attacked by
terrorists armed with a "dirty" radiological bomb or poison gas.

Yesterday, Mr Blunkett said that a "clerical error" had been made and the wrong
assessment had been published. The version subsequently published made no
reference to "dirty" bombs. Mr Blunkett said that he did not want to risk
creating "unjustified panic and disruption".

The evidence which has emerged, however, from the latest intelligence makes it
clear that the threat to Britain is high and Government officials saw the need
to let the public know. Tony Blair was involved in the decision to publish the
terrorism document.

Both drafts of the statement, the one warning of a potential dirty bomb or
poison gas attack and the other using more bland language, had been formally
approved by the security and intelligence services, indicating that the first
was as legitimate as the second.

However, the "dirty" bomb scenario has become more of an obsession with the
United States. This was made clear by Governor Tom Ridge, President Bush's
Homeland Security Advisor, when he met the heads of all the British agencies in
London this week.

The main concern in British intelligence circles is the potential threat from
suicide bombers. The Bali bomb came as a severe shock because it demonstrated
that al-Qaeda had switched to attacking a soft Western target. There are fears
that a similar attack could be attempted in Britain.

The reason for publishing the Home Office document was to encourage the public
to be vigilant. "There have been many cases where members of the public have
alerted the police when spotting a suspect package and we needed to inject the
same sense of vigilance for the latest threats we face," one Whitehall official
said.

Anxiety over growing complacency of a terrorist threat has driven Mr Blair to
make it the subject of his annual speech at the Lord Mayor's banquet on Monday.

The Prime Minister will say the need for vigilance is as great as immediately
after the September 11 attacks and urge the public to be on its guard.

Although the threat to the City and other prominent locations in the country is
"qualitatively different" than that posed by the IRA in the 1970s and 1980s, the
public response should be the same, he will say.

His advisers say he is trying to strike the right balance between alerting the
public to the danger and triggering the sort of panic that followed the
September 11 attacks.

One of the most alarming warnings of a terrorist outrage in Europe came from
Germany. Hans-Josef Beth, head of the International Terrorism Department of the
Security Service (BND), has identified Abu Mussab al-Zarqawi, a one-legged
terrorist with experience in chemical warfare, as the likely mastermind of a
future assault.

Terror alert, page 4

Leading article, page 29


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 31, 2002

Smallpox contract must be explained

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 264 words


MINISTERS must publish expert advice behind the award of a £28 million
contractto a Labour donor, one of the party's prominent backbench MPs said
yesterday. The call came after a US expert, Dr Steve Prior, claimed Britain had
brought thewrong type of smallpox vaccine to guard against terrorist attack. Dr
Prior, of America's Potomac Institute, branded Britain's choice of the Lister
strain of the vaccine "indefensible". This was rejected by the UK's Deputy Chief
Medical Officer Dr Pat Troop who said it was selected on a "full range of expert
scientific and medical advice" and that "reasons of national security"
preventedthe Government making it public. Dr Ian Gibson, chair of the Commons
science andtechnology select committee, said publication was the only way to end
questions over the award.

PowderJect, which landed the contract, is run by Dr Paul Drayson, who donated
£100,000 to Labour, with £50,000 handed over weeks before it was awarded.
Critics have questioned why the contract was not put out to tender, as it was
inthe United States. Controversy grew when it emerged that PowderJect would
initially be buying in vaccine from a German firm.

Whitehall's spending watchdog, the National Audit Office, has already announced
an inquiry into the way the selection was handled.

Dr Gibson said the decision to use the Lister strain, rather than the
Russian-developed type selected in the US, needed to be explained. "We don't
know the basis of the scientific evidence, it is not in the public domain, and
Ithink it really ought to be," he said.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 11, 2002, Monday Edition 1

Blair's warning on UK terror risk

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 288 words


   Prime Minister Tony Blair was today issuing a stark warning that Islamic
militants could bring their terror campaign to the UK.

More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.

His warning comes just days after the Government was accused of unnecessarily
sparking anxiety by issuing and then immediately withdrawing a statement
detailing possible al Qaida tactics including 'dirty' nuclear bombs and attacks
on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume that they are safe simply because the UK has so
far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida, and the UK must
work with its international allies and partners to confront them, he will add.

Mr Blair's speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of London is his major
foreign policy statement of the year.

It was foreshadowed yesterday by Home Secretary David Blunkett, who warned that
the UK was in the front line for terrorist attacks.

Terrorists could be expected to target events like yesterday's Remembrance Day
ceremonies or try to disrupt everyday life in the run-up to Christmas and the
New Year.

And he admitted that the security and policing services could not guarantee
public safety at all times.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 12, 2002

THE WORLD UNITES IN GRIEF TO MOURN VICTIMS OF 9/11; WE WILL NEVER FORGET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 132 words


THE world united in silence and grief yesterday as it paid tribute to those
killed in last year's terrorist attacks on the US.

At 8.46am New York time, communities, villages, towns and cities in every
continent stopped to remember September 11, 2001.

Nowhere was the scene more poignant than at Ground Zero, scene of the attack on
the World Trade Centre. As the names of those who perished were read out, the
surrounding silence was punctuated only by the sobs of grieving relatives who
held up images of their dead loved ones for the world to see.

In Washington DC, President Bush led the mourning for those killed in the attack
on the Pentagon and the hijacked United Flight 93.

In Britain, Prince Charles and Tony Blair led a memorial ceremony in St Paul's
Cathedral.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

FERRIES ON ALERT AS OSAMA' TAPE WARNS OF ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andrew Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 245 words


SECURITY at Scotland's only international ferry terminal has been stepped up
over terror threats.

The state of high alert came as Arab TV channel Al-Jazeera aired a tape said to
be the voice of Osama bin Laden.

In it, the speaker praised the recent terror attacks in Bali and Moscow - and
warned that Britain is a target.

French and Dutch security services last week warned that terrorists would
attempt to board a North Sea ferry in a truck loaded with explosives.

Port operators across Scotland insisted it was business as usual despite the
Government warning over possible attacks.

But police last night said increased precautions were in place at Rosyth in
Fife. The port operates ferries daily to Zeebrugge in Belgium.

A Fife Police spokesman said: "We have had access to the same intelligence.

"The security at the ferry port, and elsewhere, has been increased accordingly."

Normally, there are around 10 plainclothes detectives at Rosyth but a police
source said numbers have been increased.

Hugh MacLennan, of domestic operators Caledonian MacBrayne, said: "We're
maintaining the normal level of vigilance."

Security has also been increased at Dover as well as most airports.

The message aired across the Arab world yesterday threatened Western nations
over any attack on Iraq and hit out at US allies who join the war on terror.

US intelligence officials are probing the tape to verify if the voice is bin
Laden's.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 22, 2002

Straw admits UK withheld tip-off on Bali danger;Ancram attacks government's
decision not to issue warning

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 568 words


THE British government did withhold intelligence information warning of a
terrorist threat in Bali, Jack Straw admitted yesterday.

However, the foreign secretary insisted the tip-off was too "generic" to be of
any use.

Responding to criticism that Foreign Office advice failed to match that issued
by the United States and Australia, Mr Straw pointed out that six American
embassy staff from Jakarta were on holiday in Bali at the time of the attack.

"I dearly wish there had been intelligence that could have prevented this
atrocity, but the answer sadly is that there was none," he said.

However, in the face of "nagging anxieties" among relatives of the dead, Mr
Straw said the intelligence would be made available for examination by
parliament's security and intelligence committee.

Mr Straw again apologised to the families of the dead and injured for
"shortcomings in getting sufficient extra staff" into place in Bali following
the October 12 terror blast. He warned: "Further attacks can, sadly, not be
ruled out."

In his Common's statement, Mr Straw said 11 Britons were now confirmed dead, and
a further 22 were missing, presumed dead and at least 27 British citizens were
injured.

"As is now well known, it is the case that there was received in late September
a generic threat to a number of cities and provinces in Indonesia, including
Bali, but covering altogether 55% of the land mass of Indonesia and 100 million
of its population," Mr Straw said.

Thousands of pieces of intelligence, including "gossip", were received every
year and terrorist groups were skilled in counter-intelligence.

Mr Straw insisted that although the US, Australia, and the UK all received
similar intelligence on Indonesia: "None of us had concluded that it was unsafe
to travel to or remain in Bali."

Michael Ancram, shadow foreign secretary, accused Mr Straw of leaving an
unacceptable "fog of uncertainty" in the public mind.

He challenged the foreign secretary to explain why Britain had not followed the
United States's example by issuing warnings to citizens in Indonesia about a
"credible terrorist attack".

He also attacked suggestions that intelligence warnings about Bali were
"generic" when they referred to "six islands out of 6000".

"How on earth can this information about six islands out of 6000 inhabited
islands be regarded as generic rather than specific?" he asked.

He said: "Why on earth, if Britain had the same information available to it as
the Americans did we not issue the same warnings to our citizens at the same
time?

"Why did we not mention clubs and places of entertainment until after October 12
when Americans had seen fit to mention them before?"

However, Mr Straw dismissed suggestions that the government had failed to act,
telling MPs: "The United States was sufficiently relaxed about travel that I am
told authoritatively that six of its own staff from Jakarta were on holiday in
Bali at the time of the blast."

The foreign secretary also rejected claims the warnings were about "six islands
out of 6000", saying the islands covered 55% of Indonesia's land mass,
represented 40% of the population or 100 million people, and were visited by 60%
of all Western tourists.

Mr Straw said a British memorial service would be held after consultation with
the families of the dead about what they considered appropriate.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: in memoriam: A man walks past paintings on display in Kuta, Bali, drawn
by Balinese artists in memory of the nightclub bombing's victims.  Picture:
Achmad Ibrahim/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 April 19, 2002

Aerospace workers lobby MPs over job cuts;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 139 words


AEROSPACE workers from across Britain lobbied MPs yesterday as part of a
campaign for government action to help save the industry from "total collapse."

Workers from BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce, Smiths Industries and Westland
Helicopters joined the lobby at the House of Commons.

Over 20,000 jobs have been axed since the September 11 terrorist attacks in New
York, as orders were cancelled and firms reacted by cutting costs.

Aerospace union amicus general secretary Roger Lyons said that aerospace had
been hit harder than any other industry and needed government help to prevent
its collapse.

"Our government must match the commitment to the aerospace industry that has
been shown by governments in the US, Germany and France, " insisted Mr Lyons.

"We cannot let terrorism kill off our aerospace industry."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 24, 2002

Death in paradise.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 450 words


image large="641082.vii.af.jpg" small="641082.vii.at.jpg"Bali: The most
beautiful of islands, the friendliest of people.image

Mark Parker, an "extremely popular" Clapham-based New Zealander from a famous
cricketing family, was among those confirmed killed in the Bali nightclub
terrorist attack, it was announced this week.

The young Kiwi, who celebrated his 27th birthday two weeks ago, had spent two
and a half years in Britain and was on his way home to New Zealand with
ambitious plans to join the Wellington State team.

He was planning to spend Christmas with his family and hoped to follow in the
footsteps of his father and uncle, both test cricketers for their country.

Instead, he was caught up in the horrific carnage at the Sari nightclub which
has claimed the lives of at least 180 people.

Eleven Britons are confirmed dead but that number could rise to as high as 30.

Mark, who was travelling alone, was the first confirmed fatality from New
Zealand.

Cricketers planned to wear black armbands in Timaru, the home town of Mr Parker,
a banker for Schroders and a talented sportsman who divided his time between
Winchester where he shone in the local cricket team and a home in Clapham.

His friend Nick Kynoch described him as a "wonderful guy" who "had a fantastic
time in London but then got caught up in events beyond his control."

He said a "big crew of his friends," who gathered together on Tuesday last week
when the news was confirmed, were planning a service for him in London.

The New Zealand embassy, where Mark was well-known, will fly its flag at
half-mast from today.

The Parker family told New Zealand newspapers they had called "every hospital in
Australia, Singapore and Taipei" for two days, before Mark's body was identified
in a Bali morgue.

But Mark's uncle, John Parker, said the family wanted to thank "all the friends
in Timaru and around the world for their support."

He added: "New Zealanders are at their best when the odds are against them. They
all pull together and try to help and we've had no end of support."

Andy Sharp, chairman of the St Cross Symondians cricket side, said: "Mark
treated everyone the same, regardless of their age and ability. Off the field he
was quiet, unassuming and very modest, keen to praise others rather than talk
about his own achievements.

"He was quite simply one of the nicest and most genuine people you could wish to
meet and those of us who had the pleasure of knowing him are undoubtedly better
people for it."

Arrangements are being made for Mark's body to be returned to New Zealand and
many of his London friends are planning to fly to Timaru for his funeral.

October 24, 2002 11:00

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 31, 2002

Labour donor's vaccine may not save Britons from smallpox terror

BYLINE: Michael Clarke

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 524 words


By Michael Clarke Political Correspondent

MILLIONS have been spent on the 'wrong' smallpox vaccine in a blunder which
could leave Britain wide open to a terrorist attack, it was claimed yesterday.

U.S. scientists said the Department of Health had paid GBP 28million for a
strain of the vaccine which had no track record in fighting the deadly disease.

The firm which was handed the lucrative contract is headed by a major Labour
Party donor.

MPs yesterday demanded an inquiry into the decision to ask Cambridge-based
PowderJect to supply the vaccine.

Its boss, Paul Drayson, has given Labour GBP 100,000 half of it only weeks
before securing the Government order.

The U.S. has ordered a massive supply of another type of the vaccine which has
been proven to work.

Dr Steve Prior, of the Potomac Institute in Washington, warned that Downing
Street was gambling with lives.

'There will not be a second chance to get this right, that is the problem,' he
told the Times.

'We will never use these vaccines until someone is convinced that the threat is
real. And at that stage it is too late to say, "Do you think we got the right
strain?".'

Britain and the U.S. have been preparing for a possible smallpox attack by Al
Qaeda.

The Americans chose a vaccine developed by the New York Public Health Board.

Dr Prior said this had been shown to work against the disease in India, fighting
the same type of the disease thought to have been acquired by Osama Bin Laden.

Britain has instead chosen the 'Lister' strain, which Dr Prior said was
unproven.

He added: 'When you are making decisions of this magnitude, you cannot afford to
make the wrong one and you certainly cannot afford to make it for the wrong
reasons. I think it is indefensible.' Whitehall's spending watchdog has already
announced an inquiry into why the contract was handed to PowderJect without
being put out to tender.

The Department of Health said the vaccine was needed quickly.

And Health Secretary Alan Milburn insisted: 'The best advice we have got is that
the smallpox vaccine we have bought protects against all known forms of the
disease.

'To suggest anything other than national security considerations informed the
judgment made about this particular strain is ludicrous and insulting.'

Dr Ian Gibson, Labour chairman of the Commons science and technology select
committee, called for Ministers to publish the scientific and medical advice
backing their decision.

Unless the issue was clarified, he said, there was a danger the public would
assume the donation played a part in the decision.

Tory health spokesman Dr Liam Fox said 'heads must roll' if the wrong vaccine
was ordered.

Liberal Democrat health spokesman Dr Evan Harris said: 'The fact that it was
bought from a company owned by a Labour donor only strengthens the need for the
Government to be transparent about the decision.'

John Oxford, professor of virology at Queen Mary's School of Medicine in London,
backed the Government's choice. He said: 'The Lister Institute had a wonderful
reputation of making vaccine for smallpox.'


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PAUL DRAYSON: 100,000 GIFT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 9, 2002, Sunday

SUITSOF DOOM

BYLINE: Chris Mclaughlin, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 179 words

HIGHLIGHT: SAFE: One of the suits


MORE than pounds 500,000 is being spent in Scotland on special safety suits to
withstand a biological or chemical terror attack.

It is part of a pounds 5m operation throughout the UK following intelligence
reports that al-Qaeda are trying to enter Britain from Europe.

The Scottish Executive said it would be buying 1,200 protective suits -
nicknamed Noddy Suits by the Army.

"They will be allocated to health trusts on the basis of population and risk,"
said a spokesman.

Some nurses and other A and E staff have been given training in how to work in
the protective suits, specially designed by Respirex in Surrey.

The suits include respirators to avoid breathing in chemicals or germs. They
have built-in respirators and an oxygen supply which can protect the wearer from
contamination for up to four hours.

"We have already despatched some of the suits to a number of hospitals," said
David Mackie, of Respirex.

"They have been specially designed to be as lightweight as possible and will be
used by doctors, nurses and other health staff."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                              July 8, 2002, Monday

RUGBY LEAGUE: AUSSIES LOOK TO JOHNS FOR ONE-OFF TEST CLASH;
 SCRUM-HALF LEADS NEW-LOOK SIDE

BYLINE: Ian Laybourn

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 351 words


NEWCASTLE Knights scrumhalf Andrew Johns will captain a new-look Australia team
against Great Britain in Friday's one-off Test in Sydney.

Johns, who takes over the captaincy from Sydney Roosters' Brad Fittler following
his decision to retire from representative rugby, got the vote over Brisbane
forward Gorden Tallis.

The selectors have chosen four new caps and made no fewer than 11 changes to the
team that wrapped up a 2-1 Ashes Series victory over Britain at Wigan's JJB
Stadium last November.

The newcomers are Newcastle team-mates Timana Tahu and Scott Simpson, Brisbane
rookie centre Brent Tate and Canterbury's giant forward Willie Mason, who played
for Tonga in the 2000 World Cup.

The side includes Brisbane prop Shane Webcke, who declined to tour Britain last
year in the wake of terrorist attacks in the United States, while there is a
recall for former London Broncos centre Chris McKenna following his impressive
showing in the State of Origin Series.

Australian Rugby League chairman Colin Love admitted selectors had struggled to
pick the new captain.

Love said, "The board has had to choose from some outstanding candidates and it
has been anything but an easy task.

"That said, we have enormous faith in the ability of Andrew to lead the
Kangaroos both on and off the field. The Australian Rugby League has a proud
tradition dating back to 1908.

"In those 94 years there have been fewer than 60 Test captains, so this is very
much an appointment of tremendous significance for both the game and Australian
sport."

The British team arrived in Sydney on Saturday. Coach David Waite is due to
announce his team tomorrow.

Australia: D Lockyer (Brisbane); L Tuqiri (Brisbane), S Timmins (St George
Illawarra), C McKenna (Cronulla), T Tahu (Newcastle); T Barrett (St George
Illawarra), A Johns (Newcastle, capt); S Webcke (Brisbane), D Buderus
(Newcastle), J Ryles (St George Illawarra), G Tallis (Brisbane), S Simpson
(Newcastle), S Hill (Melbourne). Subs: J Stevens (Cronulla), S Menzies (Northern
Eagles), B Tate (Brisbane), W Mason (Canterbury).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TIGERS ROAR: The Castleford Tigers defence (in white) hold up the;
London Broncos to secure a 24-20 win in the Super League on Saturday

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 28, 2002

Fire service to get 53m;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 78 words


NATIONAL: An extra 53 million is to be given to fire services across England and
Wales to help them deal with any major chemical, biological or radiological
attacks, the Government announced last night.

The move follows the heightened level of threat since last year's terrorist
attacks in New York, said Fire Services Minister Dr Alan Whitehead.

The money will be used to buy new equipment, including decontamination
facilities and protection equipment.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                January 25, 2002

UK growth slowest for 2 years

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 332 words


Britain's economy slowed

significantly in the last three months of 2001, official figures showed today.

Data from the Office for National Statistics showed growth slowed to 0.2% in the
fourth quarter, a fall from the 0.5% recorded in quarter three.

Year on year growth was 1.9% in quarter four, a slide from the 2.2% recorded in
quarter three.

The figures show the slowest growth for more than two years.

Year on year growth was last lower in the second quarter of 1999, at 1.6%, while
quarter on quarter growth was last lower in the first quarter of that year, at
0.1%. However, the last quarter's figures were above economists' expectations.

Some had forecast growth grinding to a complete halt due to the September 11
terror attacks in the US.

Economists view the fourth quarter as being the trough of the economic cycle and
say figures should perk up in the first quarter this year.

The last quarter's figures were hit by sharp falls in manufacturing while the
oil and gas extraction industries also fell.

The energy supply industry also declined a little over the quarter, affected by
the warmer weather. But service industries were estimated to have grown at a
higher rate than the previous quarter.

Full year figures for 2001 from the ONS show the economy grew 2.4% over the
year.

Treasury Chief Secretary Andrew Smith said the figures showed Britain was well
placed to weather the global slowdown.

He said: "As we have always made clear, no country can insulate itself from the
ups and downs of the world economy. But as today's figures confirm, Britain is
much better placed than in the past to steer a course of economic stability."

Ian Fletcher, chief economist at the British Chambers of Com-merce, said: "Our
economy had everything bar the kitchen sink thrown at it during the last quarter
of 2001 and the fact that it still grew is testament to some nimble footwork
from the Bank of England and the spending power of consumers."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ANDREW SMITH: Britain is well placed

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 09, 2002, Saturday

BTA pins hopes on Golden Jubilee

BYLINE: By ROSEMARY BEHAN

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 271 words

The British Tourist Authority hopes to use the Queen's Golden Jubilee to help
boost both domestic and international tourism. This week, the BTA published a
map promoting Britain's royal heritage.

Although up to three million Britons plan to go on holiday overseas during the
week of the Jubilee celebrations in June, tourism officials are confident that
events throughout June, July and August will draw millions of extra visitors,
particularly from America and Japan.

Last year, the combined effects of the foot and mouth crisis and the terrorist
attacks of September 11 led to a sharp drop in the number of visitors to Britain
and to the loss of at least pounds 2 billion in tourism revenue.

The map, contained in a new booklet entitled Britain's Royal Heritage, describes
more than 50 attractions in connection with the Queen's Golden Jubilee. Places
featured include Caernarfon Castle, where Prince Charles was invested as Prince
of Wales, the Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh, and the Royal Pavilion in
Brighton.

The Royal Portrush Golf Club in Northern Ireland, Henley Royal Regatta, the site
of the Battle of Culloden in Scotland, and Wilton House in Wiltshire - the
location for the films The Madness of King George and Mrs Brown - are also
highlighted.

Jeremy Brinkworth, BTA's head of campaigns, said: "Britain's royal heritage
consistently ranks among the top three reasons why our overseas visitors choose
to come here."

Copies of 'Britain's Royal Heritage' can be obtained from the Britain Visitor
Centre at 1 Lower Regent Street, London SW1 4XT (www.  visitbritain.com).
[PS]Travel: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 30, 2002

OUTRAGE AS RAF LEFT EXPOSED TO SEPTEMBER 11TH STYLE ATTACK; AIR TERROR WARNING

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 668 words


THE RAF's top guns are being starved of combat practice by budget cuts, leaving
Britain v ulnerable to September 11-style terrorist attacks.

In what ex-Chief of the Defence Staff Lord Craig of Radley has branded
"ridiculous folly", the RAF's elite fast jet pilots spend two-thirds of the year
flying fewer than the minimum number of hours considered safe. The four Tornado
F3 fighter squadrons, our main defence against kamikaze attackers, have been
among the worst hit.

Last night the Tories branded the cash cuts a "ludicrous risk". And Lord Craig,
Britain's most senior officer during the Gulf War, warned that RAF pilots must
spend "an absolute minimum" of 18-20 hours in the air each month or risk losing
the edge that can be the difference between life and death.

But official Ministry of Defence figures reveal that pilots with 10 of the RAF's
15 frontline fast jet squadrons are airborne for fewer than 18 hours a month.
None gives its pilots an average of 20 hours.

Of greatest concern is the fate of the F3 pilots - the modern-day equivalents of
"The Few", those Spitfire and Hurricane pilots who reached for the skies during
the Battle of Britain.

The four squadrons, based at RAF Leeming in North Yorkshire and RAF Leuchars in
Fife, all flew for less than 18 hours during most months last year.

They were already under strain after cash cuts and a chronic shortage of pilots
forced the closure of 5 Squadron at RAF Coningsby, which had been charged with
the air defence of London.

The figures also reveal that pilots with 14 Squadron failed to get 18 hours
aloft during any of the past 12 months. Some Tornado, Jaguar and Harrier
squadrons managed as few as four or five hours of flying a month. The MoD
refuses to disclose, on security grounds, the minimum number of flying hours
that Nato recommends.

But Lord Craig told the House of Lords: "Fast jet pilots need an absolute
minimum of 18 to 20 hours flying per month, depending on their role and the
weapons systems concerned, if they are to achieve and maintain their operational
expertise.

"The provision of new smart weapons, but without full and complete training and
preparation for their use before crews are sent to a combat zone, would be
ridiculous folly."

Shadow Defence Secretary Bernard Jenkin said: "Obviously, Lord Craig's views
should be taken very seriously. The Government is taking ludicrous risks,
particularly at a time of high alert for terror attacks which would be bound to
be something unexpected.

"The reason for the shortage of flying hours is money. The Government has
underfunded what they promised to deliver in their 1998 defence review.

"Is it any wonder that we have a shortage of pilots when they get fed up and
frustrated because they can't get their flying hours?"

An MoD spokesman said: "The RAF is satisfied we fly the number of hours we need.
We continue to meet all our operational commitments."

Officials insist the same number of aircraft are available for defence of the UK
as before the closure of 5 Squadron and that our pilots - among the best in the
world - are ready round the clock to intercept any incoming threat.

But defence chiefs are conscious that US jets did not react quickly enough on
September 11 to shoot down the aircraft hijacked by Al Qaeda and they would have
just minutes to react.

Tony Blair would personally have to authorise RAF pilots to shoot down a
civilian plane. The final decision would be relayed over a special
communications system carried with the Prime Minister at all times. F3s could
scramble within five to 10 minutes of a threat being identified. Details of the
effect of budget cuts come as the RAF is suffering from a critical shortage of
pilots and low morale.

Armed Forces minister Adam Ingram admitted earlier this year that pilots from
New Zealand have had to be brought in to plug the personnel gaps. The last
available figures show the RAF is 131 fast jet pilots short of its target of
1,484.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 10, 2002

LEADER GOVERNMENT LEAFLETS ON TERROR ARE UNLIKELY TO INSPIRE CONFIDENCE; BEING
NUKED? THEN HIDE UNDER THE STAIRS

BYLINE: ANDREW ROBERTS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 841 words


THE fact that the Government is planning to publish a leaflet telling us what to
do in the event of an Al Qaeda terrorist attack will be good news for satirists
but little help for anyone else. In the long history of British official
propaganda and pronouncements of this type, governments have almost never
managed to strike the right note. Such campaigns cost the taxpayer vast amounts
but they rarely tell us anything more than sheer common sense would anyhow. They
can even be counter-productive.

One can only imagine the effect of schools telling children as young as seven
what to do in the event of chemical, biological or nuclear attack, as is
proposed. Recent fire safety advertisements have already been criticised because
they traumatised children and gave them nightmares. Lurid predictions of a sarin
gas attack on the Underground or a dirty bomb being let off in Trafalgar Square
are likely to produce precisely the kind of widespread public anxiety - even
panic - that these leaflets are ostensibly intended to calm.

Ever since the Second World War governments have been telling citizens how to
behave in certain circumstances and they've continually got it wrong. In the
summer of 1940, reacting to the threat of a Nazi invasion of Britain, the
Ministry of Information scared the public by publishing leaflets with titles
such as How Shall I Prepare To Stay Put?

This told people: "Make ready your air-raid shelter. If you have no shelter,
prepare one. If you can have a trench ready in a garden or field so much the
better, especially if you live where there is likely to be danger from
shelling." Yet it did not give any indication where these areas might be.

"Farmers!" exclaimed a Ministry of Agriculture notice of the same period.

"Unless military action in the immediate neighbourhood makes it impossible,
farmers and farm workers must go on ploughing, sowing, cultivating, hoeing and
harvesting as though no invasion was occurring." Many people in rural areas
thought this document was put out by Fifth Columnists since its provisions
seemed so absurd. Who would seriously expect farming to continue uninterrupted
in the event of invasion?

"Your courage, your cheerfulness, your resolution, " read another patronising
poster during the Blitz, "will bring us victory." The difference between Them
and Us was precisely what the government was trying to avoid at the time but the
poster campaign instead drew attention to it. As one Canadian diplomat noted at
the time: "Living in London is like being the inmate of a reformatory school.

The government is like school matron."

In the post-war world little changed.

"Coughs and sneezes spread diseases, " one NHS campaign declared, as though it
was a breaking news story. The comedian Tony Hancock memorably satirised that
one by singing it to the tune of Deutschland, Deutschland Uber Alles as he
goose-stepped around a doctor's waiting room.

Another campaign that rightly came in for much mockery in the Cold War was the
Ministry of Defence's Protect And Survive advice on what to do in the event of a
nuclear attack. Its suggestion that sitting behind some sandbags under the
stairs might increase a family's chances of surviving a thermo-nuclear attack
was understandably derided. It also left a hostage to fortune once CND adapted
its title, calling on people to Protest And Survive instead.

On occasion government posters can attain the level of genuine art, as with the
series of pictures drawn by the brilliant cartoonist Fougasse (Kenneth Bird) for
the wartime series Careless Talk Costs Lives. These showed Nazi leaders such as
Hitler and Goring sitting behind gossiping housewives on buses, listening in to
their conversation.

Yet even those charming and funny drawings were fundamentally otiose; there is
no indication whatsoever that the Germans had anyone eavesdropping on the
British public.

MOSTLY, however, as with the Health Department's anti-Aids crusade of the
Eighties - which tried to portray HIV as a heterosexual epidemic - the campaigns
are as misleading as they are capable of inspiring unnecessary fear.

To some extent it is helpful to let the public know that something is being done
to check threats such as those posed by Al Qaeda but the campaigns being
suggested, such as taking wet-wipes on the Tube to breathe through in the event
of a gas attack, are utterly ludicrous.

Yet we want reassurance; although we all know that an aeroplane is very unlikely
to land in the sea in such a way that the passengers will be able to escape into
inflatable rafts, we still feel better that a safety demonstration is given to
us before take-off.

The line between giving genuinely useful advice to the public and terrifying
them is a very thin one and it is not one British governments have ever got
right yet. It will be far better to rely on our common sense, rather than lame
official advice, in the war against terror.

Andrew Roberts's new book Hitler And Churchill is published next month.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 8, 2002, Friday

UK's top firms on computer security alert

BYLINE: Nic Hopkins

SECTION: Business; 43

LENGTH: 417 words


SOME of Britain's biggest companies have been told to step up the security
surrounding their computer systems, after a government warning that Islamic
terrorists may try to bring down the country's communications network or banking
system.

The warning, to companies including BT, Lloyds TSB and BAA, marks the strongest
signal yet that Home Office sources believe terror groups could be planning an
assault on the national infrastructure.

Stephen Cummings, director of the National Infrastructure Security Co ordination
Centre (NISCC), said yesterday that companies playing a critical role in the
national infrastructure, such as power generators, telecoms groups and banks,
have been briefed on computer security.

Mr Cummings said that they had been told to be particularly vigilant of the
possibility of infiltration by members or supporters of terror groups such as
al-Qaeda. He added that the briefing did not specifically focus on al-Qaeda but
was a generic report on the potential of an attack from any Islamic terror
group. It is the latest of several reports by the NISCC since its inception in
1999.

Mr Cummings said the briefing was limited to a few dozen companies. The list is
also thought to include Vodafone, National Grid, Transco and BP.

Mr Cummings said it was "inevitable" that a serious attack would eventually be
launched on Britain's critical infrastructure. Such an attack would probably
coincide with a conspicuous terrorist act to cause maximum impact.

He added: "It will happen one way or another. There certainly have been attempts
to carry out certain sorts of attacks on parts of the infrastructure...and the
indications are that the threat will increase as the capabilities of hostile
groups grows and as the UK's infrastructure becomes more dependent on doing
business over the internet."

Mr Cummings said most companies needed to raise the responsibility of electronic
protection from middle-management to board and top executives, who remained "the
least aware of the threats we are talking about". He said: "We have the
opportunity to put in place the arrangements that are necessary to protect
against that threat while it is not as high as it will become."

Most incidents of electronic attack or unauthorised access to computer networks
in companies are carried out by current or former employees.

Mr Cummings said that the threat would "increase markedly'' if terrorists
recruited someone on the inside of these organisations.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 30, 2002

Britain Was Not Warned Of Mombasa Threat

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 347 words


Foreign Secretary Jack Straw last night insisted that the Government had no
intelligence warning of a terrorist threat to Mombasa in the run-up to the
suicide bombing at a hotel and missile attack on an Israeli airliner.  The
Government has been under pressure to disclose whether it was aware of any
warnings after it emerged that Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of "possible terrorist attacks against Western interests" in the
Kenyan resort. The Foreign Office has now amended its travel advice on Kenya to
warn British tourists to be aware of "the threat posed by terrorism in East
Africa".

Mr Straw, in a letter to shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram, said: "No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa." Earlier Downing Street confirmed that
Britain did routinely share intelligence with Australia, but refused to say
whether the information concerning the threat to Mombasa had been passed on.

"Of course we share information about threats with the Australians," the Prime
Minister's official spokesman said. "(But) I am not going to comment on specific
intelligence." He added that the Government would act if it received a warning
of a specific threat.

Following the Bali bomb attacks in October, Mr Straw was forced to order an
inquiry by the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee into the way
the intelligence material was handled. In both Thursday's Mombasa attacks and
the Bali bombings, Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network were regarded as prime
suspects.

The amended Foreign Office travel advice on Kenya now reads: "This (the Mombasa)
incident has highlighted the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa and the
capacity of terrorist groups to carry out attacks.

"Following this and other recent developments, including the terrorist bombing
of a night club in Bali on 12 October, UK nationals world-wide should be aware
of indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets in public places, including
tourist sites." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 10, 2002

Muslims 'not celebrating' Sept 11;
 World News

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 243 words


EXTREMIST Muslim clerics yesterday denied that a meeting being held in London on
September 11 was to celebrate the anniversary of al-Qaeda's terror attacks on
the US.

Among those due to attend the conference at Finsbury Park mosque, North London,
is Omar Bakri Mohammed, whose al-Muhajiroun group wants to establish a worldwide
Islamic state.

Mr Mohammed, 44, who was born in Syria and lives in London, has been
investigated by Scotland Yard for racial hatred over anti-Semitic comments.

But he denied the conference was about celebrating the atrocities of September
11.

The meeting will also see the launch of the Islamic Council of Britain, which
supports the implementation of Sharia law in Britain, and will welcome al -Qaeda
sympathisers as members. Abu Hamza al-Masri, a cleric at the Finsbury Park
mosque, will be co-chairing the conference.

Mr al-Masri, an Egyptian who lost both hands and an eye while fighting in
Afghanistan against the Soviet occupation, has been accused of supporting terror
chief Osama bin Laden.

Radical Muslims speaking at the conference include Yasser al-Siri, 40, an
Egyptian-born dissident who was released from custody in July when extradition
proceedings by the US were dropped.

"The conference is about remembering September 11 and looking at the outcomes
and the likely causes of the problems, " he said.

"We will look at the way forward in order to prevent this happening again."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 29, 2002

LABOUR PEER 'TO QUIT' OVER WAR ON IRAQ

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words


A MUSLIM Labour peer has threatened to leave the party if Tony Blair joins the
US in an attack on Iraq without UN backing.

Baroness Uddin, who was appointed a life peer by Mr Blair, spoke out as a BBC
survey found more than four-out-of-five Labour constituency chairmen were
opposed to Britain joining a military assault on Saddam Hussein without UN
backing.

She told GMTV's Sunday Programme, to be broadcast today: "I can't support Tony
Blair in going . . . into Iraq like that anyway and certainly not without UN
support. I would have to make some serious soulsearching."

Her threat will come as a blow to the Prime Minister who considers the baroness
- the only female Muslim peer - a loyal ally. After last year's September 11
terror attacks, she was among Muslim peers and MPs who publicly backed the Prime
Minister over the attack on Afghanistan.

Asked if she would consider resignation, Baroness Uddin said: "I would
definitely consider all options but I think it is a very serious step for many
of us."

BBC1's On The Record asked 202 constituency chairmen if Britain should join the
United States in a military assault on Iraq, even if there is no clear sanction
from the United Nations.

A total of 167 were opposed while 18 said they would support such action and 17
were unsure.

Meanwhile thousands of people took to the streets of London yesterday to protest
against war on Iraq.

The Stop the War Coalition, which organised the march with the Muslim
Association of Britain, said that at least 250,000 people joined the march on
the Embankment, in central London - though the initial police estimate was
50,000.

The demonstrators wound their way to the Houses of Parliament, along Whitehall
and Piccadilly to Hyde Park.

Tony Benn, the veteran Left-winger, told the crowd an attack on Iraq would be
"wholly immoral and wrong".

Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, said: "It's so that corrupt American
politicians can get their hands on Iraqi oil."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 29, 2002

LABOUR PEER 'TO QUIT' OVER WAR ON IRAQ

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words


A MUSLIM Labour peer has threatened to leave the party if Tony Blair joins the
US in an attack on Iraq without UN backing.

Baroness Uddin, who was appointed a life peer by Mr Blair, spoke out as a BBC
survey found more than four-out-of-five Labour constituency chairmen were
opposed to Britain joining a military assault on Saddam Hussein without UN
backing.

She told GMTV's Sunday Programme, to be broadcast today: "I can't support Tony
Blair in going . . . into Iraq like that anyway and certainly not without UN
support. I would have to make some serious soulsearching."

Her threat will come as a blow to the Prime Minister who considers the baroness
- the only female Muslim peer - a loyal ally. After last year's September 11
terror attacks, she was among Muslim peers and MPs who publicly backed the Prime
Minister over the attack on Afghanistan.

Asked if she would consider resignation, Baroness Uddin said: "I would
definitely consider all options but I think it is a very serious step for many
of us."

BBC1's On The Record asked 202 constituency chairmen if Britain should join the
United States in a military assault on Iraq, even if there is no clear sanction
from the United Nations.

A total of 167 were opposed while 18 said they would support such action and 17
were unsure.

Meanwhile thousands of people took to the streets of London yesterday to protest
against war on Iraq.

The Stop the War Coalition, which organised the march with the Muslim
Association of Britain, said that at least 250,000 people joined the march on
the Embankment, in central London - though the initial police estimate was
50,000.

The demonstrators wound their way to the Houses of Parliament, along Whitehall
and Piccadilly to Hyde Park.

Tony Benn, the veteran Left-winger, told the crowd an attack on Iraq would be
"wholly immoral and wrong".

Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, said: "It's so that corrupt American
politicians can get their hands on Iraqi oil."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 6, 2002

Minute silence to remember NY victims

SECTION: News, Pg.21

LENGTH: 232 words


A MINUTE-long silence will be held to mark the first anniversary of the
September 11 terrorist attacks during a service at St Paul's Cathedral, the
Government said yesterday.

The service will begin at 1.15pm and the minute silence at 1.46pm, which marks
the moment the World Trade Centre attacks began.

Relatives of British victims will be at the service as well as senior Government
figures and representatives of leading charities. The service, which the Prince
of Wales will attend, will be Christian-based but will have a multifaith
audience.

Meanwhile, Britain's firefighters will also be marking the first anniversary of
the terrorist atrocities.

Hundreds plan to gather outside their stations to observe a minute's silence at
1.46pm in honour of the 343 New York firefighters who died in the attacks.

Pictures of the heroic firefighters running into the twin towers, rescuing those
trapped inside and working tirelessly through the devastation to try to find
survivors, became one of the enduring images of the tragedies.

Workers across the UK are expected to observe the silence, with offices,
factories, shops and at least some television and radio stations falling quiet,
including BBC1 and ITV.

The Government's announcement may lead to similar arrangements being decided at
British airports, Whitehall departments, schools, courts and in churches.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 11, 2002

High risk of attack in run-up to Christmas;Expert warns of possible terrorist
strike on Britain

BYLINE: Analysis By Keith Sinclair

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 633 words


BRITAIN faces an "increased risk" of a terrorist attack by al Qaeda in the run
-up to Christmas, with city centres and airports among the possible targets, a
leading defence expert warned yesterday.

Paul Beaver, an independent defence analyst, said the UK had been a potential
target since its support for America in Afghanistan following the September 11
attacks.

However, he claimed the risk had increased significantly because of Britain's
role in the United Nations' security council resolution on Iraq last week and
the forthcoming celebrations throughout the Christian world.

His warning came ahead of an appeal by the prime minister today for the public
to be on its guard against the threat of attacks from al Qaeda.

In language not heard from a leading politician since the IRA bombing campaign,
Tony Blair will issue the warning in his annual speech at the Lord Mayor's
banquet in London.

Mr Blair will say, in what will be his main foreign policy statement of the
year, that the British people have to be as vigilant now as they were after
September 11 last year but must not achieve the terrorists' goal of paralysing
society through the fear of terrorism.

Insiders say that the current alarm over a possible attack is caused not by one
"specific" intelligence report, but a series from around the world which all
point to the possibility that al Qaeda may be about to strike again.

Mr Beaver said: "I think there is no doubt that there is a real threat from al
Qaeda operatives. Our support for America in destroying the infrastructure in
Afghanistan, the UN resolution which gives Iraq until Friday to allow weapons
inspections, and now the fact that we are approaching Christmas, means we are
entering a dangerous period.

"All of those things put together means we are at greater risk. It's not quite a
threat yet, but we are at greater risk."

He said al Qaeda could attack in a variety of ways, including conventional
terrorism like bombs and more unconventional methods such as radiological
weapons. "If they do strike Britain, they will do it to create maximum
publicity, because although this is not a publicity-hungry organisation, like
Baader Meinhof, who got a kick out of publicity, they would like to destroy the
western world, which is based on capitalism.

"Therefore, they want to destroy commerce, trade and freedom of movement. There
could be a range of targets, anything from city centres to airports to trains
and ports."

He said al Qaeda had moved to a pre-planned cellular structure across about 60
nations - stretching right the way across the Arab world and into Europe and
North America - and described it as an "exceptionally well-organised" group with
good intelligence and resources, lots of money, and which made good use of
information technology.

US intelligence sources now admit that the Afghanistan war made al Qaeda more
difficult to stop by compelling it to regroup as a mass of decentralised cells
that tend to carry out their own attacks rather than wait for instructions or
prepared plans from the leadership.

Mr Beaver said al Qaeda had always used so-called "sleeper cells" and stressed
that those terrorists involved in the September 11 attacks had operated in that
way.

He continued: "What really makes al Qaeda dangerous is that if you cut off the
head the tentacles just continue to grow.

"Rather like Medusa, if you cut off the head it creates more heads so there is
no way of actually destroying it without destroying all of the limbs and all of
the heads."

Mr Beaver added that he believed the military and civilian security services
such as the police and MI5 had made the issue "a major priority" and said there
was considerable co-operation with the US and other countries.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 29, 2002, Wednesday

RIGHTS 'TRAMPLED' BY WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE: Mary Dejevsky Camp X-Ray: Prisoners kept in 'legal limbo'

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 349 words


AMNESTY International accused Britain and the United States yesterday of using
the 11 September terrorist attacks as an excuse to ride roughshod over human
rights in the name of national security.

While deploring unconditionally the terror attacks, the human rights
organisation accused countries as far apart as Saudi Arabia, South Africa and
Australia of restricting civil liberties. It reserved some of its strongest
condemnation for Britain and America.

Launching Amnesty's 2002 annual report in London yesterday, Irene Khan, its
general secretary, said that such infringements were nothing new but that this
time established democracies had taken the lead in "introducing draconian laws
to restrict civil liberties in the name of public security".

Amnesty said that Britain and Americas had passed emergency laws allowing the
detention without trial of foreign suspects.

Fears for national security and the drive to muster a coalition for the "war on
terrorism" had led to hypocrisy in the observance of human rights, Ms Khan said.
"Governments remained silent on abuses committed by those they counted or sought
as allies."

The report said Britain had imposed laws that restricted people's rights to free
assembly and a fair trial. And its Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act,
passed in December, had allowed foreign nationals to be detained indefinitely
without charge or trial. The report said that in approving such legislation
Britain had derogated sections of the European Convention on Human Rights.

More than 1,200 people, mostly foreigners, had been arrested secretly in the
United States since 11 September and their treatment aroused serious concern,
the report said. The detainees at Guantanamo Bay were kept in a legal limbo in
which they enjoyed neither prisoner of war status nor internationally recognised
rights of criminal suspects.

Ms Khan said existing legislation was mostly adequate to defend national
security. "If human rights are sacrificed in the search for peace and security,
there will be no peace and no security," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               November 22, 2002

Turning history into news.

BYLINE: Sports reporter (author email echosport@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: WINCHESTER



THE American Declaration of Independence, the French Revolution, the sinking of
the Titanic...all these events and more have been reported in the Hampshire
Chronicle over the last 230 years.

But now the reports of these events have been reprinted in one booklet.

Historic Headlines faithfully reproduces many of the famous moments from
Britain's past. In the Chronicle's early days it reported on international and
national events as well as local news. It was only with the advent of a good
rail network and distribution of national newspapers that the Chronicle focused
more on local news.

However, even today international events such as the terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Centre are reported in the Chronicle with their affect on the
Hampshire community.

Editor, Alan Cleaver, said: "There are many astonishing accounts of world events
in the Chronicle archives but until now they have been difficult to access.

"Copies of the Chronicle are on microfilm in Hampshire libraries but this new
booklet brings together the paper's 'greatest hits' in one publication."

The language used by reporters of yesteryear often adds to the atmosphere. For
example, the report on the assassination of Lincoln begins: "Appalling and
astounding news comes from America, such as never before was borne across the
Atlantic."

And the report on the sinking of the Titanic begins: "A terrible disaster,
unparalleled in the records of the sea, has overtaken the world's greatest ship,
the White Star liner Titanic..."

Alan said: "In the age before radio and TV, the Chronicle was the source of
information for people in and around Winchester. Frequently, the first news
bulletin was posted in the window of our High Street office."

This was the case with the Titanic when crowds quickly gathered to read the
telegram first announcing the ship's sinking: "To Chronicle, Winchester: Titanic
struck iceberg Cape Race. Wireless states vessel sinking. Passengers embarking
lifeboats."

And even in modern times, the Chronicle posts news flashes in the office window.
Election results in particular are posted on the window.

"It is still, despite the advent of the internet, often the quickest way of
letting people know the news" Alan said.

When the first news of Mark Oaten's famous two-vote victory in the 1997 election
was posted in the office windows, crowds swarmed to learn of the result.

There are also major local events reprinted in Historic Headlines. A century ago
the 'Gosport Murder' was the topic everyone was talking about.

William Churcher was eventually hanged at Winchester Prison - with a Chronicle
reporter present - for killing his lover, Sophia Hepworth.

Coincidentally, 100 years later Lesley Park, a descendant of the Churcher
family, works at the Chronicle and collaborated on Historic Headlines.

Lesley said: "When I first started researching my family history I was warned by
an Auntie not to dig too deep as we had a murderer in the family. Little did I
realise how close to home the story would be: William Churcher was hanged just a
quarter of a mile from the Chronicle office."

Some events are less gruesome. In 1897 the Chronicle carried its first 'road
test' with a reporter being taken for a driver by General Montgomery of
Southgate Street in Winchester's first motor car - a Daimler.

"Throughout the journey it was under splendid control, answering to the
slightest touch of the steering wheel" reported the latterday Jeremy Clarkson.

And the reporter went on to say: "The Company (Daimler) recommend for use an oil
spirit named 'petrol' which they supply at elevenpence per gallon."

The top speed allowed by law at that time was 12mph but the Chronicle strongly
hint that the vehicle at times went as fast at 16mph!

Historic Headlines is available from selected newsagents or the Chronicle office
in High Street, Winchester, priced GBP 1.50.



LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 9, 2002

THE 50 TOP SIGHTS (AND NOT ONE IS IN BRITAIN); SEE ALL THIS LOT BEFORE YOU DIE

BYLINE: By David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 581 words


ICELAND made it. So did Cambodia and Alaska. But in a new list of the world's 50
best holiday destinations there is not so much as a glimpse of Britain.

Indeed, with Walt Disney World in Florida achieving third place in the poll, it
seems the UK cannot even claim to be a Mickey Mouse country.

Tourism chiefs hit back at the chart, arguing for the merits of the Scottish
Highlands, Stonehenge and Windsor Castle.

But British travellers said they preferred the epic splendour of the Grand
Canyon, which topped the poll, followed by Australia's Great Barrier Reef. The
nearest place to Britain in the top 50 was its old rival Paris, at number 27.

The 50 "places to see before you die" were compiled from the votes of 20,000
people canvassed for BBC1's Holiday, broadcast tomorrow.

English Tourism Council spokeswoman Debbie Holden said: "We are quite surprised
because we think Britain can compete with anywhere in the world in terms of
history and natural beauty. But people don't tend to think about what's on their
own doorstep.

"When people come from abroad they find things here they can't find anywhere
else.

Stonehenge is an example of some amazing architecture.

Windsor Castle is an illustration of the nation's royal heritage."

Tom Hall, of Lonely Planet travel guides, said: "I was amazed the Scottish
Highlands didn't make it - they are fabulous. And sunset on the Thames is one of
the great sights of the world."

However, Lonely Planet does not give Britain unqualified praise. Its recent
guide noted the cost of eating out is "too high and service is not good enough",
while the profusion of restaurants linked to major chains is "a sorry
development". Many public toilets are "still pretty grim", while "drunken brawls
are not uncommon as liquored-up lager louts are tossed on to the streets at
closing time".

Domestic tourism is on the up this year with 177million trips involving at least
one night's stay generating GBP 28.5billion. But the industry has still not
fully recovered from foot-and-mouth disease and the September 11 terrorist
attacks, which caused a seven per cent drop last year.

New Zealand's South Island was fourth in the list, Cape Town fifth, India's
Golden Temple at Amritsar sixth and Las Vegas seventh. Sydney was eighth, New
York ninth and India's Taj Mahal 10th.

Have you seen ALL these places - and can you prove it? Write to Top Places,
Daily Express, 245 Blackfriars Road, London SE1 9UX.

Wonders of the modern world

Grand Canyon, US Great Barrier Reef, Australia Walt Disney World, Florida South
Island, New Zealand Cape Town, South Africa Golden Temple, Amritsar Las Vegas,
US Sydney, Australia New York, US Taj Mahal, India Lake Louise, Canada Uluru
(Ayers Rock), Australia Chichen Itza, Mexico Machu Picchu, Peru Niagara Falls,
US/Canada Petra, Jordan Pyramids, Egypt Venice, Italy Maldives Great Wall of
China Victoria Falls, Zambia/Zimbabwe Hong Kong Yosemite National Park,
California Hawaii, US North Island, New Zealand Iguacu Falls, South America
Paris, France Alaska, US Angkor Wat, Cambodia Mount Everest, Himalayas Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil Masai Mara, Kenya Galapagos Islands, Ecuador Luxor, Egypt Rome,
Italy San Francisco, US Barcelona, Spain Dubai, UAE Singapore La Digue,
Seychelles Sri Lanka Bangkok, Thailand Barbados, West Indies Iceland Terracotta
Army, China Matterhorn, Switzerland Angel Falls, Venezuela Abu Simbel, Egypt
Bali, Indonesia Bora Bora, French Polynesia

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                February 5, 2002

TAset to get home defence role

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock

SECTION: News :Other :Armed forces, Pg.4

LENGTH: 283 words


THE Territorial Army could be given new duties as a "homeland defence" force in
the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon
indicated yesterday.

Mr Hoon said the attacks in the US had highlighted the need for greater security
measures at key installations around Britain, which would require the deployment
of armed personnel "over and above" the regular forces.

The Defence Secretary stressed that no final decisions had been made on who
might be given responsibility for enhanced security in the UK, but he did not
rule out using the TA for the job.

"We haven't reached any specific conclusions yet, but I certainly recognise
that, with the kinds of threats we faced on September 11, we have to reassure
people and we have to protect key installations in the UK, " he said.

"We have to develop a force that could do that over and above the people in the
regular armed forces, because clearly we can't spare highly trained professional
people for those kinds of tasks."

Mr Hoon acknowledged that the Government "asked a lot" of the armed forces,
which had had an "extraordinarily busy" year.

But he insisted that this did not mean they were overstretched, as many critics
including the Conservatives have claimed. It was his duty as Defence Secretary
to ensure that he did not ask too much of them, he said.

Mr Hoon said he would be lobbying Chancellor Gordon Brown for a "realistic"
package of financial support for the military in the upcoming Comprehensive
Spending Review.

But he made clear that he was not expecting a substantial boost in resources in
a climate when political attention is focused on the public services.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 18, 2002

Middle East crisis: UK chief rabbi defends attacks

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 360 words


Britain's chief rabbi came to the defence of Israel yesterday in the face of
international condemnation of the Sharon government's policies.

Referring to the military onslaught against Palestinian towns in the occupied
West Bank, Professor Jonathan Sacks said: "What is happening now is the direct
equivalent of what America is doing in Afghanistan. If we support the latter, I
think we also have to understand the former. They're the same policy."

His comments came hours after the prominent Jewish MP Gerald Kaufman described
the Israeli government as "repulsive" and its prime minister, Ariel Sharon, as a
"blustering bully" and a "war criminal".

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Dr Sacks said: "Israel is very much
alone in its war against terror . . . people have not understood that it is
fighting for its right to be."

The Jewish community in Britain felt that Israel had been "very unfairly treated
in the media", he said. "We all felt the shock of . . . 11 September. Since
September 2000, Israel has suffered 12,500 terrorist attacks . . . almost one
every hour of every day of every week.

"My own nephew, 18 years old, a few weeks ago had to attend, one after another
on a single morning, three funerals of his three closest friends - all 18 -
murdered while they were quietly sitting studying religious texts in a seminary.
People are simply afraid to walk the streets in Israel."

He suggested media criticism of Israel could inflame hatred against British
Jews.

"In mainland Europe we've had many, many attacks on synagogues, in France,
Belgium and elsewhere. It's not that bad (here) but when you challenge Israel's
very right to exist you are certainly calling into question the Jewish people's
right to exist collectively."

Viv Lichtenstein, of British Friends of Peace Now, said that comparing Israel's
military campaign with that of the US in Afghanistan did not excuse it.
Palestinian suicide bombings had increased "after Israel became more brutal in
its occupation", she said.

Prof Sacks' view of Israel's critics was too broad, she said, adding, "Not all
anti-Zionists are anti-semitic."


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 16, 2002

Tourists lured to Britain: land of the odd

BYLINE: Alex Benady

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 408 words


FOR MANY, "Britain" conjures up images of Empire, tradition and the monarchy,
with perhaps a hint of Cool Britannia among the younger generation.

We probably don't see ourselves as a bunch of eccentrics.

Yet that is how we are being presented to our friends and allies in an
advertising campaign starring Tony Blair.

The commercial will be shown across Europe, Canada and the US this weekend as
part of the biggest effort yet to lure visitors to the UK. The GBP
25millioncampaign comes in the wake of the foot-and-mouth crisis and the
terrorist attacks on 11 September which, together with the strong pound, have
decimated British tourism.

The ad opens on a Wellington Boot-throwing contest at Careg Cennan castle in
Wales. It then cuts to Buckingham Palace, where the wellies rain down on a taxi
cab. We then see a close-up of a cup of tea and Castle Howard in Yorkshire, with
the Lloyd ' s building superimposed as its centrepiece.

The film also features a traditional symbol of the British, the bulldog, a
bowler-hatted man in a field of flowers in the style of Belgian surrealist Renee
Magritte, 2,000 people waltzing in Trafalgar Square and knights in armour
playing tennis.

In 2001, the number of visitors to Britain fell by seven per cent to 23 million
and the amount they spent declined by 14 per cent from GBP 13billion in 2000 to
GBP 10.8 billion.

The British Tourist Authority hopes the ad will attract a million extra visitors
this year.

Its chairman, David Quarmby, said: "We wanted to capture the imagination of
prospective visitors with a distinctive and humorous reminder of Britain's
diversity and cultural heritage."

Adding to the image of eccentricity is the voice- over by Tim McInnerney, who
plays Captain Darling in Blackadder. So where is the pomp and circumstance?
Where are the punks and shots of Tower Bridge?

Advertising agency BMP DDB executive Richard Morris said: "What people like most
about Britain is the individuality and approachability of the ordinary people.
So we wanted to show that and as much of our diversity as possible."

While it may seem hurtful that other nationalities think we have clownlike
tendencies, it is a view we increasingly share.

According to a poll by consultants Corporate Edge, three of the best five
ambassadors for Britain are comedians John Cleese, Billy Connolly and Eddie
Izzard.

The other two are Tony Blair and Prince William.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNUSUAL: THE AD, INCLUDING THIS MASS WALTZ IN TRAFALGAR SQUARE,
CELEBRATES BRITISH ECCENTRICITY SURREAL: A BOWLER-HATTED MAN, A LA RENE MAGRITTE
FIGHTING SPIRIT: THE BULLDOG MAKES AN APPEARANCE MONTY PYTHONESQUE: KNIGHTS IN
ARMOUR PLAY TENNIS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 06, 2002, Friday

War on terrorism Airports years behind Britain

BYLINE: By Paul Marston Transport Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 326 words

OVERSEAS airport security is years behind Britain's despite attempted
improvements since the September 11 attacks, Britain's most senior air security
official said yesterday.

Ian Hutcheson, director of security for Britain's dominant airport owner, BAA,
warned that much of Europe and America would take at least another year to
implement baggage screening procedures that Britain adopted five years ago.

Many countries elsewhere were unlikely to achieve the same level until at least
2005. Meanwhile measures in Britain, such as testing the performance of hand
luggage screeners every 20 minutes, were virtually unknown in the rest of the
world.

Confirming that passengers faced greater risks returning to Britain than flying
out, Mr Hutcheson said BAA intended to press for faster improvements in security
around the world.

A month after September 11, European Union transport ministers agreed that 100
per cent explosives screening of hold luggage should take place at all airports
by the end of this year. Apart from Britain, which implemented the change in the
mid-1990s after Lockerbie, only Belgium is likely to meet the deadline. Some
countries argued that the cost is too great and want the date put back until
December 2003. In America, financially hard-pressed airlines have also asked for
another year to implement an identical plan.

A separate target of transferring airport security from private contractors to
specially trained federal employees by mid-November also looks certain to be
missed.

Security analysts say the most high-profile moves, such as banning sharp items
from cabin baggage, more armed patrols at airports and reinforcing cockpit
doors, were more about rebuilding passenger confidence than reducing terrorist
threats.

BAA, which runs Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and four Scottish airports, was
considering ways of improving "profiling" of passengers to identify potentially
dangerous individuals at check-in.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 28, 2002

Blunkett: Why we must fight racism

BYLINE: Ashley Broadley

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 396 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett yesterday urging British people to stand up to the
"bigotry and prejudice" that still exists in society and to step up the fight
against racism.

Speaking at the Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony in Manchester, Mr Blunkett
warned that "evil is ever-present" and constant vigilance was necessary to avoid
the atrocities the world has seen recently in Bosnia and Kosovo.

The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith and Liberal
Democrat leader Charles Kennedy joined Mr Blunkett at the ceremony at
Bridgewater Hall.

"It's fundamental to our moral horizons that we understand the Holocaust and why
we need to oppose racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry, victimisation and prejudice,
whatever its form and wherever it arises, " Mr Blunkett said.

"One thousand Jews found refuge in Britain during the 1930s and several hundred
survivors of the death camps came to Britain after the war.

Many became citizens and built families here." Mr Blunkett was said it
highlighted the willingness of Britain to accept its duty and responsibility to
helping others.

"We should reflect on this, in helping those who face death and persecution both
by providing a welcome home if necessary but also accepting our mutuality,
independence and international obligations."

The Home Secretary said the survivors of the Holocaust would remember the
"living Hell" they were put through, adding that it should "remind us that evil
is ever present and that constant vigilance is necessary".

He continued: "Events in Rwanda, Bosnia and Kosovo remind us all that the
horrors like those of the Nazi era can only be thwarted by men and women
prepared to take a stand, by nations prepared to act against those who commit
genocide.

"We can say it must never happen again but this can only be fulfilled if we will
it.

"Bigotry and prejudice still exist in British society.

We see this not just in the heinous activities of extremist right-wing groups
but also in the way innocent law-abiding Muslims and others were abused after
the terrorist attacks on September 11.

"All of us have a fundamental responsibility to stand up against those who
spread prejudice and whip up hatred in order to eliminate democracy.

And he asked: "If we do not stand up for our brothers and sisters, who will be
left to stand up for us?"

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2002

ALERT FOR DIRTY BOMB SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 227 words


SECURITY services have been on alert for a radioactive "dirty bomb" attack in
Britain since last year.

Moves to tackle the threat were ordered after the September 11 attacks in
America.

Devices capable of detecting radioactive material have been installed at ports
to prevent terrorists smuggling in nuclear material needed to make the bombs.

The security, at ports including Dover, Southampton, Hull, Felixstowe, Ramsgate
and Portsmouth, was prompted by intelligence reports revealing that Osama Bin
Laden was seeking the terrifying weapon.

The detection devices, used by US customs officers for years, can "sniff out"
plutonium or enriched uranium and be hand-held or attached to security barriers.

Experts acknowledge the difficulty of completely sealing off Britain from such a
threat. Three million lorries and cars come in through Dover and Felixstowe a
year.

Secret measures have been taken at the 350-odd buildings and sites on the
Government's "critical national infrastructure list" - prime terrorist targets
vital for Britain's economy.

The key buildings and installations, including oil refineries, nuclear power
stations and vital communications centres, have had their security profiles
urgently reassessed because of the threat posed by Al Qaeda.

A Home Office spokesman refused to comment on specific measures.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 17, 2002

SUICIDE BOMBS ALERT

BYLINE: By Allan Hall in Berlin and Richard Palmer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words


SUICIDE bombers are preparing to unleash terror attacks on Britain and Germany,
the CIA has warned.

American agents have issued the alert directly to the two governments amid fears
Al Qaeda is preparing to exact revenge on the nations most closely linked to the
US military action in Afghanistan.

The warnings follow revelations in last week's Sunday Express that Scotland Yard
fears a suicide bombing in Britain.

German officials believe the decision to deploy its SAS-trained KSK special
forces troops inside Afghanistan, to fight alongside Americans in the recent
large-scale assault on Taliban and Al Qaeda forces hiding in the mountains, has
increased the likelihood of revenge being taken in Europe.

According to reports in a German magazine two high-ranking Al Qaeda officials
were at a terrorist meeting in Peshawar, northern Pakistan in the past few days.

The report also states that the German intelligence agencies have listened in to
telephone calls within Germany between militant followers of Osama Bin Laden
prepared to make "murderous attacks" in revenge for the US-led war on terrorism.

The CIA alert was passed on to German intelligence agencies on March 8 and
filtered down through the 16 states of the republic to all agencies responsible
for domestic security.

German officials describe the warning as "vague". It is not clear when Britain
was informed by the Americans about the latest threat, but it is believed Al
Qaeda sleepers are in both countries, waiting for orders for revenge for the
assault on the group and its erstwhile protector in Afghanistan, the Taliban.

Germany was the base used by the September 11 terrorists for the financing and
planning of the Twin Towers and Pentagon suicide plane attacks.

Fanatics enrolled at the Technical University in Hamburg-Harburg used the city
as a base while receiving funds and orders through an unofficial Taliban embassy
based in Frankfurt Main.

Meanwhile, Britain's efforts to counter national disasters ranging from
terrorist attacks to flooding are in disarray after ministers shelved an
overhaul of emergency planning.

The Cabinet Office has told local authorities that it will be at least another
two years before it can find time for legislation to go through Parliament to
set up a proper nationally coordinated system.

Ministers have admitted that the chaos over the fuel crisis, flooding,
foot-andmouth and then the panic over September 11 have shown the UK's ability
to respond to national emergencies is haphazard.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 19, 2002

Blair's pledge: we will warn you of specific terror threat;Dilemma over alerts
and public panic

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 653 words


TONY Blair promised last night to warn the public of any specific terrorist
threat in any part of the UK as fears grew of an attack from Islamic extremists.

After weekend reports of terrorist plans to target public places throughout
Britain, including the London Underground, the prime minister gave an assurance
that the government would release details of any specific intelligence of a
terrorist attack against a known target.

Iain Duncan Smith, the Tory leader, had called for a Commons statement to end
any confusion and prevent alarmist headlines. During a 25-minute briefing from
the prime minister in Downing Street, Mr Duncan Smith appealed for a detailed
statement on the measures in place to protect against the threat of terrorist
attack.

Mr Blair's decision to give a public pledge on security intelligence came after
months of considering how much the public could be told without creating panic.

Interviewed by Trevor McDonald on ITV's Tonight programme, Mr Blair revealed the
dilemma over the release of information. He admitted ministers had to be wary of
acting on what he described as "general information".

He added: "The difficult dilemma we have here is this: constantly at the moment,
because of the terrorist threat, we have pieces of information, pieces of
intelligence, coming across our desks and we have to sift that and weigh it and
judge it.

"If there is a specific threat against a specific target we, of course, will
warn people. But we have got to be very wary of acting on general information,
of issuing warnings when they are not really justified according to the
evidence.

"The risk then is we unnecessarily alarm people, we end up doing the terrorists'
job for them, and for the public, they will get confused if there are different
pieces of information coming at them the whole time."

Mr Blair's spokesman en-dorsed the assurance by John Prescott, deputy prime
minister, that there was no evidence of any plans for a gas attack on the London
Underground.

A court was told yesterday that three terrorist suspects, charged under the
Terrorism Act, had never been questioned by police about the alleged plot to
attack the Underground with poison gas. The three made a 15-minute appearance at
Bow Street Magistrates' Court.

The men, all of North African descent, appeared with two interpreters. They were
remanded in custody and will appear again on December 16.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, of St Andrews University's centre for the study of
terrorism and political violence, supported speculation that the current threat
to the UK from Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network was "very high".

He said: "We know that Britain has been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a
recent audiotape. He threatens attacks against Britain and other countries that
are part of the terrorism coalition."

US intelligence experts said they had concluded that this new audiotape of bin
Laden was an authentic, unaltered, and recent recording of the al Qaeda leader.
Technical analysis of the tape furnished the first proof in almost a year that
bin Laden is alive. The White House said it was clear the tape was made in the
last few weeks.

It also emerged yesterday that two Tornado jets were scrambled after a civilian
helicopter almost flew into an air exclusion zone around the Clyde naval base at
Faslane. The incident happened earlier this month when the nuclear submarine HMS
Trafalgar returned to the base after running aground.

The helicopter, transporting a cameraman from Scottish TV and a newspaper
photographer, came "very close" to the permanent air exclusion zone around the
submarine base. It then disappeared from radar surveillance, triggering the
alert. The helicopter was chartered by Scottish TV, which is owned by SMG, owner
of The Herald. A spokesman for the company stressed the helicopter did not enter
the exclusion zone.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 7, 2002

CHEERS AT 30,000-STRONG DEMO AS ARAFAT IS COMPARED TO HITLER; PRO-ISRAEL
PROTESTERS DEMAND END TO TERROR

BYLINE: By Richard Palmer and Lianne Kolirin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 451 words


BRITAIN'S Jewish community staged its biggest-ever demonstration yesterday when
thousands of proIsrael supporters packed into Trafalgar Square to call for
Middle East peace.

More than 30,000 demonstrators attended the rally, pledging solidarity with the
Israeli people and calling for an end to Palestinian suicide bombings.

They listened to speeches by politicians from across the political spectrum,
including Israel's former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, its former Foreign
Secretary Shlomo Ben-Ami, Britain's former Northern Ireland Secretary Peter
Mandelson and Michael Ancram, the Conservative deputy leader.

The organisers, eager to win broad support, were careful to label it as a rally
for the people of Israel rather than making it a gesture of support for the
actions of the current Right-wing government and its Prime Minister, Ariel
Sharon.

However, Mr Netanyahu, who has been tipped for a political comeback, won the
loudest cheers after comparing Yasser Arafat to Adolf Hitler and insisting that
Israel could not negotiate with the Palestinians while he remained their leader.

The Right-winger urged Britain to rally round Israel just as it resisted Nazism
60 years ago. "Britain stands before another road now and it must choose between
two opposing paths. The path of appeasing terror or the path of confronting
terror, " he said. He insisted that Israel would only negotiate with a new
Palestinian leader. "The path to peace does not go through Arafat, it does not
go around Arafat, it must go over Arafat, " he added.

Mr Ben-Ami, more conciliatory, said Israel wanted peace. "This conflict does not
have a military solution. We draw no comfort from the tragedies that have
befallen the Palestinian people, " he told the crowd.

During an emotional afternoon when speakers evoked memories of the Nazi
Holocaust and vowed to fight a sudden rise in attacks on the Jewish community,
there was an outpouring of sympathy for the plight of innocent civilians in
Israel.

Fiona Macaulay, a spokeswoman for the Board of Deputies of British Jews, said:
"This is not a political rally. This is about saying Yes to peace and No to
terror. Israel has suffered 12,500 terror attacks in the past 18 months. That's
one every hour, 24 hours a day, seven days a week."

Meanwhile, Mr Sharon, in Washington for talks with US President Bush, vowed to
produce a damning dossier of evidence that Arafat used millions of pounds of EU
and American cash to fund the terror attacks.

As negotiators moved to end the bloody siege of Bethlehem's Church of the
Nativity, he claimed he had 100 pages of proof of Arafat's involvement and would
hand them personally to Mr Bush.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2002

PORT ALERT FOR 'DIRTY BOMB' SMUGGLERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 173 words


SECURITY services have been on alert for a radioactive "dirty bomb" attack in
Britain since last year. Moves to tackle the threat were ordered after the
September 11 attacks.

Devices capable of detecting radioactive material have been installed at ports
to prevent terrorists smuggling in nuclear material needed to make the bombs.
The security, at ports including Dover, Southampton, Hull, Felixstowe, Ramsgate
and Portsmouth, was prompted by intelligence reports revealing that Osama Bin
Laden was seeking the terrifying weapon.

The detection devices, used by US customs officers for years, can "sniff out"
plutonium or enriched uranium and be hand-held or attached to security barriers.

Experts acknowledge the difficulty of completely sealing off Britain from such a
threat.

Three million lorries and cars come in through Dover and Felixstowe a year.

A "dirty bomb", which can be hidden in a suitcase, would cause little damage to
buildings but could result in thousands of casualties from radiation sickness.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 17, 2002, Thursday

I'm still seeking UN mandate, says Blair Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KALLENBACH

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 273 words

THE Prime Minister said yesterday that he still hoped the United Nations would
achieve consensus on sending weapons inspectors to Iraq.

Tony Blair told MPs: "I hope that it is done through the UN and that is what I
am trying to achieve."

He was speaking during the first chance that MPs have had to question him since
returning to Parliament earlier this week after a 12-week summer break.

Mr Blair did not say whether Britain planned to support any unilateral action by
America against Iraq. He said he hoped for action based on "the broadest
possible basis of consent" and added: "That's why we've got the process under
way at the moment in the United Nations.

"I believe that we will achieve a consensus on this internationally and the
reason for that is that most people, when they reflect upon it, do understand
that weapons of mass destruction are an issue, do understand that it is not safe
for the world to have chemical, biological, potentially nuclear weapons and do
understand that the world community has got to make it clear that he's got to be
disarmed of those weapons."

He was warned by Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, that the
international coalition against terrorism could "fracture" if America attacked
Iraq alone.

Earlier, Jim Sheridan (Lab, W Renfrewshire), spoke of the death of a constituent
in the terrorist attack in Bali. He told the Prime Minister that it was the
innocent and poorest people of Indonesia and Iraq who suffered most from these
"vicious" attacks.

He called for assurances that Britain would "pursue with vigour those
responsible".
[PS]News: [ES]

Parliament:

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 5, 2002

UK NUCLEAR POLICE FORCE PLANNED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 158 words


THE Government is to establish a new police force to protect Britain's nuclear
sites from terrorist attacks, it emerged last night.

Nuclear waste in transit will also be under guard amid fears it could be stolen
by terrorists to make a "dirty bomb".

Following the September 11 attacks, the threat to British nuclear installations
has increased and the lack of proper security around those sites has been
highlighted.

Details of the new force were announced in the Government's White Paper on
cleaning up nuclear waste at a cost of GBP 48billion.

The proposed 600-strong mostly-armed Civil Nuclear Constabulary would police
seven nuclear sites. It would operate like other police forces, with its own
chief constable and police authority appointed by the Secretary of State for
Trade and Industry.

Nuclear authorities welcomed the move and said a specialist unit trained to
operate within nuclear installations was needed.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 15, 2002

UK economy is at a standstill, says thinktank

BYLINE: Heather Stewart

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 352 words


Plunging output from Britain's battered manufacturing sector brought the economy
to a standstill in the fourth quarter of 2001, a leading economic thinktank
claimed yesterday.

The National Institute of Economic and Social Research said it believed growth
in the last three months of the year slipped to zero, after official figures
showed manufacturing output shrank at the fastest pace for a decade in November.
NIESR's director, Martin Weale, admitted the terrorist attacks of September 11
had depressed the economy more than it had expected. "I don't think it's had a
permanent effect, but I think it's had a bigger impact on output in October than
we thought," he said, although he expects activity to pick up in the coming
months.

Struggling manufacturers cut output by 0.7% in November, the office for national
sta tistics said, bringing the annual rate of contraction in the recession-hit
sector to 5.4%, the fastest rate of decline since September 1991.

"The manufacturing recession is hitting all sectors, and not just the hi-tech
industries," said John Monks, general secretary of the TUC. "It is already
deeper and is set to last longer than during the Asian crisis. We need a package
of measures in the Budget to get the sector through the worst and support
communities and individuals under threat of redundancy." The transport sector
suffered particularly badly in November, with production of motor vehicles
falling 3.5% month on month.

Hi-tech firms have also cut back sharply on output, squeezed by the collapse in
business investment in the US and the eurozone. Production of telecoms equipment
was down 48.5% year on year, and computers by 11.23%.

"These numbers provide a powerful reminder that, while the consumer sector seems
to be riding out the economic slowdown, the industrial scene remains wretched,"
said Daniel Kaye of Capital Economics.

The squeeze on manufacturing firms' profits shows no sign of easing, according
to separate official figures published yesterday which showed factory gate
prices were static in December and down 0.2% year on year.


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 13, 2002, Thursday

SHARON IN BID TO WIN EU SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL

BYLINE: Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 212 words


ISRAELI Prime Minister Ariel Sharon flew to London yesterday as part of his bid
to win the support of European leaders.

Sharon, who sees Britain as one of the most friendly European states, arrived
from the US where he spent two days praising Americans for their efforts to help
get Israel and the Palestinians to hold peace talks.

He hopes that his dealings with the British Government will change the EU's
"unbalanced approach to Israel".

The EU has been leading those demanding Palestinian statehood in the short term
and is threatening to impose tariffs on imports from Jewish settlements in the
West Bank and Gaza Strip.

Israel has said EU aid money meant for the Palestinians is being diverted to pay
for terror attacks against their people.

But European chiefs insist they've found no evidence of that.

Yesterday, a senior Israeli official admitted: "Not all our relations with
European countries are the same.

"With Britain, we have friendly relations and a strong connection with the
British Prime Minister."

Before his visit to London, Sharon was in Washington to put his case across to
US President George W Bush.

Bush is keen to see a settlement in the Middle East which includes a Palestinian
state at peace with Israel.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                October 27, 2002

NEW SMALLPOX VACCINE ORDER IN CASE OF ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Porter, Political Editor;

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 269 words


British health officials have been ordered to line up a second multi-million
pound delivery of smallpox vaccine, amid growing fears that the deadly virus
could be used in a terrorist attack on the UK.

Tony Blair, the British prime minister, has demanded the vaccine stockpile be
increased after his top health adviser warned that there should be enough doses
to inoculate every person in the country.

Health officials have been given the go-ahead to purchase at least 10m more
doses of smallpox vaccine to add to the 20m ordered earlier this year.

It has been established that Britain's pre-11 September store of the vaccine can
be diluted - potentially stretching the 3m-plus existing stocks to 15m.

Senior government sources admitted on Saturday that this time they would open
the vaccines deal to full competition, after their decision to award the
original £32m (E50m) contract to Powderject Pharmaceuticals, run by Labour donor
Paul Drayson, sparked protests.

Opposition parties and rival firms said the Department of Health had not
followed the rules on opening government contracts up to competitive tender.

Ministers refused to give full reasons for the decision, citing "national
security" but claimed Powderject was the only company able to provide the type
of vaccine required in sufficient quantities in the time specified.

Anxiety about a possible biological attack has intensified since Blair published
his dossier of evidence against Saddam Hussein, which included claims the Iraqi
leader had continued to produce chemical and biological agents since the 1991
Gulf war.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            December 8, 2002, Monday

50,000 COULD DIE;
 TOWN HALLS PREPARE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO

BYLINE: Vincent Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 245 words

HIGHLIGHT: At numerous multi-agency meetings after September 11
incident-officers from both the Health Service and Emergency Services, often
stated 'mass casualty' planning figures variously from 'several to up to
50,000'; BLEAK: Memo's stark warning of death toll; ALERT: Blair


DOOMSDAY plans are being secretly drawn up to deal with a chemical or biological
attack on Britain's towns and cities.

Town halls are being ordered to prepare for a "catastrophic" toll of up to
50,000 dead and injured - a 100-fold increase on the previous worst case
scenario.

The Government has warned emergency chiefs to tear up plans which outlined
measures to deal with 500 casualties from a single incident such as a plane or
train crash.

The move is a pre-emptive strike against germ war terrorists as part of Tony
Blair's efforts to tighten Britain's security amid growing fears of an attack by
Osama bin Laden or Saddam Hussein.

According to a memo leaked to the Sunday Mirror, secret meetings of emergency
planners from local authorities across Britain have been told that "planning is
needed for thousands, not hundreds" of casualties.

They have held talks about being forced to dispose of thousands of bodies
contaminated by smallpox, anthrax or other killers. The "guidance note on mass
casualties" warns Britain must prepare after the September 11 attacks on
America.

The Sunday Mirror has also learnt from senior Government ministers that
hospitals have been told to increase their store of body bags.

Liberal Democrat spokesman Don Foster said guidance from the Government - in the
wake of cuts in civil defence spending - involved telling people to "prepare
with buckets, sponges, household bleach and pop-up paddling pools".

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 20, 2002, Friday

Militants held over terror funding

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 188 words


POLICE believe they have broken up an Islamic terrorist support network after 11
men were arrested yesterday in raids by armed officers and MI5 agents
investigating funding from Britain for a new wave of terror attacks across
Europe.

Six of the men picked up in the dawn raids at residential addresses in London
are being questioned about their role in providing logistical support for a
terrorist group believed to be linked to al-Qaeda.

The suspects, all of Middle Eastern origin and aged in their twenties and
thirties, were being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2000 at
top-security prisons. Five other men are suspected of immigration and criminal
offences including credit-card fraud. Investigators from a dozen countries claim
that Britain is a vital centre for fundraising for overseas terror groups.

Muhammed Abdulah Azam, 32, from Luton, appeared before Bow Street magistrates in
London yesterday accused of amassing books about bomb-making and weapons which
could have been used in a terrorist attack. He was remanded in custody until
September 26.

War on Terrorism, pages 14-15


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 9, 2002

HOUSEHOLDS TO GET ATTACK SURVIVAL GUIDE; BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR STANDBY

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 616 words


BRITAIN is buying body bags and overhauling plans to deal with an Al Qaeda mass
terrorist attack, it was revealed yesterday.

The move comes amid chilling new evidence that Osama Bin Laden's network still
poses a serious threat to the West. It means that every householder could now
get leaflets explaining how to survive a catastrophe.

The revelation came as a leading Al Qaeda spokesman threatened faster, harder
strikes against America's "Jewish-Crusader" coalition.

Sulaiman Abu Ghaith reportedly confirmed claims that Al Qaeda was behind the
recent attacks in Kenya which left 16 people dead, including Israeli tourists,
the intended target. And in the statement attributed to him, which was posted
yesterday on a militant website, he declared - using a term common among Islamic
militants for what they see as a US-Israeli alliance: "The JewishCrusader
coalition will not be safe anywhere from the fighters' attacks.

"We will hit the most vital centres and we will strike against its strategic
operations with all possible means."

The statement added: "We will chase the enemy with terrifying weapons. We have
to widen our fighting fronts and conduct more concentrated and faster
operations. . . so (the enemy) feels unsafe and unstable on land, air and sea."

Abu Ghaith is one of the leading Al Qaeda members hunted by America and its
allies since the coalition began bombing Afghanistan more than a year ago in
response to the September 11 attacks.

The Government has recently stepped up its campaign of warnings to the public
that they could come under attack. Yesterday, after repeated criticisms from
experts and the Opposition that it was not doing enough, more details emerged of
how it is preparing.

The Government has issued tenders for millions of pounds worth of equipment for
use in case of a chemical or biological attack.

It is buying 5,000 body bags, more than 120,000 decontamination suits to be used
immediately after an attack, 100,000 suits to be worn after initial treatment,
the difference in numbers said by experts to reflect likely deaths, and
thousands of special showers, shelters and stretchers.

The orders are due to be placed before Christmas and companies were told to
consider scenarios such as a terrorist attack on Trafalgar Square as well as on
Parliament, Canary Wharf and other big city centres.

Philip Ward, managing director of emergency equipment manufacturer Ferno UK,
told a Sunday newspaper his company was among those bidding for the contracts.

He said the first was for more than GBP 50million worth of equipment, including
suits, showers, shelters and specialised vehicles. A second contract was for
equipment including stretchers.

The deadline for delivering orders had been brought forward from July to June
and was widely expected to be brought forward again.

A spokesman for Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott's office, which is
coordinating the purchases, refused to comment on specific threats or orders of
equipment. Meanwhile, it was confirmed that the Government plans a wholesale
shake-up of the Cold War-era emergency planning system. Ministers will issue
draft legislation in the spring to create a national plan capable of dealing
with catastrophic incidents.

Local Government Minister Nick Raynsford, who is in charge of planning for
London, said: "We want people to know that we are ready for any eventuality
without alarming the public."

After consultation on the draft, ministers will seek to get the Bill made law.

At the weekend, health ministers from around the world agreed an action plan to
prepare for any deliberate release of the smallpox virus by terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 29, 2002

Signature tune: Tourist famine felt at restaurants

BYLINE: Richard Wray

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 351 words


Signature Restaurants, the company that owns trendy London eateries The Ivy,
above, and Le Caprice, warned yesterday that tourist trade at its less
high-calibre Belgo chain continues to be poor, as it reported a fall in interim
profits.

The company, formerly known as Belgo Group, has suffered from a decline in
tourists visiting Britain in the wake of the foot and mouth crisis and the
September 11 terrorist attacks which have caused a slump in air travel.

Created by entrepreneur Luke Johnson, the com pany said profits in the final six
months of 2001 dropped from pounds 2.2m to pounds 1.5m as sales remained static
at pounds 20m. It will not pay a dividend, leaving the group's shares down 1.25p
at 37.75p.

Signature warned in November that profits for the full year to June 2002 would
be "significantly below" market expectations. Yesterday the company confirmed
that trading conditions in 2002 continued to be difficult.

Chief executive Andy Bassadone said he did not see an early recovery. "Our top
London restaurants - The Ivy, J Sheekey and Le Caprice - are unaffected, but the
big central London Belgo restaurants are suffering a lack of tourist action."

The company has taken action to arrest a slide in sales at two other
restaurants: Daphne's, which is now under new management, and The Collection,
which is being sold.

Mr Bassadone yesterday played down speculation that Signature's management was
trying to take the company private, speculation which was rekindled yesterday by
the group's poor results.

"We have given up commenting on any corporate activity because if everybody that
the market said might own this business did own it we would have about 10
owners."

He had been contacted by the investor behind Kintaro International, the vehicle
based in the Virgin Islands which has built up a stake of 14% in the business
over recent weeks.

"We wanted to know who he was and he actually got in touch with us. We have
spoken to him - he is a speculative investor and thinks Signature is
undervalued. But he completely supports our management."


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 9, 2002

Blunkett's blunder over terror warning

BYLINE: Matthew George Political Correspondent

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.7

LENGTH: 462 words


A FRIGHTENING warning of terror attacks in Britain was issued by mistake,
Downing Street admitted yesterday.

The Home Office blundered by publishing a document containing startling details
of ways in which international and Irish terrorists may target the mainland.

But Tony Blair insisted it is vital to be aware of the threat from al-Qaeda and
asked people to be vigilant.

His appeal came as Interpol claimed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden is still
alive and is planning a new atrocity.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Home Office has been quite
open in admitting there was an administrative slip-up.

"But what is important is not to get diverted by that and to concentrate on the
substance of what the document says.

"What it says is that there is a serious and ongoing threat from al-Qaeda, which
is confirmed by intelligence reports from various parts of the world, the threat
applies just as much to this country as to others and, as we learned on
September 11, this is a qualitatively different kind of threat from previous
terrorist threats.

"That general threat we all have to be aware of. That is why we have to remain
vigilant, that is the key message of the document."

The report was issued on Thursday evening and then withdrawn within hours and
replaced with a less detailed version.

Professor Paul Wilkinson of the Centre for Terrorism Studies at St Andrews
University said it was sensible to look at the worst-case scenario.

He said: "I think that the earlier statement was not inaccurate and I suspect
that really the reason for its withdrawal was that they did not want to
highlight specific threats.

"They wanted to point out that the threat was from a whole variety of tactics.

"It may be unwelcome advice, we would like to feel that this threat has
disappeared, but al-Qaeda is still in business despite the successes that have
been achieved in the war against terrorism.

"It is wise therefore to be prepared for a long and difficult battle to
eradicate this dangerous network."

Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, called on the Government
to clear up the confusion the withdrawal of the document had created.

Meanwhile Interpol chief Ronald Noble has said he believes terror mastermind bin
Laden is still alive.

He said the French-based Interpol had studied the financial standing of bin
Laden and concluded that his fortune remains intact and is somewhere between 176
million and 190 million.

Recent attacks in Bali, Yemen and Moscow were a message to the West that their
war against terrorism was far from over.

Intelligence specialists agreed al-Qaeda was planning another large-scale
terrorist operation targeting several countries at once.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                August 29, 2002

UK favours Iraq deadline; WEAPONS: Inspection deal 'could avert war'

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 426 words


BRITAIN may push for a deadline to be imposed on Saddam Hussein to re-admit
United Nations weapons inspectors, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said today.
Ministers were prepared to consider a call by the Commons Foreign Affairs
Committee to propose a deadline for the Iraqi dictator to comply with UN
Security Council resolutions on weapons inspections, he said.

"Existing UN resolutions require immediate Iraqi compliance, including on
weapons inspections. The Government will nonetheless be giving further
consideration to this recommendation," Mr Straw said.

The suggestion comes as British officials have sought to play down suggestions
of a rift with the United States over military action against Iraq.

Hawks in the Washington administration, led by Vice-President Dick Cheney, have
been pressing the case for action to topple Saddam before he can acquire nuclear
weapons.

Britain, in contrast, has argued that the threat of military action could be
lifted if the weapons inspectors were allowed back in.

Mr Straw, in his official response to the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on
the war against terrorism, also emphasised the need to tackle Iraq's arsenal of
chemical and biological.

He acknowledged that Iraq would be 'a better place' without Saddam, but stopped
short of advocating a policy of 'regime change' in Baghdad.

"The Government's policy is to secure full implementation of the Security
Council resolutions relating to Iraq. It is also the Government's view that Iraq
would be a better place without Saddam Hussein," he said.

"As the Prime Minister has made clear, we are determined to deal with the threat
posed by Iraq's possession of weapons of mass destruction." Mr Straw also
rejected criticisms that Britain's intelligence agencies - MI6, MI5 and GCHQ -
could have done more to avert the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

"It (the Government) does not accept that the UK agencies overlooked any
intelligence which would have forewarned of the attacks of last September," he
said.

"A subsequent re-examination of material across the intelligence community did
not find any information that could have given warning of the attacks." The
Parliamentary Intelligence Committee disclosed earlier this year that British
and American intelligence were aware before Setpember 11 that Osama bin Laden's
al Qaida network was planning an attack, but did not know the target. The
committee criticised the agencies for failing to do more to find out what was
going on.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 31, 2002, Saturday

HIGHLIGHTS : THE WEEK AHEAD;
 DRAMA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 812 words


PLOTS thicken, relationships intensify and Andrew's (Timothy West) anxieties
increase in the second week of the series which takes a peek behind the curtains
of a suburban street.

Alice's (Sheila Hancock) letter to the local paper about the Kurds produces more
reasons for Andrew to worry and it's not long before Alice starts to get a new
perspective on her friends and neighbours.

Neil (Alun Armstrong) is no nearer to finding out what Ralph (Adam Paul Harvey)
gets up to on his computer until the early hours of the morning but it doesn't
stop him from trying, putting further strain on his awkward relationship with
his son.

Events start to overtake Faith (Doon MacKichan) at work while Simon (Kevin
McNally) avoids making a bigger commitment to their relationship.

All the elements come together in a surprising and explosive conclusion to this
funny and compelling mini-soap.

DOCUMENTARY

One Year On: Avening Terror, Saturday and Sunday, Ch4, 8.00pm

MARKING the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks, this two- parter
explores how the events of that awful day have changed the world.

When the planes hit the Twin Towers and the Pentagon last September, it came as
just as much of a shock to the world's leaders as it did to ordinary people.

In these fascinating and important films, Russian president Vladimir Putin,
Pakistan president Pervez Musharraf, Prime Minister Tony Blair, German
chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, US secretary of state Colin Powell, US national
security adviser Condoleezza Rice and other leading figures give an insight into
their response to the events of last September.

Revealing the human face of power politics, the world's leaders and their
advisers tell how they reversed alliances, abandoned commitments, overruled
colleagues, begged favours - and, in some cases, risked being overthrown as they
reacted to the terror attack.

This is the remarkably frank inside story of how the war on terror evolved.

Among the stories revealed for the first time is the revelation that President
Putin phoned George Bush just two days before the September 11 to talk about
terrorism and Al Qaeda.

Putin recalls: "I told him I had a foreboding that something was going to
happen; something long in the preparation."

The attack itself almost immediately threw the spotlight on US/Pakistan
relations.

The Bush administration was sure within hours that Al Qaeda was responsible for
the attacks and realised that they would need the full support of Pakistan to go
into Afghanistan.

FOOD

Rick Stein's Food Heroes, Thurdsay, BBC2, 8.00pm

CONTINUING his gastronomic tour of Britain, this week Rick Stein packs his bags,
and packet of mints, and heads for a garlic festival on the Isle of Wight.

During his culinary romp around Britain, Rick discovers a most unusual food
creation - garlic fudge.

"Only in Britain could anyone come up with garlic fudge. This is a first for
me," he says, biting into a large chunk of this delicacy.

After devouring a glorious bacon butty at the festival, Rick then sets off to
meet the pig farmer, Stuart Pearce, who has a wonderful philosophy for farming
happy, healthy pigs.

Mr Pearce says: "Pigs are so intelligent, it's about letting animal do what they
should be doing so they aren't bored. The key is to let them express their own
behaviour."

Rick also goes in search of the once extinct blue vinney cheese and visits the
chalk beds of Hampshire to harvest watercress before ending his journey at a
chilli fiesta in Sussex.

A mouth-watering televisual feast for everyone to enjoy. Tuck in.

COMEDY

Bo Selectal, Friday, Ch4, 10.30pm

THIS quirky comedy looks set to become essential Friday night viewing so tune in
now before the bandwagon gets too overcrowded.

Ginger-haired, neck-brace-wearing celebrity super-fan Avid Merrion, the bastard
son of a Dracula impersonator, originates from a small town called Arachnipuss
in Transylvania.

Now living in a Hackney bedsit, he has dedicated his life to following,
obsessing about, and collecting autographs and souvenirs of celebrities.

Living off inheritance from his mother, Avid doesn't work and doesn't need to.
As a result this means he can dedicate his time to his obsession.

He has enough means to live comfortably but he's far from house-proud. His money
is mainly spent on celebrity paraphernalia - magazines, T- shirts, posters and
his home is fitted with the state of the art in surveillance, because he likes
to watch people.

With his busy schedule of attending conventions, book signings and premieres,
Avid finds time to chat to his dead mother, who he keeps in his wardrobe. Scary.

You may think Avid is a deranged basket case, but when you meet him you will
find that he is a very warm and friendly character - just sometimes a bit too
friendly.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 2, 2002

It's Grey Britain;
 One in five will be over 65 by 2050

BYLINE: Brian Price

SECTION: News :People :Issues, Pg.19

LENGTH: 368 words


THE average age of the UK population is rising so sharply that one in five
people will be pensioners by 2050.

Figures outlining the spiralling average age of UK citizens have led to concerns
over whether the UK infrastructure can cope with such a steep rise.

Recent figures revealed elderly people will outnumber children for the first
time in history by 2050. In the North Somerset, Bath and Bristol area, an
increase of at least 25 per cent in the population of over-65s is expected by
2019.

And a massive 57 per cent rise in over-65s is predicted in South Gloucestershire
in the next 17 years.

Experts believe millions of pounds will have to be spent on health care,
pensions, transport and housing to look after Britain's growing number of older
people.

But finding somewhere to live might not prove too much of a problem if a boom in
the retirement home building industry, reported by one local firm, continues.

Retirement-home builder McCarthy and Stone announced record profits for the
half-year and unveiled healthy plans for expansion in the West.

Soaring property prices helped the Bournemouth-based firm achieve its best ever
financial results, despite fears by its chairman that the effects of the
September 11 terrorist attacks could hit the market.

The group has secured enough land to provide more than 7,800 properties in the
UK and the boom will see a host of new retirement-home developments springing up
in the West. McCarthy and Stone spokesman Matthew Thorne said work on a
development for 70 retirement homes was due to start this month in Fishponds,
Bristol, while several other West developments were awaiting the green light
from planners. "We are already building in several parts of South Wales and a
development is under way at Chipping Norton, " he added.

With the care system and health service across the UK already under intense
pressure, drastic measures are needed to ensure there is enough accommodation
for older people over the next 50 years. But the buoyant feeling in the
retirement-home building industry is certain to be seen as a welcome boost by
those who have the task of looking after the needs of Britain's older people.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 08, 2002, Monday

Australia appoint Johns as captain

BYLINE: By Michael Fisher

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 293 words

ANDREW JOHNS, the Newcastle Knights scrum-half, will captain a new-look
Australia team against Great Britain in Friday's one-off Test in Sydney.

Johns, who takes over the captaincy from Sydney Roosters' Brad Fittler following
his decision to retire from representative rugby, got the vote over Gorden
Tallis, the Brisbane Broncos forward.

The selectors have chosen four new caps and made 11 changes to the team who
wrapped up a 2-1 Ashes series victory over Britain at Wigan's JJB Stadium last
November.

The newcomers are Newcastle team-mates Timana Tahu and Scott Simpson, Brisbane
centre Brent Tate and Canterbury's giant forward Willie Mason, who played for
Tonga in the 2000 World Cup.

Australia also include Brisbane prop-forward Shane Webcke, who declined to tour
Britain last year in the wake of terrorist attacks in the United States, while
there is a recall for centre Chris McKenna following his impressive showing in
the State of Origin Series.

Colin Love, the Australian Rugby League chairman, said: "We have enormous faith
in the ability of Andrew to lead the Kangaroos on and off the field. There have
been fewer than 60 Test captains, so this is very much an appointment of
tremendous significance for both the game and Australian sport."

AUSTRALIA (v Great Britain, Sydney, Friday): D Lockyer (Brisbane); L Tuqiri
(Brisbane), S Timmins (St George Illawarra), C McKenna (Cronulla), T Tahu
(Newcastle);

T Barrett (St George Illawarra), A Johns (Newcastle, capt); S Webcke (Brisbane),
D Buderus (Newcastle), J Ryles (St George Illawarra), G Tallis (Brisbane), S
Simpson (Newcastle), S Hill (Melbourne).

Subs: J Stevens (Cronulla), S Menzies (Northern Eagles), B Tate (Brisbane), W
Mason (Canterbury).
[PS]Sport: [ES]

Golf:

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            July 11, 2002, Thursday

CRICKET: PRESENCE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 134 words


AUSTRALIAN hard man Shane Webcke, the man who famously refused to fly to England
for last November's Ashes Series, will be making his presence felt in Friday's
Test match against Great Britain.

Webcke was the only player not to climb down after the Aussies buckled to
pressure to re-instate the tour, which had been cancelled in the wake of the
September 11 terrorist attack.

Webcke had come out strongly in favour of the cancellation and he stuck to his
guns but it was with a heavy heart that he watched the series unfold from 12,000
miles away.

"I don't regret it," he insisted. "I am pleased I stuck with my decision. I got
more plaudits for doing that than I would have done if had turned my back on
them.

"I was asked to write an article in the paper (about the cancellation)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 4, 2002, Friday Edition 1

Alleged bomber 'made calls to suspect'

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 308 words







Alleged shoe bomber Richard Reid made a series of phone calls to so-called 20th
hijacker Zacarias Moussaoui when they both lived in Britain, it was claimed
yesterday.

The two men's phone calls were intercepted by British security agents, American
law enforcement officials told the Washington Times newspaper.

Moussaoui is the only man to have been charged in connection with the September
11 terror attack and faces six counts of conspiring to hijack planes and launch
kamikaze attacks on America. And yesterday his mother returned to France after
travelling to America to meet her son's lawyers and said she feared he was a
scapegoat for the suffering of September 11.

Aicha el-Wafi spoke as she arrived at Paris's Charles de Gaulle airport and
said: "Tell the American people that I share in their suffering, particularly
with those who lost their loved ones.

"I don't want my son to be used as a scapegoat for the pain and suffering of the
American people."

El-Wafi, of Narbonne in southern France, did not see her son, a 33-year-old
French Moroccan who lived in London for much of the last nine years, as she
objected to American prosecutors insisting that their conversations be monitored
and could be used in evidence.

"I would have broken down if I saw him and so would he, it was not the right
moment," she added. But she said she believed in her son's innocence and added:
"I will not accept the death penalty, I will fight it very strongly."

Moussaoui's alleged conversations with Reid were intercepted late in 2000 and
ended when Moussaoui left Britain and travelled to Pakistan, the Washington
Times reported. US prosecutors claim he sneaked across the border to Afghanistan
where he trained at a terror camp, before travelling to America to learn how to
fly.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 9, 2002, Saturday

50 PLACES TO VISIT BEFORE YOU DIE;
 NOT ONE IS IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Deborah Sheldon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 332 words


AMERICA'S Grand Canyon tops a list of 50 dream holiday destinations - but none
of them is in Britain.

Twenty thousand BBC viewers voted for the chart of places to see before you die.
There was no room for home-grown attractions such as Stonehenge, Buckingham
Palace, the Tower of London and Edinburgh Castle.

Areas of outstanding natural beauty like the Lake District and the Scottish
Highlands are also not rated as worthwhile.

But Disney World and Las Vegas are both in the top 10.

English Tourism Council spokesman Ken Kelling said: "It's disappointing as
Britain has got an equal range of things to see as anywhere in the world.

"Windsor Castle and Stonehenge are considered among the wonders of Britain and I
believe we can compete on a world tourism stage."

He added: "If Britons are asked about dream destinations around the world,
perhaps they do not consider what's on their own doorstep.

"If foreigners had been asked about world dream destinations, they may well have
selected some British ones. People should think closer to home."

Mr Kelling went on: "There is so much history and culture here which do not
feature in a lot of other countries."

Runner-up to the Grand Canyon in the poll is Australia's Great Barrier Reef off
the Queensland coast.

Despite the world's natural wonders, the top 10 places are mostly man-made
sights. Apart from Las Vegas, they include Sydney, India's shrine to love the
Taj Mahal in Agra and the Golden Temple at Amritsar.

And despite the September 11 terror attacks, New York still squeezes into the
chart at number nine.

America proves the most popular country overall, with nine nominations including
Hawaii, Yosemite National Park and San Francisco.

TV personalities also chose their favourites. Mariella Frostrup picked
Barcelona, Joanna Lumley the Masai Mara game reserve and Eamonn Holmes Cape
Town.

The list of 50 will be shown on Sunday evening on BBC1's Fifty Places to See
Before You Die.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

NEW TERROR TARGET WARNING BLAIR: Terror threat

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 183 words


TONY Blair was today issuing a stark warning that Islamic militants could bring
their terror campaign to the UK.

More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.

His warning comes just days after the Government was accused of unnecessarily
sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing - a statement
detailing possible al Qaida tactics including 'dirty' nuclear bombs and attacks
on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious. Recent events, including the bombing of
Bali, have shown that no country is immune from attack, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume that they are safe simply because the UK has so
far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 1, 2002, Tuesday

REMEMBER OUR VICTIMS, BLAIR TOLD;
 UUP CALLS FOR IMPARTIALITY ON TERRORISM DEATHS

SECTION: POLITICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRIBUTE GARDEN: the plan for a permanent memorial to Britain's;
September 11 victims


ULSTER Unionist Assembly members are calling on Tony Blair to demonstrate
impartiality towards the victims of terrorism in the United States and those who
have suffered during the troubles in Northern Ireland.

The call comes after it was revealed that the Government is donating pounds 1
million towards a memorial garden in memory of the victims of September 11 but
has refused to support a similar tribute to those killed throughout the
Troubles.

The party has submitted an Assembly motion which recognises the heartache of the
families of victims who perished as a result of the September 11 terrorist
attack and welcomes the Government's funding for a memorial garden in
remembrance of those victims.

However, it also calls for Westminster to extend the same respect to the victims
who died as a result of terrorism in this part of the UK, by financing the
creation of a similar memorial garden in Great Britain.

Fermanagh and South Tyrone MLA Sam Foster, who is one of four Ulster Unionist
MLAs to sign the motion, said: "It is only right and proper that the victims of
the dreadful attack on the US are fittingly remembered but equally the
Government should be prepared to recognise the intense pain and suffering of
those who have lost loved ones at the hands of terrorists over 30 bloody years
of violence in this part of the UK."

Last month, Rita Restorick, the mother of the last British soldier to be
murdered by the IRA, said the Government's plans to create a pounds 1m tribute
to British victims of September 11 discriminated against security force
casualties in Ulster.

Mrs Restorick, whose 23-year-old son Stephen was killed by an IRA sniper in
1997, has accused the Government of "double standards',' although she stresses
she does not begrudge the families of September 11 victims their memorial
garden.

However, she says the Government has shown a very different attitude towards
memorials for the victims of IRA terrorism.

"Last April I wrote to the Secretary of State for Defence suggesting that the
MoD pay for the plaques at a cost of pounds 72,000, for the trees in the Ulster
Ash Grove at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire.

"Each tree commemorates a member of our armed forces killed in the Northern
Ireland conflict. However, he said that it was a longstanding policy of
successive governments that the cost of memorials is not usually met from public
funds but from private donations or public subscriptions."

The MoD said it would neither be possible or fair to be seen to support one
group rather than another, adding: "It would be divisive and open to criticism
from unsuccessful claimants if the Government were to pick and choose projects
to support."

"Three months later, the Government has changed its mind - at least for some
victims. It has shown no intention of dedicating a memorial to the victims of
IRA terrorism in England such as Birmingham, Warrington, Manchester or London,"
said Mrs Restorick.

The UUP motion is expected to be debated at Stormont in the next few weeks.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 9, 2002

Firefighters gather to remember New York colleagues;
 News Extra

SECTION: News, Pg.19

LENGTH: 383 words


FIREFIGHTERS across Britain held a minute's silence yesterday to remember their
New York colleagues killed on September 11.

As part of the first ever International Fire Fighters' Day of Remembrance, crews
across the country paid tribute to those members of the American emergency
services who died in the line of duty.

Fire stations held ceremonies ahead of the first anniversary of the terror
attacks and up to 400 firefighters filled St Giles' Church in Cripplegate, in
the City of London, for a service of remembrance.

The Rev Andrew Paterson, a firefighter in Lothian and Borders, led prayers for
the 343 New York firefighters and their priest who lost their lives in the
atrocities, and all those who were caught up in the horror.

Family and friends of the firefighters killed in New York joined British crews
and MPs for the service, organised by the Firefighters' Memorial Charitable
Trust.

Giving the address, Rev Katharine Rumens, Rector of St Giles, said: "You could
argue that the events on September 11, when jetliners smashed into the Twin
Towers, brought the 20th century to a close.

"It is considered by some as the most memorable event of the past 100 years.
When the event happened, while it happened, we knew we were watching history
unfold." She added: "We live with indelible images, the film footage, the
photographs, the heartrending messages of love left on answering machines by
those staring their death in the face, and the acts of those caught upin the att
a ck s . " Honouring today's firefighters, she added:

"You know the danger of falling debris, the images you carry with you are not
learned from television, radio or the press, it is your heart that beats, you
know what fire smells like, you know the touch of charred wood and twisted
metal.

"You live daily with danger as a fact of your working life." She added: "What
you do is not forgotten.

Your courage lives on in other people's lives and touches the world for good."
She said the work done at Ground Zero "taught us new lessons in loyalty and
love".

She went on: "Each flag-draped stretcher and coffin, every moment of silence,
has given us a new appreciation of the word respect." Millions of people are
expected to mark the anniversary on Wednesday with tributes.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 14, 2002, Thursday

2 ON IRA BOMB RAP

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 87 words


TWO more men were charged yesterday in connection with an IRA bombing wave in
London and Birmingham last year.

The pair, both alleged members of the Real IRA, were arrested in South Armagh
last week and flown to Britain under armed escort.

Last night Scotland Yard's Anti Terrorist Squad has charged them with conspiracy
to cause explosions.

Two men have already been charged with terrorist offences linked to the attacks
at Ealing Broadway, London, in September and a blast at the BBC HQ in March.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

MILITARY CHIEF SET TO QUIT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 129 words


BRITAIN'S most senior military commander is to leave his job early after clashes
with ministers during the war in Afghanistan.

Admiral Sir Michael Boyce also upset other service chiefs over his alleged bias
in favour of Navy personnel.

The 59-year-old will retire as Chief of the Defence Staff next April after just
two years. He will be replaced by current Army boss General Sir Michael Walker.

Officially, Admiral Boyce will leave after a normal two-year posting. But his
two predecessors had their stays extended to over three years.

BRITAIN would struggle to cope with a major terrorist attack such as September
11 because emergency services are badly co-ordinated, under-funded and under
-staffed, warns a report by senior MPs published yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 12, 2002

Bush pledges to defeat terrorists and tyrants

BYLINE: PA News Reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 581 words


UNITED States president George Bush ended a day of reflection over the September
11 terrorist attacks, vowing not to relent "until justice is done and our
country is secured".

Speaking in a televised address from New York last night (0200 BST today), Mr
Bush promised victory over "history's gang of fanatics".

"Now and in the future, Americans will live as free people, not in fear, and
never at the mercy of any foreign plot or power, " he said.

"In the ruins of two towers, under a flag unfurled at the Pentagon, at the
funerals of the lost, we have made a sacred promise, to ourselves and to the
world: We will not relent until justice is done and our nation is secure. What
our enemies have begun, we will finish."

Although Mr Bush did not mention Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, US officials said
he had him in mind when he said: "We will not allow any terrorist or tyrant to
threaten civilisation with weapons of mass murder."

Mr Bush's speech came at the end of a day where millions of people in Britain
joined those around the world to pay silent tribute to the victims of New York,
Washington and Pennsylvania.

Some families of the 67 British victims travelled to New York for the first
anniversary of the atrocity.

Others attended services at home, including a national service of remembrance
and commemoration at St Paul's Cathedral in London.

Tattered and torn, a Union flag recovered from Ground Zero graced the
cathedral's altar - the focus of the nation's grief but also a symbol of hope.

White rose petals, one for each of the more than 3,000 victims, fluttered from
the dome of Christopher Wren's great cathedral, landing softly on the flag.

The Prince of Wales, his son Prince Harry and Prime Minister Tony Blair stood
with the congregation in silence as a New York policeman lit a single candle.

It was 1.46pm - the moment a year ago when the first hijacked passenger jet
slammed into Manhattan's World Trade Centre.

Outside the cathedral - and all over the world - people paid their respects in
silence.

New York police officer Lieutenant Frank Dwyer, a veteran of Ground Zero, who
brought the Union flag back home from the ashes and rubble of the World Trade
Centre, lit the candle of remembrance.

Earlier, Lt Dwyer, 40, had handed the flag to Home Secretary David Blunkett
during an open-air service at the US Embassy in London's Grosvenor Square.

No one knows who the flag belonged to or how it came to be in the twin towers.

The impact of the second jet on the twin towers was marked by the lighting of a
candle, slightly later than the scheduled 2.03pm, by leaders of British Jews,
Muslims, Hindus and Buddhists.

But perhaps the most poignant moment came when a cellist played and the white
rose petals rained down 200ft from the Whispering Gallery.

As the fragrant petals fell, so too did the tears.

As dawn broke in New York, police and firefighter bands gathered across the
city, ready for a slow procession to Ground Zero.

There they joined thousands of people, including victims' relatives and members
of the US government, to pay their respects.

Relatives of 34 of the 67 British victims attended the ceremony.

A year ago, thousands fled the World Trade Centre, fighting through choking ash
and dodging lumps of falling debris as they ran for their lives.

Yesterday, the relatives of those who did not make it out alive finally visited
the place where their loved ones died.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                  August 29, 2002, Thursday Edition EC2908-01A

UK pushes for Iraq deadline

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words


   Britain may push for a deadline to be imposed on Saddam Hussein to re-admit
United Nations weapons inspectors, the Government said today.

Ministers were prepared to consider a call by the Commons Foreign Affairs
Committee to propose a deadline for the Iraqi dictator to comply with UN
Security Council resolutions on weapons inspections, it said.

"Existing UN resolutions require immediate Iraqi compliance, including on
weapons inspections. The Government will nonetheless be giving further
consideration to this recommendation," said the official response to the Foreign
Affairs Committee's report on the war against terrorism.

The suggestion comes as British officials have sought to play down suggestions
of a rift with the United States over military action against Iraq.

Hawks in Washington, led by Vice President Dick Cheney, have been pressing the
case for action to topple Saddam before he can acquire nuclear weapons.

Britain, in contrast, has argued that the threat of military action could be
lifted if the weapons inspectors were allowed back in.

The Government response also emphasised the need to tackle Iraq's arsenal of
chemical and biological weapons.

It acknowledged that Iraq would be a "better place" without Saddam but stopped
short of advocating a policy of "regime change" in Baghdad.

"As the Prime Minister has made clear, we are determined to deal with the threat
posed by Iraq's possession of weapons of mass destruction."

The report also rejected criticisms that Britain's intelligence agencies, MI6,
MI5 and GCHQ, could have done more to avert the September 11 terrorist attacks.

It said: ''A subsequent re-examination of material across the intelligence
community did not find any information that could have given warning of the
attacks."

The Parliamentary Intelligence Committee disclosed earlier this year that
British and American intelligence had been aware in the run up to September 11
that Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network was planning an attack but did not know
the target.

The committee criticised the agencies for failing to do more to find out what
was going on.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 13, 2002

Ports put on high terror alert after lorry bomb threat;
 Travellers are urged to be extra vigilant

BYLINE: David Humphrey

SECTION: News :999 :Others, Pg.10

LENGTH: 490 words


SECURITY was being tightened up at West ports yesterday amid threats of
terrorist attacks.

Defences were increased across Britain after intelligence reports revealed
terrorists would attempt to board a North Sea ferry in a truck loaded with
explosives.

Yesterday, Downing Street and port authorities urged travellers not to change
their plans but asked them to be extra vigilant.

The latest warnings were prompted by intelligence analysts at the US Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

The first threat came last week when French and Dutch security services warned
terrorists would attempt to drive a lorry packed with explosives into Britain.

This led to the Department for Transport asking British ports to tighten
security.

Accordingly, they stepped up searches and other measures.

Then last Friday, UK immigration services informed Kent police that there had
been a telephoned threat about a bomb at Dover.

This information was passed to the port of Dover, which carried out an intensive
search of its harbour area.

Yesterday's developments followed Tony Blair's speech on Monday.

The Prime Minister said British intelligence was receiving daily warnings of new
threats and predicted the country would have to pay a painful price to defeat
terrorism.

His official spokesman yesterday said there was no reliable intelligence of a
new threat to ports.

"But it is sensible that ports are reminded, as they are on a frequent basis, to
maintain their security presence to reflect the risk," he added.

Home Office Minister John Denham insisted there was no need for people to alter
their travel arrangements as a result of the advice.

He said: "From time to time, things are done at ports and other places to switch
ships' security arrangements or whatever. But this is part of the general
programme of ensuring we keep awareness at a high level."

In the West, airports were maintaining the high levels of security which have
been in force since the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US last year.

A spokesman for Bristol International Airport, one of the fastest growing
regional airports in the country, said: "Security is of a high standard but that
hasn't changed since last year."

Security was also said to be tight at Weymouth ferry port, with services to the
Channel Islands, at Plymouth, where ferries depart for Cherbourg and Roscoff,
and at Bournemouth Airport in Dorset.

The latest warning reflected the difficult balance that ministers have to strike
between reminding people to remain vigilant and avoiding creating mass panic.

Only last week, the Home Office withdrew advice issued in error, warning of the
threat of a poison gas or dirty bomb attack.

It hastily replaced the announcement with a more general warning.

The state of alert is at its highest since the current warning system was
introduced two years ago, although it is not at the top level.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 14, 2002, Monday

BALI BOMB ATTACK: WORLD MUST CONFRONT MENACE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words


GOVERNMENTS around the world yesterday called for stepping up the fight against
terrorism.

The Saturday night attack in the popular Kuta Beach area of Bali was denounced
as "vile" and the work of "evil and perverted" people. No one has claimed
responsibility for the attack, which killed nationals of at least eight
countries.

"The world must confront this global menace of terrorism. We must together
challenge and defeat the idea that the wanton killing of innocents advances any
cause or supports any aspirations," US President George W Bush said in a
statement released by the White House.

Bush said Washington had offered assistance to Indonesia's government "to help
bring these murderers to justice."

Australia, Britain, France and the European Union also offered to help track
down the perpetrators of the bombing, which set off a fire that killed at least
187 people and injured more than 300.

The dead and injured included nationals of Australia, Germany, Canada, Britain,
Sweden, Switzerland and South Africa as well as Indonesia, officials said. Most
of the dead were badly burned and have not yet been identified.

Calling the bombing "barbaric," Australian Prime Minister John Howard said he
would launch an urgent review of national security.

At least seven Australians were confirmed dead, and the number was expected to
rise sharply.

British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw offered to send forensic and
counterterrorism specialists to help the investigation, and French President
Jacques Chirac said France would offer "all possible help to help identify the
perpetrators of these vile acts and bring them to justice."

Russian President Vladimir Putin called for more international cooperation
against international terrorism, which "gives terrible lessons to the civilised
community in different parts of the world again and again."

Malaysia and the Philippines, neighbours of Indonesia which share its problems
with violent Muslim extremists, denounced the bombing.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHALLENGE: Bush

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 23, 2002

Diana's death is our most abiding memory;September 11 terrorist attacks and
second world war top poll of the most significant events of the last century

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 652 words


FORGET two world wars and a royal abdication - the death of Diana, Princess of
Wales, was named yesterday as the most memorable British date of the past 100
years.

Together with the the terror attacks in America on September 11, which came top
of the world events, Diana's tragic death was the most significant historical
date in the last century.

Historians say the findings prove modern-day Britons have a greater link to more
recent televised events rather than dates in the distant past.

The survey reveals the majority of people in Britain believe dates from the past
decade are more memorable than those of 50 to 100 years ago.

Nearly a quarter (22%) of respondents voted the death of Diana in August 1997 a
more significant date in British history than the end of the first world war
(8%) or the start of the Falklands conflict (4%).

Nearly half of all respondents (41%) voted the September 11 World Trade Centre
attacks as the most significant date in world history in the past 100 years,
compared with a poll of just 2% for the assassination of John Kennedy, the US
president, and only 9% for the first landing of a man on the moon.

The end of the second world war, marked by the dropping of an atomic bomb over
Hiroshima, was a distant second in the top ten, with only 19% saying this was a
significant date.

More than a third of men said they would prefer a new car to a copy of their
complete family history.

The majority of young people believe that September 11, 2001 is the most
significant date in world history in the past 100 years, compared with 28% of
those aged over 65.

Only 1% of people thought the abdication of King Edward VIII was the most
significant date in British history.

One in eight men believe England winning the World Cup in 1966 was the most
significant moment in British history.

Researchers say the findings send a wake-up call to Britons, who are in danger
of losing their personal history because it is no longer seen to have value.

A third of respondents (36%) admitted to having no memento of sentimental value
to pass on to future generations and as many as a quarter of respondents
indicated they would prefer an exotic holiday over a completed copy of their
family history.

The survey of more than 1000 people was carried out by the History Channel cable
and satellite broadcaster.

Dr Nick Barratt, consultant historian at the channel said: "The value and
significance people place on historical dates is strongly influenced by their
own personal experience of those events. The immediacy of the 24/7 information
economy is having a big impact on the way people feel about these events.

"Everyone has a memory of where they were at the time of September 11 and it's
these personalised accounts of history that The History Channel want to archive
with its 'small piece of history' project before its too late and they become
forgotten.

He added: "The results highlight the need to ensure our rich oral history is
preserved."

dates we remember

Most memorable dates in British history:

1 Princess Diana death 31/8/97

2 Start of the second world war 3/9/1939

3 Women win right to vote 6/12/18

4 Northern Ireland Good Friday Agreement 10/4/98

5 End of the first world war 11/11/18

6 England win World Cup 30/7/66

7 Queen Elizabeth's Coronation 2/6/53

8 Start of Falklands war 2/4/82

9 John Lennon assassinated 8/12/80

10 Abdication of King Edward 11/12/36

Most memorable dates in world history:

1 World Trade Centre attack 11/9/2001

2 Atomic bomb on Hiroshima 6/8/1945

3 Berlin Wall falls 22/12/89

4 First man lands on moon 20/6/69

5 Nelson Mandela freed 13/2/90

6 End of the first world war 11/11/18

7 John F Kennedy assassinated 22/11/63

8 Lockerbie disaster 21/12/88

9 Vietnam war ceasefire 27/1/73

10 Tiananmen Square massacre 4/6/89

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SAD MEMORIES: Princes Charles, William and Harry and Earl Spencer bow
their heads as the coffin of Diana, Princess of Wales, is carried into
Westminster Abbey Picture: Fiona Hanson;UNFORGETTABLE: Troops wade ashore at
Normandy in June 1944, after the D-Day landings.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 2002

Wanted: more smallpox vaccine

BYLINE: James Meikle Health correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 361 words


The government has advertised for more smallpox vaccine supplies, in the hope
that it could vaccinate the whole population if terrorists launched a biological
attack.

It is believed ministers will have to nearly double stocks to have enough
vaccine to protect all Britons if a large-scale attack were attempted.

They are being more open about their strategy after the political uproar that
followed their secret decision to award Powderject Pharmaceuticals a pounds 32m
contract for stocks to protect 20m people last April.

It emerged that the company's chief executive, Paul Drayson, had donated pounds
50,000 to the Labour party only weeks before, his second such donation in a
year.

The Department of Health has placed an advert in the Official Journal of the
European Communities on Saturday, inviting bids for more supplies, although this
did not specify existing stocks or the amounts needed. But in addition to the
Powderject deal Britain is thought to have enough vaccine for a further 15m
people by diluting its pre-September 11 stocks for 3m.

The Department of Health's step, forecast by the Guardian in July, will be seen
by critics as an implicit admission that the government accepts it has handled
the affair badly, although it still claims it had no alternative but to respond
quickly to the threat of terrorism.

The Dutch national institute of public health and the environment is among
organisations that might have been able to supply the vaccine more cheaply. But
the British government insisted that the Dutch could not have provided the
supplies needed in time.

The Department of Health said yesterday: "The department wants to be as open as
possible about its purchase of vaccines and to follow as closely as possible
their normal route of procurement . . . This will allow us to get further
supplies of the vaccine from the widest possible numbers of suppliers without
compromising national security.

"The process of securing more vaccine has been planned for a long time, and the
tender is not being issued now in response to a revised assessment of the risk.
There is no evidence of a specific threat."


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 June 19, 2002

Terror attack family come home to safety; But North-east father stays on to work
in Pakistan

BYLINE: groberts

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words


A NORTH-EAST mum and her two daughters hurt in a Pakistan terror attack have
returned to Britain.

Ellon preacher Griff Jones, his wife Amanda and their two children were lucky
toescape after a grenade attack on their church.

And they were later warned by Government officials to leave their home in
Islamabad as tensions between Pakistan and India heightened.

Amanda and the girls, Johanna, 13, and Lowri, corr9, returned to their home
townof Ellon recently for a visit.

And Lowri took time to visit pals at her former primary school and showed them
her shrapnel wound.

Her father, who has stayed behind in Pakistan, told the Evening Express today:
"The family is fine. I'm still out here working at the moment.

"Everyone is all right and that is all that I can say for the moment." The
Evening Express last month revealed the family had been warned to leave
Islamabad because of the rising threat of terror attacks.

The Foreign Office pulled out 130 of its diplomats and their families and
advised British citizens to get out as well.

In March the family, who were living in Ellon before going to Pakistan, were
injured in a terrorist bomb blast.

Mr Jones, 36, an oil worker, was preaching for the first time in an Islamabad
church near the American Embassy when a grenade was thrown into the
congregation.

His life was saved when the brunt of the blast was absorbed by a stack of
bibles.

But he was still injured, as were his wife and children.

Lowri was struck in the chest by a piece of shrapnel.

A friend from Ellon said the family had returned to the town recently for a
visit but were now in England.

The friend - who asked not to be named - said: "Amanda and the girls were down
at Ellon Primary School.

"My daughter came home from school and said she had been chatting away with
Lowri about what it was like living in Pakistan.

"Lowri was showing all the kids the wound she got from the bomb blast.

"I think she was just loving all the attention she was getting and she seemed
happy enough.

"They are a really lovely family and I'm just glad Amanda and the kids are safe
and sound." A spokeswoman for the British Consulate in Islamabad said: "The
situation in Islamabad has not changed and British citizens are being given the
same travel advice.

"They are being asked to consider whether they have any pressing need to remain
in the city."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                October 4, 2002

Housing figures continue to race ahead say Halifax

BYLINE: Robert Gibson

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 247 words


Britain's biggest mortgage lender the Halifax today reported UK house prices
jumped 4.3% in September, to stand 24.2% higher on the year.

That compared with a monthly rise of just 0.2% in August, and indicated little
let-up in the housing boom.

But Halifax said part of the annual rise was due to a fall in house prices in
September last year in the wake of the US terror attacks.

In another survey, rival home loans lender Nationwide building society said
earlier this week that house prices jumped 2.1% last month, to stand 22.2% up on
the year, also signalling little evidence of a slowdown.

EGi News 04/10/02

Shareholders of retail giant Kingfisher this weekend urgently requested
designated chairman Francis Mackay to push chief executive Geoff Mulcahy towards
retirement.

Investors are believed to be disillusioned with Mulcahy following Kingfisher's
low performance against the stock market over the past 18 months. They are
thought to be demanding a replacement for him within a year. Mackay is due to
succeed John Banham as Kingfisher chairman on December 7.

As part of dedicated restructuring of the group, Kingfisher is also rumoured to
be mulling the sale-and-leaseback of its B&Q stores and a handful of other
properties in a deal which would net the company around £1bn.

The move follows Kingfisher's £600m deal with London & Regional earlier this
year, which saw the retail group part with the freeholds of 182 Woolworths
stores before floating Woolies off earlier in the Summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2002 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                         September 25, 2002, Wednesday

FINE IN EUROS FOR SEPTEMBER 11 AIR SCARE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 177 words


A BIZARRE piece of European history was made in the setting of Barry
Magistrates' Court yesterday. It came as the magistrates became the first in
Britain to hand out a fine in euros.

Frenchman Hubert Bouchet explained to the court that was the only currency he
had after being fined for triggering a major alert at Cardiff International
Airport on September 11 this year.

Bouchet set off the airport's fire alarm moments before the minute's silence
marking the first anniversary of terrorist attacks.

He admitted smashing a fire alarm in anger - and was fined 60 euros because it
was the only currency he could pay it in. That is about pounds 38.

The Lord Chancellor's Department said it was believed to be the first time a
court in Britain has imposed a penalty in the European currency.

A spokeswoman said yesterday, "British courts have the powers to fine offenders
in whatever currency is appropriate but as far as we are aware no one has ever
been fined in euros before."

Bouchet, of Paris, pleaded guilty to criminal damage.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 April 8, 2002

JCB owner is region's richest man

SECTION: GENERAL, Pg.05

LENGTH: 227 words


THE richest man in the East Midlands is JCB owner Sir Anthony Bamford -
according to a survey published at the weekend.

Sir Anthony (56), who owns Rocester-based mechanical digger manufacturer JCB,
near Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, was joint 26th in the annual Sunday Times Rich
List, released yesterday, with a fortune of GBP 800m.

The list reveals the top 1,000 wealthiest people in Britain.

The Duke of Devonshire, who lives at Chatsworth House, is the second richest man
in the East Midlands and the wealthiest in Derbyshire.

The Duke (82) is thought to be worth GBP 350m and was equal 89th in the list.

Last year he was joint 105th with a fortune of GBP 300m.

John Kirkland (63), chairman of Derbyshire building firm Bowmer and Kirkland,
has risen from 268th place to 254th this year.

Mr Kirkland is worth GBP 130m, up GBP 10m on last year.

But Sir Michael Bishop (60), chief executive of BMI British Midland has fallen
42 places since last year.

He was placed joint 268th and worth GBP 125m, compared to GBP 185m in 2001.

The Castle Donington -based airline suffered a downturn in business following
the terrorist attacks of September 11.

Derby's Perween Warsi (45), owner of S&A Foods, is equal 874th on Britain's rich
list with a fortune of GBP 40m.

Last year, Mrs Warsi, and her husband, Dr Talib Warsi (55), were 619th at GBP
58m.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                 July 12, 2002

Tourism campaign to attract the Irish.

BYLINE: Stefan Hull

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 185 words


A major marketing drive is being launched to encourage tourists from Ireland to
visit Sussex. Television and radio adverts featuring Brighton and Hove are part
of a campaign being co-ordinated by the British Tourist Authority in Dublin. The
project is part of a multi-million pound global promotion called Come To
Britain. The Irish market is seen as key to replacing overseas visitors lost
after last year's terror attacks on the United States. In addition to broadcast
adverts, 250,000 leaflets about Brighton and Hove have been placed in the two
main Irish daily newspapers. Private and business visitors have been targeted
with a direct mail campaign. Irish airline Aer Lingus is also participating by
holding a special offer for Irish residents to travel to Brighton and Hove via
Gatwick. Discounts are being offered by many city hotels, restaurants and
attractions. Melanie Sensicle, tourism marketing manager for the city, said: "It
seems the campaign is working. "We have had reports from hoteliers that they are
getting inquiries and bookings from Ireland they were not getting before."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 11, 2002

Threat of war: Blair warns of greater terrorism threat: Security: UK safety from
attack 'cannot be guaranteed'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575 words


Tony Blair is to call for heightened vigilance against the growing threat from
international terrorism, while arguing that governments cannot be expected to
guarantee safety from attack.

In his address to the Lord Mayor's banquet in London tonight, Mr Blair is
expected to argue that "homeland security" can only be totally guaranteed at the
price of paralysing an open society, disrupting daily civilian life and
abandoning civil liberties. Such a wholesale reordering of society would amount
to a victory for the terrorists.

No 10 aides suggest that he will call for greater realism from those who claim
that intelligence agencies should be able to identify an immediate terrorist
threat. The warnings given to intelligence agencies in advance of the recent
Bali bomb covered 60% of Indonesia. Similarly, British intelligence was aware of
an increased threat posed by al-Qaida before the September 11 attacks last year,
but did not have details about the timing, targets, location or nature of the
attack.

The prime minister's speech, in which he will admit that the terrorist threat is
higher now than it was a year ago, follows the Home Office mistake in releasing
an alarmist warning that Britain may face a dirty bomb attack from either land
or sea.

Mr Blair's aides insist that the prime minister's call for greater realism in
the debate about risk and security is not an admission that governments cannot
protect a society vulnerable to terrorism.

Officials admit it is hard to call for vigilance, including precautionary travel
warnings, without prompting panic and paralysis.

But Whitehall has not been afraid of issuing such warnings in the past. In 1998
the Foreign Office published a document on possible threats, including the
warning that 100 kilograms of anthrax released from the top of a tall building
in a densely populated area could kill up to 3m people.

David Veness, head of Britain's anti-terrorist police, said last year that a
nuclear or biological attack was "sadly, the next logical step".

Following last year's terror attacks the government announced an extra pounds
11m funding for Scotland Yard to counter possible threats to the UK. It is
understood that the money was intended to strengthen security at airports,
aircraft maintenance depots and ports. Last night the Home Office confirmed that
the extra money was also being used to enhance the capabilities of the armed
police unit at Heathrow airport.

Armed officers already patrol sensitive buildings in the capital, such as the
American embassy which is protected by a concrete barrier to prevent car bomb
attacks.

Mr Blair will tonight praise the UN for agreeing to take firm action against
Iraq. He will insist that Saddam Hussein now has a final opportunity to avert
war, but military action is a serious possibility.

Reviewing the government's foreign policy last year in the wake of the terrorist
attack on the twin towers, Mr Blair accepted that many Arabs saw double
standards in the west's approach to the Middle East dispute. He has subsequently
called for a Middle East peace conference by the end of this year. His aides
accept the target will not be met, partly due to imminent elections in Israel.

Mr Blair will also praise the US and the UN for staying the course in
Afghanistan, but is not likely to comment on plans for the UN security
protection force to be extended beyond Kabul to other cities.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 30, 2002

BRITAIN'S NUCLEAR SURVIVAL SCHOOL

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Paul McMullan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 488 words


A GROUP of former American Special Forces commandos running nuclear and
biological bomb survival courses are planning to set up a school in Britain.

Since September 11 thousands of Americans have flocked to antiterrorism classes
to find out how to save their lives in an attack.

Simple tips from switching off the car air conditioning, to carrying a dust mask
and swimming goggles could mean the difference between life and death, according
to terror school boss Dr Mel Steinberg.

He claims the British Government is "failing" to inform people and the Home
Office admitted: "There is no specific advice from the Government as such.

Putting out information is part of our contingency plans and we're not doing
that yet."

But the former US military intelligence officer who runs International
Protection Services (IPS) in Miami, Florida, believes many people want to know
the contingency information and he is looking for a British base to start his
first UK school.

Day courses will start at GBP 35 and after the recent arrest of Al Qaeda
terrorist, Abdullah Al Muhajir, for planning to detonate a radioactive dirty
bomb, he's convinced there will be thousands of British takers.

"No where on earth is safe from nuclear, biological or chemical attack, " Dr
Steinberg warned.

Intelligence officials estimate that 3,000 Al Qaeda operatives remain
undetected. Crude homemade nuclear bombs now appear within their capability.

IPS warns: "Don't fear terrorism be prepared for it." During a course he
describes a range of scenarios and how to deal with them Chemical attacks are
the easiest to live through, according to Dr Steinberg They could contain nerve,
blister, blood or choking agents. The advice is to hold your breath, cover your
face and get as high above ground as you can.

Blister Agent, called mustard gas in the trenches of WW1, is a liquid which can
kill within 16 hours.

The antidote? Mix baking soda and flour with water and rub it over your entire
body.

The first sign of germ warfare may appear to be flu-like symptoms but, says Dr
Steinberg: "In today's world it might not be just the flu."

The good news is that most biological weapons are treatable. Almost every
anthrax strain can be destroyed with antibiotics and other biological attacks
can be survived if you see a doctor in time.

A crude nuclear device could instantly level a city. If you are in the epicentre
of a nuclear explosion there is no way to survive. But if you are even a quarter
of a mile away you have a chance of survival if you take immediate action - dive
for cover and later find a shelter or a hospital where you can get potassium
iodine tablets to treat the radiation poisoning.

And his final piece of advice?

Don't panic. "Almost all the children exposed to high levels of radiation in the
Chernobyl meltdown who were treated with potassium iodine remain healthy to this
day."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 19, 2002

Police arrest seven at Plymouth rally;
 Peace activists block Devonport

BYLINE: by STEVE McKENZIE

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 378 words


POLICE arrested seven Trident Ploughshares activists yesterday after
anti-nuclear protesters blockaded the entrance to the Devonport naval base in
Plymouth.

Around 50 activists gathered the Albert Gate entrance to the base in the early
morning and half a dozen protesters handcuffed themselves together and lay on
the floor.

As UN weapons inspectors prepared to return to Iraq, protesters exposed Anglo-US
hypocrisy, brandishing banners saying: "Inspectors needed here now."

One of Britain's most potent weapons of mass destruction, the nuclear submarine
HMS Vanguard, is currently undergoing a refit at the dockyard.

A Devon and Cornwall Police spokeswoman confirmed that seven women protesters
had been arrested for obstruction.

Another 15 protesters demonstrated outside the Camel Head entrance to the base.

Trident Ploughshares spokesman Marcus Armstrong said that there was a great deal
of concern about "a refit of this nature being done in a major city.

"There is a threat of pollution or of a terrorist attack, which we highlighted
on Friday when two of our activists entered the dockyard."

Petter Joelson and Elisa Silvennoinen were released on bail yesterday after
being arrested for entering the dockyard on Friday night.

They had boarded HMS Vanguard and rang the ship's bell, demonstrating a pitiful
lack of security and the ease with which terrorists could attack.

While in custody, Mr Joelson said: "In the same week that the British government
is hypocritically demanding inspections of Iraq without any proof that they have
weapons of mass destruction, Elisa and I succesfully inspected Britain's own
illegal and immoral nuclear arsenal."

Yesterday's action was the highlight of a succesful weekend disarmament camp at
Devonport, organised by Trident Ploughshares, aimed at raising awareness of the
dangers of Britain's nuclear arsenal.

The nine arrests will be added to the 1,792 arrests of Trident Ploughshares
activists since their non-violent direct action began in the late 1990s.

A Royal Navy spokeswoman said that workers at the site had been prevented from
entering the base for about 20 minutes.

Missing the point of the demonstration, she emphasised that the delay "wasn't
too serious."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 2002

Pledge by Blair on terror warnings: PM says he will let public know about
specific threats

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Jamie Wilson

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 657 words


Tony Blair yesterday sought to quell public fears over an imminent gas attack on
the London Underground, promising that the public will be informed of any major
threat to Britain.

Mr Blair said: "If it's a very specific threat against a specific target of
course it's right that we issue the information and we warn people, but we are
wary about acting on every piece of information that comes to us, because
there's a mass of it and it has to be sifted and weighed and judged."

The assurance came as Iain Duncan Smith went to Downing Street for a privy
council briefing from Mr Blair. A similar briefing was given last week by Mr
Blair to Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader.

The briefings follow last week's speech by Mr Blair to the Lord Mayor's banquet
indicating that the terrorist threat to Britain appears to be on the rise.

The meeting was requested by Mr Duncan Smith. A separate request by the shadow
home secretary, Oliver Letwin, for a Commons statement on the scale of the
threat was rejected on the grounds that ministers refused to compromise
intelligence sources.

Speaking on ITV's Blair on the Spot: A Tonight Special, the prime minister said:
"We have got to be very wary of acting on general information, of issuing
warnings when they are not really justified according to the evidence.

"The risk then is we unnecessarily alarm people, we end up doing the terrorists'
job for them, and for the public, they will get confused if there are different
pieces of information coming at them."

Downing Street today insisted that John Prescott, the deputy prime minister, had
been right to give assurances yesterday that there was no evidence of any plans
for a gas attack on the London Underground. Mr Blair's official spokesman said:
"Mr Prescott speaks with the full authority of the government."

A solicitor representing one of three men who appeared in court yesterday under
the Terrorism Act has written to the attorney general complaining about press
coverage that linked her client to an alleged plot to attack the London
Underground with poison gas.

Gareth Peirce, representing Rabah Kadre, 35, said there had been an
"extraordinary tidal wave" of contemptuous and prejudicial coverage and hinted
that the security services or the police may have planted the story.

Mr Kadre, of no fixed abode, along with Rabah Chehaj-Bias, 21, of Muswell Hill,
and Karim Kadouri, 33, of Holloway, were yesterday remanded in custody for four
weeks at Bow Street magistrates court.

The three men, all of north African origin, were arrested on November 9 and
charged under section 57 of the Terrorism Act with the possession of articles
for the preparation, instigation and commission of terrorism acts.

A report in a Sunday newspaper linked their arrest to an alleged threat to
attack the underground, but yesterday Paul Farnhan, the solicitor for Mr
Kadouri, said that none of the allegations which had entered the public domain
over the past few days had been put to his client.

"We spent six days at the police station and not a shred of what had come out in
another arena, the public arena, had been put at that stage or the week since. .
. Do you believe the police officers or do you believe the press?"

Ms Peirce, who told district judge Timothy Workman that she had written to the
attorney general to complain about press coverage of the case, said: "There's
been a quite extraordinary tidal wave of completely contemptuous and prejudicial
coverage of this case."

She said the press appeared to have declared "open season" and were taking
"target practice" at her client.

As she left court she added: "This has all the hallmarks of an intentionally
planted story, published and republished, amplified and exaggerated, by a
willing and compliant press. You tell me if this constitutes respect for the
law."

The men are due to appear again on December 16.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             May 9, 2002, Thursday

BLAIR OFFERS TO HELP END TERRORIST STRIKES

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 180 words


BRITISH security experts could be sent in to stop the suicide bombers in Israel,
Tony Blair said last night.

And he said in the wake of the attack on an Israeli pool hall that Britain and
the US must look at ways to stop suicide bombers destroying the peace process.

He told MPs: "There has been a strong statement of condemnation from the
Palestinian Authority about this latest terrorist attack.

"But it needs more than simply a strong statement. There has also to be action.

"We cannot have situation where every time there is some hope of progress it is
derailed by a terrorist attack."

Blair's spokesman said there was now a "security void" where Yasser Arafat
condemned the bombers but seemed unable to stop them.

"We have to look urgently at ways of addressing this," he said, adding that it
could require British experts or international monitors to ensure peace
agreements were properly policed.

The US also confirmed last night that CIA director George Tenet will go to the
Middle East to help the Palestinians build an anti-terrorist force.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 02, 2002, Monday

Cockpits still 'vulnerable to terrorists'

BYLINE: By Peter Foster

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 646 words

COCKPIT doors on many passenger airliners are still vulnerable to being stormed
by hijackers almost a year after the September 11 attacks, Britain's leading
expert on terrorism said yesterday.

Prof Paul Wilkinson, the director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism at
the University of St Andrews, said that determined terrorists could still break
down the doors of many types of aircraft currently flying in British skies.

"Although all pilots were told to lock the cockpit doors after September 11,
many airlines have yet to complete the structural modifications necessary to
prevent a group of determined intruders.

"Civil aviation remains a highly vulnerable target for politically motivated
terrorism," he said.

Civil Aviation Authority guidelines issued in the days after September 11 stated
that all pilots must lock the cockpit doors during flights and banned all visits
to the flight deck.

Many airlines, keen to reassure passengers, presented the CAA measures as
sufficient to deter and prevent a repeat of the kind of terrorist attack used
against the World Trade Centre. However, fundamental cockpit modifications
involving fitting steel "intrusion-resistant" doors that can withstand gunfire
also have to be carried out

British-registered aircraft have until April to fit the new doors and
international airlines will not have to comply with the new directives until
November next year, a spokesman for the Department of Transport confirmed
yesterday.

The discovery of a gun in the hand luggage of a passenger attempting to board a
Ryanair flight in Sweden last week, Prof Wilkinson added, had again highlighted
the issue of airline security and the necessity to speed up security
improvements. The extent of the cockpit modifications varies widely within the
aviation industry.

Ryanair, whose flight FR685 was the one that the gunman, Karem Chatty, tried to
board, said work to bring its fleet to compliance with the Department of
Transport directive was still "in progress" and would be completed by the 2003
deadline.

Howard Millar, the firm's finance director, said: "The cockpit doors on all our
aircraft were modified immediately after September 11 and, like most airlines,
we are now in the process of up-grading to meet fully the new regulations."

It is not known whether the Ryanair aircraft targeted by Chatty had received the
full "intrusion-resistant" modifications to its cockpit doors - as distinct from
extra locks or other more minor modifications which were introduced immediately
after September 11.

Another low-cost carrier, EasyJet, is in a similar position. Toby Nicol, its
spokesman, also said that work was "in progress" to upgrade the cockpit doors on
its fleet of 36 Boeing 737s. However, he was unable to say what proportion of
the fleet of aircraft had received the vital modifications "for security
reasons".

Mr Nicol added: "It is our policy not to give out information that makes life
easier for terrorists, but the work is in progress and will be completed by
April 2003."

By contrast, British Airways, which has a fleet of almost 300 aircraft, had
completed all the modifications to the cockpit doors on both its long and
short-haul aircraft by last March, just five months after the twin towers
attacks.

Prof Wilkinson said that Chatty, in choosing the small Vasteras airport, 65
miles outside Stockholm, and a low-budget Ryanair flight, might have been
searching for a weak spot in airport and airline security.

"We cannot discount the possibility that Chatty was trying to test out this
particular flight, believing that he had found a weakness in security that he
was able to exploit.

"The truth is that, despite increased security after September 11, the gaps in
airline security are still there and need to be addressed. Encouragingly, in
this case the Swedish authorities were sufficiently alert."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 17, 2002

Rabbi tells of rise in hatred of UK's Jews;
Campaign against terror

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 263 words


CHIEF Rabbi Jonathan Sacks today warned that anti-Semitism is being "whipped up"
in Britain because of the escalating Middle East conflict.

Dr Sacks said Israel's "very right to exist" was questioned by some
commentators.

He said people had to understand how life in Israel was being made impossible by
terrorism.

His warning followed a series of attacks on synagogues in France after Israeli
tanks entered cities in the West Bank. Palestinians claim hundreds were left
dead.

Dr Sacks told Radio 4's Today programme: "When you challenge Israel's very right
to exist, you are certainly calling into question the Jewish people's right to
exist collectively and I am afraid that we have had a certain whipping up of
anti-Semitism in this country.

"I think what has not come across in Britain is the extent to which Israel in
the last 18 months has been a nation under siege. Since September 2000 Israel
has suffered 12,500 terrorist attacksthat is almost one every hour of every day
of every week.

"Israel is very much alone in its war against terror. I think people have not
understood that it is fighting for its right to be."

Dr Sacks said there was nothing wrong about criticising Israel's actions in the
West Bank and said argument was "the normal mode of communication" in Israel.

But he added: "We have to draw very, very clear distinctions between
disagreements on policy and the challenge to Israel's very right to exist only
57 years after the Holocaust."

Dr Sacks added: "People are simply afraid to walk the streets in Israel."


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: POLICE INVESTIGATE TERROR THREATS BY BRITISH
ISLAMIST

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent Hassan Butt: Told BBC he favoured
attacks in Britain

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 671 words


POLICE ARE investigating whether a prosecution can be launched against a British
Islamic militant who is calling for terrorist attacks. Muslim leaders are
demanding the arrest of the young radical, who said yesterday that 200 British
Taliban volunteers were ready to launch terrorist strikes in Britain.

Hassan Butt, 22, who was raised in Manchester but is now based in Lahore in
Pakistan, told BBC radio he would encourage attacks on political and military
leaders and government buildings in Britain.

He said British al-Qa'ida volunteers were now in Pakistan "organising
operations". He said: "If they do return (to the UK), I do believe they will
take military action within Britain.

"The mujahedin are coming in from Britain to strike at the heart of the enemy,
which is within its own country, within Britain ... I have always been in favour
of this."

Mr Butt may now face arrest if he returns to Britain. Scotland Yard said last
night that officers were considering whether his comments constituted an offence
under the Terrorism Act 2000. A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "The Met is
working closely with the Crown Prosecution Service to examine comments made on
the radio ... to establish if any offences have been committed."

The former member of the radical British Muslim group Al-Muhajiroun said the
targets would be "British military and government institutes, as well as British
military and government individuals". Mr Butt said he had returned to Britain
undetected for three weeks over Christmas to be treated on the NHS for a stomach
problem. He said he felt no guilt benefiting from medical care in a country he
wishes terrorists to attack.

"I pay my taxes in Britain, my family pay their taxes, it was something I was
owed," he said.

"The mere fact that the British Government had no idea I was here shows the
incompetence and shows the vulnerability that Britain has when it comes to
dealing with the mujahedin and the Muslims."

Last night the Muslim Council of Britain poured scorn on Mr Butt's credibility.
A spokesman, Inayat Bunglawala, said Mr Butt had recently tried to sell his
story to The Mirror newspaper. He said: "That shows what kind of jihadist (holy
warrior) he is and how he despises material wealth. He is making wild claims
which he is unable to substantiate. He is just trying to make a name for
himself."

The Muslim Council has complained to the BBC at the prominence given to Mr Butt
yesterday on the Radio 4 Today programme, claiming the interview was damaging to
community relations.

Mr Bunglawala said: "We saw a massive rise in hostility to Muslims after 11
September and figures like Hassan Butt and Al-Muhajiroun are contributing to it.
They are our version of the British National Party and are widely despised. We
would urge the Pakistani authorities to take action and arrest him. He is
inciting hatred."

Ahmed Versi, editor of Muslim News, said Mr Butt had made wild claims about
"hundreds" of Britons travelling to fight for al-Qa'ida in Afghanistan. He said:
"Many of the claims have proved untrue. He said hundreds of (British) Muslims
have been to Afghanistan when it's only a handful."

Mr Butt, who was born in Luton and studied at Wolverhampton University, came to
prominence shortly after the attacks on America, when he was a spokesman for the
controversial Al- Muhajiroun. The group's outspoken leader, the self-styled
Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, faced calls for his arrest after backing al-Qa'ida.

Al-Muhajiroun had directed media inquiries to Mr Butt at its "Lahore office".
Yesterday, however, its London spokesman, Anjem Choudary, said: "He is no longer
a spokesman. His comments are personal. We do not engage in military training or
send anybody abroad."

Although he did not back Mr Butt's comments, Mr Choudary said British government
policies on Israel and Kashmir might drive some British Muslims to violence. He
said: "They will only have themselves to blame if something blows up in their
face."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 8, 2002

ATTACK UK SAYS REBEL BRITON

BYLINE: By Dennis Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 541 words


PAKISTAN may be asked to extradite a British-born Islamic militant who has
called for terror attacks in the UK. Police are also investigating whether he
can be prosecuted.

Defiant Hassan Butt, who comes from Luton, declared: "I will only return when
the black Moslem flag is flying over 10 Downing Street."

He had used a BBC Radio 4 interview to claim a "new phase of terrorism" would
begin soon against Britain. Butt, 22, now based in Lahore, said the targets
would be key buildings and political leaders.

He declared that he would have no hesitation in encouraging Moslems in Britain
to take part.

His comments were condemned by mainstream Moslem leaders, and Downing Street
said his claims should be treated "with caution."

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "Attention-seeking takes many
different forms. We have to be slightly careful in giving too much credibility
to claims like this."

Scotland Yard, however, said the force was looking into the possibility of
mounting a prosecution against Butt. "The Met is working closely with the Crown
Prosecution Service to examine comments on the radio and establish if offences
have been committed, " said a spokesman.

The Home Office would have the job of asking Pakistan to extradite Butt, though
there is no agreement between the two countries.

"There is nothing to stop two countries coming to an arrangement provided they
are both in agreement, " said a spokesman.

The Home Office also said there was legislation to cover a prosecution against
Butt if police and the Crown Prosecution Service deem that he has broken the
law.

The spokesman added: "If the police suspect that British citizens are engaged in
terrorism or inciting it, arranging for training or supporting proscribed
groups, they will be investigated and charged under the Terrorism Act 2000." He
added:

"The vast majority of British Moslems want no part of these activities and there
is no evidence to support claims that hundreds of people joined the Taliban.

"To suggest otherwise is irresponsible and creates dangers of community tension.
No one in the media would want to be responsible for exacerbating it."

Butt told the Daily Express that he was already anticipating a move to bring him
back to Britain for questioning and he promised he would resist any attempts on
the part of the Pakistani authorities to comply with an extradition request.

He said: "I may have been born and raised in the UK but I do not respect your
justice system."

Butt had earlier told the Today programme that some British volunteers had been
"martyred" in Afghanistan and that others were in Pakistan "organising
operations".

He added: "If they do return to Britain I do believe they will take military
action within the UK."

Butt claimed that he had returned to Britain for three weeks at Christmas
without being stopped by the security services.

His trip had included a visit to the National Health Service for some
unspecified medical treatment and a visit to his parents' home in Prestwich,
Manchester. The city's police said there was no evidence that he had been there.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin called for a Government statement on Butt's
claims.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               November 11, 2002

Blair issues stark warning of Islamic exstremist terror threat

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 348 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair was today issuing a stark warning that Islamic
militants could bring their terror campaign to the UK.

More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.

His warning comes just days after the Government was accused of unnecessarily
sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing - a statement
detailing possible al Qaida tactics including 'dirty' nuclear bombs and attacks
on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume that they are safe simply because the UK has so
far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida, and the UK must
work with its international allies and partners to confront them, he will add.

Mr Blair's speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of London is his major
foreign policy statement of the year.

It will range over terrorism, the Iraq crisis, world poverty and the Doha talks
on trade liberalisation, stressing the importance of international co -operation
in dealing with all these problems.

It was foreshadowed yesterday by Home Secretary David Blunkett, who warned that
the UK was in the "front-line" for terrorist attacks.

Terrorists could be expected to target public events like yesterday's
Remembrance Day ceremonies or try to disrupt everyday life in the run-up to
Christmas and the New Year, he said.

And he admitted that the security and policing services could not guarantee
public safety at all times.

Although he gave no details of specific intelligence of an expected attack, Mr
Blunkett said: "There is always a danger."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 26, 2002

RIFT FEAR AFTER BUSH CALLS FOR YASSER TO GO; STRAW TELLS AMERICA: WE'LL STILL
BACK ARAFAT

BYLINE: By Alison Little in London and Ben Raymond in Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 459 words


BRITAIN'S "special relationship" with America was under severe strain last night
as Tony Blair flew out for talks with President George W Bush.

The UK refused to endorse the US leader's demand that the Palestinian people
ditch Yasser Arafat - linked to countless terrorist attacks on Israeli civilians
- as their leader before peace moves can start.

Under pressure from several MPs protesting that Mr Bush had no right to call for
the removal of an elected leader, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw yesterday told
the House of Commons that Britain still saw a role for Arafat.

Mr Straw said: "We deal with the leaders who are elected as we find them and, if
Yasser Arafat were reelected, we would deal with him."

The Conservatives warned last night that any rift between Britain and the US
would undermine peace hopes.

Shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram said: "Any appearance of a rift between
Downing Street and the White House is potentially damaging to the peace process
in the Middle East and to the ability of President Bush's statement to move
forward the peace process."

The divide opened as Mr Blair set off yesterday for Kananaskis in Canada for a
G8 summit of world leaders, including Mr Bush.

Mr Blair is today expected to have his own one-to-one talks with the US
President covering the Middle East.

However, Mr Blair's spokesman yesterday failed to endorse the President's
proposals.

He said: "There needs to be somebody who can represent the views of the
Palestinian people.

"The Prime Minister has said he believes Yasser Arafat has let down the
Palestinian people but it's not for us to say to them who they should choose as
their leader."

As criticism of Mr Bush's speech poured in - notably from EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana and UN secretary-general Kofi Annan - one of the President's
closest aides appeared to water down the US stance.

Secretary of State Colin Powell said America would respect the electoral choice
of the Palestinian people.

"If they choose Yasser Arafat we will deal with the circumstances as we find
them, " he said.

In Jerusalem, Israeli police said they had caught a suicide bomber on his way to
carry out an attack in the Israeli town of Bet Shemesh.

Israeli forces across the West Bank uncovered suicide bomb harnesses ready for
use and, in Hebron, four Palestinian policemen were killed in a gun battle as
Israeli tanks and troops moved in to take control of the city.

In Ramallah, Yasser Arafat said Mr Bush's speech was "important" but he
sidestepped the call for him to be replaced as Palestinian leader.

He said: "This is what my people will decide. They are the only ones who can
determine this."

Elections are due early next year.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15, 2002, Friday

Hospitals fail to prepare for a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Oliver Wright Health Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 527 words


Nearly a quarter of hospitals across Britain are unprepared for a chemical,
biological or radioactive terrorist attack, a study by the National Audit Office
(NAO) has found.

More than a year after September 11, a third of hospitals have failed to test
their plan for a major disaster and many trusts admit that they have not trained
staff properly in decontamination techniques.

In London, where the threat of attack is deemed greatest, the ambulance service
told the audit office that it did not have the resources to deal with mass
casualties -anything over 500 people.

"Acute trusts have identified some major gaps in preparedness, specifically in
relation to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. Reasons
included lack of equipment, training and expertise," the report says.

It looked at emergency planning across England and found that there had been
some improvements in major incident plans since the September 11 attacks. But it
concludes that much more work is needed to ensure that the "deficiencies in NHS
planning arrangements" are rectified.

"We found good practice, but this needs to be identified and spread more
systematically to address the deficiencies in the way the NHS plans and prepares
for major incidents," the report says.

"Actual incidents before September 11 support the view that NHS trusts were able
to cope with the range of major incident experienced to date. However, visits to
a small number of trusts showed they had all overstated in key areas their
degree of preparedness."

By February this year one fifth of health authorities said that they were not
well prepared for radiological incidents. Four fifths had not tested their plans
for radiological or nuclear incidents and a third said their training for such
events was poor or very poor. One fifth of acute trusts were not well prepared
for a chemical disaster, a third were ill-prepared for biological and
radiological incidents and half not ready for a nuclear event.

By October 22 per cent of acute trusts were not well prepared for a biological
incident and 37 per cent not fully ready to deal with a radioactive one.

Despite a Pounds 5 million government investment for bodysuits and
decontamination facilities, half said that their equipment was poor or very
poor.

Sir John Bourn, head of the National Audit Office, said: "The nature of the
threats now potentially facing us means that the Department of Health and the
chief executives of hospital, ambulance and primary care trusts need to continue
to act with determination to improve their planning and readiness."

The Government's Chief Medical Officer, Professor Sir Liam Donaldson, welcomed
the report. "While it is impossible to protect the public against every possible
incident, the NHS is better prepared. In particular, the report makes clear that
we need better training, scenario planning and joint agency working."

Liam Fox, the Shadow Health Secretary, said: "The NAO has exposed that those
plans that do exist are tested infrequently or inadequately. It is disgraceful
that these shortcomings have not been dealt with properly."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 24, 2002

A piece of Royal history for town

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Dave Mark

LENGTH: 461 words


THE QUEEN will step into the elaborate confines of a mosque in Britain for the
first time in her 50-year reign when she visits Scunthorpe in July - and make
history.

It will be the first time a reigning British monarch has visited a mosque in
this country.

She will go to the Islamic Centre on Parkinson Avenue to celebrate cultural
diversity as part of her Golden Jubilee.

The visit will be one of a number to non-Christian groups during the year which
are said to be a priority for the Queen, reflecting the important role played by
varied religious organisations in modern, multi-faith, multi-cultural Britain.

Among the most significant changes to Britain over the past 50 years has been
the growth of religious and cultural diversity, a Buckingham Palace spokesman
said.

The Queen has reflected this in many ways over the years, including visits, her
Christmas messages and the annual Commonwealth Observance.

The purpose of each of these visits is to indicate respect for the diversity of
faiths, to support inter-faith dialogue and to show that non-Christian, as well
as Christian, communities are central to contemporary Britain.

The move has been welcomed by religious leaders across North Lincolnshire

Mohammed Afzal Khan, secretary of the Islamic Centre and mosque, said: This is a
real first.

We are very honoured to have the privilege of the Queen's visit as the Muslim
community in Scunthorpe is only small.

It is a proud moment, not only for the Muslim community but for North
Lincolnshire as a whole.

Canon Derek Brown, chairman of the Multi-Faith Partnership for North
Lincolnshire, has welcomed the idea.

He said: The Muslim community throughout the world has been pilloried since
September 11, but that was a terrorist attack and not a Muslim one. The Queen is
making a symbolic and well-deserved gesture ,which I heartily applaud.

Details will be announced this week but it has been confirmed it is just one of
a number of goodwill gestures the Queen and members of the Royal Family will
make to non-Christian groups.

Apart from the trip to the centre, the Queen will visit a Hindu Temple in
London, a Jewish museum and a Sikh gurdwara.

The Duke of York is to attend a Baha'i reception and the Earl and Countess of
Wessex will visit a Jain Temple and a Zoroastrian thanksgiving service.

A spokesman for North Lincolnshire Council, which is co-ordinating the Queen's
visit alongside Buckingham Palace, said: Naturally, we are delighted the Queen
is visiting this area, and that the cultural diversity of North Lincolnshire
will be recognised with a visit to the Islamic centre.

As part of the Jubilee celebrations, the Queen will visit the new Parishes
shopping centre in Scunthorpe and Normanby Hall.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Essex Chronicle

                               November 15, 2002

Security stepped up

SECTION: Transport; Air; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 45 words


FRONTLINE security has been stepped up at Stansted as airports all over Britain
go on alert for a possible pre-Christmas terrorist attack. A BAA spokesman said
security measures introduced following the September 11 atrocity will be
"rigorously" enforced.  Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ESX - Brentwood Gazette

                         Copyright 2002 Essex Chronicle

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           January 10, 2002, Thursday

TIME FOR TONY TO STAY AT HOME

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 112 words


ONE should imagine that after his latest burst of globetrotting, Tony Blair's
think tanks would hit him hard with the thought that his Holy Grail is no
nearer.

He has set his eyes on becoming the European version of an American president.

What if tomorrow, a terrorists attack took place in Britain? The NHS, in its
run-down state could not serve tens of thousands of victims.

What if our thin blue line was called upon to deal with a nationwide outbreak of
anarchy arising from such incidents?

It is time Mr Blair came home to take a more parochial view, doing that for
which he was elected.

Douglas M Henly Pantbach Road, Birchgrove, Cardiff

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 7, 2002

'British Taliban recruits returning to attack UK'

BYLINE: James Langton;Danielle Gusmaroli

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words


A BRITISH man who says he recruited 200 Muslims to fight for the Taliban claimed
today many are returning to launch atrocities in this country.

Hassan Butt, 22, who was brought up in Manchester, says leading politicians and
government buildings will be targets.

Although moderate Muslims dismiss Butt as a publicity-seeking fanatic, he is
well known in extremist circles and in the current nervous climate British
security forces cannot dismiss his threats lightly.

Leader of the Islamic fundamentalist al-Muhajiroun group in Lahore, Pakistan, he
claims that as well as 200 Britons he recruited 400 other Westerners to fight in
Afghanistan.

Speaking from Pakistan, he told Radio 4's Today programme that the fall of the
Taliban does not spell the end of the holy war against the West, and claimed a
new phase is about to start in Britain. Of the Britons he recruited, some have
been killed, some are in Pakistan launching al Qaeda operations and others are
returning to the UK, he claimed.

Those returning here "should strike at the heart of the enemy, within Britain",
he said. "And those from America should strike again in America."

The Wolverhampton University dropout claims he has received many phone calls
from Muslims keen to sign up, though al-Muhajiroun says it is not directly
involved in recruiting.

Butt said British intelligence services were too "incompetent" to catch his
sophisticated operators. He claims he visited Britain for three weeks last month
and security services had no idea he was here, until a newspaper told them.

"Just because I have a British passport, it doesn't mean I should support the
British Government," he said. "I have no loyalties to Britain at all and do not
feel guilty one bit."

The Mirror claimed he wanted GBP 100,000 to be interviewed - which he denies.

Meanwhile, it has emerged that an American teenager who killed himself by flying
a stolen plane into a Florida skyscraper had written a note backing Osama bin
Laden's terror campaign.

Police described Charles Bishop, 15, as a "troubled young man" and revealed they
recovered a suicide note from his body expressing support for the 11 September
terror attacks on the US.

The note, which also said he was acting alone, was found on the boy's body after
it was recovered from the wreckage of the Cessna 172B, which hit the 28th floor
of the 42-storey Bank of America building in Tampa on Saturday.

Shocked TV viewers watched footage of the tail of the Cessna hanging from the
building in a scene that recalled the World Trade Center outrages. The Florida
building was largely empty at the time of the crash, and noone else was injured.
The slightly damaged skyscraper was open as normal today.

Bishop, who lived in Florida, had been taking flying lessons since March.

He took off alone after being left to carry out pre-flight checks.

His fatal flight took him over MacDill air force base, command centre for the
air war in Afghanistan. Two F15 fighters were scrambled from a base 200 miles
away, but arrived after the crash.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            June 12, 2002, Wednesday

GOLF: CUP HEADS FOR SUNSHINE STATE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 110 words


THE 2003 PGA Cup matches between the club professionals of Great Britain and
Ireland the the USA will be contested over the PGA Golf Club's South Course in
Port St Lucie, Florida.

The biennial matches, last played at the Celtic Manor resort in 2000 when the
USA triumphed 13.5-12.5, have been postponed for one year to maintain a uniform
cycle with the Ryder Cup, postponed following the September 11 terrorist attacks
last year.

The matches will be played from February 28-March 2 and the GB&I team will be
finalised after this week's Glenmuir Club Pros championship at Saunton, in
Devon.

The US team will be finalised later this month.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 24, 2002, Tuesday

EMAP SHOWS RISE IN FIRST-HALF PROFIT

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 126 words


RADIO City owner Emap predicted that its halfyear performance will be well ahead
of last year's figures.

Britain's number two commercial radio and magazine publisher expects its first
half profit before tax and exceptional items will show a big improvement, but it
was still cautious.

A company statement said: "Despite the group's relatively strong performance
over the past six months, Emap continues to take a cautious view of the wider
advertising marketplace."

That market has been depressed since the economic downturn in the wake of the
September 11 terrorist attacks.

Emap's first half ends on September 30. Apart from Liverpool independent station
Radio City, it also owns the Magic and Kiss radio networks around the UK.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RADIO CITY TOWER

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 21, 2002

We should welcome this daring initiative;
 Comment

SECTION: 172, Pg.10

LENGTH: 348 words


THINK of Paris and the first image that comes to mind is the Eiffel Tower.

In years to come when people think of Bristol will they think Project 360? It
may not be the most inspiring name for a new building but architect Martin Pease
clearly believes that the 360-feet skyscraper planned for Temple Gate can give
the city a new identity.

The proposals for the building were always going to be controversial.After the
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre on September 11, some may think they
should never be considered at all.

But Mr Pease's firm, Stride Treglown, is to be congratulated for responding to
the initial public response to the proposals.

The tower was originally going to be one of Britain's biggest at 500 feet but
the new proposals are for a building that is not only smaller, but also takes
account of concerns that it would have been too dominant.

Project 360 has been redesigned to reduce its impact against the sky and to look
different from different angles.

When the Eiffel Tower was first proposed, many Parisians felt it would be a
blight on their city.And at the time it was built, St Paul's Cathedral was also
so controversial, there was a demonstration against the plans.

The most important thing is that something is finally being done to sort out the
mess at Temple Gate.

The Grosvenor Hotel has for too long been a blight on the city, both for people
arriving at Temple Meads and for those of us who spend a considerable amount of
time each day sat in the traffic jams on Temple Way.

The scheme envisages demolishing the hotel and finally restoring the George
Railway hotel, a listed building that should be preserved.

So the next question is whether Project 360 is right for the site. Its mix of
homes, offices and hotel rooms are certainly desperately needed in the city.

And, as Mr Pease himself says, small buildings are no more safe from a
determined terrorist than a World Trade Centre.

But it is important that everyone has their say on a building that would still
dominate the city's skyline.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 8, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

Panthers On Prowl

BYLINE: The Journal

SECTION: SPORT, Pg. 49

LENGTH: 221 words


   One of Australia's top Rugby League sides has made a 12,000-mile journey to
play at the home of their namesakes tonight, writes ALAN HEDLEY.

The Penrith Panthers Under-18 side will take on a North-West regional side at
Penrith in Cumbria tonight [7.30] in the first match of their British tour.

Coached by former Paris St Germain head coach Peter Mulholland, they will also
play the North-West at Wigan on Friday and will take on Great Britain at Rugby
Lions ground on Saturday.

Joe Elliott, the British Amateur Rugby League Association's international youth
director, said: "The regional championship has been a good indicator of players'
strengths and abilities, and we now need to test those against some of the best
youth players in the world."

The tour, which also takes in Ireland and France, had to be put back a couple of
months as a result of the September 11 terrorist attack but it is the first-ever
tour of this kind by the Panthers.

It is the brainchild of Panthers development manager Jim Jones who said: "The
tour is part of the ongoing development programme we have in place for the club
- it gives us the opportunity to begin to blend together young players who will
undoubtedly be the top grade players of the future."

Mulholland said: "This is the next step in their development."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

SEPTEMBER 11: ONE YEAR ON: BUSHVOWS TO DEFEAT FANATICS'

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 583 words


US president George Bush ended a day of reflection over the September 11
terrorist attacks, vowing not to relent "until justice is done and our country
is secured".

Speaking in a televised address from New York last night Mr Bush promised
victory over "history's gang of fanatics".

"Now and in the future, Americans will live as free people, not in fear, and
never at the mercy of any foreign plot or power," he said.

"In the ruins of two towers, under a flag unfurled at the Pentagon, at the
funerals of the lost, we have made a sacred promise, to ourselves and to the
world: We will not relent until justice is done and our nation is secure. What
our enemies have begun, we will finish."

Although Mr Bush did not mention Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, US officials said
he had him in mind when he said: "We will not allow any terrorist or tyrant to
threaten civilisation with weapons of mass murder."

Mr Bush's speech came at the end of a day where millions of people in Britain
joined those around the world to pay silent tribute to the victims of New York,
Washington and Pennsylvania.

Some families of the 67 British victims travelled to New York for the first
anniversary of the atrocity.

Meanwhile, the Prime Minister was today meeting Iain Duncan Smith and Charles
Kennedy to brief them on the threat from Iraq.

The meeting comes on the same day Mr Bush makes a key speech to the UN General
Assembly, where he was expected to say that the time has come for it "to deal
with the problem" of Iraq and to compel Saddam to readmit weapons inspectors and
disarm.

Mr Bush was to stress the "outlaw" nature of the current regime and its defiance
of UN resolutions for more than a decade.

Ahead of today's meeting at Downing Street, the Conservative and Liberal
Democrat leaders welcomed the recall of Parliament announced yesterday, even
though it will clash with the Liberal Democrat annual conference in Brighton.

MPs and peers will be able to debate possible military action against Baghdad
later this month after the Premier bowed to mounting pressure for a recall of
Parliament.

Government sources indicated the Cabinet was likely to meet on Monday September
23, with Parliament sitting on the following day, September 24.

This will give the government time to publish its dossier on Saddam's weapons of
mass destruction capability. In a letter to House of Commons Speaker Michael
Martin, Tony Blair said he would start the one-day Commons session with a
statement, with Foreign Secretary Jack Straw then leading the debate.

Downing Street has insisted that there will be no substantive motion to vote on
at the end of the debate but any MPs fiercely opposed to military action could
still register their anger with a technical vote against adjourning the House.

l Radical Muslims at a controversial conference on the September 11 terror
attacks praised Osama bin Laden as a "hero" and warned Britain could face the
threat of suicide bombings on UK streets.

Last night's Islamic conference, entitled September 11: A Towering Day in
History, at the Finsbury Park mosque in north London, was organised by
alMuhajiroun, the group which wants to make Britain an Islamic state.

The entrance to the mosque was guarded by a group of Muslim youths covering
their faces with headscarves.

l On the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks, a date known as 9-11, the
evening numbers drawn in the New York Lottery were, incredibly, 9-1-1.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON REFLECTION: Demolition workers look out over Ground Zero at the
special ceremony yesterday; FLY THE FLAG: Martin Edwards from Tuebrook with his
own tribute last night; SOCCER TRIBUTE: Silences were observed by players and
fans at Liverpool v Birmingham and Southampton v Everton last night

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 09, 2002, Saturday

Our man at the organ SIR - The cremation service of a member of my golf club
included Bing Crosby crooning Straight Down the Middle. That, he was not. John
Raeburn Bexhill-on-Sea, E. Sussex [PS]Features: [ES] Letter to the Editor:;
Muster all expertise against Saddam

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 264 words

SIR - Ten thousand reservists are ordered to mobilise. There are threats of
biological and chemical terrorist attacks (report, Nov. 8). These at a time when
there is a critical shortage of doctors.

There are 20,000 doctors in Britain who are no longer "in regular practice", and
their numbers are increasing as more and more find themselves unable to cope
with the stress of current medical practice within the NHS. These retired
doctors represent a pool of expertise that is of undeniable potential value.

The General Medical Council (GMC) is well aware that many of us look after
ourselves as far as possible and provide medical advice and assistance to our
families and friends. Keeping up to date is no problem because we can afford the
time to peruse the medical journals and browse the medical internet. A
substantial proportion of us have served in the Armed Forces and have had
training in defence against these forms of warfare. Some of us have been
associated with the chemical defence establishment at Porton Down.

One would have thought that the GMC would encourage us to maintain our skills
and provide seminars on defence against anthrax, plague etc. On the contrary, it
intends to proceed with its plan to withdraw from all retired doctors their
licence to practice and the "privilege" of prescribing. The GMC has not produced
a single tenable argument for this measure. Is the Government serious about the
threat of warfare and terrorism or not?

Surgeon Vice-Admiral Sir John Rawlins (rtd)

Ashburton, Devon [PS]Features: [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 18, 2002

IRA bombing arrest;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 45 words


LONDON: Anti-terrorist officers were today questioning a woman arrested in
connection with the Real IRA bombing campaign on mainland Britain.

The 35-year-old woman was arrested during a raid on a house in nor th London at
8.30am yesterday, Scotland Yard said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            December 1, 2002, Sunday

BRITS IN KENYA TERROR ATTACK ALERT PRESSURE... Jack Straw

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 337 words


BRITONS travelling to Kenya were last night warned by the Foreign Office of an
increased terrorist threat and the need for extra vigilance, particularly in the
capital Nairobi.

The warning came as Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted the government had no
advance intelligence of possible terrorist activity in Mombasa in the run-up to
Thursday's suicide bombing on a hotel and failed missile attack on an Israeli
airliner.

In updated travel advice following the atrocity, the Foreign Office said: 'This
incident has highlighted the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa and the
capacity of terrorist groups to carry out attacks.

'Following this and other recent developments, including the terrorist bombing
in Bali on October 12, UK nationals worldwide should be aware of indiscriminate
attacks on civilian targets in public places, including tourist sites.'

It went on: 'We believe that Kenya is one of a number of countries in East
Africa wherethere may be an increased terrorist threat. UK nationals in Kenya
should be vigilant.'

It added: 'In particular there is a potential threat against Western interests
in Nairobi.'

Mr Straw was under pressure to disclose whether officials were aware of any
warnings after it emerged that Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of 'possible terrorist attacks against Western interests' in the
popular Kenyan tourist resort.

In a letter to shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram, who demanded an urgent
review of how Britain shared intelligence with its allies, Mr Straw wrote: 'No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa.' Meanwhile, a Mossad-led team of
Israeli experts was continuing to carry out sweeping searches in Mombasa last
night, after the attacks left 10 Kenyans, three Israelis and three bombers dead.

Security officials were questioning 12 foreigners and trying to trace the
vehicle used in the Israeli charter jet attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2002

Ancram backs Blair over Iraq

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 236 words


THE TORIES are today pledging support for Tony Blair and President George Bush
in their tough stance against Saddam Hussein.

Shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram is using his speech at the Tory
conference to insist on firm action to stop Iraq from building up weapons of
mass destruction.

Since the 11 September terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, the
Conservatives have backed the Government over the campaign against terrorism,
and they are now determined to extend the cross-party unity to decisions on
Iraq. Shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin will back up the message in a
debate under the slogan "Safer Britain, safer world" on day three of the
Bournemouth conference.

But Mr Ancram will lambast ministers over Gibraltar, accusing Labour of selling
out the crown colony by negotiating with Spain over a possible deal for joint
sovereignty. Meanwhile today the Government is facing the prospect of defeat in
the House of Lords over its plans to build a network of accommodation centres
for asylum seekers.

Tory and Liberal Democrat peers are joining forces to mount a series of
challenges to David Blunkett's asylum Bill as it enters its final parliamentary
stages.

In a separate move, the Bishop of Portsmouth, the Rt Rev Dr Kenneth Stevenson,
is leading a revolt against the Home Secretary's plans to exclude children of
asylum seekers from mainstream schools.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 12, 2002

FOILED. .BIN'S EVIL PLOT TO BLOW UP BRIT WARSHIPS

BYLINE: by JONATHAN CORKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 474 words


A PLOT by al-Qaida to kill hundreds of British sailors by blowing up our
warships has been foiled by foreign officials.

Three Saudis - said to be members of Osama bin Laden's network - planned to sail
heavilyarmed inflatable dinghies up to British and US warships in the Straits of
Gibraltar.

But officials in Morocco arrested the men, aged between 25 and 35, before they
could put their suicide mission into action.

Two Moroccan women said to have links to al-Qaida were also detained and all are
being held in Casablanca.

The terror bid was said to be frighteningly similar to a successful attack on
the warship USS Cole in a port off Yemen in 2000.

Two suicide bombers sneaked up to the vessel in an inflatable as it was
refuelling, before a stash of explosives was detonated. The blast killed 19
sailors.

Last night a senior government official in Morocco hailed the operation to foil
the latest al-Qaida attempt, which came about after intelligence from the US,
Britain, France, Spain and Arab countries.

Since September 11, many countries, including "rivals", have been sharing
information, often for the first time in their history.

Acknowledging this assistance, the official added: "Morocco's security services
have dismantled a network of al-Qaida, which planned terrorist attacks on US and
British warships crossing the Straits of Gibraltar. It was a successful
operation."

The diplomat said the three arrested were married to local women and were "well
integrated in the Moroccan society".

And he said they were funded and supported by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden, wanted
head of the alQaida network.

And the official confirmed the suspects had planned to sail an inflatable dinghy
loaded with explosives into the strait from the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and
Melilia.

One of Britain's warships on patrol in the area is the type-22 frigate HMS
Sheffield, which could have been a target.

The vessel has been patrolling the Eastern Mediterranean along with sections of
the US fleet.

In Washington, a US intelligence official said: "We have been aware of the plan
to attack shipping."

A French diplomat meanwhile confirmed the existence of "an anti-terrorist police
operation in liaison with Western interests in the Strait of Gibraltar."

Last night a Foreign Office spokesman said: "We welcome the arrests if they
involve individuals who may have been planning terrorist attacks against UK
assets."

Meanwhile, there are indications that a terrorist attack on April 11 against a
synagogue in Tunisia, which killed a total of 19 people, may also have been the
work of bin Laden's organisation.

If the network is confirmed to be behind the attack, it would mark the terror
group's first known successful operation outside of the war zone in Central Asia
since September 11.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

9/11: ONE YEAR ON: SILENT TRIBUTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 90 words

HIGHLIGHT: MEMORIAL: Charles


THE FIRST anniversary of the world's worst terrorist atrocity will be marked on
Wednesday by a minute's silence around the globe.

In Britain a memorial service, attended by the families of the 67 British
victims, Tony Blair, leading members of the Cabinet and the royal family,
including Prince Charles, will begin at 1.15pm at St Paul's Cathedral.

Other cities will hold cathedral services. The minute's silence will begin at
1.46pm - 8.46am in New York - the time American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into
the North Tower.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 18, 2002, Thursday

SPIES TO GET RECORD POUNDS 1BN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


BRITAIN'S spies have been given a record pounds 1.1billion three-year cash
injection.

MI6, MI5 and the GCHQ listening post will spend the lion's share of the money on
the war against terrorism.

The cash from Chancellor Gordon Brown's spending spree earlier this week will be
used to boost the country's army of spies.

Eavesdroppers at GCHQ will get the biggest chunk of the money.

A security source said: "It's a historic jump in our budget. Demands on us have
increased enormously since September 11."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 9, 2002, Saturday

END OF A DREAM;
 TERROR ATTACKS END PLANS FOR 50-STOREY SUPERTOWER ARTIST'S IMPRESSION How the
new building might have looked if the tower block plan had gone ahead; IMPACT: A
hijackled plane slams into the; Pentagon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 301 words


PLANS to build one of Britain's tallest towers in the centre of Birmingham have
been shelved amid fears it could be a target for terrorism, it was revealed
today.

Proposals for the 50-storey skyscraper, known as Arena Central, were revealed
two years ago, but since September 11 planners have thought again about the
multi-million pound project.

The 800ft tower, due to be built on a 7.5 acre site near the city's Centenary
Square, would have been among the tallest buildings in the UK - second to a
planned new skyscraper in London.

Birmingham City Council, private partners Hampton Trust and Miller Developments,
are still proposing to build on the city centre site but it will be a smaller
development costing pounds 450 million. The city council's head of economic
development, Paul Spooner, said: 'The initial reaction after September 11 was
that tall buildings around the world could be vulnerable to terrorist attack,'
he said.

'I'm not saying the tower will not be part of the planned development, but it's
unlikely to be part of it.

'We'd like to develop Birmingham's skyline, but it's no longer a question of the
height of the building, but the quality of accommodation provided.

'Initial plans for a grand development always look good on paper but they are
sometimes difficult to deliver. The market has moved on since the plans were
unveiled two years ago and Miller's are set to come up with a scheme that fits
today's market.'

Martin Field, managing director for Arena Central at Hampton Trust, the
promoter, said: 'The building will be iconic, but in design rather than height.'

He added that architects and developers in the UK were rethinking building
design after the September 11 attacks. The aim now was to provide a multiplicity
of escape routes.'

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 June 15, 2002

Unsafe as houses

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 396 words


BRITAIN has reason to be grateful to the housing boom. At a time when economists
everywhere were warning of the dangers of international recession in the wake of
the September 11 terrorist attacks, it was the stubborn refusal of Britons to
stop buying houses - and, indeed, anything else they could lay their hands on -
that helped this country to weather the storm.

Even though economic growth has stagnated in the six months to March of this
year, house prices, according to the Nationwide Building Society, rose in the
year to May by 17.9 per cent, the fastest growth rate since 1989, the year which
saw the last housing boom turn to bust.

With employment at a record high, interest rates at a 38-year low and earnings
going up, householders are not short on confidence. Even more importantly,
inflation is extremely low in spite of that sense of confidence fuelling an
explosive growth in household borrowing in which mortgages are leading the way.
The stability delivered by the Government's decision to set the Bank of England
free to set its own interest rates has created a measure of reassurance absent
from the frenetic boom of the 1980s and few consumers seem worried that the good
times are in any danger of ending.

Cause for concern, however, comes from the respected voice of Bank of England
governor Sir Edward George who has warned that the housing boom is
unsustainable. If rising house prices threaten to push up inflation, says Sir
Edward, the Bank would have no choice but to take the heat out of the market by
raising interest rates. In fact, with spending refusing to slow down and even
the beleaguered manufacturing industry showing signs of recovery, most
economists agree that rates are on their way up, perhaps as early as next month.

Yet with so much debt to service, householders are more vulnerable than in the
past to rising interest rates. A sharp increase in the base rate would almost
certainly turn the boom into a bust and bring catastrophic results for those who
have over-extended themselves in the housing market. This scenario, however,
remains an unlikely one. Thanks to Gordon Brown's adoption of an inflation
target, and the Bank of England's independence, economic instability has been
reduced to the point where the interest-rate level required to keep it on an
even keel is lower than it was in the Eighties' boom.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 29, 2002, Monday

Al-Qaeda 'plotting to seize hostages in days'

BYLINE: Roger Boyes in Berlin

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 428 words


GERMAN police are hunting three terrorists who have hatched a plot to take
hundreds of hostages in Britain, France and Germany within the next 20 days to
force the release of al-Qaeda prisoners in Europe.

A leaked report by the Federal Office of Criminal Investigation (BKA), the
German equivalent of Scotland Yard, said that the men were prepared to kill
themselves and the hostages. Details of the report published by the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung suggest that the men - named only as Schah Ahmad Pergham,
Raschid and Nisa - could take a large number of hostages by bursting into a
cinema or a church service. Britain, France and Germany are all holding
suspected terrorists linked to the al-Qaeda group.

The BKA tried to play down the report, and was evidently irritated by the leak.
But the newspaper investigation, by Udo Ulfkotte, a specialist on terrorist and
intelligence matters, quoted BKA officials as saying that they suspected that 30
suicide-bombers from Iran, Iraq, Yemen and Sudan were poised to strike in the
three countries, seizing 300 to 400 hostages in each nation.

The Germans are nervous about impending terrorist attacks after the arrest of
nine members of the al-Tawhid group. The militants are being held on charges of
terrorist activities and are suspected of plotting attacks in Germany.

Three terror organisations have been identified in Germany: one was based in
Hamburg and sheltered three of the suicide pilots from September 11; another was
based in Frankfurt and is alleged to have drawn up plans to attack Strasbourg.
Five members are on trial; the third Duisburg group, which had contacts with the
Hamburg cell, appears to have been involved in a bomb attack on a Tunisian
synagogue.

Fears over this terrorist activity are fuelling right-wing parties. Hamburg's
Interior Minister, Ronald Schill, has been circulating a proposal for greater
police powers. Instead of holding suspects for 48 hours before presenting
evidence to a judge, police should, he said, be able to hold suspects for ten
days without charge.

Cairo: An Egyptian state security court sentenced a man who trained in
Afghanistan and Pakistan with al-Qaeda to ten years with hard labour.

Mohammed el-Sayed Soliman Youssef was convicted of being a member of a terrorist
organisation, illegally receiving military training, and forging passports for
the Egyptian Islamic Jihad group. Youssef was said to be an aide to the man who
led the group and who was bin Laden's deputy, Ayman el-Zawahiri. (AP)

Innocents die, page 15


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                January 6, 2002

YOUR MONEY PROPERTY; 50 TOP HOMES TO BUY THIS WEEK

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady Property Correspondent

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.  31

LENGTH: 2585 words


HOMEOWNERS face the double whammy of falling property values and rising interest
rates this year. The house price surge, which saw increases of as much as 30 per
cent, will grind to a halt in the next few months according to Britain's biggest
mortgage lender.

Properties in London and the Southeast, in particular, are likely to stagnate in
value. The Halifax predicts an average nationwide rise of just five per cent
during 2002. Interest rates, now at their lowest for 40 years, are set to rise
in the spring.

"Sluggish economic growth and rising unemployment means that consumer confidence
and demand won't be as buoyant as last year, " says the Halifax's group
economist Martin Ellis.

"That weakening economic growth will constrain house prices and the market
generally. The terrorist attacks of September 11 have already forced the market
to take a pause.

"Those events damaged business confidence and while some of these effects are
likely to be temporary, others will continue into 2002.

"House prices showed little or no growth in September and October as consumer
confidence fell dramatically."

1

The Old Malt House Taplow, Buckinghamshire GBP 775,000 PERIOD features in this
four-bedroom (two en suite) house include exposed beams and an intriguing wall
drinks cabinet made from an Indian prayer window.

Best bit: Old stock brick-walled garden.

Worst bit: None of the bedrooms are particularly large.

Tel: 01628 622131

2

Fairmont House Fairlight, East Sussex GBP 685,000 THIS imposing, Grade II-listed
manor house and lodge has nearly 10 acres of grounds with views across Rye Bay.
The main house has five bedrooms, the lodge three bedrooms.

Best bit: High ceilings, vaulted cellars and shuttered windows.

Worst bit: Once a nursing home and hotel.

Tel: 01797 253323

3

Woodyard Cottage Podington, Northamptonshire GBP 315,000 A PICTURESQUE, Grade
II-listed stone-and-thatch cottage with two bedrooms and two receptions, each
with open fireplaces.

There is a two-storey brick outbuilding.

Best bit: Lots of potential.

Worst bit: Renovation work involved.

Tel: 01604 632991 4

Frensham Hilltop Frensham, Surrey GBP 495,000 AS THE name suggests, this
magnificent country house stands on the top of a hill and has fabulous views of
the surrounding National Trust land. The house was built in the late 19th
century.

Best bit: In excellent condition.

Worst bit: Small garden.

Tel: 01252 718018

5

Dene House Stillington, Yorkshire GBP 475,000 THE elegant, symmetrical Georgian
front of this three-bedroom north country residence belies a much older house
probably dating from the late 17th century.

Best bit: Magnificent panelled dining room with Gothic fireplace.

Worst bit: No garage (although there is planning permission).

Tel: 01904 625033

6

The Hollies Wappenham, Northamptonshire GBP 385,000 DESIGNED in 1854 by eminent
Victorian architect Sir George Scott for his two maiden aunts. There are four
medium-sized bedrooms and a conservatory with ISDN and analogue lines.

Best bit: Extensively renovated over the past ten years.

Worst bit: No en suite bathroom.

Tel: 01604 632991

7

Vincent Square Pimlico, London SW1 GBP 1.5million THE interior of this smart
London residence is stunning. It has large reception rooms and 3-4 bedrooms
arranged over four floors.

Best bit: Garden and roof terrace.

Worst bit: Opens directly onto the street.

Tel: 020 7834 4771

8

Commons Corner Minchinhampton, Gloucestershire GBP 500,000 LANDSCAPE artist
Keith Henderson lived here in 1912. The rambling layout includes five bedrooms
and two attic rooms.

Best bit: Nooks and crannies.

Worst bit: Only one bathroom.

Tel: 01453 751666

9

Walnut Orchard Portesham, Dorset GBP 275,000 DETACHED, stone four-bedroom house
built in 1992, full of character and with all mod cons. It is one of four
similar properties in a small close.

Best bit: Well-insulated.

Worst bit: Small fourth bedroom (8ft 6in x 7ft 9in).

Tel: 01305 265058

10 Woodthorpe Higher Metcombe, East Devon GBP 460,000 SECLUDED but not isolated,
this five-bedroom, double-glazed house set in two-thirds of an acre would make
an ideal family home.

Best bit: Newly-built, detached workshop/office.

Worst bit: En suite shower rooms only.

Tel: 01404 814706

11 The Penthouse Mayfair, London W1 GBP 1.85million THREE-BEDROOM penthouse with
stunning contemporary interior, a large, airy "studiostyle" reception and a roof
terrace.

Best bit: Gym and sauna.

Worst bit: Service charge.

Tel: 020 7225 6506

12 The Old Chapel Brigsley, North-east Lincolnshire GBP 199,500 IF YOU'RE
looking for something a little bit different, this three-bed chapel with
illuminated prayer book alcove in the hall could be it.

Best bit: Magnificent arched windows.

Worst bit: No garage.

Tel: 01472 691905

13 Deviock Farm Barns Cardinham, Cornwall GBP 265,000 LET your imagination run
wild with this collection of variously-sized stone barns complete with planning
permission.

Best bit: Part of the main barn converted.

Worst bit: Lots more work needed.

Tel: 01872 273473

14 Wensum House Hempton, Norfolk GBP 249,500 LARGER than it looks, this period
cottage has four bedrooms and a 23-foot attic room, plus a self-contained
one-bed annexe.

Best bit: Recently upgraded.

Worst bit: Courtyard "garden".

Tel: 01328 738111

15 The Teazle Kingswood, Buckinghamshire GBP 675,000 THIS fabulous Bellway house
was built just two years ago, has four bedrooms - two of which are almost 20ft
long - and backs onto woodland.

Best bit: Low maintenance.

Worst bit: Part of a cul-de-sac development.

Tel: 0118 9502341

16 Grove End Sonning, Berkshire GBP 395,000 AN UNUSUAL 18th-century house
reputed to have sheltered French Revolution refugees.

Features include laminate beech flooring.

Best bit: High ceilings.

Worst bit: No garage.

Tel: 0118 960 1000

17 The Cottages Basildon, Essex GBP 400,000 THE asking price is for two,
two-bedroom thatched cottages situated in a quiet country lane. Also available
separately.

Best bit: Idyllic rural setting.

Worst bit: Interior dEcor.

Tel: 0118 950 2341

18 Kensington Square Kensington, London W8 GBP 4million YOU ARE paying as much
for location as for the property, of course, but this Grade II-listed house is
huge with six bedrooms.

Best bit: Location, location, location!

Worst bit: Needs completely refurbishing.

Tel: 020 7535 3300

19 Pembroke Square Kensington, London W8 GBP 1.7million SAME prestigious area as
number 18, but the house is not as big. It has four bedrooms, a small garden and
use of the square's tennis court.

Best bit: Elegant conservatory.

Worst bit: Close to the road.

Tel: 020 7535 3300

20 The Old Rectory Pulham St Mary, Norfolk GBP 225,000 THE East wing of a Grade
II-listed, Georgian former rectory. It has three double bedrooms and a modern
kitchen/breakfast room.

Best bit: High ceilings and sash windows.

Worst bit: Not having the whole house.

Tel: 01603 616898

21 Caversham Heights Caversham, Berkshire GBP 345,000 THIS two-bedroom
"executive apartment" boasts an integrated home information and entertainment
system interlinked throughout.

Best bit: Tended communal grounds.

Worst bit: No garage (but two parking places).

Tel: 0118 960 1000

22 Maulden's Mill Framlingham, Suffolk GBP 150,000-GBP 250,000 SIX mews-style
houses with two, three or four bedrooms. The kitchens all have built-in
fridge/freezers, dishwashers and cookers.

Best bit: Home network cabling system.

Worst bit: No garden.

Tel: 01728 724200

23 Milford House Milford Godalming, Surrey GBP 259,000 RECENTLY-CONVERTED,
two-bedroom apartment within an imposing 18th-century, Grade II-listed country
house.

Best bit: Beautifully restored.

Worst bit: Communal front door and grounds.

Tel: 01483 880900

24 East Park House Handcross, West Sussex GBP 795,000 THE plush,
Gothic/Victoriana interior and dramatic colour schemes within this stunning
six-bed house reflect a highly-individual taste.

Best bit: Stable yard and seven acres of land.

Worst bit: Leasehold (National Trust).

Tel: 01273 834602

25 Priors Green Cottage Hartford End, Essex GBP 295,000 EXPOSED timbers feature
strongly in this fourbedroom cottage which dates back to 1820.

Double-glazed windows help keep it cosy.

Best bit: Views over open countryside.

Worst bit: Close to the road.

Tel: 01371 872117

26 3, The Street Leighterton, Gloucestershire GBP 275,000 BOTH Prince Charles
and Princess Anne have homes a few miles from this Grade II-listed,
three-bedroom Cotswold cottage.

Best bit: Period features.

Worst bit: End-of-terrace.

Tel: 01666 504418

27 Clarendon Street Pimlico, London SW1 GBP 995,000 AN ELEGANT, mid-terrace town
house with four floors, 3-4 bedrooms and two double receptions. It also has a
conservatory and patio.

Best bit: Full-height windows.

Worst bit: No garden.

Tel: 020 7834 4771

28 Home Farm Roydon, Norfolk GBP 650,000 LARGE family house complete with a
range of excellent barns, stables and outbuildings which are currently used as
an equestrian centre.

Best bit: Planning consent to convert centre.

Worst bit: No en suite bathroom.

Tel: 01603 767606

29 Fynnes New Buckenham, Norfolk GBP 250,000 PART of an imposing period house
currently used as a residential care home, Fynnes has three reception rooms and
six bedrooms.

Best bit: Freehold.

Worst bit: Stands on the roadside.

Tel: 01603 616898

30 Brewhouse Cottage Lower Oddington, Gloucestershire GBP 300,000 THE detached,
stone-built original brewhouse accompanying this two-bedroom cottage has
planning consent for conversion.

Best bit: Stone walls and flagstone floors.

Worst bit: No garage.

Tel: 01451 830731

31 Bennetston Hall & Coach House Buxton, Derbyshire GBP 795,000 THIS 20-bedroom
former hotel presents a great business opportunity. Unoccupied for 16 years, it
needs fully renovating.

Best bit: Separate four-bed coach house.

Worst bit: Loads of time and money needed.

Tel: 01663 762677

32 Gopal Willaston, South Wirral GBP 399,950 A SPACIOUS, detached, modern family
home built six years ago. It has four bedrooms, three receptions and a double
garage.

Best bit: Fully-fitted kitchen/breakfast room.

Worst bit: Small garden.

Tel: 0151 327 5665

33 Pinefields House West Hill, Devon GBP 335,000 READY to move into, this
comfortable house at the end of a quiet cul-de-sac has five bedrooms with fitted
wardrobes, cupboards and drawers.

Best bit: 30-foot sitting/dining room.

Worst bit: Small fifth bedroom (8ft x 7ft 3in).

Tel: 01404 814306

34 Pen Y Ffrith Farm Terfyn, Denbighshire GBP 350,000 SPLENDID smallholding
which includes a recently refurbished Georgian farmhouse, outbuildings and a
two-bed apartment.

Best bit: Planning consent for outbuildings.

Worst bit: Lots of work to realise full potential.

Tel: 01244 320747

35 18a West End Minchinhampton, Gloucestershire GBP 240,000 ONE half of a
painstakingly restored Grade IIlisted alms house with huge, arched, leaded,
Gothic windows. It has three bedrooms.

Best bit: Fabulous kitchen.

Worst bit: Small third bedroom.

Tel: 01453 751666

36 Skomer House Lubbenham Hill, Leicestershire GBP 450,000 SMART and relatively
secluded, this five-bed contemporary house has an immaculate landscaped garden
and a 4.5-acre paddock.

Best bit: Large reception rooms.

Worst bit: No en suite bathroom.

Tel: 01858 433123

37 Queen Anne's Gate Farnham, Surrey GBP 460,000 LUXURIOUS four-bedroom modern
home with multi-zone, in-house entertainment throughout and also to the outside
terrace.

Best bit: Three elegant bath/shower rooms.

Worst bit: Part of a development of 12 homes.

Tel: 01252 718018

38 Trewinney Porthpean, Cornwall GBP 325,000 THE coastal views from this
three-bed 1920s house are spectacular. Part of the ground floor can easily be
used as a self-contained annexe.

Best bit: 350 yards from the beach.

Worst bit: Third bedroom on the ground floor.

Tel: 01872 273473

39 Poneys Close Bracknell, Berkshire GBP 450,000 BRAND new five-bedroom,
three-reception, three-bathroom family house with open fireplaces and a jacuzzi.

Best bit: Immaculate 17-foot kitchen.

Worst bit: Gravel frontage.

Tel: 01344 869169

40 Deviock Farmhouse Cardinham, Cornwall GBP 335,000 NESTLING in a designated
Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, this four-bed house includes slate flag
floors and beamed ceilings.

Best bit: Four acres of land with more available.

Worst bit: No en suite bathroom.

Tel: 01872 273473

41 Hyde Park Square Hyde Park, London W2 GBP 975,000 THE large, flat roof of
this four-bed modern home would make a great roof terrace. There are also
communal gardens in the square.

Best bit: Location.

Worst bit: Leasehold (54 years).

Tel: 020 7262 2226

42 Aberdeen Road Highbury, London N5 GBP 1.3million AS SEEN on TV. This
beautifully restored, seven-bedroom house on four floors has featured in a
number of TV productions.

Best bit: Spa room with jacuzzi and sauna.

Worst bit: Small garden.

Tel: 020 7354 4688

43 The Old House Sonning, Berkshire GBP 1.2million DECORATED in a contemporary
style, but retaining original features such as fireplaces and ceiling beams. It
has six bedrooms.

Best bit: Lilac mosaic outdoor swimming pool.

Worst bit: Lean-to sun room.

Tel: 01491 843001

44 Belmont House Falmouth, Cornwall GBP 565,000 THIS magnificent, six-bedroom
Regency town house was built for a Royal Navy captain in the early 19th century
and has first-floor sea views.

Best bit: Gothic arched windows.

Worst bit: Garden only half an acre.

Tel: 01872 273473

45 Windle House Lea, Lincolnshire GBP 210,000 ASWISS-DESIGNED underground
nuclear fallout shelter, fully equipped and functioning, accompanies this 1950s
five-bedroom house.

Best bit: Feeling safer than houses.

Worst bit: Only one bathroom.

Tel: 01522 551100

46 Bridge House Potter Heigham, Norfolk GBP 210,000 BUILT in the early 20th
century, Bridge House has four bedrooms, with a koi pond and summer house in the
garden.

Best bit: Sun terrace.

Worst bit: Pink exterior.

Tel: 01603 616898

47 Polkirt Heights Mevagissey, Cornwall GBP 300,000 MARINE residence with
fabulous views across Mevagissey Harbour and the South Cornish coastline. Built
in 2000, it has 4-5 bedrooms.

Best bit: Immaculate interior.

Worst bit: The uphill walk home.

Tel: 01872 273473

48 Eglos Coth Trewartha, Cornwall GBP 375,000 HANDSOME and unusual stone
property which was originally a Methodist chapel. It includes a one-bed annexe
and two holiday letting houses.

Best bit: Contents of letting houses included.

Worst bit: No garage.

Tel: 01872 273473

49 Victoria Quay Malpas, Cornwall GBP 197,500 IMMACULATE, second-floor
waterfront apartment with two double bedrooms and a 26-foot outer pontoon berth.

Best bit: Excellent condition.

Worst bit: Glass-fronted balcony.

Tel: 01872 273473

50 The Bury Cholesbury, Hertfordshire GBP 1.25million ONCE a coach house, then
an ale house in the 18th century, The Bury became a private home in 1924. It
still has lots of exposed beams.

Best bit: Stable yard and paddock.

Worst bit: Fifth bedroom partly renovated.

Tel: 01494 725707

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 9, 2002

We have the right to know the dangers

SECTION: News :Other :Comment, Pg.8

LENGTH: 430 words


NO-ONE knows where al-Qaeda will strike next - but terrorist experts all agree
that Britain is a likely target. Equally, it seems impossible to predict what
form the attacks will take - whether familiar terrorist targets or something
completely different.

The attacks on the World Trade Center, the hostage horror in a Moscow theatre,
the Bali nightclub bombing designed to kill youngsters - all have taught us that
any outrage imaginable is possible.

Extremists who are prepared to give their own lives to achieve their sick aims
simply cannot be second-guessed.

But what is obvious is that Britain is seen by these fundamentalists in the same
light as America and Australia, and a strike against our country can almost
certainly be expected at some point.

As David Blunkett's aborted document pointed out, this could consist of dirty
bombs, chemical or biological weapons or weapons of mass destruction.

In truth, no-one knows. Boats and trains, as pointed out in the original
document, are soft options and could be easily targeted.

Certain attacks can be prevented - we are all familiar with increased security
measures at airports - but others are more problematical.

All it takes is for a terrorist to get lucky just once in every few years and,
as the IRA showed, atrocities can be committed even on the scale of bombing
Brighton's Grand Hotel with the Government inside.

Which is exactly why the British public need the situation spelling out to them.

We are all mature enough to handle the possibility, as we all handled the
possibility of IRA bombs on the mainland for decades.

We have the right to know that Britain is being targeted by al-Qaeda and that
British people are clearly at risk.

The Government's panic in recalling its document once it had been distributed to
the Press and demand its shredding was at best an over-reaction.

Tony Blair's official spokesman said the later version omitted details of
specific threats as it might lower public vigilance.

He added that officials had been "quite open" in admitting the blunder and
warned people must remain vigilant to the continuing threat of international
terrorism.

It is quite right that we must be vigilant and alert. We live in a world which
became inherently more dangerous after the September 11 attacks.

But unless we are all treated as adults and warned of the exact nature of the
evil we face, the Government is doing us a huge disservice.

It has a duty to keep us informed and should have the courage to be honest with
the electorate, too.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               November 23, 2002

Jubilee trail will say it with flowers

BYLINE: Alison Bartlett

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 337 words



Floral trails around Oxford are being planned to mark the Queen's jubilee
celebrations and boost the city's chances in a prestigious national competition.

The Oxford in Bloom committee, which organises the city's annual gardening
competition, sponsored by the italicOxford Mailitalic, has teamed up with Oxford
City Council's tourism department to launch two walks around the city. A short
and long trail are being planned, taking in the city's floral displays and
historic buildings.

The project will coincide with Oxford's entry in the national Britain in Bloom
finals this year. The city was nominated to represent the South of England in
the UK competition after winning the southern regional finals in August last
year.

Businesses in the city will be encouraged to display floral trail stickers in
their windows and leaflets with details about the circular walks will be
distributed to hotels and tourist information centres. Karen Roberts, chairman
of the Oxford in Bloom committee, said: "Oxford is a very difficult city to
drive in, so the trails will encourage people to walk and see the wonderful
floral displays.

"It is also felt that after the September 11 terrorist attacks in the USA, many
more British people will be holidaying in England." The trails are expected to
be launched in June.

Mike Gass, Oxford in Bloom co-ordinator at the city council, said: "I think the
project is going to open up hidden spaces in Oxford, both for local residents
and the thousands of visitors to the city."

Jan Hull, the council's tourism manager, welcomed the initiative, which she said
would help spread visitors more evenly around the city.  Ms Hull said: "Oxford
is a city made for walking, which is how you discover its hidden corners, so
trails taking in the city's wonderful floral displays are a lovely idea."

The italicOxford Mail's italicjubilee website, providing information on all the
local events, is due to go live on January 29. Its address will be
www.oxfordshirejubilee.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 13, 2002

Britain warned of terror threat to ferries

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 415 words


The Government last night took the unusual step of releasing its latest security
advice to ports and ferry operators in an attempt to calm fears of an imminent
terrorist attack.



Ministers were forced to act after details of the confidential circular issued
by Transec - the security division of the Department of Transport - were leaked
to the Press.

The memo referred to a recent warning from the French and Dutch authorities of a
possible terrorist act against ferries. The Dutch alert may be particularly
significant for this region because of ferries plying North Sea routes such as
Hull Rotterdam and Hull Zeebrugge - although the memo concluded there was no
credible information or intelligence to support the claim.

Nevertheless, it reminded recipients of the need to maintain increased vigilance
in the current heightened security environment.

A copy of the circular was obtained by Lloyd's List and featured prominently in
early morning news bulletins on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

It is feared that terrorists could drive a lorry packed with explosives onto a
ferry.

It followed hard on the heels of Tony Blair's speech on Monday night in which he
said British intelligence was receiving daily warnings and predicting the
country would have to pay a painful price to defeat terrorism.

However, with Ministers anxious to avoid creating mass panic, the Prime
Minister's official spokesman has urged journalists to exercise care in the way
they reported warnings.

There is a lot of intelligence around. Every piece of it in the hands of certain
journalists could, no doubt, lead the news.

But I think we have to ask whether that is, in the circumstances we find
ourselves, necessarily a helpful way to conduct the debate, the spokesman said.

The intervention by Downing Street again reflected the difficult balance that
Ministers have to strike between reminding people to remain vigilant and
avoiding panic.

Only least week the Home Office withdrew advice issued in error - warning of the
threat of a poison gas or so-called dirty bomb attack - to replace it with a
more general warning.

The text of the Transec warning released by the Department of Transport, said:
Despite the recent warnings from the French and Dutch authorities of a possible
terrorist act against ferries, we do not assess that there is any credible
information or intelligence in support. Threat levels to British maritime
interests remain unchanged.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 28, 2002

Terrorist bomb plotter is sent to jail for 20 years;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 125 words


BIRMINGHAM: A 27-year-old man has been jailed for 20 years for planning to cause
terrorist explosions in Britain using the high explosive HMTD.

Mr Justice Hughes told Moinul Abedin that the plot had the potential to have
maimed or killed large numbers of people if it had not been "nipped in the bud"
by the security services.

Abedin, of Fallows Road, Sparkbrook, Birmingham, stockpiled enormous quantities
of the home-made explosive and made detonators in readiness to cause a terrorist
blast, Birmingham Crown Court heard.

His co-defendant, 38-year-old Dr Faisal Mostafa, of Green Pastures, Stockpor t,
Greater Manchester, was cleared by the jury of conspiracy to cause explosions
and doing an act intended to cause an explosion.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 9, 2002

AMERICAN CANYON'S GRAND, THE BARRIER REEF'S GREAT, BUT THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS
AND STONEHENGE FAIL TO MAKE IT IN BBC POLL OF FAVOURITE PLACES THE 50 TOP SIGHTS
(AND NOT ONE IS IN BRITAIN); SEE THIS LOT BEFORE YOU DIE

BYLINE: By David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 714 words


ICELAND made it. So did Cambodia and Alaska. But in a new list of the world's 50
best holiday destinations there is not so much as a glimpse of Britain.

Indeed, with Walt Disney World in Florida achieving third place in the poll, it
seems the UK cannot even claim to be a Mickey Mouse country.

Tourism chiefs yesterday hit back at the chart, arguing for the merits of the
Scottish Highlands, Stonehenge and Windsor Castle.

But British travellers said they preferred the epic splendour of the Grand
Canyon, which topped the poll, followed by Australia's Great Barrier Reef and
then Disney World.

In a final insult, the nearest place to Britain in the top 50 was its old rival
Paris, at number 27.

The 50 "places to see before you die" were compiled from the votes of 20,000
people canvassed for BBC1's Holiday programme to be broadcast tomorrow.

English Tourism Council spokeswoman Debbie Holden said: "We are quite surprised
because we think Britain can compete with anywhere in the world in terms of
history and natural beauty. But people don't tend to think about what's on their
own doorstep.

"When people come from abroad they find things here they can't find anywhere
else. Stonehenge is an example of some amazing architecture.

Windsor Castle is an illustration of the nation's royal heritage."

Asked if Britain's weather was the crucial factor, she added: "People don't come
from overseas because of the weather. The advantage we have in Britain is there
are lots of other things you can do in bad weather, such as museums and art
galleries. In many destinations that is not the case."

Tom Hall of Lonely Planet travel guides expressed surprise at Britain's failure.
"I was amazed the Scottish Highlands didn't make it - they are fabulous, " he
said.

"And sunset on the Thames is one of the great sights of the world.

However, Lonely Planet does not give Britain unqualified praise. A recent
edition of its guide book noted that the cost of eating out is "too high and
service is not good enough", while the profusion of restaurants linked to major
chains is "a sorry development".

Many public toilets are "still pretty grim", while "drunken brawls are not
uncommon as liquored-up lager louts are tossed on to the streets at closing
time".

Domestic tourism is on the up this year, with 177million trips involving at
least one night's stay generating GBP 28.5billion. But the industry has still
not fully recovered from foot-and-mouth disease and the September 11 terrorist
attacks, which caused a seven per cent drop last year.

South Island in New Zealand, used for location shots in The Lord Of The Rings
films, was fourth in the list, with Cape Town fifth, India's Golden Temple at
Amritsar sixth and Las Vegas seventh.

Sydney was eighth, New York ninth and India's Taj Mahal 10th.

Other top tourist spots which made the top 50 included Victoria Falls (20th),
Mount Everest (30th), Rome (35th), and Barbados (43rd).

The BBC had has to re-record its commentary for the programme because the
Indonesian island of Bali, ranked 49th, was struck by last month's terrorist
bombing.

Have you seen ALL these places - and can you prove it? Write to Top Places,
Daily Express, 245 Blackfriars Road, London SE1 9UX

Wonders of the modern world

Grand Canyon, US Great Barrier Reef, Australia Walt Disney World, Florida South
Island, New Zealand Cape Town, South Africa Golden Temple, Amritsar Las Vegas,
US Sydney, Australia New York, US Taj Mahal, India Lake Louise, Canada Uluru
(Ayers Rock), Australia Chichen Itza, Mexico Machu Picchu, Peru Niagara Falls,
US/Canada Petra, Jordan Pyramids, Egypt Venice, Italy Maldives Great Wall of
China Victoria Falls, Zambia/Zimbabwe Hong Kong Yosemite National Park,
California Hawaii, US North Island, New Zealand Iguacu Falls, South America
Paris, France Alaska, US Angkor Wat, Cambodia Mount Everest, Himalayas Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil Masai Mara, Kenya Galapagos Islands, Ecuador Luxor, Egypt Rome,
Italy San Francisco, US Barcelona, Spain Dubai, UAE Singapore La Digue,
Seychelles Sri Lanka Bangkok, Thailand Barbados, West Indies Iceland Terracotta
Army, China Matterhorn, Switzerland Angel Falls, Venezuela Abu Simbel, Egypt
Bali, Indonesia Bora Bora, French Polynesia

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 11, 2002, Thursday

IR: BIN LADEN PLOTTED TO BOMB THE POPE;
 FILE REVEALS PLAN TO HIT VATICAN

BYLINE: Joe Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 349 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGET; TARGETS: Al-Qaeda made plans to attack the Pope and the;
Vatican before September 11; ATROCITY; WANTED; SHOCKING: The terror attacks on
America; FUGITIVE: Osama bin Laden is being hunted


AL-QAEDA terrorists planned to attack the Vatican in a plot organised in
Britain, it emerged yesterday.

Italian undercover police officers described in a leaked anti-terrorist document
how the Pope was close to being hit by Osama bin Laden's terror network.

Also named as being at risk were the US embassy in Rome and St Mark's Square in
Venice.

But the plans were scrapped two months before the September 11 strikes, Italian
newspaper Corriere della Sera said yesterday.

It claimed that according to DIGOS - the Italian anti-terrorist police - the
plot was being organised by Khalifa Mohamed Moussa Ahmed, under orders from a
man in London known as Omar.

The top secret report, dated May last year, said: "Recently we have discovered
an Italian-based group of terrorists is planning an attack but it is in the
embryonic stages.

"They are looking to strike at significant United States targets in Europe or
even the Vatican itself."

Two months later a further report said: "It has been discovered that during a
recent meeting in London between the cells the plan to go ahead has been
cancelled."

Undercover officers intercepted several phone calls and were able to monitor
Ahmed as he carried out reconnaissance work in Venice.

They watched as he took pictures in the city which is popular with both British
and American tourists.

According to the file seen by Corriere della Sera, an informant told police
Ahmed then reported back to Omar.

He allegedly said that "it would be better to hit St Peter's because that is a
more suitable target and more lives will be lost".

Two other terrorists carried out surveillance in the Vatican while another cell
member, Hussain Tassadaq, was quoted as saying: "A suicide attack must be
carried out.

"I am willing and ready. The best target would be the American embassy and I am
ready to drive the car bomb."

A police spokesman in Rome said: "Every day of the year anti-terrorist officers
are engaged in the security of the country."

Those named in the report are now in custody or have fled abroad.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 21, 2002

TERROR RISK TO BRITONS IN AFRICA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 152 words


BRITISH tourists in South Africa risk being targeted by terrorists, the Foreign
Office warned last night.

Britons could become caught up in terror attacks aimed at others, but there is
also "some risk" of attacks on places where Westerners regularly gather,
officials said.

Visitors have been warned to be cautious and vigilant, although the Foreign
Office said that most visits to South Africa are trouble-free.

There were a number of explosions in South Africa in October and November,
officials said.

South African police are investigating, but it remains unclear who is
responsible, and whether or not the attacks are linked.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents said South Africa was
experiencing a booming tourist flow from Britain at the moment, with seven
flights a day from UK airports.

"I think it will remain popular despite this warning, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 15, 2002, Monday

SYRIA'S ASSAD IN FIRST VISIT TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: Andy Mcsmith Political Editor Assad: disagreements will be voiced only
in private

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 318 words


President Bashar Assad of Syria, whose country was condemned a little over a
decade ago as a "terrorist state", will arrive tonight on an unprecedented state
visit to Britain.

Mr Assad, the first Syrian head of state to visit Britain, will have a working
lunch with Tony Blair in 10 Downing Street, and an audience with the Queen. The
Prime Minister and Mr Assad will hold a joint press conference in Downing Street
- opening the prospect of another public clash like the one that marked Mr
Blair's ground -breaking visit to Damascus last year.

With Mr Blair at his side, the Syrian President condemned the allied war in
Afghanistan and justified armed resistance in Israel. This time, the Syrians
have said, they will deliver their criticisms "in private rather than in
public".

The most recent sign of rapprochement was Syria's decision, as the only Arab
member of the United Nations Security Council, to back Resolution 1441, which
sent the UN weapons inspectors back into Iraq.

As a secular regime dominated by members of the minority Alawite sect, the
Syrian government is also deeply hostile to Islamist groups like al- Qa'ida. But
yesterday the Syrians were isolated in the Security Council when they voted
against a resolution condemning the suicide bomb attack on an Israeli-owned
hotel in Mombasa, Kenya. The Syrian representative said Damascus "unreservedly
condemns" terrorist attacks, but could not accept a resolution which referred to
Israeli citizens as victims.

t Jordan has arrested two men it described as self-confessed members of al
-Qa'ida for the killing of Laurence Foley, an American diplomat shot outside his
Amman home in October. They were named as Salem Saad bin Suweid, a Libyan, and
Yasser Fatih Ibrahim, a Jordanian. An official statement yesterday said that
ammunition and firearms used in the Foley attack had been found in the men's
possession.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 March 17, 2002

BROWN WARNED OF GBP 3BN RED TAPE

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words


Britain's small and medium-sized firms say Gordon Brown must take an axe to
excessive government red tape. The cost to businesses of red tape introduced
since 1997 is more than GBP 3bn a year, according to estimates to be published
by the British Chamber of Commerce.

u SUSANKeating, the chief executive of Allfirst, the American subsidiary of
Allied Irish Banks (AIB), is expected to leave her job within six months,
according to a senior AIB source.

u THREE leading insurance brokers - Marsh, Aon and Willis - plan to set up a
global scheme to cover airlines against claims arising from terrorist attacks
and wars. The plan,which has the backing of the International Aviation
Organisation, would end months of wrangling between governments and airlines
over the continuation of insurance cover after the 11 September attacks.

u GALEN Holdings, the pharmaceuticals company that is based in Northern Ireland,
is in exclusive talks focused on selling its Clinical Trial Services division to
Hg Capital for up to GBP 250m.


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 25, 2002

Ethnic minority push by BBC

BYLINE: Matt Wells Media correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 453 words


The BBC is launching a drive to improve its news coverage of Britain's ethnic
minority communities in an attempt to connect with audiences that have
previously been neglected.

Radio 5 Live is appointing a correspondent with a brief to cover the
Afro-Caribbean communities in Britain, while a new digital radio network aimed
at young black people is recruiting its own team of journalists.

The BBC Asian Network, which broadcasts in the Midlands and north-west of
England, has its own news operation, and the station is being expanded to cover
the whole country on digital radio later this year.

A final round of interviews for the 5 Live post will be held today. Bob Shennan,
the network's controller, said there was a feeling that the BBC was not covering
a section of its audience adequately enough, and his station would do more to
give prominence to stories and issues that were either being underplayed or
missed altogether.

Ceri Thomas, head of news, said the correspondent would cover the Afro-Caribbean
communities in particular, rather than ethnic minorities in general, since there
was a feeling that this area had been particularly neglected.

At the same time Network X, the as yet unnamed digital station that will
showcase black music, is in the process of setting up its own news depart ment.
When the station is launched later this year, it will run hourly news bulletins
modelled on Radio 1's Newsbeat, which will cover stories of more relevance to
its target audience.

As well as the music output, the station will run speech based programming every
day, which will cover issues such as racism, crime, sport and entertainment.

The Asian Network also has its own team of journalists: the station has been
credited with building a bridge between the target listeners and the BBC. But
there is a feeling that the BBC's national news operation still does not make
enough use of the Asian Network's specialist knowledge.

The developments at the BBC reflect a wider feeling that Britain's ethnic
minorities have in the past been regarded as a homogenous group, rather than a
collection of diverse communities with different interests.

It was revealed this week that Sunrise Radio, the biggest commercial broadcaster
directed at ethnic minority communities in Britain, is proposing to drop the use
of the word "Asian", following complaints from Hindu and Sikh listeners that
they were being too closely associated with Muslims. Some representatives of the
Hindu and Sikh communities said they were being targeted following the September
11 terrorist attacks.

Special report on race at guardian.co.uk/race

More broadcasting news at MediaGuardian.co.uk/broadcast


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 30, 2002, Tuesday

IRISH DAILY MIRROR COMMENT: LONG OVERDUE

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 103 words


A DECISION on establishing an agency to combat terrorism will be made by Defence
Minister Michael Smith in the New Year.

The body, similar to Britain's MI5, would replace the Garda as the main source
of intelligence gathering.

The creation of such an agency is by no means a reflection on the Garda's
Special Detective Unit and the military intelligence wing, G3.

They have been responsible for excellent work in the field of dom-estic
terrorism.

But following September 11 and the growing threat from inter- national terrorism
Ireland needs to widen its net.

It's always better to be prepared.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 20, 2002

POLICE ARREST BIN LADEN SUSPECTS IN DAWN SWOOP; MI5 SMASH UK TERROR GANG

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 525 words


SIX men with alleged links to terror chief Osama Bin Laden were under arrest
last night after dawn raids by MI5 and the police.

The suspected money launderers were questioned by Anti-Terrorist Branch
detectives following a major investigation into the funding of international
terrorism.

They were among 11 people arrested in raids across London. All are understood to
be of Middle Eastern or Algerian origin.

Extensive searches were carried out at the suspects' homes and two storage units
in the capital. Computers used by some of the men were being checked by
specialists at Scotland Yard.

A "paper trail" of documents, including credit card bills, bank statements and
mobile phone records, were also being examined.

Scotland Yard refused to discuss the case yesterday but sources indicated that
the men are suspected of helping to fund terrorist activity outside the United
Kingdom.

They were picked up at addresses in North and West London following a major
operation involving the Yard's elite Anti-Terrorist Branch and the officers from
the Security Service (MI5).

It is believed the men were kept under round-the-clock surveillance before the
the arrests were made on Wednesday.

The six suspected fund-raisers for Bin Laden's Al Qaeda network were held under
the Terrorism Act, 2000.

Three other men were held for alleged criminal offences and two others for
suspected breaches of the immigration laws.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said the arrested men were all in their 20s and 30s
but refused to discuss the matter further.

Police also declined to reveal what material had been taken from the men's homes
but stressed that no firearms, ammunition or explosives had been found.

One of the men arrested for alleged criminal offences was last night bailed by
police to return to a central London police station in October. The other
suspects remained in custody. Yesterday's operation underlines the strong links
between the Yard's elite Anti-Terrorist Branch and the Security Service.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness recently described how
Britain's police forces and intelligence agencies had been forged into a "grand
alliance" to defeat terrorism in the wake of the September 11 attacks in the
USA.

Yesterday's operation was described as being part of the global crackdown on
terrorist fund-raisers launched by President George W Bush shortly after the
atrocities.

But sources stressed that the London raids were not the result of requests for
investigation by America's FBI or directly connected with the September 11
outrages.

During the past year, the scale of involvement with Al Qaeda suspects in Britain
has slowly unravelled, giving more evidence to harsh critics of Britain's
liberal immigration laws.

Detectives say London and other British cities are targets for a terror attack
by Al Qaeda terrorists. In the run up to the first anniversary of the
atrocities, the nation was put in red alert for a possible terror strike by an
organised group or a lone wolf operator.

Mr Veness called for vigilance and warned Britons not to become complacent.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS GIVEN 'CHILLING' BRIEFING: RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 378 words


INTELLIGENCE SERVICES have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al-Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.

The intelligence briefing - described by one senior minister as "chilling" - was
aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security measures and redoubled
efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is also believed to have
received an influx of cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The
money has been pouring in from sympathisers outraged by the Israeli Government's
recent assault on Palestinian-held areas, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, Ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear that a complacent public is
becoming less vigilant.

One said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't necessarily
prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty shocked at what
we heard. The American attacks were five years in the planning. Who knows what
could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years. They point out some of the men suspected of the US atrocities passed
through Britain. Britain's leading role in the coalition in Afghanistan could
propel it up the list of targets.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
is recruiting support in both Britain and Europe. Mr bin Laden is believed to
have written a defiant message posted last month on an al-Qa'ida web site.

Sources believe al-Qa'ida's leadership has been reorganised by Abu Zubaydah, a
deputy who escaped from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS GIVEN 'CHILLING' BRIEFING: RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 378 words


INTELLIGENCE SERVICES have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al-Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.

The intelligence briefing - described by one senior minister as "chilling" - was
aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security measures and redoubled
efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is also believed to have
received an influx of cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The
money has been pouring in from sympathisers outraged by the Israeli Government's
recent assault on Palestinian-held areas, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, Ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear that a complacent public is
becoming less vigilant.

One said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't necessarily
prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty shocked at what
we heard. The American attacks were five years in the planning. Who knows what
could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years. They point out some of the men suspected of the US atrocities passed
through Britain. Britain's leading role in the coalition in Afghanistan could
propel it up the list of targets.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
is recruiting support in both Britain and Europe. Mr bin Laden is believed to
have written a defiant message posted last month on an al-Qa'ida web site.

Sources believe al-Qa'ida's leadership has been reorganised by Abu Zubaydah, a
deputy who escaped from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 16, 2002, Monday

PUBLIC SUPPORTS IRAQ ATTACK - IF BACKED BY UNITED NATIONS;
 POLL: 85PC FEAR WAR WILL PROVOKE TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 214 words


EIGHT out of 10 Britons support UN-backed military action against Iraq, if
Saddam Hussein refuses to readmit weapons inspectors, according to a poll
yesterday.

The YouGov poll for the Sunday Times found 75pc believed Britain should commit
troops to such action. But 85pc feared war against Iraq would provoke further
terrorist attacks similar to September 11.

A massive 95pc supported US President George Bush's call for a deadline to be
imposed on Iraq.

But in the absence of UN agreement, voters were sceptical about military action
- 38pc said the US should proceed without it, but 49pc were opposed.

And by nearly two to one - 57pc to 34pc - people said Britain should not commit
troops without UN backing.

A total of 65pc said they did not have confidence in President Bush taking the
right decisions over Iraq.

Following the Camp David talks last week, 47pc believe Tony Blair is influencing
President Bush, while 44pc believe the Prime Minister is the president's
"poodle".

Liberal Democrat foreign spokesman Menzies Campbell said, "This opinion poll
confirms the reservations of the British public about military action without UN
endorsement.

"Now that the UN is engaged, it must be given an opportunity to produce an
acceptable resolution."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 26, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

Kangaroo tour a shorter hop now

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: SPORT RUGBY, Pg. 56

LENGTH: 250 words


   Next year's Kangaroo tour is likely to include just two warm-up games before
the Ashes Series.

Rugby Football League executive chairman Richard Lewis, who has held preliminary
talks with his Australian counterparts, said both countries were in favour of an
abbreviated tour.

The original schedule for last year's Kangaroo tour, before it fell victim to
the September 11 terrorist attack, included club games against all the leading
Super League clubs but the recent clash between New Zealand and champions St
Helens attracted a paltry crowd of just 5,612. The Kiwis played four matches in
the run-up to the drawn Don't Drink Drive Series and, although the preparations
clearly helped the tourists, they were heading off to France yesterday with a
badly-depleted squad.

"We're talking about five matches, including the Tests, although it depends
where France fits into it," said Lewis, who is keen to help Great Britain coach
David Waite in his bid to win the Ashes for the first time for 33 years.

He added: "It's partly the time that's available but also partly us feeling that
a longer tour gives the opposition an advantage.

"I'll be quite open about it, ever since I arrived, David has made strong
representations to me about getting the balance right between doing what is
right for us from a performance point of view and what is right for everybody
else.

"Our relationship with the Australians is very good.

"I think the Kiwis felt the third Test was a match too far."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2002

SAUDIS PLANNING ATTACK ON GIBRALTAR

BYLINE: By Neale Adams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 246 words


THREE Saudis believed to be planning terrorist attacks on US and British ships
in the Straits of Gibraltar, have been arrested in Morocco.

An Al Qaeda network in the country has been dismantled, said an official.

"It was a successful operation for our security services, " he added.

The three Saudis were aged between 25 and 35.

The men planned to sail small dinghies carrying explosives into the Straits of
Gibraltar.

The official said they were planning an attack similar to the raid on the US
warship Cole while it was refuelling off Yemen in 2000.

Washington blamed that suicide attack, which killed 19 sailors, on Al Qaeda.

The three Saudis are being held in custody in Casablanca prior to their
interrogation.

The Moroccan official said the three Saudi men were married to local women and
were "well integrated in the Moroccan society".

They were funded and supported by Saudiborn Osama Bin Laden.

A spokesman for Britain's Foreign Office said the Government was awaiting
further information on the arrests.

"We welcome the arrests if they involve individuals who may have been planning
terrorist attacks against UK assets, " he said.

A veteran Western diplomat said the planned "terrorist" operation was aimed at
hitting Nato warships from the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla.

There was close cooperation between US, British, French, Spanish and other
Western and Arab intelligence services, the diplomat said.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

America says thanks to its 'truest friend'

BYLINE: By Sally Pook at the US embassy

SECTION: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 444 words

THE American ambassador to Britain thanked his country's "truest friend"
yesterday for its support and sympathy in the year since the terrorist attacks
of September 11.

William Farish told a remembrance ceremony outside the US embassy in London that
America continued to draw strength from Britain's constancy during and after its
darkest hour.

The ceremony, a tribute to the dead and an expression of gratitude to Britain,
left many of the ordinary Americans who had gathered in Grosvenor Square in
tears.

In particular, the strains of Christe Morte, a traditional hymn sung by the
South Wales Male Choir, caused many to weep openly.

"It is unbelievable and totally incomprehensible to try to understand what has
happened and what we are still going through," said Marca Joelson, 39, from New
York, who was a volunteer at Ground Zero providing rescue workers with supplies.

"Today one of my friends is having 30 trees planted in his backyard to
commemorate each of the friends he lost."

Kyle Wilkins, 38, from South Carolina, who is working in Britain, came with his
wife, Leigh, and three small daughters. He said: "We wanted to show support for
our fallen comrades."

The remembrance ceremony opened to the sounds of Amazing Grace as guests filed
into the square. They included Rosalynn Carter, the former US first lady; Iain
Duncan Smith, the leader of the Opposition; Sir John Stevens, the Commissioner
of the Metropolitan Police; John Reid, the Northern Ireland Secretary, and
peers, diplomats and US embassy staff.

Lieutenant Frank Dwyer, a New York police officer who was on duty when the World
Trade Centre fell, told the hundreds gathered in the square: "We come to this
place to thank our British brothers and sisters who stood with us for what truly
was our darkest hour."

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said: "We owe it to those who died to make a
better world as we have tried already to do in freeing Afghanistan."

Mr Farish said: "Our thanks go first and foremost to the Government and people
of the United Kingdom - America's truest friend.

"Britain lost so many lives on September 11 - more than any other country aside
from the United States.

"And yet you and so many others came forward, in the tens of thousands, to offer
every possible kind of support - from beds for American travellers stranded here
to counselling for survivors over there; from fire companies and congregations
that held fundraisers, to a small schoolboy who offered me his pocket money,
right here in the square, 'to help children in America'.

"We will never forget your sympathy, your empathy, your moral, emotional and
practical support."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

FOOTBALL: MIKE PARRY COLUMN: LET'S DRAW LINE UNDER TERROR

BYLINE: Mike Parry

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 171 words


THE HORRORS of September 11 have changed so many lives. I lived in New York for
three years, love the city and the American way of life.

But since the terrible events of a year ago I fear for the future of Western
democracy, for our own way of life here in Britain and like millions of others,
I wait with unbearable tension for another terrorist attack.

But, terrible as that day was - those images of aeroplanes flying into one of
the world's most beautiful buildings - we can't go on letting the terror disrupt
our lives forever.

That's why I am sad to discover that there WILL be a minutes silence at games in
England on Wednesday.

We have mourned for the 300 British victims and the thousands of Americans. We
have been to memorial services and we have built monuments in tribute.

Nobody can forget the haunting images of September 11. There will be enough to
remind us in the coming days.

You have to draw a line somewhere. And Football should be leading the way. Not
joining in the grief.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                August 14, 2002

Prayers at St Paul's for terror victims

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Andrew Vine

LENGTH: 670 words


VICTIMS of the September 11 attacks will be commemorated at a service of
remembrance at St Paul's Cathedral on the anniversary of the world's worst
terrorist atrocity.

And the parents of a Yorkshireman killed in the attacks on New York's Twin
Towers have welcomed the announcement that a memorial garden to the 67 British
victims is to be created in London.

Britain will mark the anniversary of the terrorist strike that shocked the world
with a service at St Paul's attended by relatives of the victims, and the Prince
of Wales.

On the same day, the Prime Minister is expected to attend a service to remember
the dead at the site where the World Trade Centre stood.

A permanent memorial garden is to be created in Grosvenor Square Garden,
overlooked by the United States Embassy, and is due to open in time for the
second anniversary of September 11, next year.

Details of how Britain will pay its respects to the 2,823

people who died when hijacked airliners were crashed into the World Trade Centre

and the Pentagon, in Washington, were announced yesterday.

The St Paul's service will begin at 1.15pm, in the presence of Prince Charles,
senior members of the Government and US Ambassador William S Farish.

Among the invited congregation of 2,000 will be relatives of the British
victims.

The address will be given by Bishop of London Richard Chartres.

Work is due to start on the memorial garden to the victims later in the year.

Its design - an oval with two planting beds, an oak pergola, a pavilion and an
inscribed stone centrepiece - has been drawn up after consultations with the
families of those killed.

Discussions continue about which plants to use in the garden, with plans to
represent native North American and British blooms.

It will also include lily of the valley, lavender and rosemary, all of which
were used in the posy presented to the Queen at a September 11 memorial service
last November. Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said: Our intention is to provide
a garden that will be simple, dignified and designed to the highest quality.

The families affected have, of course, been consulted and the design draws on
their suggestions.

It is fitting that the garden should be completed in

time for the second anniversary of this terrible tragedy.

The plans for the garden were welcomed by Patricia Thompson, of Sheffield, whose
son Nigel died in the World Trade Centre.

She said yesterday: I think it is a very good thing to have this garden for
people to visit and remember people they lost.

It is good that it is near the American Embassy because that is also very
relevant.

She added: We have seen the plans and they looked very nice and I think that the
leaflet that Tessa Jowell sent out said that there would be some American
flowers in the garden as well.

Mrs Thompson, 61, said she and her husband, Norman, 60, had been consulted about
the plans for the garden, along with the relatives of the other victims.

Their son Nigel, 33,

was among staff working

for the financial services company Cantor Fitzgerald who died when one of the
hijacked planes hit the twin towers.

Yorkshire had other victims on September 11, who will also be remembered by the
memorial garden. Michael Egan, 51, vice-president of multinational insurance
giant AON, and his sister Christine, originally from Hull, were on the 100th
floor of the south tower.

Mr Egan went back three times into the tower to try to help the victims, or
maybe search for his sister who was visiting his offices and had got separated
from him in the chaos.

Yorkshireman Tony Webster's son-in-law Jim Walsh also died.

Mr Webster, 56, of Settle, was about to take his

granddaughter Caroline to a zoo in New Jersey to celebrate her second birthday
with his daughter Katie, when news of the massacre broke.

In New York, the September 11 commemorations will focus on a service at which
the name of every victim is read out before their relatives lay flowers in their
memory.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               February 21, 2002

What you get for GBP 100,000

BYLINE: Chris Ward Property Editor

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 347 words


FOR the first time in Britain's history, the average price of a house has passed
the GBP 100,000 mark, according to figures from top mortgage lender, Halifax.
That could buy you a three-bedroomed town house at Brailsford, a
traditionally-designed three-bedroomed semi at Milford, an extended detached,
three-bedroomed house with conservatory at Alvaston, a spacious detached two
double bedroomed bungalow in Derby, a superb modern detached family home at
Stenson Fields, or a traditionally-designed mature, five- bedroomed home, with
two reception rooms and off-street parking in Derby.

But if you are unlucky enough to live in the south east, your GBP 100,00 would
get you a one-bedroom ex-council flat in north London! With the exception of the
crash in the early 90s, which followed a market boom, house prices have been
creeping up since the mid-1950s.

Now Britain's largest mortgage lender, the Halifax, says the average house costs
GBP 100,412.

The surge reflects a bounce back after the terrorist attacks in America on
September 11, after which the market briefly quietened.

Jeremy Leaf, chartered surveyor and estate agent, says prices are rising today
because of social changes.

"We're getting married later, having children later, and staying at home until
we're older. More divorce rates and single person households means there's more
demand for less properties." With house prices expected to continue rising over
the short term - the bubble shouldn't burst just yet - what does breaking
through the GBP 100,000 barrier mean for today's prospective buyers and
homeowners? Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at stockbroker Gerrard, says house
prices have risen hugely, even when you allow for inflation, and anyone who has
bought a property since the 70s should benefit.

A property bought in 1955 for GBP 1,000 would now sell for GBP 45,000 - a huge
profit even if you allow for inflation.

And experts say we're now using less of our earnings to pay the mortgage - 15
per cent today compared to an average 22 per cent during the last 30 years.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            June 19, 2002, Wednesday

INVESTOR CONFIDENCE IN DECLINE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 129 words


INVESTOR confidence has declined for the second successive month, according to a
new survey.

The poll, which comprised a randomly selected sample of 500 private investors
throughout Britain conducted for JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management, shows
investors who believe the UK Stock Market will be higher in six months' time has
fallen from 41 per cent to 35 per cent in a month.

This compares with 25 per cent who were negative about stock market prospects
over the next six months and the balance of 40 per cent who remain neutral.

"A year ago, we saw investment sentiment falling, reaching a low point around
the time of the terrorist attack on America last September," said Peter
Brewster, head of marketing research at JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             March 3, 2002, Sunday

END OF THE WAR!;
 EDWIN DROPS HIT BECAUSE IT'S UNPATRIOTIC

BYLINE: Martyn Leek EDWIN STARR... classic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 443 words


IT is the song that made his name and his fortune.

But American soul singer Edwin Starr, who lives in the Midlands, is dropping
'War' from his concert set - because it's unpatriotic.

The peace anthem, with its rousing chorus of 'War! What is it good for?
Absolutely nothing!' was a worldwide hit in 1970.

It was at the height of the Vietnam conflict, and campaigners against US
involvement took the song to their hearts.

Over the years it has become a protest pop classic. But now Starr says he has
started dropping it - because of the September 11 terrorist attacks on
Washington and New York.

'War is an anti-war tune so I've got to be careful about using it,' the 60 year
-old singer told the Sunday Mercury.

'In the current climate I don't want to look like I'm a traitor, I've been
singing it less often. In any case, I think things are different now. You can't
use the song as an anti-war anthem because the war on terrorism andthe war
Vietnam are completely different.'

Starr, whose other hits include H.A.P.P.Y Radio, Contact and 25 Miles, moved to
Britain in 1983 and lives in 16th century manor house Pooley Hall Farmhouse in
Polesworth, Warwickshire.

Each time Stateside superstar Bruce Springsteen has played the NEC, he's invited
the soul legend up onstage to duet with him on 'War' because of its peace
message.

Starr admits that he still loves living in the heart of the Midlands
countryside.

'Why would I want to live anywhere else when I have so much going on?' he asked.
'When I first came over in 1983, I knew from earlier tours that there was an
audience for me in Britain.

'The music scene in America was pretty dead at the time. I just thought I could
give it a real shot here instead. With the Northern Soul scene embracing my
music, it was just the obvious choice.'

Starr is set to embark on a six-date Motown tour called Dancing In The Streets
along with fellow legends Martha Reeves and Freda Payne.

The singer said: 'I'm looking forward to it because I still love performing live
- it's what I do best.'

He is also teaming up with Pop Idol rejects Helen Farrar and Rachel Makins, from
Melton Mowbray in Leicestershire, who are recording a version of his H.A.P.P.Y
Radio.

Yet Starr said he does have concerns about the phenomenon of manufactured bands
and singers.

'There are plenty of great singers out there waiting to be discovered,' he said.
'But how will the winners do when they have to stand on their own feet and make
records without the support they're getting at the moment?'

Dancing In The Streets arrives at Birmingham's Symphony Hall on Saturday March
30.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                             June 18, 2002, Tuesday

BAGGING A BARGAIN IN FLORIDA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 232 words


THE number of British visitors to Florida is set to plunge by 30% in two years,
but bargain hunters are urged to look behind the headline prices.

Visit Florida spokeswoman, Kate Burgess-Craddy, says: "There are 14night
packages, with accommodation, in the market at pounds 499 and some amazing
prices on teletext.

"But you always get what you pay for - and holidaymakers should think about what
they will spend when they get there.

"A family of four, for instance, can spend over pounds 1,000 on 10-day passes
for Disneyworld, so it can be worth buying tickets for major attractions before
leaving Britain."

A record 1.7m Britons visited Florida in 2000 - but numbers have dropped steeply
since then.

While 2001 was down on 2000, operators fear a major collapse of over 25% in 2002
and expect to take at least two years to get business back anywhere near to
2000.

Terror attacks on September 11 are a big factor, but Visit Florida UK and
Ireland sales and marketing director, Colin Brodie, says visitors have also
become much choosier on what they see and do.

"Three years ago, 85% of UK visitors to Florida bought a package holiday," he
says.

"Now 50% travel independently. People on third or fourth trips don't want two
weeks in Orlando."

Visitors now seem to be going either for a very cheap holiday or better quality
packages with scheduled flights.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

RIGHT WILL PREVAIL'

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 395 words


BRITAIN was today joining nations around the world to remember the horrors of
September 11 and pay tribute to those who perished in history's worst terrorist
outrage.

Special events were being held around the country, including a key memorial
service in St Paul's Cathedral, to mark the first anniversary of the attacks on
New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. Security was heightened in all major
cities and airports amid fears of a symbolic attack by extremists.

As America staged its own tributes, Britain, and most of Europe and the world,
was likely to come to a complete standstill at 1.46pm when there was the first
of two one-minute silences - each to mark when the jets hit the Twin Towers of
New York exactly a year ago.

The Queen last night sent a message of consolation to the British community in
New York. Foreign Secretary Jack Straw read the royal message at a service in St
Thomas Church in the heart of Manhattan.

The Queen spoke of the terrible loss of life and the justice of the hunt for the
terrorists.

She said: "The dreadful attacks of September 11 may have threatened freedom,
innocence and other values we hold dear, but they also inspired grace, charity
and courage.

"We admire these qualities in the strength of the families of the victims; in
the determination of the rescue workers; and in the extraordinary spirit and
resilience demonstrated by the people of New York.

"We honour the courage and determination of those in our armed forces and others
who are striving to bring those responsible for this outrage to justice and to
prevent similar atrocities in the future.

"Right must and will prevail."

The Prince of Wales and Prince Harry were due to meet some of the 600 relatives
and close friends of the 67 British victims planning to attend the service at St
Paul's in London today.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and other political leaders were also expected to be
in the 2,000-strong congregation.

In a recollection of his memories of that day, Mr Blair spoke of the human
tragedy of September 11, 2001.

He said: "We all witnessed scenes of unimaginable horror.

"This week we remember those that died.

Our thoughts are also with their families and friends who live daily with the
dreadful lega-cy of these attacks. September 11 was, and remains, above all an
immense human tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEF IN SILENCE Families and friends paid respects to the British
victims of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre in a special service
last night. Inset below, a construction worker puts the finishing touches to the
area around Ground Zero ahead of today's events. PICTURES:; PA

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           August 24, 2002, Saturday

BRITAIN CONDEMNS CARNAGE IN GAZA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 167 words


BRITAIN yesterday condemned as "unacceptable" the Israeli bombing of a house in
Gaza which killed at least 12 people including eight children.

A Foreign Office spokesman said the missile strike, which killed Salah Shehadeh,
commander of the military wing of Hamas, was "counterproductive." Prime Minister
Tony Blair's official spokesman called for an end to the "cycle of violence
which has scarred the region."

The Foreign Office spokesman spoke of the sympathy for the victims' families and
said: "We recognise and understand Israel's need to take action against
suspected suicide bombers and their accomplices.

"The action taken on Monday night which resulted in the deaths of eight children
among others in a missile attack in Gaza is unacceptable and counterproductive.
We extend our sympathy to the families of the children killed.

"While Israel is entitled to take steps to protect itself from terrorist attack,
such steps should be neither disproportionate nor excessive."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN CONDEMNS CARNAGE IN GAZA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 167 words


BRITAIN yesterday condemned as "unacceptable" the Israeli bombing of a house in
Gaza which killed at least 12 people including eight children.

A Foreign Office spokesman said the missile strike, which killed Salah Shehadeh,
commander of the military wing of Hamas, was "counterproductive." Prime Minister
Tony Blair's official spokesman called for an end to the "cycle of violence
which has scarred the region."

The Foreign Office spokesman spoke of the sympathy for the victims' families and
said: "We recognise and understand Israel's need to take action against
suspected suicide bombers and their accomplices.

"The action taken on Monday night which resulted in the deaths of eight children
among others in a missile attack in Gaza is unacceptable and counterproductive.
We extend our sympathy to the families of the children killed.

"While Israel is entitled to take steps to protect itself from terrorist attack,
such steps should be neither disproportionate nor excessive."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 20, 2002, Wednesday

BOOMING BUSINESS IN TERROR;
 GAS MASKS, NUCLEAR SUITS AND BUNKERS ON XMAS LIST

BYLINE: Katrina Tweedie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words


FEARS of a terrorist attack on Britain are everywhere, with the public worrying
about "dirty bombs" and poison gas.

The Government tells people to be vigilant but, at the same time, not to panic.

So, should UK citizens try to protect themselves or should they just sit tight?

Should they wear gas masks on the bus, open the mail in buckets of water and
build bunkers in their gardens?

And if you have access to a bolt-hole, will it save you?

According to Dr George Morris, a consultant in public health at the Scottish
Centre for Environmental Health, people should not panic or buy chemical warfare
suits.

He said: "There is clearly heightened awareness at the moment.

"We have to regard it more likely that someone might release something like
anthrax, nerve gas or smallpox.

"But we remain abreast of all toxicological information and have a 24- hour
service to give advice."

For now, his advice is not to rush out and buy specialist equipment. But that
hasn't stopped many people.

Sales of gas masks and nuclear and chemical protection suits have never been
higher.

They are not hard to find and are probably on sale now in a high street near
you.

At the Clearwater Army Surplus store in Glasgow's Argyle Street, a suit and the
necessary protection paraphernalia can be bought for less than pounds 60.

Although it won't protect your life long-term in the face of a biological
attack, sales are still booming.

Salesman David Murray said: "I keep telling the public not to bother with gas
masks because you don't know what kind of chemical could be used and you need a
special filter for every chemical.

"A mask is no good without a nuclear biological chemical protection suit.

"And even they aren't great because, at some stage, you will have to take it off
for a drink or to relieve yourself."

Yet still, the public have been buying masks, NBC suits, NBC protective boots
and NBC inner and outer gloves.

But David thinks it is a bit over the top. He said: "The best advice I can give
the public is to sit with a nice bottle of wine, relax and don't panic."

A search of the internet provides advice on suspect mail. It warns to look out
for mistakes in addresses and stains and open it carefully.

But the signs of a gas attack are not as clear.

The rule of thumb is if a single person is on the ground choking, they are
probably having a heart attack.

If several people are down, it could be the result of a toxic substance. The
advice is to evacuate the area immediately.

And as the cold and flu season begins, experts are urging people not to jump to
the conclusion they have been infected with a biowarfare agent when they get the
usual Scottish winter sniffles.

You are more likely to get hit by lightning than infected by terrorists.

Despite recent reports about health workers getting smallpox immunisations,
people should not stockpile antibiotics. It could do more harm than good.

But even SCEH admits an infected water supply is one of the softest targets for
terrorists.

Boiling your water to kill any micro-organisms or using a personal filtration
system could protect you.

Preparing your family for the worst is the subject of many survivalist websites
and it is easy to follow their sensible advice, such as keeping a first- aid
kit, a bag of warm clothes, 72 hours' worth of water and ready-to- eat meals in
your car.

But where to go is the biggest dilemma for ordinary people.

There are nuclear shelters all over Scotland and occasionally they do come up
for sale but they are not cheap, at around pounds 30,000 for a 10- year lease.

Most have been decommissioned and are lying in a state of ruin.

Scotland's Secret Bunker, near St Andrews, would house 300 people 100ft below
the ground and, although still effective, is now a museum. Unfortunately, it is
closed for the winter.

For now, the public can only concentrate on supplies of food, water and clothes
and hope for the best.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 11, 2002

Britain Is 'Front Line Target For Terrorists'

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.24

LENGTH: 445 words


Britain's tough line against those responsible for the September 11 atrocities
has made it a "front line" target for terrorists, Home Secretary David Blunkett
warned yesterday.

He was speaking ahead of a high-profile speech by Tony Blair today, when the
Prime Minister will spell out in stark terms the need for Britons to be vigilant
against terror attacks in the UK.

Events like yesterday's Remembrance Day ceremonies must be regarded as potential
targets for al Qaida, who might also strike in the run-up to Christmas and the
New Year, Mr Blunkett said.

And he acknowledged that the security services and police could not guarantee
that British people were safe against outrages. In today's foreign policy speech
to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of London, Mr Blair is expected to warn
that, despite successes over the past year, such as the overthrow of the
Taliban, the threat from al Qaida remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing in Bali, have shown that no country is
immune against attack by Osama bin Laden's terror network, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume that they are safe simply because the UK has
escaped atrocities for more than a year since September 11, and must remain
alert to the potential dangers. But Mr Blair will also stress the importance of
striking a balance and avoiding over-reaction. He will speak of the difficult
decisions he and his Ministers have to take in order to maintain public
awareness of the nature of the threat without stoking fear to the extent that it
paralyses everyday life.

Terrorists hope to inflict damage both by their actual attacks and by the
disruption to society and the economy caused by the fear of attack, he will say.
It is vital not to do their work for them by submitting to fear.

His comments come just days after the accidental release by the Home Office of a
statement spelling out in lurid detail a series of possible al Qaida tactics,
ranging from "dirty" bombs to attacks on planes, boats and trains.

The statement was rapidly withdrawn and replaced by a more measured document,
but the Government faced criticism for unnecessarily spreading anxieties, and Mr
Blunkett was forced to apologise.

Mr Blair will also discuss the new United Nations resolution on the elimination
of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, as well as efforts to revive the Middle
East peace process.

He is expected to stress the importance of international co-operation in the
face of the terrorist threat. Security measures alone will not be enough to
overcome al Qaida, and the UK must work with its international allies and
partners to confront them, he will say.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           February 15, 2002, Friday

A HOLLYWOOD BLOCKBUSTER A-LIST ARAB SCUMBAG WHO'S LEARNING;
 OMID DJALILI IS A LONDONER OF IRANIAN PARENTAGE WHO PREFERS NOT TO BE TYPECAST
IN FILM OR REAL LIFE

BYLINE: Karen Price

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1032 words


OMID Djalili is the type of person who could probably raise a smile from the
acerbic Anne Robinson.

The stand-up comedian and actor punctuates our telephone conversation with quips
and laughs as much as he talks. But asked to describe his career he suddenly
adopts a semi-serious tone as he replies, "I am a Hollywood blockbuster A-list
Arab scumbag."

It seems I have touched a raw nerve.

While Djalili was born in Britain his Iranian origin has caused him problems,
particularly in the aftermath of the Middle Eastern terrorist attacks on America
on September 11.

But even before that fateful day, he often found himself typecast in films as
the Middle Eastern "baddie".

Following the attacks in New York and Washington, Djalili says he was too afraid
to walk down the streets of London for fear of abuse just because of the colour
of his skin.

But he is now making light of his frightening experiences by incorporating them
into his new stand-up comedy routine.

"There are a lot of musings on events after September 11, " says Djalili, who
visits Wales as part of his new tour.

"I like to think my viewpoint isn't glib but generally educating and
entertaining.

"I was doing shows in London at the end of September and the publicity posters
read 'Middle Eastern madman.' We had to recall all of the posters and print new
ones."

He says his references to events post-September 11 have been well-received so
far.

"I think people have been generally surprised. It's different to the quick and
cruel one-liners the club comedians might come up with - there are longer
routines which would shed light on the situation.

"Hopefully, come the second half people forget I am an ethnic minority."

Although he trained as an actor and still appears in films - his most recent
works include Gladiator, Mean Machine and Spy Game - Djalili moved into stand
-up comedy about seven years ago.

He says, "I got into comedy because I fell into it. The first time I did it I
was about 29, which is very late. Like with sport, you should be at least
interested when you are young, train and at 18 start doing a few gigs.

"My wife said to me I should do stand-up comedy. She said, 'You are trying to be
an actor and you will not be happy unless you are seen as the new Al Pacino but
he is thin and good-looking and you are not.'

"She took me to the Comedy Store in London for the first time in 1994 and I
thought there was no way I could do that.

"I had thought that stand-up comedy was Jimmy Tarbuck or Bruce Forsyth saying
his bit at the start of the Generation Game."

But Djalili was soon staging his own routines and has amassed a number of
awards, including the Time Out Award and LWT Comedy Award for best stand-up
comedian.

Although he is now concentrating on his stand-up career, Djalili is still
enjoying roles in films.

"Films are fine - they pay good money. I always thought I could contribute
something. They always cast me in Arab or Middle Eastern roles, which was a good
thing to start but hopefully I will get different roles."

Djalili was pleased to land the role of a Cockney thug in the recent hit movie
Mean Machine, which stars Vinnie Jones.

"Vinnie is good fun. I would say he is quicker and sharper than most stand-up
comedians, which is quite intimidating, " says Djalili. "If you joke with him he
will come back with something quicker.

"He has done very well for himself - I think we will be seeing a lot more of
Vinnie Jones. Vinnie is the kind of person who if he does not like you he
ignores you - but if he likes you he banters with you.

"I thought he was very professional. You can tell he is very ambitious and
really wants to work hard with acting."

He also managed to avoid the Arab role in Sara Sugarman's film Mad Cows.

"I have not seen the film. I play a Greek shipping tycoon who arrives on a big
yacht and saves Anna Friel and Joanna Lumley.

"Maybe it's not good to mention that film as it did extremely badly but I
thought Sara Sugarman was lovely."

One film he is keen to talk about is Spy Game in which he appeared with heart
-throb Brad Pitt and the legendary Robert Redford.

"Brad Pitt is a gentleman and Robert Redford, like Vinnie Jones, is extremely
quick. I told him I thought he was the best thing in Hawaii Five-0. He said,
'Thank you - I thought you were great in Doctor Zhivago but you have really let
yourself go.' They are very sharp and savvy these people."

He will next appear in the forthcoming film Anita and Me, based on the book by
Meera Syal. Djalili plays an Indian role.

"It was a real challenge to be totally convincing as an Indian - I worked very
hard."

He says, "It's a cross between Billy Eliot and East Is East. It's all about
Indians in 1972 in the Black Country."

Djalili says he is content to play the supporting actor and isn't looking for a
lead.

"The first thing is to steer away from the Arab scumbag pigeonhole. Once you are
a bit more experienced you can take on the leads and I am sure that will come
but I am in no hurry to be the Iranian Brad Pitt.

"You have got to have ambition but you cannot be greedy. It's better to have a
small part in a good film than a big part in a crap film. But I want to
concentrate on stand-up at the moment."

* Omid Djalili will be appearing at the Sherman Theatre in Cardiff on February
20.

Omid Djalili factfile Name: Omid Djalili Age: 36 Born: London (to Iranian
parents) Status: Married to Annabel with three children - Isabella, 8, Louis, 6,
and Daniel, 2.

Career: Djalili trained as an actor. He attended university in Ulster where he
took theatre studies. He spent a couple of years working on the Edinburgh Fringe
before spending five years in the former Czechoslovakia working in experimental
theatre.

He started doing stand-up comedy at the age of 29 after being encouraged by his
wife. He has appeared at venues throughout the country and on numerous TV shows
and has won a wealth of awards for his routines.

Although he is concentrating on stand-up, he still does some film work and has
appeared in Gladiator, The Mummy, Mean Machine, Spy Game and Notting Hill.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'SCUMBAG, MOI?' Omid Djalili stand-up comedian and film actor who
visits Cardiff soon

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                February 3, 2002

LET TROOPS PATROL OUR STREETS

BYLINE: By Bob Graham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 278 words


THE Army should patrol the streets of Britain in a bid to prevent terrorist
attacks such as the September 11 atrocities in America, according to a top
military figure.

Air Marshal Sir Timothy Garden claims police are overstretched and the
Territorial Army, Navy and RAF reservists should be used instead.

Such a move could mean armed soldiers patrolling a ring-of-steel around major
cities including London, Birmingham and Manchester to guard terrorist targets.

In a wide-ranging speech last week to senior Liberal Democrats, Sir Timothy, a
former Assistant Chief of Defence Staff, said: "I find it extraordinary that we
find muggings on the streets have gone up because the police have been taken off
normal duties to fulfil counter-terrorism duties such as guarding public
buildings. We have 40,000 soldiers called reservists trained for just those
tasks."

Sir Timothy also criticised Government plans to recruit parttime constables when
trained reservists were available.

But the one-time RAF top gun pilot, who is also a member of the advisory board
at the Nato defence college, warned "great care" would have to be taken to avoid
armed street patrols becoming part of everyday life. "We don't want to end up
with a society that looks like it is under threat all the time, " he added.

Sir Timothy joined the Lib Dems last year to advise on military policy. He also
backs a European army and condemns British arms sales abroad.

Our troops too often ended up facing those same weapons, as in the Falklands and
Iraq. "More importantly, though, we undermine countries by selling them weapons
they don't need and can't afford, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS TOLD RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent Tony Blair: Warned that terror
threat is still high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


THE INTELLIGENCE services have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al- Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.The intelligence briefing - described by a senior minister
as "chilling" - was aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security
measures and redoubled efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is believed to have received
cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The money has been pouring in
from sympathisers outraged by Israel's recent assault on Palestinian- held areas
in the West Bank, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear the public is becoming less
vigilant.

One minister said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't
necessarily prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty
shocked at what we heard (in the briefing). The American attacks were five years
in the planning. Who knows what could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years.

They point out some of the men suspected of the atrocities in America passed
through Britain. They also believe that Britain's leading role in the coalition
that overthrew the Taliban in Afghanistan could make it more of a target.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
and his lieutenants are recruiting support in Britain and on the European
mainland.

Mr bin Laden is believed to have written a defiant message posted last month on
an al-Qa'ida website.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS TOLD RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent Tony Blair: Warned that terror
threat is still high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


THE INTELLIGENCE services have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al- Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.The intelligence briefing - described by a senior minister
as "chilling" - was aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security
measures and redoubled efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is believed to have received
cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The money has been pouring in
from sympathisers outraged by Israel's recent assault on Palestinian- held areas
in the West Bank, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear the public is becoming less
vigilant.

One minister said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't
necessarily prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty
shocked at what we heard (in the briefing). The American attacks were five years
in the planning. Who knows what could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years.

They point out some of the men suspected of the atrocities in America passed
through Britain. They also believe that Britain's leading role in the coalition
that overthrew the Taliban in Afghanistan could make it more of a target.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
and his lieutenants are recruiting support in Britain and on the European
mainland.

Mr bin Laden is believed to have written a defiant message posted last month on
an al-Qa'ida website.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 09, 2002, Thursday

Fears may lead to closure of British consulate

BYLINE: By Ahmed Rashid in Islamabad and Nicole Martin

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 394 words

RISING fears about the risks of attacks by Islamic radicals may prompt a ban on
all diplomatic travel to the militant stronghold of Karachi today and eventually
lead to the closure of Britain's 15-strong consulate in the city.

With the New Zealand cricket team hurriedly leaving Pakistan yesterday, anxiety
is rising among expatriates in the country.

As the investigation into the attack began, President Chirac dispatched his
defence minister, Michele Alliot-Marie, to Pakistan last night.

She will press for guarantees that the government of President Pervaiz Musharraf
is acting to improve security arrangement for foreign nationals.

She was to be followed by officers from the French anti-terrorist and
counter-intelligence services.

In the capital, Islamabad, last night, families of diplomats were awaiting news
from their governments about whether there would be a general evacuation.

Since the grenade attack in March of a church in Islamabad, the Foreign Office
has advised against all non-essential journeys to Pakistan unless travellers are
familiar with the country and have contacts there. But it is understood that it
may strengthen its advice, warning against all travel to Pakistan, if the
situation deteriorates.

The British Embassy in Islamabad has allowed the voluntary return to Britain of
families of diplomats since the March attack. But it has not insisted that they
leave the country. All American and Canadian dependants and non-essential staff
left in March.

European Union diplomats said they had long feared another serious terrorist
attack in Pakistan, in particular in Karachi because of the continuing trial of
Omah Sheikh, the alleged killer of Daniel Pearl, the American journalist. "All
EU diplomats have been taking extra precautions for several weeks now," said
one.

A full-scale diplomatic evacuation would come at a difficult time for families
because many children are in the middle of their annual exams while others are
seeking entry to universities.

After September 11, families of all foreign missions were evacuated from
Islamabad but they returned once the war in Afghanistan ended.

Diplomats said it was clear that militant groups in Pakistan were targeting
foreigners to embarrass the government and demonstrate their opposition to the
continuing military campaign in Afghanistan.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 28, 2002, Monday

HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL DAY: FIGHT BIGOTRY AND PREJUDICE - BLUNKETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 436 words

HIGHLIGHT: LESSONS: Blunkett


HOME Secretary David Blunkett urged British people yesterday to stand up to
bigotry and prejudice and to continue the fight against racism.

Speaking at the Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony in Manchester, Mr Blunkett said
that "evil is ever present".

Constant vigilance was necessary to avoid the atrocities the world has seen
recently in Bosnia and Kosovo, he said.

The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith and
Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy joined him at the ceremony, attended by
actors Sir Ben Kingsley and Sir Antony Sher, along with survivors of the
Holocaust.

"It's fundamental to our moral horizons that we understand the Holocaust and why
we need to oppose racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry, victimisation and prejudice,
whatever its form and wherever it arises," Mr Blunkett said.

"One thousand Jews found refuge in Britain during the 1930s and several hundred
survivors of the death camps came to Britain after the war.

"We should reflect on this, in helping those who face death and persecution both
by providing a welcome home if necessary but also accepting our mutuality,
independence and international obligations."

The Home Secretary said the survivors of the Holocaust would remember the
"living hell" they were put through, adding that it should "remind us that evil
is ever present and that constant vigilance is necessary".

He continued: "Events in Rwanda, Bosnia and Kosovo remind us all that the
horrors like those of the Nazi era can only be thwarted by men and women
prepared to take a stand, by nations prepared to act against those who commit
genocide.

"We can say it must never happen again but this can only be fulfilled if we will
it.

"Bigotry and pre- judice still exist in British society.

"We see this not just in the heinous activities of extremist right-wing groups
but also in the way innocent law- abiding Muslims and others were abused after
the terrorist attacks on September 11.

"All of us have a fundamental respons- ibility to stand up against those who
spread prejudice and whip up hatred in order to eliminate democracy.

"If we do not stand up for our brothers and sisters, who will be left to stand
up for us?"

Prime Minister Tony Blair launched Britain's first Holocaust Memorial Day on
January 27 last year, the 56th anniversary of the liberation of the former Nazi
concentration camp at Auschwitz.

This year, the theme Britain and the Holocaust has been adopted, examining
Britain's involvement during the Holocaust and to reflect on the need to learn
lessons from the past.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           February 11, 2002, Monday

TERRITORIAL ARMY TO BE GIVEN NEW ROLE;
 SECURITY: RESERVISTS TO BECOME BRITAIN'S 'HOMELAND DEFENCE FORCE'

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 235 words


THE Territorial Army will be given a new role as Britain's "homeland defence
force" in this week's defence Green Paper, it was reported yesterday.

The part-time army reserve is expected to be called upon to provide armed
patrols of sensitive civil sites such as airports and nuclear power stations,
which are thought to be at risk from terrorist attack in the wake of September
11.

The Green Paper, to be published on Thursday, will detail the possible next
steps in the implementation of the Government's Strategic Defence Review.

It is expected to launch a consultation on shifting the armed forces's focus
away from heavy armour and towards more flexible rapid response units or crack
troops.

An MoD spokeswoman declined to give details of the contents of the paper,
entitled Strategic Defence Review - New Chapter. But she said, "It is looking at
subjects such as aiding civil defence and the types of forces we will need for
the future."

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon last week hinted at a new role for the TA, saying,
"I certainly recognise that, with the kinds of threats we faced on September 11,
we have to reassure people and we have to protect key installations in the UK.

"We have to develop a force that could do that over and above the people in the
regular armed forces, because clearly we can't spare highly trained professional
people for those kinds of tasks."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2002

NO MONEY FOR COUNCIL TERROR FIGHT

BYLINE: By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 207 words


COUNCILS are being refused extra cash to prepare for terror attacks, it was
claimed last night.

Emergency planners across Britain say requests for more funds have been rejected
by ministers who are keeping them in the dark over how serious a threat they
face.

John Kelly, an emergency planning officer for Oxfordshire County Council, said:
"We need a clear message; either there is a threat or there isn't.

"My colleagues have been told there is no extra threat as far as local
authorities are concerned."

The Cabinet Office in Whitehall refused their requests for GBP 12,000 to train
volunteers to deal with a chemical warfare attack and GBP 15,000 for a computer
system to utilise after a terrorist atrocity.

Mike Slaney, secretary of the Emergency Planning Society which represents local
disaster planners, told Radio 4's Today programme: "We've had no increase at all
in the funding of emergency planning units."

The Cabinet Office admitted that this year's GBP 19.5million budget for local
emergency planning was only GBP 500,000 higher than last year.

"There is a finite amount of resources, " said a spokesman.

He said local councils would get extra funding following any terror attack in
their area.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 4, 2002

TAOISEACH 'FAILURE' OVER NUCLEAR THREAT

BYLINE: By Geoff Maynard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 186 words


THE TAOISEACH must demand an answer on the British nuclear industry, Fine Gael
leader Enda Kenny said yesterday.

Meeting Greenpeace on board the Rainbow Warrior, Mr Kenny castigated the
Government for its failure to reduce the nuclear threat posed by Sellafield.

He said that Ireland stands to suffer from any terrorist attack on the facility.

The return of the "vile cargo" of fuel rods via the Irish Sea poses a "double
jeopardy" for Ireland, he added. He said British Nuclear Fuels (BNFL) is "not to
be trusted", and it must announce a date as soon as possible for Irish nuclear
experts to inspect Sellafield.

Mr Kenny urged Bertie Ahern to use his "much-vaunted special relationship" with
Britain's Prime Minister Tony Blair to get a "straight, honest answer" on the
issue.

"Mr Blair needs to be reminded that Sellafield is closer to Dublin than it is to
London, " he said.

"Sellafield is vulnerable to attack by road, sea, air, rail and by pedestrian
access.

"Given BNFL's track record, I believe paranoia to be the only adequate response
to the magnitude of the Sellafield threat."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          February 23, 2002, Saturday

NEWHOMES SET TO SURGE;
 HOMES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 228 words


BRITAIN'S housebuilders are stepping up production to meet the soaring demand
for new homes.

Figures from the National House-Building Council show nearly 36,000 applications
to start new homes were made in the final quarter of 2001- a 9pc increase on the
same period in 2000 which produced 32,800 applications.

The figures also show that first-time buyers found it easier to buy in the
fourth quarter - presumably because special mortgage deals and pay rises kicked
in while house prices paused for breath after the US terror attacks.

Buyers might not have noticed the good news so far, as the NHBC figures also
reveal a 4pc drop in the number of new house completions from nearly 39,000 to
37,150.

Meanwhile, prices continue to rise.

The anticipated selling price of new homes started by builders in the final
quarter was pounds 145,000, against pounds 135,000 12 months earlier.

More than 7pc of new homes fetch pounds 100,000-plus.

Britain is building fewer new homes today than in any peacetime year since 1924,
with the Government under mounting pressure to ease planning restrictions to get
numbers rising again.

According to Government figures since 1990:

the sharpest drops in output have been in Wales (down 23pc) and England (
-17pc), while there have been rises in both Scotland (up 17pc) and Northern
Ireland (up 44pc).

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 12, 2002

ALERT OVER TERROR LORRY;
FBI warns truck packed with explosives could be on the way to Britain

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words


PORTS across Britain are on a terrorist red alert today after warnings about a
plot to smuggle a lorry packed with explosives onto a cross-Channel ferry.

French and Dutch intelligence services raised the alarm about a threat to a
North Sea ferry. The information is believed to have come from the FBI as part
of the international "war on terror" amid concerns that al Qaeda is planning new
atrocities.

It is understood that Britain's transport security warning service, Transec,
played down the warning in a secret bulletin to ports last Friday.

But now all British ports with rollon roll-off ferry services have been ordered
to a level of alert described as "heightened emergency". This is the highest
state they have been on since the current alert system was introduced.

A spokesman for Dover, Britain's biggest ferry port, confirmed that port
authorities there stepped up the searching of lorries and the questioning of
drivers.

The spokesman told the BBC that every building at Dover was searched thoroughly
on Friday morning after a warning from another government agency.

Nothing was found. Lorry drivers are now being subjected to more questioning and
a stricter search regime is in place at all ports.

Several Nordic ferry companies including Color Line, which operates routes to
the UK, also increased their security at the weekend following the warning.

According to the French news agency AFP, an anonymous tip-off received by US
intelligence services claimed a bomb would explode on a European ferry last
Saturday after being driven on board in a truck.

The latest warnings come after Tony Blair warned Britons to be vigilant against
terrorist attack. In his address to the Lord Mayor's Banquet, Mr Blair said the
UK's security services were receiving "almost daily" warnings of terrorist
attacks.

The Prime Minister did not outline specific threats, but he said devastating
events such as the Bali bombing showed no country was immune from attack.

A recent draft Home Office statement released by mistake warned of a possible
chemical or nuclear

attack on the UK using a "dirty bomb" or poison gas. Mr Blair said: "Where there
is specific intelligence about a particular attack, we act to thwart it
directly. Where we know cells of al Qaeda are operating, here or abroad, our
services are monitoring them, disrupting them, where possible, dealing with
those involved; if they are here, imprisoning or expelling them.

"Where there is intelligence suggesting potential targets, we increase
surveillance or security as far as we can without causing unnecessary hardship
or alarm to the public."

However the Prime Minister said the threat of a terrorist attack must not be
allowed to paralyse normal life. "If we acted on every piece of raw
intelligence... we would in my time as Prime Minister on many occasions shut
down roads, railways, airports, stations, shopping centres, factories and
military installations."

David Osler of Lloyd's List, said the latest warning came from Transec, an arm
of the Department of Transport and was similar to one issued in France and the
Netherlands. He added: "It was really arguing that Britain didn't have any
specific credible intelligence to support that threat but was demanding an
increased state of vigilance.

"The threat seems to have taken the shape of a lorry possibly loaded with
explosives. What we've seen in a number of continental European ports was that
security was stepped up over the weekend precisely because of these very fears.
Given that there has been an order to increase checks on trucks leaving Britain
we think our intelligence services must be acting on that same threat."

In a statement Downing Street sought to play down the risk to passengers.

Downing Street confirmed that ports, along with the rest of the country, had
been put on a heightened state of alert.

Senior Whitehall sources, however, indicated that the intelligence material
warning of one or more lorries filled with explosives heading for this country
had been investigatedand found to be "unreliable"A statement from No 10 said:
"It is not true that a new general warning has been issued in relation to ferry
travel and nobody should change their travel plans as a result."

The intelligence chiefs in charge of President Bush's "war on terror" are
convinced that a fresh al Qaeda atrocity is being planned. CIA chief George
Tenet said recently: "They're coming after us."


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 22, 2002, Friday

POLICE WARN OF BOMBINGS OVER EASTER

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 278 words


SENIOR detectives yesterday issued a warning of possible bombings in Great
Britain by dissident Irish republicans over Easter.

The last suspected Real IRA bomb in Great Britain was in Birmingham on November
3 and senior Anti-Terrorist Squad officers believe that a further attack is now
"overdue".

They are especially worried about booby-trap bombs hidden in seemingly innocuous
objects.

It follows the recent discovery of a device hidden in a traffic cone in Northern
Ireland which was intended for a member of the security forces.

Another of the "victim-activated" devices was recently found in a military water
bottle.

No specific intelligence of an attack in Great Britain over Easter has been
received but dissident Irish republican terror groups have struck at Easter
before.

Senior officers at Scotland Yard said that analysis showed they would be
"foolish" to ignore the threat this year.

Head of specialist operations Assistant Commissioner David Veness said: "There
have been eight attacks on the mainland since June 1, 2000.

"We are looking very closely at activity in Northern Ireland which has continued
throughout that period and causes us concern at present."

He said that police were encouraging the public to be aware of the wide "attack
range" which could be from a small device to a large bomb.

Detectives believe that a torch bomb at a Territorial Army centre in Shepherd's
Bush, London, in February last year, which led to a 14-year- old boy being
blinded and losing his hand, was probably planted by the Real IRA.

They believe that it was supposed to be picked up by a member of the security
forces.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 10, 2002

Blunkett recovers after stomach op;
 Key Blair ally is sidelined over Christmas

BYLINE: Matthew George Political Correspondent

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 330 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett was recovering last night after major surgery
which will take him out of the political frontline until the new year.

The Home Secretary went under the knife because of a chronic problem involving
his oesophagus and stomach.

He is away from his desk at a crucial time and Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott will now handle the job of defending Britain from the threat of
terrorist attacks.

Mr Blunkett's junior ministers will take on the rest of his tasks, including the
asylum crisis and massive changes to the criminal justice system.

The Home Office revealed yesterday that Mr Blunkett underwent surgery on Sunday
in his native Yorkshire.

He avoided a political row by ensuring his operation was carried out in an NHS
hospital.

A spokesman said: "The Home Secretary is recovering well and is in contact with
the office, although he will use the Christmas period to convalesce fully."

Officials declined to give further details but said the 55-year-old is expected
to make a full recovery.

He is known as one of the hardest-working politicians at Westminster and puts in
exceptionally long days.

Mr Blunkett refuses to let his blindness hinder his career and his officials
tape-record briefing notes for him, which he listens to at double speed as he
jogs on his running machine each morning.

The Cabinet hardliner has been a national figure for more than 20 years since
becoming the leader of Sheffield City Council aged just 33.

He was elected Sheffield Brightside MP in 1987 and was quickly promoted to the
Opposition front bench.

After the 1997 General Election landslide he became Education Secretary and
switched to the Home Office after Labour retained power in 2001.

As a close ally of the Prime Minister, he is seen as Mr Blair's favourite in any
future leadership contest with Chancellor Gordon Brown.

Mr Blunkett's marriage broke up in 1988 after 18 years. He has three grown-up
sons.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                December 9, 2002

Women and war.

BYLINE: Charlotte Bradshaw

SECTION: Leisure

LENGTH: 291 words



MEN start and finish wars, women bear the consequences. The Women's War: Voices
from September 11 contains the stories of 11 women living with the consequences
of the terrible events of September 11, 2001, in the United States.

Writer and journalist Christopher Hilton has interviewed a broad spectrum of
women from Britain, Europe, America and Afghanistan. Each chapter contains one
woman's story, which tells what her life was like before that day, how she felt
during the terrorist attacks, and how her life has changed.

Together they record a gamut of emotions, from fear to amazing courage in the
face of grave danger, from unspeakable grief to unchecked compassion for an
oppressed people.

The women are Lieutenant Terri Tobin of the New York Police Department and Naval
Chief Sheryl A Alleger (based at the Pentagon), who were both on duty that day;
Debbie Barrett and Marian Fontana, who both lost their partners when the Twin
Towers collapsed, businesswoman Diane Kenna and insurance lawyer Renee Mangalo,
who both work near the World Trade Center and give first-hand accounts of the
terrible sequence of events.

Retired aid worker Ulla Asberg, from Sweden, and Jacqui Tong, who worked for
Medecins/Sans Frontieres at the time of the attacks, reveal the harsh conditions
for refugees from the Taliban regime, while Tahmeena FaIyal and exiled Seema
Ghani explain what life was like for women in Afghanistan.

Finally, Christina Lamb, a Sunday Telegraph foreign correspondent, recalls her
experiences reporting from Pakistan and Afghanistan during the 1980s, and of her
struggle to return to the country following the attacks.

The Women's War: Voices from September 11 is published by Sutton, priced GBP
17.99.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 2002

Finance: John Lewis criticises insurers: Retailers will not stomach premium
rises attributed to terrorism, group warns

BYLINE: Richard Wray

SECTION: Finance; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 583 words


John Lewis yesterday warned the insurance industry that retailers will not
stomach for much longer the vast increases in premiums on property insurance
attributed to last year's terrorist attacks.

The co-operative department store operator and owner of Waitrose yesterday
reported a fall in interim profits as a result of an increase in pension costs
and a doubling in the cost of insuring its 26 stores throughout Britain.

John Lewis has already scaled back the amount of business it gives to its
primary insurer, Royal & SunAlliance, opting instead to use brokers in the
reinsurance market.

But the group's finance director, Ian Alexander, yesterday warned that the
company is willing to play hardball with insurers - taking on more risk itself
in an attempt to reduce the premiums demanded.

"Insurers have been making losses for many years," Mr Alexander admitted. "But
we and others have the suspicion that they are taking some ad vantage of
September 11." Since the terrorist attacks John Lewis's property insurance
premiums have increased by up to 351%, while its cover against business
interruption has increased by 185%. The company's total insurance costs for the
year are expected to be pounds 12m - up from pounds 6m last year.

The increase helped dent profits, which fell to pounds 34m from pounds 44m the
previous year. Pension costs of pounds 32.6m were up 14% on the last six months
of last year as the company increased staffing levels.

The group is reviewing the way in which it operates its non-contributory final
salary pension scheme.

John Lewis's Waitrose food shops managed an increase in sales of 3.5% to pounds
1.17bn - but trading in John Lewis stores during the first six months of the
year was below the company's target because of store closures and widespread
disruption due to a pounds 220m stores refit programme.

Department store sales for the six months to July 27 were up 6% at more than
pounds 1bn, against a target of 9% growth.

Luke Mayhew, managing director of the group's department stores, offered a
gloomy year-end outlook. "I am not expecting a boom Christmas; the market is not
as buoyant as it was 15 months ago."

His warning came as rival retailer Next announced first-half results that were
better than expected, along with plans to buy back more of the group's stock,
pushing up the price of its shares 27p to 920p.

The retailer made profits of pounds 116m for the six months to the end of July -
up from pounds 93m in 2001. Sales at its 332 clothing stores gained 17% while
its shopping catalogue increased sales by 32%.

But Next group chief executive Simon Wolfson warned that the retail sector had
become much more volatile, and it had become harder to predict sales on a week
by week basis. "I suspect the volatility is being seen across the high street,"
he said. "Consumers are buying closer to the event for which they need the
clothes."

Next still feels confident that like-for-like sales growth for the second half
of the year will be 3-5%, compared with growth of 5.6% in the first half of the
year.

It also announced plans for a new capital structure that will allow it to buy
back up to 15% of its shares. The company has spent pounds 435m buying back
shares over the past three years in an effort to increase returns to
shareholders. "The buyback says something about our view of market conditions
and our confidence in the company's ability to generate cash," said Mr Wolfson.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: INTO A CAULDRON;
 BLAIR FACES TOUGH TASK AS INDIA TENSION RISES

BYLINE: James Hardy, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 515 words

HIGHLIGHT: PEACE MISSION: Tony Blair; INJURED: Indian troops help a victim of
yesterday's attack in Kashmir


A NEW terror attack in Kashmir by Islamic extremists yesterday plunged the peace
process into crisis.

Militant separatists hurled two grenades at the state parliament in Srinagar,
killing a police officer and wounding 23 bystanders.

The attack, in the Indian-controlled part of the disputed border region,
heightened tension between India and Pakistan - both nuclear powers.

And it came as India said it would use its full military might to defend itself
if required.

Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee said: "Whatever weapon is available, we will
use it.

"If, because of that weapon the attacker is defeated...if he is killed, we
should not be held responsible."

The day of escalating tension left Tony Blair, due to visit both countries in
the next few days, facing an uphill task in the search for a breakthrough.

The latest terrorist atrocity comes two weeks after Kashmiri separatists made a
suicide assault on the Indian national parliament in Delhi. UK Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw said Britain would not take sides in the long-running dispute over
Kashmir.

But he bluntly warned Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf that a new crackdown
on Kashmiri terror groups did not go far enough.

He said: "We welcome the action that President Musharraf has taken, with arrests
which have been recognised by the Indian foreign minister.

"But there has to be further action by Pakistan.

"It is not acceptable in the new climate against terrorism that there should be
groups in either of these countries - and they happen to be in Pakistan - who
seek to pursue their political objectives by violent means."

In the wake of yesterday's blasts, Mr Straw played down hopes of a breakthrough
during the PM's visit.

He said: "It is extremely important... that expectations about the potential of
the Prime Minister's visit to defuse tension should not be raised.

"There is no Blair peace plan whatever that the Prime Minister could or should
take out of his pocket."

India blames Kashmiri separatists based in Pakistan for the suicide raid on its
Delhi parliament which left 14 dead. And it claims the same group - the Lashkar
-e-Taiba - yesterday threatened to blow up the Taj Mahal.

An Indian official said the threat to its monument to love in the northern city
of Agra was sent by email.

"They have threatened to blow up the Taj Mahal, some other monuments and
government buildings," he added.

Yesterday's attack on the Srinagar legislature appeared aimed at a police post
and a nearby border guard patrol.

It echoes an assault on the heavily-guarded parliament in early October which
killed 40 people, again thought to be the work of Kashmiri separatists.

India and Pakistan were already massing forces on their 1,100-mile joint border
before yesterday.

Indian defence minister George Fernandes said troop build-ups along the border
were complete but were "not in battle positions".

Asked how seriously India was considering military action if diplomacy failed,
Fernandes said: "That will be the ultimate option."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 29, 2002

MOVE TO OUTLAW BALI BOMB GROUP LINKED TO BIN LADEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 133 words


THE group suspected of the Bali bombing is to be outlawed in Britain along with
three other Islamic extremist organisations, the Government said yesterday.

Anyone found to be a member or supporter of Indonesia-based Jeemah Islamiyah
could face a jail term of up to 10 years under the ban, which was announced by
Home Secretary David Blunkett. The proposal is to be debated in Parliament this
week. Jeemah Islamiyah is thought to have organised the terrorist attacks in
Bali, which killed around 180 people including at least 16 Britons.

The Philippines-based Abu Sayyaf Group, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and
Lebanonbased Asbat Al-Ansar or "Band of Helpers" are also to be banned. All
three have links with Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda network, the Home Office has
claimed.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 28, 2002

On this day - September 30.

BYLINE: Angela Kelly

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 280 words



1791: The first performance of Mozart's The Magic Flute took place in Vienna.

1888: Jack the Ripper butchered two more women - Liz Stride, found behind 40
Berber Street, and Kate Eddowes, in Mitre Square, both in London.

1933: Franklin D Roosevelt announced his 700 million New Deal to help America's
poor.

1935: George Gershwin's Porgy And Bess was premiered in Boston.

1936: Pinewood Studios opened near lver, Buckinghamshire, to provide Britain
with a film studio to compete with Hollywood.

1938: On his return from Germany, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain
told a crowd at Heston Airport, Middlesex: "I believe it is peace in our time,"
and waved the agreement he had signed with Hitler.

1939: Identity cards were issued in Britain.

1955: James Dean, right, eccentric young star of Rebel Without A Cause, Giant
and East Of Eden, died in a car crash, aged 24.

1965: Judge Elizabeth Lane was sworn in to become Britain's first female High
Court Judge.

1967: BBC's Radio 1 went on air for the first time, with Tony Blackburn
introducing The Breakfast Show. His first record was Flowers In The Rain by The
Move.

On this day last year: Tony Blair promised measures to speed up Britain's
extradition procedures as part of a package of emergency legislation following
the US terror attacks.

BIRTHDAYS: Deborah Kerr, actress, 81; Angie Dickinson, actress, 71; Teresa
Gorman, former MP, 71; Barbara Knox, actress, 69; Johnny Mathis, singer, 67; Ian
Ogilvy, actor, 59; Viscount Cranborne, former Leader of the House of Lords, 56;
Rula Lenska, actress, 55; Eric Stoltz, actor, 41; Jenna Elfman, actress, 31;
Martina Hingis, tennis player, 22.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           August 7, 2002, Wednesday

SADDAM MAY MAKE MISSILE STRIKE ON THE UK';
 IRAQ: BRITAIN AN INVITING TARGET

BYLINE: Rhodri Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words


IRAQI leader Saddam Hussein is on the verge of developing a long-range missile
to target Britain.

A Welsh expert in modern warfare warned last night that Iraq has a longrunning
missile programme, and that the UK could appear a more inviting target than the
US.

Dr Colin McInnes, an expert on modern warfare and British defence policy at the
department of international politics at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth,
warned that September 11 had shown the international community what could happen
if action was not taken to deal with a potential security threat.

He said, "I think that the British Government sees British national security
being at risk. It is one of those things where the threat may be remote but it
is so significant you have to take it seriously.

"The Bush administration has learned that you need to strike first - you don't
wait until the next US city is hit. If there is a clear risk you need to do
something about it because prevention is better than cure."

Dr McInnes said some experts believed an Iraqi long-range missile was only
months away from becoming a reality, but a terrorist attack was a more realistic
threat.

He said, "My understanding is that Saddam has explicitly identified the UK as an
enemy and we are nearer than the US to Iraq.

"If they develop a long-range missile capacity they may use it against us. We
are not the same as France or Germany, we are seen by the regime in Baghdad as
part of the US conspiracy against them."

Olivia Bosch, a former weapons inspector in Iraq and visiting fellow at the
International Institute of Strategic Studies in London, said it was impossible
to tell what capabilities Iraq possesses.

"It has been very difficult to assess what has been happening there without
inspectors," she said. "There would be the possibility that he is maintaining
the capability for biological and chemical weapons."

However as the hawks counsel the benefits of military action, the doves are
warning of the potential perils.

Archbishop of Canterbury elect Dr Rowan Williams has already added his signature
to a petition voicing opposition to the war, and a number of retired military
figures have raised concerns, as have prominent politicians. The petition signed
by Dr Williams and handed in to Downing Street was drawn up by Roman Catholic
antiwar group Pax Christi.

It reads, "It is deplorable that the world's most powerful nations continue to
regard war and the threat of war as an acceptable instrument of foreign policy,
in violation of the ethos of both the United Nations and Christian moral
teachings."

Any military action in Iraq would likely have to take place without the support
of Arab allies, with the US's support for Israel making it unpalatable for
Islamic nations to allow their territory as a base of operations.

Turkey, which provides the bases for US aircraft patrolling the no-fly zone in
northern Iraq, has already come out against the possibility of war.

Turkish foreign minister Sukru Sina Gurel, on a visit to Jordan yesterday, said,
"We feel that every problem in the region should be settled peacefully."

His comments echo the concerns of King Abdullah of Jordan, who has also
counselled President Bush against going to war in the Gulf.

The UN's representative in London, Ahmad Fawzi, said yesterday that Iraq's
recent offers to allow weapons inspectors back for talks should be tested by
making a response before resorting to military action.

He said, "We have received a letter from the Iraqis - the Security Council of
course is divided about the motives behind this letter.

"There are those who believe we should go the last mile to get the inspectors
in, and those who believe this is gamesmanship."

Saudi enemy '

SAUDI Arabia is an enemy of the US and should be warned to halt its "support"
for terrorism or face seizure of its oil fields, analysts have told the
Pentagon.

The Middle Eastern country is "the kernel of evil, the prime mover, the most
dangerous opponent" of America in the region and "the Saudis are active at every
level of the terror chain, from planners to financiers", senior defence
officials heard in a briefing by Laurent Murawiec, a former adviser to the
French Ministry of Defence.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 8, 2002

200 BRIT BIN MANIACS PLAN TERROR BLITZ

BYLINE: by JOHN MAHONEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 313 words


A REBEL student who boasts of recruiting British Muslims to fight for Osama bin
Laden yesterday backed a terror blitz on our shores.

Hassan Butt called for high-profile Government and military leaders to become
targets in a new wave of terrorist attacks launched by Taliban warlords.

Butt, 22, brags that he has hired more than 200 British Muslims to become dogs
of war in Afghanistan for bin Laden's al-Qaida organisation. The Manchesterborn
fanatic - whose last known English address was in Wolverhampton - issued his
call for all-out terror attacks on his homeland from his hideout on the Pakistan
border.

Yesterday Government officials were looking at ways of closing the loophole that
allowed Butt to secretly slip in and out of London last month to step up his
recruitment drive among youths in the capital's Muslim communities.

Downing Street believes if Butt re-enters Britain he could be arrested for
recruiting for a foreign terror organisation.

Butt - who travels on a British passport - bragged that the security forces had
no idea he had sneaked in and out of Britain, a claim heavily disputed.

He said: "People might be surprised that I am able to travel so freely, but for
me that is not a problem because I have a British passport.

"In any event, the security at airports is a complete farce."

Butt claims he has visited a number of British cities, including Birmingham and
Edinburgh, on fund-raising and recruiting missions.

Yesterday Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin called for a full Government
statement on Butt's tirade.

"I would describe it as traitorous, " he said.

A Home Office spokesman added: "We are aware of Hassan Butt and other people who
claim to be actively recruiting.

"If there is any terrorist activity, that is something for the police to
investigate and bring prosecutions where necessary."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2002, Friday

British media accused of fuelling hatred of Islam

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 532 words

THE European Union's race watchdog yesterday accused a wide range of British
commentators, politicians and media of helping to foster an upsurge in
anti-Islamic feeling after the terrorist attacks of September 11.

In its report, Islamophobia, the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and
Xenophobia said the biggest rise in violent attacks had taken place in Britain,
Holland, Sweden, and most of all Denmark.

Women wearing the hijab, the Muslim headscarf, had been insulted, spat at,
beaten and even raped in a wave of attacks across the EU.

In Britain, an Afghan taxi driver was paralysed from the neck down after being
attacked with a bottle in a dispute over September 11.

The report said mosques had been firebombed in Edinburgh, Manchester and Bolton.
The windows of Muslim homes had been smashed and dog excrement had been pushed
through letterboxes.

The report praised Tony Blair for helping to defuse the crisis last September by
deploring insults against British Muslims as "despicable acts". But Lady
Thatcher was castigated for saying that she "had not heard enough condemnation
from Muslim priests" against the attacks.

The newspaper columnist Melanie Phillips was taken to task for writing in the
Sunday Times that Muslims had become a "fifth column in our midst", an army of
thousands of angry young Muslims "waiting to destroy the society that sustains
them".

The report also focused on the Spectator for claiming that the Koran gives
"scriptural cover for judicial brutality", and on William Oddie, for writing in
The Daily Telegraph that Britain's Muslims were an "alien wedge" and that it was
not possible to separate "Islam" and "terrorism" in the British public mind.

The BBC was reproached for calling Osama bin Laden an "Islamic fundamentalist"
and an "Islamic terrorist", on the grounds that his acts were "un-Islamic".

The corporation has received a formal letter of protest from the Muslim Council
of Britain, but has refused to drop the term.

The issue is highly sensitive because the crimes of xenophobia and racism, which
do not exist as such in Britain, are among the offences covered by the EU's new
arrest warrant. The report was compiled before Pim Fortuyn rose to prominence in
Holland with warnings that militant Islam was a threat to liberal society.

The xenophobia watchdog clearly did not know how to cope with this complex
message, instead treating any criticism of Islam as inherently suspect and
evidence of far-Right thinking.

Bob Purkiss, the centre's chairman, said anti-Islamic feeling had been on the
rise for several years but that September 11 had acted as a "detonator" for
problems that had not been dealt with properly by Europe's democracies.

The terrorist attacks had been seized on by "Right-wing populists" intent on
creating fear.

He said the Middle East conflict had spilt over into Europe, causing the
desecration of synagogues and an "incredible number" of attacks on Jews. The
centre will publish a special report on anti-semitism next month.

Mr Purkiss said Europe could not hope to play a role in settling conflicts
abroad if it allowed such a cancer to fester at home.
[PS]News: [ES]

Commons sketch:

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

DEFENCE RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS HAS STRUCK A BALANCE, BLAIR TELLS COMMONS

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor John Denham: Response to attack was not a
mess'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


TONY BLAIR rejected yesterday criticisms by an all-party committee of MPs that
Britain was not prepared for the threat of a major terrorist attack.

Mr Blair was challenged by the Leader of the Opposition, Iain Duncan Smith, at
Prime Minister's Questions over a hard-hitting report by the Defence select
committee.

The report warned that Britain's emergency services lacked the capability and
resources to cope with an attack on the scale of the 11 September atrocities. It
said there was "inadequate central co- ordination and direction".

Mr Duncan Smith asked Mr Blair whether he agreed with the MPs' conclusion that
Britain had not taken the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive examination of
how it would cope with a disaster on the scale of 11 September. The Tory leader
urged Mr Blair to take personal charge and said there had been a "lack of grip
and direction" from the Government.

"The crucial point is not that there has been activity, but, as the committee
said, it is a mistake that activity supplants direction and real drive."

But the Prime Minister told MPs: "I don't accept that we have not made the most
urgent preparations following 11 September." He said the Government would
respond in detail to the committee's recommendations.

But he said he believed the right balance had been struck between spending
billions on protecting the country from every threat and doing nothing.

"The report itself begins by saying that since 11 September much has been done
to strengthen the UK's defence against the terrorist threat," Mr Blair added.

"We will, of course, study the additional things they the MPs say we should do."

John Denham, the Home Office minister, said the Government's response to last
year's attacks had not been a mess.

"It would have been a mistake on 12 September to start sitting down, start
scratching our heads and saying shall we redesign the system'," Mr Denham said.

"What we actually had to do was get some very essential measures in place and
that is what we did."

Bruce George, the committee's Labour chairman, said the MPs did not believe that
David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, could devote all his energies to leading the
anti-terrorist preparations. MPs had rejected the idea of a security director,
but another cabinet minister for this area might be needed, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 19, 2002

Not if they strike, but when

BYLINE: David Hughes

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 339 words


THE police chief in charge of anti-terrorism operations in Britain believes it
is a question of 'when not if' Al Qaeda will attack, it emerged yesterday.

The alarming assessment was made by Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner
David Veness.

It came after a security expert warned Radio 4's Today programme that the threat
of an Al Qaeda attack on Britain is 'very high' because of Osama Bin Laden's
explicit mention of the country.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, of St Andrews University's Centre for the study of
Terrorism and Political Violence, said: 'We know that Al Qaeda is an extremely
dangerous organisation with a record of mass killing. We also know that Britain
has been explicitly mentioned by Bin Laden in a recent audio tape. 'The threat
level to the UK is very high at present.'

Lord Harris, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, told the
programme that Mr Veness felt it was a case of 'when not if' an attack came.

'It is a matter of common sense that you take the warning that the professor has
just given us very seriously,' he said.

The Prime Minister sought to calm fears last night after weekend reports that Al
Qaeda terrorists planned a poison gas attack on the London Underground.

In an interview with ITN's Sir Trevor McDonald, Mr Blair said the Government was
wary of giving out generalised alerts which might cause panic, but promised to
release information about specific targets.

He said the Government was constantly receiving 'pieces of intelligence' which
it had to assess.

'If there is a specific threat against a specific target we, of course will warn
people,' he added.

In a meeting with the Prime Minister, Iain Duncan Smith called for a formal
Commons statement on the level of threat facing the country.

He told Mr Blair alarmist headlines were inevitable if information was withheld.

Three Moslem terror suspects yesterday appeared at Bow Street Magistrates Court,
central London, and were remanded in custody until December 16.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 27, 2002, Tuesday

Tragic conflict is corrupting Israel, says Sacks

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 629 words


BRITAIN'S Chief Rabbi was facing controversy within the Jewish community today
following an unprecedented public criticism of Israel.

Dr Jonathan Sacks argues today that Israel's stance is "incompatible" with the
deepest ideals of Judaism and that the conflict with the Palestinians is
"corrupting" the country's culture. He has been an avowed supporter of Israel
and his criticism will be seen as a blow to the country's current policies.

"There are things that happen on a daily basis which make me feel very
uncomfortable as a Jew," he says an interview with The Guardian. "I regard the
current situation as nothing less than tragic because it is forcing Israel into
postures that are incompatible in the long run with our deepest ideals. There is
no question that this kind of prolonged conflict, together with the absence of
hope, generates hatreds and insensitivities that in the long run are corrupting
to a culture."

Dr Sacks said he was "profoundly shocked" at reports of smiling Israeli soldiers
posing for a photograph with the corpse of a Palestinian. Although he emphasised
that he remains an avowed supporter of Israel, his comments are likely to
provoke controversy within some sections of Anglo-Jewish opinion.

There is mystery about the timing of the remarks by the Chief Rabbi of Britain's
Orthodox Jews, who is is seen as a de facto leader of the country's Jewish
community.

Popular opinion has swung behind Israel since the terrorist attacks of September
11 and many of Britain's 280,000 Jews have taken a more supportive stance since
the start of current intifada two years ago. Dr Sacks, who was unavailable for
comment last night, publicly defended Israeli government policy in the face of
international condemnation in April. Referring to the military onslaught against
Palestinian towns in the occupied West Bank, he told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme: "What is happening now is the direct equivalent of what America is
doing in Afghanistan. If we support the latter, I think we also have to
understand the former. They're the same policy. Israel is very much alone in its
war against terror...people have not understood that it is fighting for its
right to be."

Israel had suffered 12,500 terrorist attacks since September 11, he said,
"almost one every hour of every day of every week".

Ealier this year Dr Sacks said the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was being used
as a platform for open displays of hatred directed against all Jews. He
implicitly called on the Government to do more to protect British Jews and was
harshly critical of the political Left, including sections of the national
media, for publishing articles "calling into question Israel's right to exist".

Today he admits that in 1967, following the Six Day War, he was convinced that
Israel had to return all newly gained land "for the sake of peace" and that he
does not renounce that view now. He praises the "cognitive leap" towards
compromise made by the former Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and says there
had been no parallel leap by the Palestinians.

Dr Sacks says that he is now prepared to enter into further dialogue with
extremist Muslims, many of whom have called for the destruction of Israel. He
does not "absolutely rule out" a meeting with Sheikh Abu Hamza, the
fundamentalist London cleric who was reported yesterday to have equated Jews
with Satan. The Chief Rabbi also reveals that he has previously met Ayatollah
Abdullah Javadi-Amoli, one of Iran's highest ranking clerics.

When questioned about the possibility of a war with Iraq, Dr Sacks says that he
would be prepared to support action if there was a clear objective, a broad
coalition of support and very strict safeguards against civilian casualties.


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 5, 2002, Sunday

RUSSIANS DON'T MOCK LIKE THE BRITISH;
 ANSWER THE QUESTIONS: DECLAN DONNELLAN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 475 words


Donnellan, 49, is a renowned theatre director, both in the UK and in Russia. His
award-winning company, Cheek By Jowl, has just reformed for Tony Kushner's new
play Homebody/Kabul. He is also responsible for the RSC's new Acting Academy.

Is Cheek By Jowl back amongst us for good?

Yes, I hope Cheek By Jowl is back for good. We are just starting to formulate
plans, but part of our work will be to create a company in Russia in partnership
with the Russian Theatre Federation.

Are Russian actors very different?

No, they just get much more respect from the general public - artists in general
do. There isn't that sort of mocking we go in for big time in Britain.

What was it like premiering a play about Afghanistan in New York three months
after the terrorist attacks?

Our British friends assumed 'Homebody/Kabul' would be cancelled. Nobody in New
York did. There was a subdued but warm atmosphere. Some of the actors were
arranging funeral services. The strange odour of vapourised metal wafted into
the rehearsal room. In the end, the play was received with great warmth, but it
was astonishingly uncontroversial.

You've been mooted as one of the contenders to take over the RSC. Would you be
tempted by the offer?

I have only had one experience directing with the RSC, which was The School For
Scandal in 1998, and that was very positive indeed. However, I will not be
applying to run the RSC! For me, the main problem with the RSC pre-dates Adrian
(Noble)'s directorship. He was handed a poisoned chalice. The problem with the
RSC is that there is too much of it. The company was inflated way beyond its
natural proportion in the late Seventies, and is simply too big. Anyone who runs
a large institution has to struggle to prevent the structure from overwhelming
the life it was meant to support. Asking any organisation simply to shrink is a
modern taboo. This is not just a British problem, and it is not just a problem
in the arts.

What, for you, is "good" theatre?

Good theatre for me is about acting. Theatre is the actor's art, first and last.
Great theatre is seeing actors playing live; when you know you are witnessing a
spontaneous event that is unique. Theatre needs to seem dangerous, for we want
our homes to be safe. Theatre needs structure to survive, but a scene is best
when the structure is minimal and the actors are confident enough to act free
and in the moment with their partners and the audience. That freedom takes a lot
of discipline.

Have you never been tempted to make films?

Yes, I would love to make a film, but I like the day job too much to suspend it
for over a year to get a film in place! I've been asked to do some films but
I've never been sent a script that's completely grabbed me.

'Homebody/Kabul': Young Vic, London SE1 (020 7928 6363), Fri to 22 June

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 18, 2002

CITY AND BUSINESS; PAY RISES REFLECT TWO-SPEED ECONOMY

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 272 words


BRITAIN'S industrial workers have in the past three months got the lowest pay
rises since records began, while staff in service businesses continued to get
inflation-busting hikes.

Manufacturing pay awards in November, December and January averaged just 2.3 per
cent - barely keeping pace with inflation and the lowest since the Confederation
of British Industry began records in 1980.

Meanwhile workers in the services sector averaged a 3.8 per cent increase in
salary over the same time.

CBI chief economic adviser Ian McCafferty said: "The gap in pay awards is
growing because of the two-speed economy. Manufacturers are battling a harsh
global slowdown and a squeeze on profits is holding down pay awards against a
backdrop of low inflation."

He said the better service sector awards reflected more buoyant consumer demand.

Awards in the service sector have crept up in the past few months, from 2.9 per
cent in the quarter that straddled the September 11 terrorist attacks to 3.6 per
cent in the three months to December.

However, even the most recent 3.8 figure is a fall from the 4 per cent salary
rise staff in services firms pocketed last year.

Most manufacturers - 40 per cent - blamed low profits for hitting pay rises and
almost the same number blamed price constraints.

Service sector firms said the difficulty in finding and keeping staff was the
main reason for wage hikes.

McCafferty said even the 3.8 per cent figure for service staff was unlikely to
force interest rate rises. "The awards are not high enough to be at odds with
the Bank of England's inflation target, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 13, 2002

Religious fervour worsens problem;
 Letters

BYLINE: Margaret E Roden; Greville Road; Southville; Bristol.

SECTION: Features :General :Letters, Pg.10

LENGTH: 231 words


READER Derek Emsley condemns Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who is
certainly no favourite of mine, but what would he expect his Government to do
were British citizens subject to almost daily terrorist attacks?

The past record of Great Britain in dealing with Ireland, for instance, before
Eire was created as an independent nation, is certainly not something of which
anyone could be proud.

According to a recent commentator, the situation in the Middle East is that some
Palestinians quite rightly wish to have their own state side by side with
Israel, but others simply wish to push Israel into the sea in order to create an
Islamic state.

Such an event would probably enable Saddam Hussein to take over the whole area,
which would eventually be extremely dangerous for the Southern European
countries on the other side of the Mediterranean, as well as sealing the fate of
Egypt and the oilproducing states of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.

As a humanist, I feel that the religious fervour of all concerned is simply
inflaming what would be a very difficult situation anyway.

Surely, right-thinking people must realise that, if a deity exists at all, it
would be neutral, and that a person killing another innocent individual is
simply a murderer and not a martyr. I look forward to the day when the monstrous
injustice of war no longer stalks the planet.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 27, 2002

(GBP)40m Government ad campaign aims to lure back foreign tourists

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Brian Dooks

LENGTH: 364 words


THE Government is launching a (GBP)40m advertising campaign in the United
States, Japan and Europe to win back tourists frightened of visiting Britain
after the foot and mouth crisis and September 11 terrorist attacks.

Tourism Minister Kim Howells, who aims to attract one million extra visitors to
Britain this year, said the industry had been poorly organised but he believed
Yorkshire was well placed to take its share when visitors returned.

The (GBP)40m is on top of a (GBP)5m UK OK campaign and (GBP)3.6m being spent on
England-net - an Internet system to ensure people can book accommodation and
find out about attractions from anywhere in the world.

Dr Howells said: The Treasury has allocated (GBP)20m which is being matched by
another (GBP)20m from the private sector. That means we can now buy airtime in
the United States, Europe and Japan. It's the first time we have ever been able
to do that.

Dr Howells tried some of the Internet technology at the Harrogate Tourist
Information Centre before announcing the international advertising campaign at
the National TIC Conference at the Harrogate International Centre.

Tourism was a huge sector of Britain's economy, accounting for (GBP)74bn a year,
but the Minister said: In my experience the organisation left a lot to be
desired in terms of the way the industry spoke to Government and the way in
which it organised itself.

Yorkshire, I think, has been very successful in actually getting together so
they are speaking with a single voice and from my point of view that's very
encouraging.

York was one of the great tourism icons, which was an important destination on
the United States, Japanese and European trails and Dr Howells said he was
confident tourists would return.

He had been to the United States twice in two months and saw an enormous change
in attitudes. The first time they said Americans would only fly to a location
they knew they could drive home from.

But now it seems the desire to travel has been rekindled, and the Americans said
to us: When I fly the first country I am going to fly to is Britain'. It is
because of us standing shoulder to shoulder with America.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           January 9, 2002, Wednesday

PAUL SINCLAIR;
 FLY ME... I'M ONLY TRYING TO SAVE THE WORLD

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair

SECTION: PAUL SINCLAIR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 732 words


TONY BLAIR'S collection of in-flight slippers must be rivalling Imelda Marcos'
shoe cupboard by now.

Every other week, the Prime Minister's air miles seem to gobble up another
continent as his crusade for world peace continues.

He's clearly immune to deep-vein thrombosis, although deeply vain thrombosis is
another problem.

That is what he is really being criticised for. It is alleged that each mercy
mission is more of an ego trip. Blair is fiddling about in foreign parts when he
ought to be concentrating on burning crises at home.

And then there's the "Jesus Complex". Blair, moist-eyed and voice cracking, or
with a Kennedy-like stare and firm tone, seems to think he is the saviour of the
western world.

It started at the Labour Party conference in Brighton last autumn when he
referred to almost every global troublespot over the last 15 years and pledged
he would solve them, or their likes would never be allowed to happen again.

There was something of the evangelist in his speech. Some critics allege he
thinks he is speaking for God. Others claim he believes he is God.

But whether you like the Prime Minister's cheesy delivery, or it gives you the
dry boak, Blair is doing a lot more than just clocking up the airmiles for the
sake of his own ego.

Since the terror attacks of September 11, the world has been in a state of flux.

Initially, there was the danger that President George W. Bush's "hang 'em high"
instincts could lead the US into an excessive response that was not thought
through.

Blair restrained those instincts.

Now the world is being re-shaped and, for the first time in half a century,
Britain is at the heart of the new design.

Blair is better at playing the world statesman than most of his predecessors in
Downing Street and that is one of the reasons the Tories, in particular, are so
bothered by his trips.

When John Major went to visit British troops in the Gulf War, he looked less our
man on the world stage and more our man at C&A.

The Americans loved it when Margaret Thatcher played the British battleaxe, but
then again they also loved Monty Python.

At home, Thatcher was tough - she gave as good as she got. But when she fawned
over Ronald Reagan, you got the feeling internationally she took as well as she
gave.

She was popular in the States because she said everything they said, only
louder. Unlike Thatcher and Major, Blair isn't the visitor after the US
President. He goes there first.

Britain's influence as a global power was on the wane for most of the 20th
century. Whenever we did get involved, we were too easily dismissed as harking
back to the days of Empire.

Blair's appeal is fresher and he has managed to break free from Britain's
imperialist image.

He has cleverly positioned the UK as a spokesman for the West, somewhere between
the US and Europe.

And while his critics might find it risible, wouldn't we rather have a Prime
Minister who aimed high and talked about tackling famine and world poverty than
a leader who was silent on those subjects?

The goals may be lofty, but at least they are goals. At home, the trains may not
run on time and the NHS is still in crisis.

But with India and Pakistan on the road to a nuclear conflict, if a British
Prime Minister can broker peace, shouldn't we allow him the time to attempt to?

Even if he fails, it is worth a try. Blair will be judged at the next election
on his reform of public services.

We want our health service and our transport system to be world class.

But that shouldn't mean our Prime Minister can't play his part on the world
stage.

The trains might not work. But think what he's doing for air travel.

Labour's failing TV stars

CYNICS suggest the way to get on in New Labour is to be a Tory, but they've
missed the point.

Instead, you have to have worked in TV, preferably with no experience of the
field you're asked to sort out.

Gus MacDonald - now a Lord - is at the heart of the Cabinet. Never before a
politician, he ran Scottish Television - cutting jobs, salaries and making a lot
of money for himself.

Now there is John Birt, formerly of the BBC, where he cut jobs and salaries and
got a lot of money for himself.

Who knows what Casualty producer out there will one day be asked to re-shape the
NHS, or Grange Hill writer asked to sort out our schools?

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 9, 2002

100 Islamic terrorists in Britain, Yard warns

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 389 words


MORE THAN 100 Islamic terrorist suspects may be living in Britain, a senior
Scotland Yard officer warned today.

Many of them are believed to be members of about 20 banned groups with links to
Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda network.

Others may be individuals like shoe bomber Richard Reid who tried to blow up a
transatlantic flight.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of the Yard's specialist operations,
today warned of possible attacks as he outlined a 10-point plan to defend
Britain.

He said police estimated there were "more than 100" members of proscribed
terrorist groups and individuals with extremist views in the UK.

In an effort to combat the increased threat of attacks since 11 September, he
revealed that talks were under way to establish a Europe-wide antiterrorist task
force.

Mr Veness said: " There is widespread agreement between all European countries
that we need to work together to meet the new scale of the challenge." Initially
he expected to

liaise more closely in the hunt for terror suspects.

Eventually a task force of detectives from European countries could be formed to
work closely with the FBI.

Mr Veness, who with Alan Fry, head of the Yard's antiterrorist branch, is
coordinating Britain's battle against terrorism, outlined measures to reduce the
threat.

He said: "Our main concern is to reduce the risk of attacks in the UK, but if
unfortunately these attacks take place we want to ensure the least possible harm
to the public."

A new national counterterrorism unit would coordinate information from police
special branches, while officers would forge continuing links with communities
in London to gather intelligence.

Police were also planning defences against suicide bombing and the risk of
attacks on the Tube or from ships on the Thames.

A plan has also been drawn up to identify and arrest Taliban fighters returning
to Britain from Afghanistan.

Police suspect 15 have already come back.

US troops could soon stage raids into Pakistan to track down Bin Laden and his
allies as the focus of the campaign against terrorism begins to move beyond
Afghanistan.

General Tommy Franks said Pakistan's government had given them permission to
cross the border in the hunt for al Qaeda terrorists and fleeing Taliban
fighters.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                October 28, 2002

Morley'S Bali Nightmare

SECTION: Sport; Rugby; Others; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 214 words


Great Britain forward Adrian Morley would have been in Bali at the time of the
October 12 bomb blast had he not lost out in a players' vote for his club's
end-of-season trip.  Morley had wanted to go to the Indonesian holiday resort
with his Sydney City Roosters team-mates following fond memories of a similar
trip.

"I was one of those saying let's go to Bali this year because we had such a
great time last time," said Morley. "It's such a good place.

"We would have been there at the same time as the blast. I don't want to think
about it." Six youngsters from a Sydney junior team died in the tragedy and
former Roosters and Australian Test forward Craig Salvatori lost his wife in the
terrorist attack.

Salford-born Morley, 25, added: "A lot of the Roosters knew a lot of the blokes
who died so it's a pretty bad time at the moment." Fortunately, the Roosters
went to Townsville in northern Queensland to celebrate the club's Grand Final
victory over New Zealand Warriors and Morley is now back in England preparing to
take on the Kiwis in next month's Test series.

Morely missed last year's Ashes series with a broken arm "I love playing for
Great Britain and, after the disappointment of missing out on the Ashes series I
can't wait," he said.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2002 Hull Daily Mail

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 20, 2002

SIX WITH OSAMA LINKS ARE HELD AFTER MI5 OPERATION TO CRACK DOWN ON SECRET CASH;
ARRESTS IN BID TO DR Y UP AL QAEDA BLOOD MONEY

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 524 words


SIX men with alleged links to terror chief Osama Bin Laden were under arrest
last night after dawn raids by MI5 and the police.

The suspected money launderers were questioned by AntiTerrorist Branch
detectives following a major investigation into the funding of international
terrorism.

They were among 11 people arrested in raids across London.

All are understood to be of Middle Eastern or Algerian origin. Extensive
searches were carried out at the suspects' homes and two storage units in the
capital.

Computers used by some of the men were being checked by specialists at Scotland
Yard.

A "paper trail" of documents, including credit card bills, bank statements and
mobile phone records, were also being examined. Scotland Yard refused to discuss
the case yesterday but sources indicated that the men are suspected of helping
to fund terrorist activity outside the United Kingdom.

They were picked up at addresses in North and West London following a major
operation involving the Yard's elite Anti-Terrorist Branch and officers from the
Security Service (MI5).

It is believed the men were kept under round-the-clock surveillance before the
the arrests were made on Wednesday. The six suspected fundraisers for Bin
Laden's Al Qaeda network were held under the Terrorism Act, 2000. Three other
men were held for alleged criminal offences and two others for suspected
breaches of the immigration laws.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said the arrested men were all in their 20s and 30s
but refused to discuss the matter further.

Police also declined to reveal what material had been taken from the men's homes
but stressed that no firearms, ammunition or explosives had been found.

One of the men arrested for alleged criminal offences was last night bailed by
police to return to a central London police station in October. The other
suspects remained in custody. Yesterday's operation underlines the strong links
between the Yard's elite AntiTerrorist Branch and the Security Service.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness recently described how
Britain's police forces and intelligence agencies had been forged into a "grand
alliance" to defeat terrorism in the wake of the September 11 attacks in the
USA.

Yesterday's operation was described as being part of the global crackdown on
terrorist fundraisers launched by President George W Bush shortly after the
atrocities.

But sources stressed that the London raids were not the result of requests for
investigation by America's FBI or directly connected with the September 11
outrages.

During the past year, the scale of involvement with Al Qaeda suspects in Britain
has slowly unravelled, giving more evidence to harsh critics of Britain's
liberal immigration laws.

Detectives say London and other British cities are targets for a terror attack
by Al Qaeda terrorists. In the run-up to the first anniversary of the
atrocities, the nation was put on red alert for a possible terror strike by
either an organised group or a lone wolf operator.

Mr Veness called for vigilance and warned Britons not to become complacent.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 21, 2002, Thursday

Omagh was our September 11, says Geldof

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 638 words

THE Omagh bombing, in which 29 people died in 1998, was "Britain's September
11", Bob Geldof said yesterday as he opened a campaign to raise pounds 1 million
towards a civil action against the Real IRA by families of the victims.

Geldof, the Irish pop singer and creator of Live Aid, who has received an
honorary knighthood, contrasted the help generated for America with the struggle
of the Omagh relatives to get justice.

Only one man has been prosecuted over the worst terrorist atrocity in the 30
years of "the Troubles" in Northern Ireland - he was jailed for 14 years in
Dublin for conspiracy to cause the explosion - and the families have raised only
pounds 500,000 of at least pounds 1.5 million needed to bring a civil case
against the Real IRA bomb gang.

"It would be foolish," Geldof said in London, "not to think upon the fact that
Omagh was our September 11. There is no moral difference in any sense.

"But I am appalled by the lack of action from Britain and Ireland, when you
consider what was delivered from our two countries to America after September 11
and then think about Omagh and what these people have received. It puts us to
shame.

"There are an awful lot of very wealthy people in Britain and Ireland. I cannot
understand why they cannot fund it or why people who are not wealthy cannot
throw a few quid into the pot. It is very important to expunge this badge of
shame."

The bombers had placed their devastating car bomb near a school outfitter's shop
in August 1998 knowing that schools in Omagh were about to re-open.

"It is very bad that those people should be allowed to walk around with such
impunity," said Geldof, who was flanked by members of six of the victims'
families.

There were relatives of 12-year-old James Barker; Adrian Gallagher, 21, a
mechanic; Lorraine Wilson, 15; Esther Gibson, 36, a Sunday school teacher;
Geraldine Breslin, 43, a mother; and Alan Radford, 16.

The families said in a statement that they were "not interested in money but
wanted justice and they wanted to deter the Real IRA from murdering again".

They also hoped to unearth evidence to be used in criminal proceedings against
the Real IRA in the future. Michael Gallagher, Adrian's father, summed up the
mood when he said: "Three and a half years on, we have not seen anyone charged
with murder. We decided on this course of action because it was something we
could do, ourselves, as relatives.

"We will send a strong message to terrorists wherever they are. You won't just
have the worry about the police and Government but also the relatives coming
after you."

Barry McGuigan, former world featherweight boxing champion, sat beside Geldof
and said: "We are here to support these people and make those barbaric
individuals accountable for their actions."

Peter Mandelson, former Northern Ireland Secretary, said: "Whatever your views
on Northern Ireland, there is a peace of sorts now. But it must be a peace with
justice and the key to that is Omagh."

He made clear that the families' campaign had cross-party political support.
Among the many messages of support was one from Iain Duncan Smith, the Tory
leader.

Others came from former President Clinton, the author Maeve Binchey and Ken
Livingstone, mayor of London. There was also one from Charles Moore, editor of
The Daily Telegraph.

It emerged last night that the families need a contingency fund of at least
pounds 500,000 on top of potential legal costs of pounds 1 million to protect
them against the possibility of losing.

Unlike in other civil cases their lawyers have not found an insurer willing to
take on the risk and, without the contingency fund, they would face huge costs
if they lost.

Donations may be sent to the Omagh Victims Legal Fund, 21 Southwick Mews, London
W2 1JG or to any branch of the Bank of Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 18, 2002

Britons told: Stay out of Indonesia;
 Straw's warning as embassy staff head home

BYLINE: Jeff Wells

SECTION: 177, Pg.2

LENGTH: 340 words


British citizens should not travel to anywhere in Indonesia in light of new
information following the Bali bomb attacks, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said
yesterday.

Any Britons currently in the country should also consider leaving unless
absolutely necessary, he said.

Mr Straw said he had also authorised the withdrawal of some dependants and non
-essential diplomatic staff from the British Embassy in Jakarta.

In the wake of the terrorist attacks in Bali, in which it is feared 29 Britons
died, the Foreign Office advised against travelling to the island.

It extended its travel warning to the whole of Indonesia following a similar
warning by the Australian Government earlier yesterday.

Mr Straw said he would not be issuing any fresh travel advice on the other six
south-east Asian countries named as risks by the Australians yesterday.

"But as I have said we keep under review the travel advice we give," the Foreign
Secretary said.

He repeated the Government's insistence that no specific information about
Saturday's attacks had been received by Britain's security services.

And he defended the system through which the Foreign Office draws up and issues
advice to travellers.

Yesterday's announcement came after fresh information was received but Mr Straw
said he could not go into detail about that.

He dismissed suggestions that Britain had been slow in following Australia's
decision to warn travellers away from Indonesia.

"On Saturday night as soon as we heard of the atrocity in Bali we recommended
against all travel to Bali, and all but essential travel to elsewhere in
Indonesia," he said.

Mr Straw added: "British citizens who remain should exercise extreme caution,
especially in public places, including pubs, restaurants, bars, schools, places
of worship, outdoor recreational venues and other locations frequented by
foreigners."

He said the Government would continue to keep the travel advice regarding
Indonesia and other countries in the region under review.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 10, 2002

Poignant reminder of lost Britons

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Jane MacDonald

LENGTH: 391 words


A TATTERED, faded Union flag discovered lying in the rubble at Ground Zero is to
be the poignant focal point at a British service to remember the victims of the
September 11 terror attacks.

The flag was unearthed during the excavation of the World Trade Centre site but
how it came to be there remains a mystery.

It was brought over to play a special part in events to mark the first
anniversary since the outrages which left more than 3,000 dead, including 67
British victims.

Home Secretary David Blunkett will be presented with the flag, measuring 8ft by
4ft, by New York Police Lieutenant Frank Dwyer, at the service tomorrow. They
will join the US Ambassador to Britain, William S Farish, in delivering remarks
at the event.

We don't know exactly where this British flag came from, within the World Trade
Centre, said Lt Dwyer.

But we all feel that it should be brought back home to the British people.

The US Embassy Remembrance Ceremony in Grosvenor Square, London, which is open
to the public, will also include music from the US Air Force Band and the South
Wales Male Voice Choir.

It starts at 10am and will be followed in the early afternoon by a national
service of remembrance and celebration at St Paul's Cathedral.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and the Prince of Wales, representing the Queen, are
expected to join families of the victims among a congregation of 2,000.

Details of the service came as Mr Blair paid tribute to the courage, compassion
and resilience of New Yorkers over the past year.

Writing in the New York Post, he said the way the city had responded to the
tragedy and the efforts to rebuild in its aftermath had inspired the world.

I know how touched the many British families who lost loved ones on September
11... have been by the warmth and support they received from this city, both
officially and from countless New Yorkers, he wrote.

Mr Blair said the attacks and the war on terrorism had underlined the importance
of the friendship between Britain and America. It's a link which, in the last
sad year, is now stronger in many ways than ever before, just as our admiration
for this city and its people is stronger.

Mr Blair also praised US President George Bush, with whom he held talks at the
weekend, for rallying the country and forming a coalition to fight terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 23, 2002

Memorial service at cathedral.

BYLINE: Murray Walker

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 124 words



A MEMORIAL service is to be held at Manchester Cathedral for those who lost
their lives in the terrorist attacks on America.

The service, to be attended by the Mayor of Wigan, Cllr John Hilton, and civic
heads from across Greater Manchester will be held tomorrow at 2 pm -- exactly
one week after the tragedy.

Manchester Cathedral has said that everyone, especially any Americans in the
area, is welcome to attend. Flags have flown at half mast across Leigh and the
rest of Wigan, and Cllr Hilton has sent a letter of condolence to William
Farish, the US Ambassador to Britain.

Messages of condolence can be signed at Wigan and Leigh town halls, and these
will be made into a bound book and forwarded to the US Ambassador.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 15, 2002

BIN LADEN'S NEW TERROR THREAT AS BALI SURVIVORS TELL HORROR STORIES; DEATH TO
ALL BRITONS

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words


TERROR chief Osama Bin Laden issued a chilling warning last night: The killings
will go on.

The mastermind of the Twin Towers attacks called on Muslims to unite against
America and its allies, including Britain. He was speaking in the wake of the
Bali bomb outrage, in which nearly 200 people have been killed, 33 of them
Britons. Bin Laden warned of the "bloody price" still to be paid by those who
dare to oppose him and his Al Qaeda network which has been blamed for the blast.

As survivors told of their ordeal, Britain sent anti-terrorist officers to Bali.
Tony Blair said: "Terrorism has once again scarred the world."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       June 15, 2002, Saturday Edition 1

Take off

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 285 words


   The number of British visitors to Florida looks set to plunge by 30 per cent
in two years, and Sunshine State bargains are already available.

Kate Burgess-Craddy, a spokesperson for Visit Florida, says: "There are 14-night
packages, including accommodation, on the market at 499, and some amazing prices
on teletext.

"But you always get what you pay for - and holidaymakers should think about what
they will spend abroad.

"A family of four, for instance, can spend over 1,000 on 10-day passes for
Disneyworld, so it can be worth buying tickets for major attractions before you
leave Britain."

A record 1.7 million Britons visited Florida in 2000 - but numbers have dropped
steeply since then. Official figures for 2001 will emerge at the end of this
month, with operators fearing a major collapse of over 25 per cent in 2002, and
expecting to take at least two years to get business back anywhere near to 2000
levels.

The terrorism attacks of September 11 are a big factor, but Visit Florida's UK
sales and marketing director, Colin Brodie, says visitors have also become much
choosier over what they see and do.

"Three years ago, 85 per cent of UK visitors to Florida bought a package
holiday. Now 50 per cent travel independently. And people on a third or fourth
trip and don't want to spend two weeks in Orlando."

Another trend is one of polarisation; visitors either go for a very cheap
holiday, or a top-quality package with scheduled flights. Middle-ground
companies using charter flights are suffering so badly that one operator,
Cosmos, has dumped Florida altogether.

Visit Florida's main tips are:

More advice on travelling to Florida is available on [01737] 644 882.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: KICK HIS BUTT..

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 99 words


HASSANButt is a loud-mouthed attention-seeker who is doing immense harm to
British Muslims. We have already exposed his greedy bid to sell for a ridiculous
pounds 100,000 his sordid story about recruiting British volunteers to fight for
the Taliban. Now he claims via the BBC that many are planning to return home to
carry out terrorist attacks. The authorities were lamentably slow to act against
Butt when he was in Britain before Christmas. Now he's returned to Pakistan.
Next time he shows his face here let's hope they fall on him like a ton of
bricks andkick his butt hard.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 20, 2002

House buyers show growing confidence

BYLINE: Nicky Burridge

SECTION: News :Housing :Prices, Pg.33

LENGTH: 308 words


THE rate at which house prices are rising accelerated rapidly during January,
boosted by strong consumer confidence.

The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said during the three months to the
end of January property prices in England and Wales increased at double their
average rate since 1978 as consumers shook off fears that Britain could be
heading for a recession.

The group said prices had "taken off" during January, after dipping in November
and recovering slightly in December, and surveyors' confidence had now risen
above the levels seen before the September 11 terrorist attacks.

According to RICS, 46 per cent more chartered surveyors reported a rise in
prices rather than a fall during the three months to the end of January.

This figure was 17 percentage points higher than in December, and double the
figure in November, when the market took a downturn. The majority of surveyors
saw gains of at least two per cent.

The group added that it expected price rises and sales activity to remain strong
in the next three months, boosted by low interest rates and high consumer
confidence.

More surveyors reported price rises in London and the South-east than any other
region, which RICS put down to the market bouncing back following price falls
towards the end of last year. But the South-west was not far behind.

Ian Perry, RICS residential housing spokesman, said:

"The housing market is showing considerable strength right across the board,
from prices through sales to new enquires.

"The fear of recession, which had held people back at the end of the year, has
largely disappeared, as has the downturn in the market following September 11."

He said the market recovery looked set to continue in the coming months,
although job losses would have a restraining affect if they continued.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 18, 2002

CHEMICAL TERROR PLOT FEAR AS COPS SEIZE FOUR

BYLINE: From Lesley Hussell in Paris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words


FEARS of a chemical attack against British targets were growing last night after
the dramatic capture of four suspected Al Qaeda terrorists in France.

MI5 agents played a crucial role in helping the French secret service locate the
suspects' homes including one which had been turned into a make-shift
laboratory.

More than 30 armed police raided flats on a housing estate at La Courneuve in
the northern Paris suburbs on Monday and arrested the three men and one woman.

Officers seized an array of chemicals in liquid and powder forms along with a
nuclear and biological warfare suit designed for the military. Urgent tests were
last night being carried out on the substances to discover their make-up and
potency.

There was speculation that the chemicals could be used to pollute public
drinking water.

Hand-written lists of chemical symbols were found in one of the flats.
Scientists were examining the formulae which they suspect is for a powerful
cocktail to be used in a terror attack. False identity papers and Islamic
documents were also discovered.

The suspects - three Algerians and a Moroccan - can be held for four days under
French counter-terrorism laws. The woman is the wife of one of the men. It is
believed they recently returned to Europe from Afghanistan - the former
powerbase of terror warlord Osama Bin Laden - and Chechnya.

Any target linked to them was likely to be in France. But last night security
sources warned that similar attempts could be launched in Britain.

A source said: "We don't know whether their target would have been in France -
it could well have been in Britain. Clearly, Britain and its major cities are
under threat from similar attacks by a whole range of weapons including
chemicals.

"We are prepared to combat that danger and are working hard around the clock to
ensure that the menace posed to London and other major centres of population in
the UK is kept at the minimum."

The Paris raids come at a time of heightened security in the run-up to
Christmas.

The men are allegedly associates of Abu Doha, 37, described as Bin Laden's chief
representative in Europe who is in Belmarsh prison, south London, fighting
extradition to the USA on charges of plotting to blow up Los Angeles airport.

French officials confirmed the vital assistance of the British yesterday. A
French police source added: "We knew the suspects had come back to Europe with
very aggressive intentions. The evidence we discovered unfortunately confirms
our fears."

One of the arrested men is Mirouane Behamed, 28, who is believed to have been on
a wanted list for months. Another was named as Mirwad Benhamed, aged about 30,
who was believed to be the cell's chemist. He is alleged to have fled to
Afghanistan after a terror cell based in Germany was broken up.

Transcripts of telephone taps revealed how the Frankfurt cell last year planned
a chemical attack at a Christmas fair in Strasbourg in France. Several
conversations recorded suspects talking about "a gas in a bottle that is
difficult to transport but suffocates people".

The raids were the fourth major counter-terror operation by French police in the
past month. The interior ministry called them "the most important since
September 11, 2001".

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               November 28, 2002

Airport Is 'Vulnerable To Attack'

SECTION: News; Consumer; Crazes; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 272 words


Gloucestershire Airport security chiefs are warning police and customs in
advance about flights arriving at the Staverton airstrip in a bid to prevent a
terrorist attack.  But the overstretched security services cannot find the time
to check the flights because of staff shortages.

The news comes following a government report by Lord Carlile of Berriew QC who
said terrorists could use small airports and airstrips across Britain to smuggle
material for a nuclear or biological attack.

He was appointed by the Government to oversee the Prevention of Terrorism 2000
Act.

In his report published this week he described the network of minor ports and
airstrips across Britain as the country's "soft underbelly".

Gloucestershire Airport managing director Gordon Griffiths said he is providing
police with advance lists of air traffic movement, but the county force rarely
check any of the flights because of time and staffing restraints.

Mr Griffiths, who has been running the airport for 14 months, said: "We tell
customs and police about flights coming in and about any flights that arrive
unexpectedly.

"But policing is intelligence led and it is discretionary on their part whether
they come or not.

"They have to prioritise things using their own procedures, but we make sure
they are informed." Mr Griffiths concedes that like any other airfield,
Staverton is vulnerable to terrorist attacks and smuggling. He has had no
special security service advice despite the airport's proximity to GCHQ.

A spokesman for Gloucestershire police said he could not comment on airport
security.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Gloucestershire Echo

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 19, 2002, Tuesday

BRITAIN IS NEXT ON HITLIST SAYS PROF

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 170 words


THE risk of an al-Qaeda attack in Britain has increased dramatically, a
terrorism expert warned last night.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, of the Centre for Terrorism Studies at St Andrew's
University, said it was likely Britain would be the next target of the global
terror network.

His warning came after security at St Andrews was stepped up as intelligence
sources warned of an increased threat of an attack on student Prince William.

Prime Minister Tony Blair last night pledged that public warnings will be issued
if there is specific intelligence of an imminent attack.

Blair repeated his plea for public vigilance.

But he also spoke of the difficulty in filtering out the serious threats from
the mass of information coming in. He said the risk was that constant warnings
would unnecessarily alarm people, and "end up doing the terrorists' job for
them".

Three north African Moslems appeared in court in London yesterday charged with
plotting a terrorist attack and were remanded in custody.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 9, 2002

Jabs for all if smallpox war starts

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 136 words


PREPARATIONS to vaccinate the entire population of Britain against smallpox are
being made in the event of a bio-terrorist attack, it was revealed yesterday.

But the Department of Health last night insisted it is a 'precautionary measure'
and that an attack is very unlikely.

Mass inoculation would take place only if there were outbreaks of smallpox
throughout the UK.

Chief Medical Officer Sir Liam Donaldson said ring vaccination inoculating those
in living in the area of an outbreak would be the first line of defence.

He told BBC 10 O'Clock News that key health workers would be vaccinated in
anticipation of an outbreak so they could treat casualties. The Department of
Health said: 'There is no increased risk of attack we are just making sure we
are prepared if there is one.'


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 08, 2002, Sunday

5,000 body bags ordered in case of terrorist chemical attack Government orders
120,000 decontamination suits to be ready for distribution 'in minutes'

BYLINE: BY MARTIN BENTHAM Social Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 811 words

THE GOVERNMENT is buying more than 120,000 decontamination suits to protect
people from a terrorist chemical or biological attack on potential targets
across Britain such as Trafalgar Square.

Thousands of decontamination showers, shelters, stretchers and other equipment
are also being ordered - as well as 5,000 body bags.

The equipment, which is intended to be available by the middle of next year at
the latest, will be stored at 16 locations, ready to be distributed within
minutes of a terrorist attack.

The orders, which are due to be placed before Christmas, have been prompted by
concern that Britain is seriously under-prepared to cope with the consequences
of a chemical or biological assault. A recent report by the National Audit
Office concluded that the National Health Service's capacity to deal with a
major attack was "worryingly low".

The Home Office gave warning last month that Islamic fundamentalists might use
radioactive "dirty" bombs or poison gas to cause large numbers of casualties in
British cities. This alert was later retracted because of fears that it would
cause public panic.

Information on new Government contracts, which has been obtained by The Sunday
Telegraph, reveals the full extent of the threat that ministers believe the
country is facing.

One batch of contracts, which is about to be awarded, is for 120,000
pre-decontamination suits, to be used immediately after a chemical or biological
attack. The contracts will also provide 100,000 post-decontamination suits to be
worn by people after their initial treatment. Industry officials say the 20,000
difference reflects the number of deaths likely to occur.

Philip Ward, the managing director of Ferno UK, the country's leading
manufacturer of emergency and rescue equipment, said that his company was among
those bidding for the contracts, which were for "huge" quantities that were
"getting bigger by the day".

"The first big contract is for in excess of pounds 50 million worth of gear. The
list of products is extremely long, from suits to showers to shelters, even down
to specialised vehicles to take mass decontamination equipment to the site of
the disaster," he said.

"A second contract is for equipment, stretchers and evacuation chairs but,
again, it's significant that, for the first time on any government tender, all
equipment must be capable of being totally decontaminated.

"Our understanding from the information received from tenders is that they have
identified 16 UK locations, which will, effectively, be warehouses, where all of
this equipment will be stored and allocated."

Mr Ward said one scenario that the Government had asked his company and others
to plan for was a terrorist attack on Trafalgar Square.

"One of the interesting things was what they refer to as pre-decontamination and
post-decontamination. If terrorists get a crop-sprayer and spray Trafalgar
Square and there are 5,000 people covered in some obnoxious substance, how do
you de-contaminate 5,000 people in Trafalgar Square? That's what we are working
on."

The treatment, said Mr Ward, would begin with each victim stripping and putting
on a pre-decontamination suit. Their clothes would be placed in a separate bag
for incineration.

Swabs would then be provided for the victims to clean out orifices which could
contain traces of the chemical, before each person passed through a shower - set
up in shelters at the site of the attack - to wash off the substance. Finally,
post-decontamination suits would be given to reclothe the victims.

Mr Ward said that other possible targets discussed by the Government included
the Houses of Parliament and Canary Wharf in London, as well as the centres of
big cities.

The deadline for delivering orders had originally been next July, but this had
already been brought forward to June and appeared likely to move forward even
further. "They are talking about very large numbers and very short time spans,"
said Mr Ward.

Other equipment required by the Government includes 50,000 decontamination
shelters, 2,000 stretchers, 2,000 evacuation chairs and 5,000 body bags.

A spokesman for the Deputy Prime Minister's office, which is co-ordinating the
purchases, refused to comment on any specific threats or to confirm the
quantities of equipment ordered.

He said, however, that pounds 56 million had been allocated this year to prepare
for potentially catastrophic terrorist incidents. Some of the money would buy
decontamination equipment, which would be held by the fire service.

"We have evaluated our capacity to respond to a catastrophic incident and
developed a strategy to improve our resilience," said the spokesman. "A
procurement of mass decontamination equipment is under way.

"We wouldn't comment on specific tenders or anything like that, but we are
aiming to move forward as quickly as possible."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 27, 2002, Wednesday

TERROR SUSPECT MAY HAVE BEEN PLANNING ATTACK IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: John Lichfield In Paris Richard Reid: Focus on his time spent in France

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 367 words


AN ISLAMIST terrorist suspect arrested near Paris this week may have been
planning an attack in Britain, according to French investigators.

The arrest of Slimane Khalfaoui north of Paris on Monday was followed by a
round-up of six people in the French capital yesterday. The six, who included a
Pakistani mullah, are suspected of having helped Richard Reid, the British
alleged "shoe-bomber" charged in the US with attempting to blow up a Paris-Miami
flight last Christmas.

It was not immediately clear if there were connections between the arrests and
other captures of alleged al-Qa'ida activists in the Paris area in recent days,
including Mr Khalfaoui and another so-called "big fish", Redouane Daoud, who
escaped from prison in the Netherlands in June. French investigators said the
arrests - although fitting into the same broad picture of alleged Islamist
terror activity in Europe - came from separate investigations.

The French interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, was jubilant about the arrests.
He described them as a "tres belle affaire" (very fine thing) and paid tribute
to the "quality of the French security services".

The arrest of Mr Khalfaoui, 27, a Franco-Algerian, in a raid by 100 police
officers on his sister's home in Seine-Saint Denis on Monday is regarded as
especially significant by French investigators.

Mr Khalfaoui is said to be a close ally of an Algerian arrested in London and
accused of planning terrorist acts, possibly including an attack on the London
Underground.

Internal EU documents and a French intelligence report leaked earlier this month
have identified Britain as the most likely target for an al-Qa'ida attack in
Europe. French investigators believe Mr Khalfaoui may have been a link-man, or a
possible future "operative" in such an attack.

w Malaysia announced the arrest of three men yesterday, suspected of plotting to
carry out suicide truck bomb attacks on the British, American and Australian
embassies in Singapore, and a fourth alleged associate. The plot was thwarted
last December and January but the organisation survived, and is accused of
carrying out the October bombings in Bali, killing nearly 200 people.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 21, 2002

Time to put cash on table, Brown told: Britain: Call for chancellor to fulfil
aid pledge

BYLINE: Charlotte Denny Economics correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 528 words


Aid campaigners yesterday turned their focus on Britain's spending record,
calling on Gordon Brown to deliver on his pledge of a substantial increase in
the proportion of national income spent on international assistance.

After winning major pledges from the EU and the US before the Monterrey
conference on financing for development, campaigners are still hoping that -
although the chancellor has decided not to attend - he will mark the occasion by
announcing an increase in Britain's budget.

Richard Bennett, the general secretary of Bond, an umbrella group of British aid
charities, said: "We hope the UK takes the lead on raising aid beyond the
pitiful amount promised at present. Gordon Brown should match his rhetoric on
development with cash."

Mr Brown has led calls for a doubling of global aid budgets following last
year's terrorist attacks on America, arguing that winning the war on the poverty
and despair which breeds terrorism is as important as the military campaign. He
has thrown his weight behind international efforts to reduce the debts of the
poorest countries, and is a close ally of the international development
secretary, Clare Short.

But aid agencies are disappointed that despite promising to "significantly
raise" the proportion of national income spent on aid over the next three years,
he has yet to spell out when Britain will meet the internationally agreed UN
target of 0.7% of national income for overseas assistance.

Only five countries currently meet the target: Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands and Sweden.

Since Labour came to power in 1997, Mr Brown has partially reversed 20 years of
decline, but the UK still falls far short of the UN target, spending 0.33% of
GDP on aid. When Labour left power in 1979, aid spending was around 0.5% of
national income.

Facing pressure from spending ministers before what promises to be a tough
public spending round this summer, the chancellor has been reluctant to pre-empt
decisions on other government priorities with an announcement on aid.

Officials at the Department for International Development are hopeful that the
Ms Short will win a generous settlement, enabling Britain to have more influence
on international aid debates. The UK's aid budget is currently the fifth largest
in the west.

Ms Short's officials hope a budget increase will boost Britain's drive to
persuade the US and other countries to spend their aid budgets on reducing
poverty rather than on bribing allies and winning political influence.

Britain also wants other countries to stop tying their aid budgets to the
purchase of their own goods and services, a practice which the World Bank
estimates reduces the effectiveness of spending by up to a fifth.

Ms Short has allied herself with three other European development ministers in a
drive to reform how donors work with developing countries. The group favours
providing direct support to governments with a good record on fighting
corruption and poverty.

Her campaigning approach has brought her into conflict with the Bush
administration, which favours channelling money through aid agencies.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 15, 2002

War in Afghanistan: Al-Qaida bombing plotted in UK, trial papers say

BYLINE: John Hooper in Berlin

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 635 words


British-based men will be at the centre of the biggest trial of al-Qaida
suspects since September 11, when it starts tomorrow in Frankfurt.

Five men are charged with plotting to set off a bomb in the Christmas market of
the French city of Strasbourg. According to documents obtained by the Guardian,
the attack was planned by "a network based in London". Three of the defendants
were living in Britain before going to Germany, allegedly to take part in the
massacre, and they were led and funded from the UK, the documents say.

Among bomb-making equipment found when the defendants were arrested was material
for an unusual detonator that was reportedly also used in the shoe-bomb worn by
Richard Reid, the Briton accused of attempting to blow up a flight last year.

A description of the investigation leading to tomorrow's trial is contained in
documents prepared for an earlier trial of al-Qaida suspects in Milan in
February.

A report by the Italian anti-terrorist police indicated that the investigation
began with a tip-off from France pointing to "Abu Doha", an Algerian also known
as Amar Makhlulif who is wanted by the US in connection with a plot to bomb Los
Angeles airport.

German counter-terrorism experts were then warned from Britain on Christmas Eve
2000 that an attack was imminent. British investigators, according to the
documents, "intercepted a telephone conversation between Abu Doha in the United
Kingdom. . . during which a certain Kamal. . . told his English (sic)
interlocutor of a planned terrorist attack at around the end of the year, in
which he himself was to take part".

Two days later, police and intelligence officers raided several addresses in the
Frankfurt area and arrested four of the men who are to go on trial tomorrow. The
fifth was arrested in Germany in April the following year.

"Meliani", the alleged opera tional commander, who was identified as Mohammed
Bensakhria, fled to Spain. He was caught in Alicante in June 2001 and extradited
to France, where he is still being held.

On February 4 this year, French police arrested three more men suspected of a
role in the Strasbourg plot.

As a direct result of the Frankfurt operation, 12 people were arrested in
Britain in February 2001, including Abu Doha. Most were released without charge.

Prosecutors in Frankfurt do not know the true identities of several of the
defendants. One has been identified as a 37-year-old French-Algerian citizen,
Fouhad Sabour, who, in 1999, was tried and convicted in his absence of a role in
the bomb attacks carried out by Islamist extremists in Paris four years earlier.

But the other men are all expected to go on trial under names that may not be
their true ones: Samir Karimou, Aeurobui Beandali, Lamine Maroni and Salim
Boukari.

Mr Boukari is believed to be the "Kamal" whose telephone conversation sparked
off the 2000 raids in Frankfurt.

According to the Italian court papers, investigations uncovered many other links
with Britain. Sabour moved to London in July 2000, three months before going to
Frankfurt, allegedly to prepare for the Christmas market bombing. In December
2000, "Maroni" and "Boukari" followed.

When the two were arrested, the fingerprints of "Maroni" were found to match
those of a man who had been convicted of robbery in Britain. The documents state
that in August 2000 he was living in Sheffield under another name.

"Boukari" also had a police record in Britain. He was carrying a British
passport which had been reported stolen in Britain the previous July.


* Spain's interior minister, Mariano Rajoy, yesterday said police had arrestedan
Algerian Al-Qaida financier called Ahmed Brahim, suspected of involvement in the
1998 suicide attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 28, 2002

Daily Press Fact File

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.3

LENGTH: 87 words


TERRORISTS could use small airfields or sea ports in the West to smuggle nuclear
or biological material into Britain, Ministers were warned yesterday.

Lord Carlile of Berriew QC described minor ports and rural land strips as the
"soft underbelly" in the country's defence against a terrorist attack.

As well as numerous small ports along our coastline, there are dozens of small
airfields across the West, including Kemble in Gloucestershire, Old Sarum in
Wiltshire, Filton in Bristol and Dunkeswell in Devon.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 14, 2002

BRITISH MOSLEM LEADER FACING US TERROR PROBE

BYLINE: By Keith Perry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 272 words


INTELLIGENCE agents are probing a link between an American Moslem terrorist
network and Britain's most radical Moslem cleric, Abu Hamza al-Masri.

The group is also feared to have connections with the former Taliban leadership
in Afghanistan and a "jihad training camp" in the US state of Oregon, according
to a US intelligence document.

A team of senior antiterrorist detectives from Scotland Yard has flown to the
Yemen on a top-secret mission, centering on Abu Hamza who preaches from a North
London mosque.

The Yemen government has previously requested his extradition alleging terrorist
activities in their country.

One of the suspected American terrorists is a US-born Moslem convert who
provided computers to the Taliban before September 11.

He also helped to recruit a British citizen, now in US military custody, for Al
Qaeda.

One-eyed cleric Abu Hamza is believed to be a top Al Qaeda recruiter and has
previously been banned from preaching at his local mosque.

The Government also froze his bank accounts as part of a clampdown on suspected
Islamic terrorists. His followers included Zacharias Moussaoui, the socalled
20th hijacker in the September 11 attacks, and Richard Reid, the alleged airline
shoe bomber.

Home Secretary David Blunkett has been under pressure from MPs to take action
against the cleric.

Mr Hamza is accused of endorsing the killing of Western tourists visiting Moslem
countries and his sermons are alleged to have hailed the September 11 hijackers
as martyrs.

But the Egyptian-born cleric cannot be detained under new anti-terrorist laws
because he is British.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 28, 2002

Countryside unites to bring back tourists

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Andrew Robinson

LENGTH: 286 words


A CAMPAIGN will start today to woo tourists back to rural Yorkshire and the rest
of Britain's hard-hit countryside.

Organisers of the national campaign hope to reverse the slump in visitor numbers
to rural areas following the foot-and-mouth crisis and the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Hoteliers, bed and breakfast accommodation owners and visitor attractions
suffered serious loss of income, a problem identified in reports from the Rural
Task Force and Lord Haskins, published last year.

Now organisations including the National Trust and the National Farmers Union
are among those co-ordinating their efforts in an attempt to win back tourists.

The Your Countryside, You're Welcome campaign will be launched today at a
visitor attraction and working farm in Worcestershire by Rural Affairs Minister
Alun Michael and Baroness Blackstone from the Department for Culture, Media and
Sport. There will be thousands of events up and down the country. People
involved in rural tourism in Yorkshire are meeting at Bolton Abbey, North
Yorkshire, to make their contribution to the campaign.

The Yorkshire Tourist Board will launch its Walk Yorkshire campaign and
representatives from the Countryside Agency, the national parks and local
authorities will walk part of a route featured in the promotion.

A survey to coincide with the campaign launch has found that 73 per cent

of those questioned said the English countryside was important to them and
two-thirds were planning to spend more time there this year.

Walking was the preferred activity of 78 per cent of

people visiting the countryside, followed by sightseeing (59 per cent) and
visiting monuments and attractions (47 per cent).

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 24, 2002

British Muslims believe Islam is the real target of the war on terror

BYLINE: Vicky Collins

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 365 words


THE majority of Muslims in Britain believe western leaders have no justification
for blaming the September 11 attacks and the Bali bombing on the al Qaeda
terrorist network, according to a poll published yesterday.

The ICM survey also found that 70% thought the war against terrorism was, in
reality, a war against Islam.

The poll, commissioned by BBC Radio 4's Today programme, showed that 84% of
British Muslims were convinced that military action in Iraq must be backed by
the United Nations. They said Mr Blair should also ensure any attack had the
support of parliament.

A significant minority of 11% said they thought further attacks on America by al
Qaeda would be justified, while 8% said such an attack on Britain would be
justified.

The poll was the biggest of its kind since the September 11 attacks.

Over half said the war on terror was directed against Muslims and nearly a third
said they had experienced hostility since the September 11 attacks.

Yesterday, Muslim leaders in Scotland were not surprised by the results.

Mohammad Faroghal Quadri, director of the World Islamic Mission Scotland, said a
lot of Muslims felt that the US and Britain were intent on a war with Iraq
despite its willingness to comply with UN weapons inspectors. "Many Muslims
think now that America is anti-Islam," Mr Quadri added.

"Islam is a peaceful religion and Muslims want the world to be based on mutual
respect between nations but a lot of Muslims now think that western governments
want to control every Arab nation."

Bashir Maan, head of the National Association of Pakistanis and a Glasgow
councillor, said a lot of Muslims were now saying that the new "axis of evil"
was made up of Mr Blair, George W Bush, and Ariel Sharon, the Israeli leader.

Mr Maan said: "Israel has got far more weapons of mass destruction than most
other countries in the world, but nobody is talking about Israel, it is always
Muslim countries like Iraq, and Iran, and Afghanistan.

"These western policies are generating fundamentalism and helping al Qaeda. I am
not surprised that some Muslims think further al Qaeda attacks are justified,
but I think they are wrong."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 30, 2002

Yet Again, A Warning Ignored

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 810 words


Tony Blair was accused yesterday of a second security warning blunder after it
emerged Australians had been told not to travel to Mombasa.  The Foreign Office
failed to issue a specific warning before 16 people died in a suicide bomb
attack on a hotel in the city.

Terrorists also came within inches of killing 271 people in a missile attack on
an Israeli passenger jet.

Mombasa is a popular holiday resort for British tourists but they were given
nothing more than a general warning about Kenya.

The row echoes one which broke out after the car bomb attack on a Bali nightclub
seven weeks ago which killed 184.

As the Western Daily Press revealed, American tourists were told to stay away
from night spots in Indonesia just 48 hours before the atrocity. Most of those
who died then were Australians, and this time the country's government took no
chances.

Australian foreign minister Alexander Downer revealed yesterday he issued advice
on November 12 warning against all non-essential travel to Mombasa because of
"possible terrorist attacks against Western interests". But Britain issued a
vague warning of a danger of "indiscriminate attacks" on public places.

The revelation prompted Shadow foreign secretary and Devizes MP Michael Ancram
to write to Foreign Secretary Jack Straw yesterday demanding an urgent review of
international security co-operation.

He said the Australian warning was quite specific, and mentioned both Mombasa
and Kenya's capital Nairobi by name.

"How can it be that the Australians issued a warning on the 12 November and the
UK remained silent?" he demanded.

The Mombasa attacks are suspected of being the work of Osama bin Laden's terror
network al-Qaeda, which is thought also to have links with the Bali bombers.

Since September 11, Western tourists have become the frontline targets in the
War on Terror and there are calls for a complete overhaul of the travel advice
system, which currently relies on travellers logging on to the Foreign Office
website.

Yesterday, Mr Blair's official spokesman refused to confirm or deny whether the
intelligence which triggered the Australian warning was given to Britain. "I am
not going to comment on specific intelligence. The Government will make any
response mindful of the need to act as appropriate and not to do the terrorists'
job for them," he said.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of the British-based radical Islamic group
al-Muhajiroun, said information suggesting an attack had been circulating in the
Muslim community. Muslim communities around the world were warned to avoid East
Africa, but there was no specific mention of Kenya.

Meanwhile, two people were last night being questioned in connection with the
attacks in Mombasa.

Israel vowed to track down those responsible and Mossad, its infamous national
intelligence agency, has been charged with the task. "Our long arm will get
those who carried out the terror attacks. No-one will be forgiven," said Israeli
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Britain would do whatever it could to help
track down the "appalling" terrorists. Mr Straw said Mr Blair had written to Mr
Sharon and President Daniel Arap Moi of Kenya to emphasise the Government's
"condemnation and our condolences".He added: "So far as travel advice to Kenya
is concerned, it already warns of possible dangers and we will be reviewing that
straight away." He said he had personally seen "no evidence" immediately linking
the atrocity to al-Qaeda but would be making an assessment.

Mombasa is the most popular tourist resort for Britons in the whole of East
Africa, attracting a large proportion of Kenya's 80,000 UK visitors each year.

The carnage began at about 8am on Thursday, when a green four-wheel-drive
vehicle crashed through a barrier outside the Paradise Hotel, 12 miles north of
Mombasa.

A man with a bomb leapt out and ran into the reception where he detonated
himself. Two others stayed in the vehicle which exploded at the same time,
searing off the front of the building. It emerged that 200 guests had been in
the lobby checking in moments earlier, meaning the death toll could have been
far higher if the terrorists had not been delayed at the gates arguing with
guards.

At least 80 people were injured, while the two dead children were identified as
12 and 13-year-old brothers from the Jewish settlement of Ariel on the West
Bank.

Meanwhile, Israeli fighter aircraft were scrambled to escort the passenger jet
safely back to Israel. The pilot of the Arkia Airlines Boeing 757, Rafi Marek,
said he felt a "light hit" moments after taking off from Mombasa International
Airport and saw two white vapour trails on the left of his aircraft.

Police later found two Stinger missile launchers in a field near the airport.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 12, 2002, Tuesday

TERRORIST THREAT IS REAL, WARNS BLAIR

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 647 words


TONY Blair last night gave a stark warning that al-Qaeda terrorists may be ready
to attack Britain.

Blair said: "At the moment, barely a day goes by without some new piece of
intelligence coming via our security services about a threat to UK interests.

"Some of it will be reliable, some of it may be misinformation being fed in to
waste our time chasing shadows.

"Some of it will be gossip. Other material will be based on technical
intelligence gathering.

"This kind of material is crossing the desk of the intelligence agencies, my
desk, the Home Secretary's desk, all the time, and other nations are in the same
situation."

Blair's warning came after Home Secretary David Blunkett last week stepped up
the security alert with a warning that Britain could be hit by a so- called
"dirty bomb"- a home made radioactive device.

And Blair made it clear that al-Qaeda had re-grouped and was once again posing a
serious danger.

Giving a speech in London, he said: "Where we know cells of al-Qaeda are
operating, here or abroad, our services are monitoring them, disrupting them
and, if they are here, imprisoning or expelling them."

Blair urged the public to be more vigilant over the possible threat, but also
said they should go about their daily lives. He said: "As the name suggests,
terrorism is about terror.

"It is to scare people, disrupt their normal lives, produce chaos and disorder,
distort proper and sensible decision-making."

Blair also used the speech to closely link terrorist activities with the
potential action in Iraq, where Saddam Hussein has been developing weapons of
mass destruction.

He said: "Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction are linked dangers.

"States which have failed, which repress their people brutally, in which notions
of democracy and the rule of law are alien, share the same absence of rational
boundaries to their actions as the terrorist."

And the PM gave a startling indication of the type of intelligence on terrorist
activity Britain had received.

Blair said: "If we acted on every piece of raw intelligence, we would have in my
time as Prime Minister on many occasions shut down roads, railways, airports,
stations, shopping centres, factories, military installations."

But he said a careful judgment had to be taken on every piece of intelligence.

He said: "If a terrorist thought that all he had to do to shut down the travel
industry for example was to issue a threat against our airports, we really would
be conceding defeat in the war against terrorism."

Blair's official spokesman made clear the level of threat had increased in
recent weeks.

He said: "We are justified in being more vigilant that before."

WAR JUST FEW WEEKS AWAY, SAYS POWELL

WAR against Iraq could be launched in less than four weeks if Saddam Hussein
refuses to give up his weapons of mass destruction, America warned last night.

It came as the Iraqi parliament urged the dictator to reject a UN resolution
forcing him to hand over a list of weapons by December 8.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell made it clear war would follow if he failed.

He said: "We're not going to wait until February to see if Iraq is co -operating
or not.

"If I were Saddam, I would take it with a great deal of seriousness and
understand it is not an idle threat."

Saddam has until Friday to indicate if he will co-operate with UN inspectors.
But Iraq's parliament is an undemocratic group loyal to the dictator. It had
been thought their meeting yesterday was called to give him a cover for backing
down.

But foreign relations chief Salim al-Koubaisi advised he shouldn't - "in
response to the opinions of our people, who put their trust on us".

Senior US officials said Bush had approved Pentagon plans for invasion - sending
a land, sea and air force of 200,000 to 250,000 troops.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 25, 2002

Solvency of big insurers tested: Top AMP directors resign

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 467 words


The two top executives at AMP quit in the wake of difficulties at Pearl, the
Australian life insurer's UK insurance business, yesterday as further declines
in the stock market heaped more pressure on Britain's insurance industry.

With the main FTSE 100 index recording its lowest close since December 1995 of
3,671, City sources warned that the solvency positions of big insurers were
being tested.

The pressure on the insurance industry, which first began after last year's
terrorist attacks in the US, reverberated through to Australia where Paul
Batchelor, the chief executive of AMP, resigned and the chairman Stan Wallis,
pledged to leave once a new chief executive had been found.

While AMP gave no reason for their departures it is widely believed to be the
result of last week's disclosure that Pearl, which the group bought in 1989, had
breached British regulatory requirements last year.

Mr Batchelor, the former finance director, took over in 1999 after an ill-fated
takeover of local rival GIO.

There was also more gloom in the insurance industry yes terday after Royal &
SunAlliance, which has also recently parted company with its chief executive Bob
Mendelsohn over the company's poor performance, announced that 700 jobs would be
hit by a restructuring of its general insurance arm to improve efficiency.

RSA, which announced 1,200 job cuts last month, insisted redeployment would keep
the actual number of jobs lost down to 200.

Yesterday's fall in the FTSE 100 fall led to concerns of "distressed selling" of
shares to shore up capital positions. The price of shares is crucial to the
financial strength of insurers because they make up a large proportion of
insurers' assets.

The industry is understood to have told the financial services authority that it
faces a test if the FTSE falls through 3,500 points. The information was
contained in recent questionnaires sent out to the 20 biggest life funds by the
FSA.

The regulator insisted there was no one single FTSE level that was of concern
for the industry.

However, companies such as Scottish Widows, owned by Lloyds TSB, have made it
clear they may need to rethink their position if the FTSE falls through 3,500.

Pearl admitted last week that it might need more capital if the FTSE 100 fell
below 3,700 points.

It is understood that Pearl - to which AMP has already pledged pounds 500m - is
looking at ways of doing this by recategorising some pounds 1.4bn of assets
which cannot be counted for regulatory purposes.

The resignations of the two AMP executives come after the company's shares were
suspended on the Sydney stock exchange last week following anxiety about
information about the financial position of Pearl contained in its sales
prospectus for a share issue.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 25, 2002

MPs warn over gaps in anti-terror preparation;

BYLINE: by DANIEL COYSH

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 431 words


THE Commons defence committee warned yesterday that Britain's emergency services
are totally inadequate to cope with a terrorist attack on the scale of September
11.

The committee strongly criticised the government's response to the attacks on
the World Trade Centre and Pentagon in the United States, complaining of
"inadequate central co-ordination and direction."

In a scathing report, MPs highlighted a series of "real deficiencies" in the
ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a "proper and
comprehensive" review of disaster management procedures following September 11.

The committee also damned the "slow progress" in producing the promised civil
contingencies Bill.

The report said that fire and ambulance crews lacked equipment and training to
cope with a chemical, biological or nuclear attack while there was no role for
the regular armed forces.

The committee also said that a "strong central authority" was needed to lay down
the law in Whitehall and co-ordinate the work of the various emergency planning
departments.

The MPs urged ministers to consider establishing a police national
counter-terrorism service to take the lead in anti-terrorism operations within
Britain.

In addition, the report called for a review of security at nuclear power
stations and sea ports.

Committee chairman Labour MP Bruce George said: "We believe that there has been
a lack of grip and direction on the part of central government."

Emergency Planning Society expresident Ian Holt, who gave evidence to the
committee, complained that planning was hampered by a "cold-war" mentality.

Mr Holt argued: "We are still working to the 1948 Civil Defence Act. That is
clearly out of date.

"We want proper levels of funding, " he demanded, adding that English local
authorities had estimated that they needed an emergency planning grant of GBP 63
million instead of the GBP 18.6 million they currently receive.

But Policing Minister John Denham insisted that the government's response to
September 11 was not a "mess."

Mr Denham declared: "We are significantly better prepared than we were last
September, but this is work that never comes to an end."

The committee came under pressure to investigate the early retirement of head of
the Defence Staff Admiral Sir Michael Boyce.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld publicly criticised Sir Michael for
describing the US war on terrorism as a "high-tech, 21stcentury posse in the
Wild West."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 9, 2002

David and Goliath

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 762 words


THEIR CAMP DAVID meeting, according to President Bush and Tony Blair, was warm
and positive, a true meeting of minds. It could not have been otherwise, given
that the whole purpose of the meeting was to demonstrate to the world that
Britain stood shoulder to shoulder with the United States in its determination
to unseat Saddam Hussein. What this weekend at Camp David actually highlighted
was the isolation of two leaders who are having difficulty in persuading their
own countrymen, let alone the rest of the world, to support military action.
Although Tony Blair and the hawks around Mr Bush have made great play with
Saddam's weapons of mass destruction and his alleged links with al Qaeda, no
firm evidence has so far been produced to persuade even some loyal allies of the
President that the US should go to war. If that is how the US feels, Britain,
which has not been attacked by Muslim terrorists or threatened by Saddam
Hussein, is even more doubtful.

According to polls, 70 per cent of the British public are opposed to "regime
change". A majority of Labour MPs, concerned about the potential reverberations
across the Middle East, which could include Israeli nuclear retaliation, a
devastated Iraq becoming a puppet state of Iran, and the destabilisation of
Saudi Arabia, shares these doubts, along with much of the Cabinet, led by Robin
Cook and Clare Short. Whether today's report on Iraqi weapons or the
Government's promised dossier of evidence will change these views remains to be
seen. What apparently drives the Prime Minister to defy this coalition of
dissent is not fear of what the Iraqi leader may do but an almost messianic
belief that America's force for stability in the world will be weakened if its
power is wielded unilaterally, and only he is capable of influencing it to act
in a way which will bring other Western nations onside.

It is a highrisk strategy. Only if it results in Washington agreeing to
negotiations on the unqualified acceptance of weapons inspectors by Saddam, and
a Security Council sanction for action against him if they fail, will it be seen
to have paid off.

Union meeting

NOT ONLY on the fashion pages is there a hint of the 1970s in the air. In
Blackpool the Trades Union Congress has begun its conference after a summer in
which council workers staged a one-day walkout and a Tube strike forced many
Londoners to walk to work. Firemen are flexing their muscles over a hefty pay
claim. Battle looms with Number 10 over plans to install the Blairite Jack
Dromey at the controls of the Transport and General Workers Union. Of course,
there is no going back to the days when smokestack manufacturing guaranteed
unions vast membership and political clout. Baroness Thatcher's labour laws,
industrial change and New Labour's business-friendly aspirations put paid to all
that. Conference may want to discuss Iraq and the euro, but most workers would
rather unions stuck to pensions and pay. For the aggressive new fraternity of
hardliners such as the rail workers' Bob Crow and the prison officers' Andy
Darken, however, there is more to play for than there has been for many years.
Mainly representing public sector workers, they are casting covetous eyes at the
billions promised in the Chancellor's latest spending round. Their members may
have nothing to do with Mr Brown's priorities in schools and the NHS, but they
are all too capable of demanding comparability with those who have. In the NHS
alone, the respected King's Fund has estimated that perhaps 40% of the extra
spending could disappear into pay rises.

Inflationary largesse on that scale would benefit only a few without necessarily
serving the public. In his conference speech tomorrow, Mr Blair should defend
wider local variations in pay. Only if the public sector is free to pay what it
takes to attract staff in expensive areas like London, without having to raise
its wage bill countrywide, can adequate public services be delivered.

Anybodies

WHY HAS ITV's game show I'm A Celebrity - Get Me Out Of Here been so widely
applauded by grown up people who think that Big Brother has become an
embarrassment? The reason must be that whereas there is something sadistic about
the Big Brother format in which a group of hapless nobodies try desperately to
become somebodies, I'm A Celebrity shows that celebrities who think they are
somebodies turn out to be just anybodies when forced to live without the backup
of a PR machine. Tony Blackburn came out the winner because he was the best at
simply being himself.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 July 31, 2002

New in-flight video will promote city to tourists;
 INDUSTRY BOOST: British Airways includes Bath in promotion project

BYLINE: Emily Williamson

SECTION: News :Business :Leisure/Tourism, Pg.8

LENGTH: 282 words


A SPECIAL film about Bath is set to be shown to tourists jetting into the UK.

It is hoped the film will boost tourism in the city, particularly from North
America, where visitor numbers have been hit since the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

Aisling O'Hagan, producer of the film, said: "British Airways decided it wanted
to show essentially British cities to arriving tourists - highlighting the
Britishness of the airline."

The film is around half-an-hour long and features all the top attractions in the
city - the Royal Crescent, the Circus, the Pump Room, museums, Sally Lunn's, and
the abbey, as well as rickshaw and balloon rides, and a visit outside of Bath to
Cheddar Gorge.

Much of the organisation for the visit has been done through the Bath film
officer, Maggie Ainley.

Ms O'Hagan said the aim of the film was to show the Britishness of Bath: "It is
things that are unique to Britain, it's history and the quirky aspects of
various cities."

She said there was quite a lot about Jane Austen in the film, because her
popularity had increased in recent years, with film and television adaptations
of her books.

Cllr Nicole O'Flaherty, the Bath and North East Somerset executive member for
tourism, said: "I think it is fantastic. It is a great honour they have chosen
Bath and I am delighted for the tourism industry.

"It is important that American visitors, which have traditionally been a very
important part of our tourist industry, are encouraged to come back, and we
welcome them."

Spafax, a production company which one time was based in Box, will be filming
for four days in Bath.

The film will be headed by TV presenter Ross Kelly.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 12, 2002, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: RUDI BACKS THE MIRROR OVER CAMP X-RAY;
 NEW YORK EX-MAYOR DEMANDS HUMANE TREATMENTFOR TERROR SUSPECTS

BYLINE: James Hardy, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 384 words

HIGHLIGHT: FAIR: The Mirror's call; MANACLED: US Marines escort a prisoner at;
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba


RUDOLPH Giuliani joined the calls for al-Qaeda prisoners held at Camp X-Ray to
be treated humanely yesterday.

The former mayor of New York said America has a duty to show the detainees are
being dealt with fairly, echoing demands by The Mirror.

He said: "It is incumbent on us as a Government to ensure people are treated
humanely."

Although the US authorities insist al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners at Guantanamo
Bay in Cuba are being treated humanely they have faced mounting criticism for
refusing to grant them prisoner of war status.

President George Bush last week agreed to treat Taliban captives according to
the Geneva Convention but not the al-Qaeda suspects.

Mr Giuliani, who collects his honorary knighthood this week for his show of
resolve and dignity after September 11, stressed that the interrogation of the
terror suspects could be vital to preventing further attacks. He said he had
felt sure the US would have more attacks after the World Trade Center.

He said: "We haven't, and I wonder whether or not the arrests and confinements
that have taken place have helped to prevent that."

Mr Giuliani revealed how he was still haunted by the attacks on the World Trade
Center.

He said: "I still get flashbacks. Every time I think about it there is a
different memory.

"The one that keeps recurring was watching the man jump out of the 101st floor
and land in front of me. I realised in that second that America had changed for
ever and there was no one I could turn to."

Mr Giuliani will be made a Freeman to the City of London during his visit. He
said: "One of the reasons why I feel so emotional about this honour, which I
feel is for my entire city not just for me, is because the people of Britain and
the people of London in particular were a source of strength for me."

He said he drew inspiration from the spirit Britons showed during the Blitz of
the Second World War.

Mr Giuliani again paid tribute to Tony Blair and the support America received
from Britain.

He said: "I don't know that there is any way one person can express how
important it was at that time to see the kind of support we had - in particular,
the very, very dramatic show of support from the people of Britain and your
Prime Minister. It was very important."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 13, 2002

Threats and fears - but no clear warnings

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 252 words


* "Today's breed of terrorist knows no bounds - of geography, of inhumanity, or
of scale. They are looking for ever more dramatic and devastating outrages to
inflict upon the people they claim to be their enemy"

Tony Blair, Lord Mayor's banquet, November 11

* "Possible terrorist act against ferries"

Transport department report of a warning issued by Dutch and French authorities,
which Britain played down, saying there was no "credible information or
intelligence in support", November 8

* "Maybe they will try to develop a so-called dirty bomb, or some kind of poison
gas; maybe they will try to use boats or trains rather than planes"

Amended by Home Office to: "Al-Qaida are dedicated fanatical extremists who have
no regard for the loss of human life, including their own. Whatever damage they
are able to inflict, they will do so. We cannot be sure where or when they will
strike. But we can be certain they will try."

Home Office, November 7

* "It mentioned five or six potential targets, including - specifically - Bali.
The state department didn't act on it and it's become a bubbling scandal"

US security source on CIA warning sent out in September. Quoted in Guardian on
October 17

* "The threats that we have heard recently remind us of the pattern of threats
we heard prior to September 11. We have no specific threat to America, but we're
taking everything seriously"

George Bush on the eve of this year's first anniversary of the September 11
attacks


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 13, 2002

Funeral day terror bomb blast foiled by police

BYLINE: Tim Champion

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 315 words


POLICE may have foiled a potentially devastating terrorist attack in London on
the day of the Queen Mother's funeral, it was revealed yesterday.

The bomb squad was scrambled when a car with Northern Irish number plates was
discovered abandoned in the city just hours after members of the Royal Family
and political leaders packed into Westminster Abbey.

Police became suspicious of the vehicle around 8pm on Tuesday, and stopped it
close to London Bridge.

But when officers tried to speak to the driver he sped off, dumping the blue
-grey Ford Granada in a street nearby.

Last month experts claimed a fresh assault by dissident Irish republicans was
"overdue" on mainland Britain and there is strong evidence of a terrorist plot.
Explosives experts found empty fertiliser bags inside the car and were forced to
blow up the vehicle rather than take any risks.

Fertiliser car bombs have been used in previous terror campaigns by Irish
dissidents, including an explosion outside the BBC Television Centre in
Shepherd's Bush.

Police are now trying to track down the two occupants of the car, a man in his
late 20s and a woman passenger.

Detective Chief Inspector Steve Eastwood of City of London Police said:

"We are interested in speaking to anyone who saw the car on Tuesday night or who
saw the occupants leaving it."

More than a million people lined the streets of the capital earlier in the day
to pay their final respects to the Queen Mother. Terrorists may have seen an
attack so soon after the funeral as striking a heavy blow to British morale.

The Irish peace process has made progress in recent weeks with the IRA
announcing the decommissioning of more arms, but breakaway terror groups have
continued to operate.

The last attack, which is suspected to have been by the Real IRA, on the British
mainland was in Birmingham last November.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 19, 2002

Three British 'torture victims' go on trial in Cairo

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 579 words


Three British Muslims will appear in a Cairo high-security court this weekend
accused of attempting to overthrow the state in a trial which threatens to
strain relations between Britain and Egypt.

Ian Nisbet, 28, a convert to Islam, Maajid Nawaz, 24, and Reza Pankhurst, 27,
all married and from London, say they were tortured by a state security
investigations unit to extract confessions.

The men, who were seized from their homes on April 1 and denied access to
lawyers for 48 days, have told their families and the British consul they were
beaten, blindfolded, given electric shocks, and forced to sleep on concrete
floors and watch other suspects being tortured.

The ill treatment reportedly lasted until they signed statements, which they
could not read. They are now being held in adjacent single cells in a compound
for political inmates at Masreh-Torah prison just outside Cairo.

Mr Nisbet, Mr Nawaz and Mr Pankhurst are members of Hizb ut-Tahrir, an political
group which operates legally in Britain but is outlawed in Egypt. They were
detained in a mass round-up of Islamists: 23 members of the Egyptian party are
also on trial.

The Britons only managed to send out a full account of their ordeal after they
threatened to draw attention to their case by refusing visits from the British
consul. Amnesty International was denied access to them.

Their detention appears to have become entangled in the west's war against
terror. Their interrogators told them they wanted to get their hands on several
Egyptian activists resident in Britain, in particular Yassir al-Sirri, the
director of the Islamic Observation Centre in London. Mr Sirri was arrested
after the September 11 attacks but terrorist charges were dropped.

The foreign secretary, Jack Straw, on a tour to rally Middle East support
against Saddam Hussein this month, sought assurances that the Britons would
receive a fair trial and pressed for their allegations of torture to be
investigated.

Mr Nisbet's parents, who live in Northampton, returned this week from visiting
their son in Masreh-Torah and said the ill treatment had stopped. "We had to pay
for a mattress for his cell so that he wouldn't sleep on the cold floor,"
Alistair Nisbet said. "He's got a good attitude. He knows there's no good
kicking against the system. His main concern is to get across the injustice of
the situation.

"He was out there simply to improve his Arabic and he's not sure why he was
picked up. They seem to arrest a lot of people." Mr Nisbet said his son, a
website designer, had converted to Islam while at Westminster University eight
years ago.

Reza Panhkurst's wife, Hodan, 27, who is in London looking after their
five-year-old daughter and three-year-old son, has not been able to see her
husband since he was seized seven months ago: "We had been living in Cairo for
18 months and our children were attending school there. It was nice and normal,
then suddenly he was arrested."

The Egyptian government which has long suppressed Islamist opposition groups,
has been criticised for its human rights record. This year the US cancelled
pounds 83m worth of foreign aid in protest at the jailing of Professor Saad
Ibrahim, a campaigner who had criticised President Mubarak.

The Egyptian embassy in London has dismissed the claims of mistreatment. "These
men have been visited twice a week by the British consul," a spokesman said.
"There's no bad treatment."


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 30, 2002

Row over Labour donor's 'wrong' vaccine

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words


THE Government has bought the wrong vaccine to protect the country from the
threat of a smallpox attack by terrorists, it was claimed today.

And the claim, by a leading American scientist, has sparked a furious political
row over the decision to give the contract to a Labour party donor.

The (pounds) 28million order went to PowderJect, the company headed by Paul
Drayson, who has given Labour (pounds) 100,000.

The US expert claims that the Lister vaccine ordered by the Department of Health
had not been proven to work against the "battle strain" of virus obtained by
Iraq.

Steve Prior, of the Potomac Institute who has carried out new research on the
smallpox threat, said Britain's vaccine choice was "indefensible".

He said the US government had selected an alternative vaccine developed by the
New York City Board of Health which was successful against smallpox in India
from which "battle strain" was created.

Dr Prior said: "For the Department of Health to suddenly say 'we know something
about the threat that nobody else knows that means we have to have Lister' was
very surprising.

"When you are making decisions of this magnitude, you cannot afford to make the
wrong one and you certainly cannot afford to make it for the wrong reasons."

The spokesman for the Department of Health said that it had chosen the same
vaccine as other European nations. He said: "The

decision to purchase the Lister vaccine was based on the expert medical and
scientific advice that we and the Ministry of Defence had.

"As far as we are concerned it is the best we can get which is why we bought
it."

But Dr Ian Gibson, the Labour MP for Norwich North who chairs the Commons
science and technology select committee, said: "Some explanation is needed why
the British strain was used to produce the

vaccine, not the American strain. Whoever is likely to use biological terrorism
is likely to have got the strain from the India-Soviet Union route, and the
vaccine produced in the States would be very effective against that."

Tory health spokesman Dr Liam Fox said: "It is

disturbing to think that the Government has got the wrong vaccine which could
leave the public at risk - and even worse, that it could have bought the wrong
vaccine simply to send business the way of a Labour donor."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 9, 2002, Thursday

WE'LL GO IN;
 BLAIR PLEDGES HELP TO STOP SUICIDE BOMBERS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts, Political Correspondent, And Alexandra Williams In Tel Aviv

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 469 words

HIGHLIGHT: SPEECH: Yasser Arafat; DESTROYED: Blood in blast pool hall


BRITISH security experts could be sent in to stop Palestinian suicide bombers
attacking Israel, Tony Blair said yesterday.

The PM condemned the latest attack on an Israeli pool hall which killed 16
people.

And he said the time had come for Britain and America to see what measures they
could take to stop a new wave of attacks destroying the Middle East peace
process.

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat strongly condemned terrorism in a desperate
attempt to prevent Israeli retaliation for the blast.

In a TV address he said: "I gave my orders to all the Palestinian security
forces to confront and prevent all terror attacks against Israeli civilians ...
and at the same time to confront any aggression or attack on Palestinian
civilians."

He called on President Bush "and the international community to provide support
for the Palestinian security forces, whose infrastructure has been destroyed by
the Israeli occupation, so they can carry out their orders".

In the Commons Mr Blair praised Arafat's words and added: "We are prepared to
work with the Palestinian Authority in any way possible to make sure they have
the proper security apparatus they require.

"But we cannot have a situation where every time it seems there is some hope of
political progress, that progress is immediately derailed by a terrorist attack.
" The Prime Minister's spokesman said there was a "security void" where Arafat
condemned the suicide bombers but seemed able to do little to stop them.

He said: "We have to look urgently at ways of addressing this." That could mean
British security experts or international monitors to ensure peace agreements
were policed.

Britain has sent police, prison warders and military advisers to oversee the
detention of suspected terrorists arrested by the Palestinian Authority. Mr
Blair added: "We need to make sure we build on that and put the same type of
process in place across the Palestinian Authority."

Furious Israeli Premier Ariel Sharon vowed a swift and severe response to
Tuesday's bomb in Rishon Letzion, 10 miles from Tel Aviv. Cutting short his US
visit he said: "He who rises up to kill us, we will pre-empt and kill him
first."

Palestinians in the Gaza Strip braced themselves for a revenge strike after
Hamas, which is based there, said it carried out the attack.

America has long called for Arafat to denounce terrorism in Arabic to his
people, a demand his speech appeared to meet.

But Arafat's words were met with derision by Israelis. The mayor of Rishon
Letzion said they were "lies".

Calls mounted for tough action, ranging from a new military offensive to exile
for Arafat.

Education Minister Limor Livnat said: "It is very possible that in the end there
will be no choice and it will be necessary to expel Arafat."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 21, 2002

OSAMA-LINK GANG BLOWS UP BRITON

BYLINE: By Alison Little and Mike Theoloudou

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 391 words


A BRITISH banker was murdered in a car bomb attack in Saudi Arabia yesterday
amid warnings that Britons across the world are high-profile targets for Islamic
extremists.

Simon Veness, 35, was believed to have been targeted by extremists inspired by
Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda group.

He died instantly when his Land Rover Discovery exploded in the street outside a
supposedly secure residential compound in the Saudi capital Riyadh. His wife is
thought to have telephoned his family in Kent to break the news.

The banker was due to return to Britain with his wife and young son in a few
days time.

A spokesman for Al Bank Al Saudi Al Fransi said Mr Veness had been working in
the bank's Riyadh offices for the past four years as market risk controller.

News of the explosion triggered fears of further terrorist attacks among
Westerners in Saudi Arabia. British Embassy officials were liaising with Saudi
police heading the murder investigation.

The killers are thought to belong to an Islamic fundamentalist group intent on
driving Westerners out of the country whose territory includes the two most
religious sites in the Moslem world - Mecca and Medina.

As a British civilian Mr Veness presented a softer target for terrorists than
the fortified American military compounds against which Al-Qaeda are believed to
be planning to strike.

In London, a report by a powerful committee of MPs declared that the UK is
"appallingly vulnerable" to nuclear, chemical and biological weapons as well as
conventional arms unless attacks can be thwarted by advance intelligence.

Their views were echoed by Tony Blair. "I don't think we should stop being
vigilant at all, " he said. "The threat levels are still there.

They are high."

The Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee said in its report that the threat
to Britain from Islamic extremists was as serious now as it was immediately
after September 11.

Labour MP Andrew Mackinlay warned: "Both press and public have been lulled into
a false sense of security because there have been, mercifully, no comparable
outrages since September 11."

Security sources stressed there was no specific information about an imminent
attack but the committee made it clear information about possible acts of
terrorism was vital to protect Britain and its citizens.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                  August 20, 2002, Tuesday Edition JL2008-01A

A degree in dealing with life's disasters

BYLINE: By Neal Smith, The Journal

SECTION: EDUCATION SCHOOLS, Pg. 41

LENGTH: 419 words


   September 11 raised many questions on just how Britain would cope if it had
to endure such a massive act of terrorism.

Meanwhile, the floodwater in Eastern Europe in recent weeks has further
highlighted the need to plan and be prepared for natural as well as man-made
large-scale disasters.

In the past year, many people have questioned just how good are Britain's
emergency contingency plans and how well would we manage any potential disaster?

And, within days of the first anniversary of September 11, students will start
on two new degree courses at the University of Teesside aimed specifically at
managing a disaster or co-ordinating international emergency relief.

The university says its new degrees in BSc [Hons] disaster management and BEng
[Hons] international emergency relief engineering are in response to demand for
people who can tackle disasters.

Dr Julie Mennell assistant director of the university's School of Science ,
said: "These courses were conceived over two years ago as a result of the
increasing number and financial and human cost of both natural and man-made
disasters."

She cited examples such as earthquakes in Turkey, the present widespread
flooding in Europe and the recent crashes on Britain's railways.

She added: "For large-scale incidents like these, there is a real need for
trained personnel to both plan and co-ordinate emergency planning procedures and
also to design and carry out relief measures.

"Research revealed a distinct lack of university courses that could provide
appropriate combinations of knowledge, skills and understanding of this area.

"Obviously some of the elements of the course are focused on man-made disasters
and, as such, will include the study of the effects of explosions and fires on
buildings.

"The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Oklahoma bombing have
made us all aware of the devastating effects of such disasters and also the
heroic efforts of personnel involved in the aftermath.

"The courses seek to improve our ability to respond to these events.

"Furthermore these courses develop an understanding of why disasters occur which
will enable us to incorporate measures to counteract their devastating effects."

Students on the course will explore a wide range of types of incident and will
draw on a number of case histories, including the Bradford City football ground
fire in 1985 which claimed 56 lives and the Hatfield rail crash in October 2000,
which left four people dead.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              June 7, 2002, Friday

PHIL DOES IT AGAIN;
 JOKE WITH TAMIL PRIESTS

BYLINE: Jane Kerr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 359 words


PRINCE PHILIP put his foot in it yet again yesterday when he asked four Tamil
high priests: "Are you tigers?"

The Hindu leaders had to give the daft Duke a lesson about Sri Lankan militant
group the Tamil Tigers, who are responsible for several terrorist attacks.

One told him: "No we are priests. We are not associated with violence."

Clueless Phil's latest blunder came as he joined the Queen for a visit to the
Highgate Hill Murugan Temple in north London, the first time in her 50-year
reign that she has visited a Hindu temple in Britain.

Fortunately, Philip's ill-judged comment was greeted with laughter.

Later, one of the priests said: "He was just joking. We weren't offended. He was
being friendly."

The historic visit came as the Queen resumed her formal engagements after the
four-day golden jubilee celebrations.

The Queen removed her shoes as a sign of respect for the customs of the temple
and Hindu faith. She was given a pair nylon stockings to put on her feet, while
the Duke wandered around in a pair of dark socks.

High priests of the temple, wearing traditional robes, lit candles and blessed
their royal visitors in the Sanskrit language.

Earlier, the Queen and Duke had been decorated with lavish garlands of yellow
and purple chrysanthemums.

But it was an unscheduled greeting from a five-year-old boy that caught the
Queen's attention as she watched a dance display.

Abeyan Ahilan tugged at the hem of her lilac dress - but then forgot what he
wanted to say. The Queen saved his blushes by asking him, "Did you enjoy the
dancing", to which he replied "Yes".

Later, community leaders said they were delighted by the visit.

Shree Om Parkash Sharma said: "It was a great pleasure to welcome the gracious
Queen. We all love her and she is a great inspiration for the stability of this
country. We all want that."

In contrast to her visit at the colourful temple, the Queen started her day
yesterday at a bus depot in north London.

She talked to drivers at the garage in Willesden and thanked them for helping to
keep the capital moving during the Jubilee weekend celebrations.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 12, 2002

STRAW PLEDGES TO MAKE TRAVEL SAFER AFTER ATTACK FROM MPS AND LORDS; WE SHOULD
HAVE BEEN WARNED OF BALI BOMB

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 456 words


BRITONS who travelled to Indonesia in the run-up to the Bali bomb attack were
not sufficiently warned about the terrorist threat, senior MPs and peers
concluded yesterday.

Criticism by the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee led Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw yesterday to order a comprehensive overhaul of travel
advice.

After claims Britain failed to pass on to the public warnings about a possible
attack ahead of the October 12 blast, the committee said that on the available
intelligence, there was nothing the UK could have done to prevent the attacks.

But MI5 should have revised the assessed threat level to British interests in
Indonesia from "significant" to "high", because of the frequency of reports
relating to terrorist activity there, recent incidents and Indonesia's public
reluctance to deal with terrorism, it said.

"This was a serious misjudgment and meant that the Security Service did not
assess the threat correctly."

On advice to travellers, the committee published e-mails sent by local diplomats
to subscribers in Indonesia before the bomb which had urged Britons to avoid
nightclubs and bars and be "more circumspect than usual, especially in the
evenings".

But the more widely available travel advice issued by the Foreign Office in
London had not been revised. The department said it would have done so if the
threat had been raised to "high".

The committee said: "The contents of these e-mails ought to have been reflected
in the Foreign Office travel advice. We conclude that the FO travel advice did
not accurately reflect the threat or recent developments, although it was
proportional to the then current Security Service assessment."

The committee, which interviewed the heads of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, said MI5's
threat assessment system, with six levels from negligible to imminent, was not
precise enough. Mr Straw told the Commons that MI5 had already begun a review.

The committee also criticised the "confused" way in which Foreign Office travel
advice was presented.

Mr Straw announced a full review. But he defended MI5, stressing: "The staff of
the security service have to make fine judgments based on fragmentary
intelligence and other information."

Shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram urged Mr Straw to act quickly on the
report, and suggested the Australian government had learned the lessons of Bali
more quickly by warning against "non-essential" travel to Mombasa ahead of the
recent bomb attack.

Better vetting of international students was called for by the Commons Foreign
Affairs Committee who said terrorist supporters could get a range of deadly
biological materials simply by signing up for scientific research courses.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 2002

Bin Laden's 'UK connection' fights extradition

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 316 words


An Algerian man accused of being al-Qaida's European "gatekeeper" appeared in
court in London yesterday to fight extradition to the United States.

Amar Makhlulif, 37, also known as Abu Doha and "The Doctor", is accused of
conspiring with Osama bin Laden to blow up Los Angeles airport on Millennium Eve
as well as being linked to bomb plots in Strasbourg and Paris.

He is said to have been a key facilitator for Bin Laden and the channel through
which young recruits passed on their way to terrorist training camps in
Afghanistan.

Mr Makhlulif is also alleged to have sent young men to Canada to prepare for
last September's terrorist attacks in the US.

Yesterday, he appeared at the top-security Belmarsh magistrates' court to face
proceedings regarding several "very serious" terrorism allegations in the US.

The prosecution said that he was suspected of being the leader of a cell in
Britain of Bin Laden's al-Qaida network.

Ben Emmerson QC, for Mr Makhlulif, told the court that a trial in the US would
be a "flagrant denial of justice".

The "intolerable conditions" in which Islamic defendants were held in the US and
a possible sentence with no prospect of parole amounted to "inhuman and
degrading treatment". Mr Emmerson claimed that the British authorities had
"deliberately manipulated" the extradition process by holding Mr Makhlulif on
unrelated charges until US prosecutors were ready to lay their own.

The court heard that Mr Makhlulif was arrested at Heathrow airport in February
last year as he waited for a flight to Saudi Arabia. Last month, Yacine
Akhnouche, 27, an Algerian arrested in Paris, named Abu Doha as Bin Laden's
British "recruiter". He told French interrogators he had seen hundreds of
British recruits in the training camps.

Mr Makhlulif denies all the charges.

A decision in the extradition case is expected on May 10.


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 18, 2002, Friday

SUZY IN THE CITY IN DUBLIN: STORMY SEAS FOR FERRY FIRM;
 SLUMP AFTER DOUBLE WHAMMY LAST YEAR

BYLINE: Chris Parkin

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 388 words

HIGHLIGHT: MAKING A SPLASH: ICG launched Ulysses, above, the world's largest
ferry, last year, but it failed to prevent a massive slump in profits due to the
double impact that the foot-and-mouth crisis and the September 11 terrorist
attacks had on the Irish economy


IRISH Contintental Group - whose Irish Ferries company operates sea links
between Ireland and Britain and France - yesterday reported a 23 percent slump
in pre-tax profits.

The figures told the whole story of last year's foot-and-mouth and September 11
double whammy effect upon the Irish economy.

They reported a 23 per cent slump in pre-tax profits, down nearly 4 million euro
to14.6 million euro after being hit in the early part of the year by travel
restrictions because of the farm virus and later by the fall-out from the
terrorist attacks on America.

But it was not all doom and gloom for ICG. The group said the second half of
2001 - a period traditionally more significant for business - was stable, with
the effects of the twin crises beginning to fade away.

That allowed its report to look forward to a more "promising" time during 2002.

Last year had been truly eventful for the group as a whole. It launched Ulysses,
the world's biggest ferry on the route between Dublin port and Holyead,
Anglesey, a development which itself boosted the roll-on, roll-off freight load
by a worthwhile 11 per cent, a record for ICG.

In the circumstances, it was hardly surprising that passenger numbers on the car
ferries declined by 4 per cent overall, to 1.73 million.

Worst-hit was the service between Rosslare, Co Wexford and the south Wales port
of Pembroke, when passengers fell by 16 per cent.

The company's travel division was said to have faced a "challenging year", and a
decision was taken to write off the 3.2 million euro goodwill incurred in the
1999 purchase of Tara Travel.

The website Irishferries.com had what ICG called an outstanding year, with
bookings more than doubling, to 8 million euro.

THE Windsor Group, Ireland's biggest car dealership chain, is to create 100 new
jobs in a 10 million euro expansion scheme over the next two years.

The move will see the opening of up to three new outlets and a consequent big
increase in its property portfolio.

Windsor currently operates from eight bases in Dublin, Cork and Galway, and said
it would be looking at new locations on a nationwide basis.

Chief executive Gerard O'Toole added "We tend to go into areas where we are not
getting market penetration or where there is an existing party looking to sell
out."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                October 20, 2002

HOON PUTS STAR-WARS PLAN BACK IN PLAY

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and Tracey Boles;

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 539 words


British defence secretary Geoff Hoon is to step up efforts to get approval for
Britain to join America in its controversial National Missile Defence (NMD)
system.

Hoon unexpectedly an-nounced last week that talks had taken place with United
States officials about NMD.

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) decided after talks with 10 Downing Street that,
despite the preoccupation with a looming attack on Iraq, the issue needed to be
addressed.

NMD is often called "son of star wars" and has always provoked fury among many
Labour backbench MPs who say British bases should not be used as part of the
missile-intercepting system.

The government is almost certain to allow the Americans to use the Fylingdales
base in North Yorkshire as part of the system.

President Bush campaigned on NMD during the race for the White House. It became
a hot topic in his first year as president but since the September 11 terrorist
attacks it has merited little attention.

But it will become a key issue again in light of the revelations that North
Korea has nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. Officially, the MoD
says there is no link between the announcement about NMD and the Korean
situation. But industry sources say it is likely that news of the threat
probably added to the sense of urgency in Whitehall.

Hoon will now begin meetings across the country with Labour party members to
persuade them about the merits of NMD and the necessity of action in Iraq.

There will also be studies within Whitehall and the defence community about the
ultimate viability of such a missile-intercepting system and what it will mean
to the global security environment.

A source close to Hoon said: "It is not the ideal time to be starting this
debate but we felt that it had to be done. The country needs to understand the
issues at stake and despite NMD being pretty much away from the spotlight for a
year, it is now heading back."

The MoD maintains there has been no formal request from the US to use
Fylingdales and says technology is still some way from being ad-vanced enough to
support the system Bush is advocating.

An MoD spokesman said: "We want a debate now, that is why we have made these
comments. The US did the rounds of other European capitals and Nato in the
summer explaining where they were with NMD and we felt it was right that we set
out our position."

These so-called "bazaars" were part of US attempt to outline to other European
countries what the security implications of any future NMD would be. Europe has
traditionally been hostile to the idea of a "star wars" programme.

Any go-ahead with NMD would provide a boost for British defence contractors. The
missile system is likely to be put together from stand-alone projects at
development stage.

The US air force is designing an airborne laser system with aerospace giant
Boeing that will be able to shoot down ballistic missiles at long range.

The truck-sized high-energy laser will be fired from the nose of Boeing's 747; a
test flight is scheduled for 2004. Boeing also has a space-based laser programme
under development.

Lessons learnt, as well as hardware, are shared between the two programmes.

Inside Westminster, page 19


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

SEPTEMBER 11: BOMB SUSPECT WARNED FRIEND TO STAY AWAY;
 ANNIVERSARY ATTACKS: FOILED PLOT AGAINST US ARMY BASE RAISES NEW ALARM OVER
AL-QA'IDA THREAT

BYLINE: Severin Carrell, Paul Lashmar And Jarle Hetland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 441 words


A suspected plot to bomb a US military base in Germany this week was foiled
because one of the co-conspirators warned a close friend to stay away from the
target.

A Turkish national and his American-German fiancee were arrested for allegedly
planning to bomb the supermarket at the US Army's European HQ near Heidelberg on
the anniversary of 11 September.

The authorities suspect the store was among several possible US military and
civilian targets, raising fresh alarm that al-Qa'ida terrorists and their
sympathisers are planning a wave of attacks on US and European targets around
the world. British security agencies are monitoring several dozen suspected
al-Qa'ida activists and several hundred supporters in the UK, but do not believe
that there are any cells currently operational.

They also discount claims that 500 to 600 British Muslims who attended al
-Qa'ida camps all now pose a threat, but fear an attack could take place from
terrorists based abroad.

"What might be planned in Madrid this morning may result in a big bang in
Birmingham tonight," said one Whitehall source. "What we have seen with al
-Qa'ida is that they operate internationally. We have seen support from Britain
for a cell in Germany planning an attack in Paris."

In the Heidelberg case, it appears that the arrested woman, a 23-year- old
civilian worker at the store, which serves 16,000 US personnel on the base,
advised a friend to stay away from the shop this week.

Her indiscretion was reported to US officials, who alerted the German
authorities. After the couple's arrest, a raid on their flat in the city of
Walldorf revealed cases for five bombs and 130kg of chemicals and electrical
materials.

The fears of attacks from other cells have deepened after US authorities
arrested an Afghan-born German from Hamburg on suspicion of planning attacks.
The German prosecutor's office in Karlsruhe confirmed that the suspect, named
only as Safiola L, 39, had been arrested in New York in late August and was now
being held in Virginia.

Safiola allegedly shared a dormitory with Mohammed Atta, the suspected
ringleader of the World Trade Centre attacks, in Hamburg in 1994.

t Swedish prosecution sources said that Oussama Kassir, a friend and former
cellmate of Karem Chatty, the hijack suspect arrested trying to board a Ryanair
jet to Stansted with a gun 10 days ago, is to be questioned by anti-terrorist
police after allegedly claiming to be a "hitman" for Osama bin Laden. Kassir is
one of three unnamed co-conspirators who feature in the indictment against James
Ujaama, a suspected terrorist in custody in Seattle.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 21, 2002

FINANCIAL EXPRESSOPTIMISTIC GREENSPAN FOLLOWS FORECASTERS INTO THE LAST CHANCE
SALOON, WRITES JAMES ROBINSON; EMPTIES OFFER A BETTER RETURN THAN EQUITIES

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 845 words


THESE are worrying times for the millions of Britons whose financial futures
depend on the stock market. On Monday, the FTSE100 Index of Britain's leading
shares dived below 4,000 for the first time since December 1996, wiping GBP
54billion off the value of UK companies.

The market recovered slightly to end the week at 4098, but the Index remains far
below its March 2000 peak, when it nearly touched 7,000.

Anyone with savings or a pension tied up in equities should be anxious about the
volatility in the markets affecting their investments. Wall Street is
experiencing one of the most unstable periods in its history following last
year's terrorist attacks and a succession of corporate scandals.

Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan delivered an optimistic assessment about
the prospects for the US economy last week, but his comments on the "infectious
greed" afflicting Wall Street did little to bolster investor confidence.

So where should nervous investors turn to for advice?

Probably not to the City scribblers w ho are paid huge salaries to predict w
here the market is heading. Their forecasts have been consistently wrong since
the FTSE peaked two years ago.

As the table below shows, predictions made at the beginning of this year have
been rapidly revised as it became clear that hopes of an early economic recovery
were hopelessly optimistic.

Goldman Sachs, the most pessimistic of the banks polled, now believes the FTSE
will end the year at 4,600, down 20 per cent on the year.

A spokesman for the bank laughs that its forecast is "falling by the day". He
can only have been halfjoking.

The spectacular falls have forced strategists, such as Wall Street guru Barton
Biggs, to revise their forecasts with alarming regularity in recent months.

Some are so sensitive about their mistakes that they no longer discuss their
estimates at all. A spokesman for Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein said the German
bank was "not going public" with its forecasts this year after getting its
predictions for 2001 wrong.

Dresdner's clients will be able to read the thoughts of global sector strategist
Philip Isherwood, of course, although judging by his 2001 predictions, they may
not be worth the paper they are written on. He said the FTSE would climb last
year, not fall.

None of his rivals fared much better, so it is surprising that most of them
remain remarkably upbeat about the prospects for the coming year. Goldman Sachs
and Schroders aside, all the banks contacted believe the FTSE will still end the
year at or above its Friday close. Those who dare to gaze further into the
future are even more bullish.

Goldman Sachs says global equities will rise by 29 per cent during the next 12
months. That would push the FTSE above the 5,000 mark and go a long way towards
reversing its recent decline.

Schroders Salomon Smith Barney strategist Robert Buckland still insists the FTSE
will hit 6,200 next July, six months later than he had predicted at the start of
the year.

"We see very good value in European equities right now, with our models
suggesting potential 30 to 40 per cent gains over the next 12 months, " he says,
arguing that "the recent falls in the European equity markets reflect a sharp
rise in risk aversion rather than a collapse in the economic and corporate
fundamentals." Company profits are holding up, the global economy has stabilised
and interest rates and inflation remain low.

On that basis, he would argue, shares look cheap.

The problem is that markets are not governed by logic alone.

Psychology is equally important - and this is one factor analysts cannot model
with any great accuracy.

The "irrational exuberance" that drove share prices sky-high during the Internet
bubble has given way to a collective pessimism strong enough to keep even the
safest of stocks pegged to the floor.

The accounting scandals at Enron and WorldCom have left investors wondering who
they can trust. Even GE, one of the world's most-admired companies, was forced
to defend the validity of its profits figures in the wake of the Enron collapse.

IF THERE is any consolation for the banks, it is that the unprecedented spate of
scandals allows them to explain away inaccurate predictions - just as September
11 did last year. But the excuses are likely to wear increasingly thin as the
flow of bad news continues.

A light-hearted e-mail doing the rounds in the Square Mile points out that $
1,000 of Nortel stock bought a year ago is worth just $ 49 now.

Investing the same amount in Enron would have left you with $ 16.50 and the
equivalent number of Worldcom shares are now worth a paltry $ 5.

"If you had bought $ 1,000 worth of Stella Artois a year ago, drank the beer,
then turned in the bottles for a 5cent deposit you would have $ 107, " the
e-mail notes sarcastically. "So, based on the above, current investment advice
is to drink heavily and recycle."

If the market continues to tumble, this is one piece of advice investors might
be tempted to follow.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Financial Adviser adviser

                             January 16, 2002 2002

Brits prefer to put their trust in cash cash

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276

LENGTH: 256 words words


Twice as many Britons have bought cash Isas than have bought equity Isas,
according to Alliance & Leicesters Wealth Tracker Index.

The figures, collated in October and just released, are 15 per cent and 7 per
cent respectively.  respectively.

More than two-fifths of investors with (GBP) 7000 in savings have a cash Isa,
while just a quarter have an equity Isa.

Simon Ripton, investment and savings product manager, said: "Britain is a more
cautious nation than others like America when it comes to investing.

"People tend not to recognise the buying opportunities in the market, nor do
they buy investments as part of a portfolio.

"Generally, many of the people surveyed had the time to buy equities but not the
cash. In addition, equities and investments tend to be sold rather than bought.
People wait to be told what to buy."

Demand for cash Isas, first measured in June, hardly changed after the 11
September terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.
"Unexpectedly, there wasnt a flight to cash," said Mr Ripton.

Savings accounts remain a favourite way to keep money with 39 per cent of people
claiming to have an active savings account.

"People dont really understand the benefits of investment. Education remains
important. Stakeholder, for example, doesnt seem to have hit the mark."

In its next survey, Alliance & Leicester intends to examine peoples motivations
to save or buy equities, and how great a shortfall people face in their pensions
if they continue at their current rate of investment.  investment.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2002 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 15, 2002

US BOMBERS BLAST THE LAST REDOUBT OF BIN LADEN'S MEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 334 words


THE last bastion of Al Qaeda defiance in Afghanistan was pounded by American
bombers yesterday, writes Alison Little.

They launched massive attacks on terrorist caves at Zawar which are the final
hiding places for Osama Bin Laden's die-hard supporters.

The strikes were the heaviest since last month's attacks on the Tora Bora
complex. Intelligence reports said Al Qaeda fighters were using the Zawar caves
to regroup and move out of Afghanistan.

In Kandahar, a second group of suspected Bin Laden supporters was flown by a
C-17 transport plane from a temporary detention centre to Guantanamo, Cuba,
where the United States military have built a prison camp to hold terrorist
suspects.

The Foreign Office was trying to establish if any more Britons had been
captured. At least one, said to have identified Richard Reid who allegedly tried
to bring down an airliner with a shoe bomb, has already been sent to Cuba.

Downing Street said yesterday that Britain was seeking assurances from the US
about the treatment of the prisoners. But Tony Blair's official spokesman
stressed: "It is worth reminding people that the detainees are at the least
former combatants against whom British and American forces have been in action.
Some of them may also be suspected of masterminding terrorist attacks."

Officials, who said it was possible there were "more British prisoners in the
pipeline, " will be allowed access to the men.

The US is considering scaling down the 24-hour fighter jet patrols over New York
and Washington which have been operating since the terrorist attacks. The
operation, which uses 11,000 people and 250 aircraft, is denting the American
defence budget and it is felt that aviation security has been improved.

From September 11 to December 10, the operation flew 13,000 missions, costing
GBP 250million.

It was announced yesterday that another GBP 200million is to be spent combating
terrorism at next month's Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               September 27, 2002

New York sends city its thanks.

BYLINE: Keith Hamilton (author email keith.hamilton@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: Shipping

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: Southampton


A heartfelt message of thanks is crossing the Atlantic to the people of
Southampton from the mayor and citizens of New York.

Earlier this month a specially- bound book of condolences containing 2,000
namesand messages of sympathy from Southampton, following the terrorist attacks
on America last year, was taken to America by the Cunard flagship, Queen
Elizabeth 2.

Master of QE2, Captain Ron Warwick, handed the book over to New York City
Commission-er Marjorie Tiven on behalf of Southampton when the 70,327-ton
luxuryliner arrived in New York.

In a personal letter to the City of Southampton, now on its way to Southampton
on board QE2, New York's mayor, Michael R Bloomberg, thanks local people for
their support after the World Trade Center attacks.

"This is a wonderful occasion as a book of condolence from Southampton,
England,is officially presented to the City of New York,'' said Mayor Bloomberg.

"All New Yorkers have been touched by the encouragement and generosity that the
British people have shown us in the aftermath of September 11.

"The United States and our city have a special relationship with Great Britain
and no country has proven a greater friend.

"As many waves of immigrants made their way to our shores through Southampton,
our cities share a unique bond.

"Cunard played a key role in those crossings so it is fitting Queen Elizabeth 2
would bring this gesture of goodwill and support.

"I recognise Captain Warwick and Cunard for making this presentation a reality,
and I again express my gratitude to the people of Southampton for this touching
tribute to all those who were lost.''

After the attacks on New York and Washington, people queued in the foyer of
Southampton's Civic Centre to write their messages of condolence.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               September 27, 2002

Tributes paid one year after attack

BYLINE: Roseena Parveen

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 257 words



Oxford City Centre stood still as hundreds of shoppers joined the country in a
minute's silence to remember the victims of September 11.

Staff and shoppers in Queen Street stood still with heads bowed in a show of
respect for the victims of last year's terrorist attacks on the World Trade
Center in New York.

The act of remembrance was echoed across Oxfordshire at 1.46pm -- the time in
Britain when the first plane hit the twin towers exactly one year ago.

Hundreds joined the congregation at Christ Church Cathedral in St Aldates where
special prayers were said.

Oxford for Peace group organised a vigil which began with candles being lit at
Carfax in Oxford city centre and members of the public were offered the chance
to address the gathered crowd with their own commemorative words.

Churches across the county organised special services offering prayers for
survivors and victims of the attack.

At the King's Centre in Osney Mead, employees from businesses on the industrial
estate were invited to attend an afternoon service hosted by Oxfordshire
Community Churches.

More than 40 people attended a special "One Year On" prayers for peace and
reconciliation service at St Nicolas Church in Market Place, Abingdon, conducted
by the chaplain of Dalton Barracks, the Rev Jonathan Ball.

Firefighters from Blue Watch at Abingdon fire station held a minute's silence at
lunchtime.

American airmen from the 422nd Air Base Squadron at RAF Croughton, near
Bicester, staged a military parade and a memorial service.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 9, 2002, Thursday

WE'LL GO IN;
 BLAIR PLEDGES SECURITY AID TO THWART SUICIDE BOMBERS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 352 words

HIGHLIGHT: DESTROYED: Blood in blast pool hall; SPEECH: Yasser Arafat


BRITISH security experts could be sent in to stop Palestinian suicide bombers
attacking Israel, Tony Blair said yesterday.

The PM condemned the latest attack on an Israeli pool hall which killed 16
people.

And he said the time had come for Britain and America to see what measures they
could take to stop _ a new wave of attacks destroying the Middle East peace
process.

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat strongly condemned terrorism in a desperate
attempt to prevent Israeli retaliation for the blast.

In a TV address he said: "I gave my orders to all the Palestinian security
forces to confront and prevent all terror attacks against Israeli civilians ...
and at the same time to confront any aggression or attack on Palestinian
civilians."

He called on President Bush "and the international community to provide support
for the Palestinian security forces, whose infrastructure has been destroyed by
the Israeli occupation, so they can carry out their orders".

In the Commons Mr Blair praised Arafat's words and added: "We are prepared to
work with the Palestinian Authority in any way possible to make sure they have
the proper security apparatus they require.

"But we cannot have a situation where every time it seems there is some hope of
political progress, that progress is immediately derailed by a terrorist attack.
"

The Prime Minister's spokesman said there was a "security void" where Arafat
condemned the suicide bombers but seemed able to do little to stop them.

He said: "We have to look urgently at ways of addressing this." That could mean
British security experts or international monitors to ensure peace agreements
were policed.

Britain has sent police, prison warders and military advisers to oversee the
detention of suspected terrorists arrested by the Palestinian Authority.

Furious Israeli Premier Ariel Sharon vowed a swift and severe response to
Tuesday's bomb in Rishon Letzion, 10 miles from Tel Aviv.

Palestinians in the Gaza Strip braced themselves for a revenge strike after
Hamas, which is based there, said it carried out the attack.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 21, 2002

Aussies remember the victims of Bali tragedy;
 Millions mourn as Straw talks of two countries united in grief

BYLINE: Lucy Rodgers

SECTION: News :999 :Disasters, Pg.10

LENGTH: 834 words


WITH church bells ringing, thousands of Australians wiped away their tears
yesterday as they mourned those killed in the Bali terror bomb blast.

Turning out for memorial services up and down the country, mourners clutched
sprigs of native flowers as they remembered the scores of people who died in the
terrorist attack on the beautiful Indonesian island.

For many Australians, Bali is known only as a regular holiday destination,
reached by just a four-hour flight from many of the country's cities.

But on October 12, the idyllic seaside resort of Kuta became a pile of twisted
metal and rubble, the scene of the latest terrorist attack.

While people enjoyed a night out at the town's famous Sari nightclub and nearby
Paddy's Bar venue, two bombs ripped through the resort, killing at least 180
people and injuring 300 others.

Officials say 103 Australians perished or are still missing, about 30 Britons
also died.

At the scene of the terror attacks yesterday, Balinese Hindus held a special
prayer service for the victims of the bombs, while in Australia, Prime Minister
John Howard joined a service at St Paul's Anglican Cathedral in the capital,
Canberra, for his country's National Day of Mourning. He later addressed
thousands of mourners at an open-air service in Sydney via video message and
pledged to find those responsible for the atrocity.

LET us resolve to find those who committed this foul deed and bring them to
justice," he said. Mr Howard also vowed that Australia would remain committed to
the war on terror.

As politicians continued to debate the nature of future action against those
responsible for the blasts, survivors spoke of the "hell" they experienced, and
described their grief for friends killed in the attack.

"We went (to Bali) expecting a great time and we were having a great time, and
then hell happened," Eric Da Haart told a crowd who gathered near Coogee beach
in Sydney to remember six members of the suburb's rugby league club who died in
the blast.

And while Australia grieved, Britain offered its own tribute as the Union Flag
at Buckingham Palace and those at all British embassies and high commissions
were held at half mast.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw also offered British condolences to those caught up
in the attack.

"My thoughts and the thoughts of Britain are with the families of all those who
died," he said.

"It is terrible that Australia and Britain should once again be united by
grief."

And across the Atlantic, US President George W Bush also offered words of
comfort: "America is with you in spirit," he said.

Many in Australia are comparing the national anguish over the bombing to the
pain Americans felt after the September 11 attacks in New York and Washington.
Mr Bush also made the comparison. We remember so well after September 11, 2001,
your prayers, your sympathies and your strong support. And we will never forget
it."

AS families across the world attempted to come to terms with the deaths, tourism
chiefs warned that the Bali economy will be hit hard by the terror strikes.

Kadek Wiranatha, the owner of the fire-gutted Sari nightclub, admitted the
future looks bleak.

"The impact of this terrorist attack will be quite massive," he said. Bali
tourist officials estimate that since the attack up to 5,000 tourists a day,
most of them Australian and Japanese, have been cutting their holidays short and
leaving.

Tourism is the backbone of Bali's economy, with more than 90 per cent of the
island's 3.2million people depending on it, and if visitors stay away, thousands
will be made redundant.

British tour operators are already attempting to woo holidaymakers to Sri Lanka
as an alternative to Indonesia. The UK's biggest holiday company, Thomson,
announced yesterday that Sri Lanka was being re-introduced in its faraway shores
winter 2003-04 brochure.

Other tour operators reported improved bookings to Sri Lanka since a peace deal
was concluded on the Indian Ocean island less than 18 months after British
tourists were caught up in a terrorist attack on the airport in the capital
Colombo.

Meanwhile, investigators yesterday said the probe into the Bali attacks were
making progress. Defence minister Matori Abdul Djalil has already accused the
cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, of being linked to al-Qaeda and said that his right
-hand man, known as Hambali, was behind many of the country's terrorist
bombings. Matori stopped short of accusing Bashir of organising the Bali
attacks, but he said that it was logical to believe that Bashir knew about them.

The two men are accused of being leaders of Jemaah Islamiyah, believed to be
al-Qaida's main ally in South-east Asia.

Bashir, who runs an Islamic school, was arrested on Saturday over his alleged
connection to a spate of church bombings two years ago in which 19 people died.

A memorial service will be held at St Paul's Cathedral in London next Friday to
honour those the Bali victims.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 9, 2002

You must take part of blame, US is told;
 News Extra

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.45

LENGTH: 367 words


A MAJORITY of people in six European countries believe America was partly to
blame for the terrorist atrocities on September 11, a survey has revealed.

Researchers interviewing people in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands and Poland found the French were most critical, with 63 per cent
saying US foreign policy contributed to the attacks. The Italians were the least
critical, just over half of them blamed US policy for September 11.

Among the other four countries, 57 per cent of Britons, 52 per cent of Germans,
59 per cent of Dutch and 54 per cent of Poles saw such a connection.

Marshall Bouton, president of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, said
yesterday the poll found that many Europeans disagreed with how the US has
handled conflicts in the Middle East.

Mr Bouton said that when he was in France some residents told him they perceived
US policy as anti-Muslim.

They believe "it has provided the sea in which the terrorist can swim, so to
speak", he said.

Europeans were more critical of the Bush administration's handling of foreign
policy than Americans. Just 38 per cent said it was "excellent" or "good", while
56 per cent said it was "poor".

Americans gave the Bush administration's foreign policy higher marks, with 40
per cent rating it as "good." Despite their differences, Americans and Europeans
share many of the same views, said Steve Grand, an official with the German
Marshall Fund.

Mr Grand said the September 11 events have strengthened the bond between the US
and its European a l l i e s.

"It's brought Americans to be more internationalist, recognising that America
has more of an important role in the world, " he said.

"At the same time it's made Europeans more sensitive to the threats, and you see
a real readiness on the part of Europeans to address those new threats."
Researchers interviewed 6,001 Europeans and 3,262 Americans for the survey,
which was conducted in June by Mori and Harris Interactive on behalf of the
Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, which promotes public awareness of
international issues, and the German Marshall Fund, an organisation which tries
to improve foreign relations.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 22, 2002, Wednesday

British diplomats close Pakistan offices

BYLINE: By Ahmed Rashid in Lahore

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 207 words

TWO British diplomatic and cultural offices in Pakistan have been closed to the
public because of the growing terrorist threat from al-Qa'eda and its Pakistani
allies, the Foreign Office confirmed last night.

France and America have reduced their diplomatic staff in Pakistan and Britain
might have to adopt similar measures. America has said communications among
al-Qa'eda suspects have been more intense recently, indicating more possible
terrorist attacks.

European diplomats in Pakistan said there had been specific threats of suicide
attacks against the British Council in Islamabad and the deputy High Commission
in Lahore, which serves as a visa office.

The Foreign Office said both had been closed to the public because of "the
security situation".

The killing of 11 French marine engineers and four others in a suicide bombing
in Karachi earlier this month, the latest in a series of attacks on foreigners
in Pakistan, has forced an urgent review of security measures for British staff.

The Foreign Office said: "There have been a number of threats against British
interests in Pakistan. We keep the security situation under constant review.
It's something we take very seriously."
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               December 16, 2002

Town Hall's disaster plan.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 536 words



SPECIAL teams would deal with a terrorist attack, says Waltham Forest Council,
following national newspaper reports which claimed town halls across the country
had been told to prepare Doomsday plans.

According to the reports, the Government has warned town halls to prepare for a
"catastrophic" toll of up to 50,000 dead and injured - a 100-fold increase on
the previous worst case scenario.

Emergency chiefs have also been told to tear up plans which outlined measures to
deal with 500 casualties from a single incident such as a plane or train crash.

A council spokeswoman said gold, silver and bronze teams of council staff would
deal with the aftermath of a chemical or biological attack.

A strategic gold team would ensure continuation of the day-to-day services and
judge future resource needs. The tactical silver team would allocate resources
and liaise between emergency services and council departments. And an
operational bronze team would provide direct support at the incident site.

But a council spokeswoman said the police would act as the "lead authority" and
be responsible for controlling the initial situation: "The council and the other
emergency services would support the police where necessary to minimise public
risk.

"Once the initial response period is over, the emergency services are likely to
withdraw and hand over responsibility for recovery and restoration to the
council."

The move is a pre-emptive strike from Prime Minister Tony Blair to tighten
Britain's security amid growing fears of an attack by Osama bin Laden or Saddam
Hussein.

s=10SPECIAL teams would deal with a terrorist attack, says Waltham Forest
Council, following national newspaper reports which claimed town halls across
the country had been told to prepare Doomsday plans.o

According to the reports, the Government has warned town halls to prepare for a
"catastrophic" toll of up to 50,000 dead and injured - a 100-fold increase on
the previous worst case scenario.

Emergency chiefs have also been told to tear up plans which outlined measures to
deal with 500 casualties from a single incident such as a plane or train crash.

A council spokeswoman said gold, silver and bronze teams of council staff would
deal with the aftermath of a chemical or biological attack.

A strategic gold team would ensure continuation of the day-to-day services and
judge future resource needs. The tactical silver team would allocate resources
and liaise between emergency services and council departments. And an
operational bronze team would provide direct support at the incident site.

But a council spokeswoman said the police would act as the "lead authority" and
be responsible for controlling the initial situation: "The council and the other
emergency services would support the police where necessary to minimise public
risk.

"Once the initial response period is over, the emergency services are likely to
withdraw and hand over responsibility for recovery and restoration to the
council."

The move is a pre-emptive strike from Prime Minister Tony Blair to tighten
Britain's security amid growing fears of an attack by Osama bin Laden or Saddam
Hussein.

December 12, 2002 12:30

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            January 13, 2002, Sunday

WAR ON TERROR: BLAIR RAP OVER ARMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 125 words


TONY Blair was last night accused of hypocrisy after it was reported that the
Government has mounted a campaign to boost arms sales to India, despite his
mission to calm escalating tensions between the country and Pakistan.

The Prime Minister said during his tour of the subcontinent that he hoped
Britain could have a 'calming influence' in the troubled region after a
terrorist attack on the Indian parliament in December.

Meanwhile, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon has been pressing Indian Prime Minister
Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government on a deal which includes 60 Hawk jets worth
pounds 1 billion, it was claimed.

Labour MP Donald Anderson said: 'We will ask whether this contributes or not to
peace in a highly sensitive area.'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 14, 2002

The thin green line will and must hold;
 Blair and Prescott's message to the army as the firemen walk out in pay row

BYLINE: Matthew George Political Correspondent

SECTION: News :999 :Fires, Pg.4

LENGTH: 476 words


TONY Blair insisted last night that he would not cave in to the firefighters' 40
per cent wage claim, despite their first national strike in 25 years.

The Prime Minister broke with tradition to discuss the crisis in his address to
Parliament on the Queen's Speech.

He insisted "no government on Earth" could accept the firefighters' demands when
they had already been offered more than nurses, teachers and the police.

As the Armed Forces stepped into the breach last night to form a 'thin green
line' of emergency protection across Britain, one West MP suggested such walk
-outs should be banned in a future pay agreement.

And a 76-year-old woman died last night after a house fire in Newtown, mid
-Wales which broke out an hour after firefighters went on strike. A Green
Goddess was sent to the fire and arrived within nine minutes.

Mr Blair said it was "offensive and wrong" to suggest he wanted a war with the
Fire Brigades Union, but he gave no sign of being prepared to compromise.

He told MPs: "They have been offered 11 per cent over two years. That is more
than nurses, it is more than teachers, it is more than police officers - it is
much more."

With inflation at just two per cent, the 40 per cent wage claim would lead to
similar demands from other groups such as nurses.

And that would wreck the economy, causing inflation, mortgage rates and
unemployment to soar.

The PM warned that with Britain currently on high security alert for terrorist
attacks, it was the worst time to have a strike.

But he said when the first 48-hour strike finishes tomorrow evening he hopes
"commonsense will prevail".

Deputy PM John Prescott urged the firefighters: "Don't walk, talk." He said the
strike was "unnecessary and unreasonable" and "put people and property at
greater risk".

Liberal Democrat Northavon MP Steve Webb said the FBU should not be striking,
but taking part in an independent review.

He said there was public sympathy for the firefighters, although they were not
being led well, and there was a need for a new pay formula to replace the
existing one.

"But if a new formula guarantees a decent pay rise, because they are a blue
-light emergency service, can it be right to withdraw their labour?" he said.

His party leader Charles Kennedy attacked as "immature and inflammatory" a
comment by Shadow Defence Secretary Bernard Jenkin that "you almost wonder
whether the firefighters' union is being paid by Saddam Hussein".

Veteran Left-wing former Bristol MP Tony Benn backed the firefighters, saying:
"They were offered 16 per cent by the local authorities and the Government
stopped it."

When asked if the Government could afford the pay rise, he said: "There's plenty
of money for a war, for the Dome, for the Royal Family. What about the people
who keep us safe at home?"

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               November 17, 2002

PORT ON SECURITY WARNING.

BYLINE: Keith Hamilton (author email keith.hamilton@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: Shipping

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: Southampton



Ports across the UK, including Southampton Docks, are on full alert after
government warnings on a possible pre-Christmas attack by Al Qaeda terrorists.

Cross-Channel ferry ports, such as Portsmouth, have been especially earmarked
for heightened security measures but all international maritime gateways have
been told to be on guard.

Intelligence services warned European ferry operators that terrorists were
planning to strike last weekend by planting a lorry bomb on a vessel.

This comes as Prime Minister Tony Blair revealed that "barely a day goes by
without some new piece of intelligence coming via our security services about a
threat to UK interests".

It is a matter of policy that security matters are not discussed by Associated
British Ports, the owner and operator of Southampton Docks, and 20 other ports
around the country, but the government has ordered increased vigilance against
the present high risk of terrorist attacks.

Ferry ports are on the highest state of alert after French and Dutch
intelligence services warned that a lorry loaded with explosives would attempt
to board a cross-Channel vessel.

America's FBI is also thought to have passed on information to the government
about a threat to a North Sea ferry.

Southampton's main port activities centre on global container traffic, cruise
ships, vehicle imports and exports and bulk cargoes, although the docks do have
a regular roll-on/roll-off link with the port of Santander in Spain, which began
in May of this year.

Britain's transport security warning service, Transec, played the warning down
in a secret bulletin to ports last Friday however at the same time all British
ports with roll-on/roll-off ferry services were ordered to a level of alert
described as "heightened emergency'' - the highest state they have been on since
the current alert system was introduced.


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                August 28, 2002

Learn a lesson from past world conflicts

BYLINE: Michelle Hurst

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Comment; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 812 words


WE are on the brink of war n and the majority of Britons are not even aware of
it.  A war involving British troops despite no debate in Parliament.

Why? Because every time US President George W Bush sneezes, Tony Blair passes
him a handkerchief.

Bully boy Bush is planning an attack on Iraq described as "imminent".

And that means his lapdog is following right behind, tongue touching the ground
as he endeavours to please his master.

The trouble is, Bush and Blair are barking up the wrong tree.

When we stopped reeling from the horror of September 11, the western world
acknowledged that Bush had the right to hit back to stop such acts of terrorism.

With no evidence of such attacks threatening Britain, it is questionable whether
we should have got involved further than wishing America success with its
campaign.

Now that Bush's armed campaigns have got going he seems reluctant to pull back,
determined to reawaken the conflict with Iraq which his father first fought.

Bush may not like Saddam Hussein, but it is not his decision whether the Iraqi
president should continue to rule.

And, yet, Britain will back the US in such an attack on Iraq, according to
Pentagon adviser Richard Perle.

Excuse me, but don't we have a say in this?  I do not believe for one minute
that Britain should become involved, and I am not alone. A poll of 10,000 people
on GMTV last week saw an emphatic 74 per cent against Britain joining in such an
attack.

There is one very good reason why we should not become involved, and it has
nothing to do with the projected GBP 13-billion cost to Britain of such an
American-led campaign.

It is because any attack would be in direct contravention of Britain's and
America's membership of the United Nations.

The UN was set up on October 24, 1945, by 51 countries committed to preserving
peace following the Second World War.

Today, membership now totals 189 countries, and when states become members of
the UN, they agree to accept the obligations of the UN Charter, including
carrying out decisions of the UN Security Council.

And the United Nations has not sanctioned an attack on Iraq.

But would the USA or Britain be booted out if there was one? I doubt it.

And that makes a mockery of an institution set up to ensure that the likes of
the Second World War never happened again.

It only takes one person to set off on a personal crusade to threaten worldwide
stability and peace.

Once it was Adolf Hitler.

I sincerely hope history isn't repeating itself.

Hard work follows even harder life CONGRATULATIONS to Kosovan teenager Flamur
Halilaj who came to Grimsby three years ago unable to speak English but who
passed seven GCSEs.

I wish him every success and feel proud that Grimsby has given him such an
opportunity.

To get such results after only a short time is better than some who have been at
school for many more years but who are quite happy to skip classes and go on to
demand income support as if they have a right not to work like the rest of us.

Perhaps we should send them to Kosovo for three years to see how they get on.

A price too high for mother AMONG the shocking events last week was the case of
a Nigerian woman who has been sentenced to death by stoning.

Amina Lawal's crime was to have a child outside marriage and the sentence will
be carried out as soon as the baby has been weaned.

The strict punishment for the "crime" has been introduced in the mainly Muslim
northern states of Nigeria over the past two years.

It appears shocking to us because having children outside marriage is accepted
by our society.

I still think it is wrong.

Wrong because I do not, never have and never will, believe in the death penalty.

Wrong also because if having children outside marriage is so wrong under Muslim
law, why isn't the father in the dock, too?  Perfect place to prune off
also-rans OH good, another survival programme has begun.

This time the snappily-titled I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here involves a
group of celebrities (and I use the term loosely) who have been abandoned in the
Australian Outback.

Participants include Christine Hamilton, Tony Blackburn, Tara Palmer-Tompkinson,
Uri Geller and Darren Day.

Actually, I think it's a great idea. Dump all the has-beens who refuse to retire
into oblivion in the Australian Outback and leave them there.

We'd have to change the title of the programme to I'm Not A Celebrity Leave Me
Be, but I think that could be done quite easily, don't you?  HAS-BEENS:
Participants in I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here. Please do us all a
favour.

THE WAR CABINET: George W Bush and Tony Blair are ganging up on Saddam Hussein.

NEVER RIGHT: Amina Lawal (left) is taken out of court by defense counsel Hauwa
Ibrahimat after being sentenced to death.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 11, 2002

Extra armed police at Heathrow as Blair warns of terror threat

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 489 words


THE armed police squad at Heathrow is being substantially strengthened as part
of a major tightening of security around potential terrorist targets in London
and across the United Kingdom.

The guard around key public figures is also being reinforced, it was announced
today, as Tony Blair set out to place Britain on new alert against a
Christmastime terrorist threat.

The Prime Minister, however, coupled his "be vigilant" warning with a message
that normal life must go on.

Mr Blair was preparing to use his annual speech at the Lord Mayor's Banquet
tonight to deliver his gravest warning yet of the risk of an al Qaeda strike
against Britain.

Aides said he would point to the Bali bombing as evidence that the attacks could
come anywhere, anytime. He will say that public vigilance is as vital as during
the worst of the IRA's terror campaigns but that the threat, including the use
of suicide bombers, is even more unpredictable.

At the same time, however, Mr Blair will stress that ministers are "trying to
achieve a balance between vigilance and not letting the fear of terrorism hand
victory to the terrorists".

And, following last week's confusion over the message from the Home Office, with
its initial warning of the risk of a radioactive "dirty" bomb, he will say:
"There are no right or wrong decisions here."

The mounting tension at home came as the Ministry of Defence moved steadily
closer to the dispatch of 15,000 troops or more to prepare to join a United
States-led attack on Iraq.

Saddam Hussein today summoned his country's parliament to discuss the UN
resolution demanding the readmission of weapons inspectors, with unfettered
access in their search for weapons of mass destruction.

The Iraqi leader has until Friday to give his consent to the UN demand or face
"serious consequences". But there was a widespread and continuing belief in
London and Washington that, even if the weapons inspectors were allowed back in,
they would face obstruction and evasion as part of a continuing Iraqi policy of
"cheat and retreat".

Mr Blair was expected to use his speech tonight, traditionally his main foreign
policy address of the year, to urge President Bush to a fresh effort to bring
peace between Israel and the Palestinians.

The Prime Minister, in public and in private, has been pressing the US to couple
its tough line on Iraq with a strong peacemaking push in the Middle East. The
Government believes that the President can and should put more pressure on
Israel's Premier, Ariel Sharon, to open the way for talks to resume.

Sceptics have warned that, with Mr Sharon under pressure from his Right to be
still tougher, there is no hope of a breakthrough till after Israel's elections
at the start of next year.

But Mr Blair continues to see a visible strong effort to secure progress as a
key element in securing Arab backing for military action against Iraq.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 12, 2002, Wednesday

AL-QAEDA IN BID TO SINK THE SHEFFIELD;
 SEPT 11 TERROR STRIKE FOILED

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 370 words


AL-QAEDA terrorists planned a suicide bomb attack on the British warship HMS
Sheffield, it emerged yesterday.

Three men from Saudi Arabia plotted to strike the frigate as it patrolled in the
Mediterranean.

Their plan was to approach the ship in dinghies loaded with high explosives and
blow them up.

A similar attack on the US warship Cole near Yemen in 2000 killed 19 sailors.

It was also claimed yesterday that al-Qaeda members had planned to hijack a
plane at Heathrow Airport and fly it into Big Ben on September 11.

A US-based terrorism expert claimed the plot was only thwarted because all
British flights were grounded after New York's World Trade Centre attacks.

Fresh evidence of the scale of threat to Britain posed by the terror network
emerged from international investigations.

Police in Morocco confirmed they had arrested three Saudis in connection with
the planned attack on the Sheffield.

A Moroccan official said the arrests last month had been made with the help of
the intelligence services of "several friendly countries".

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "We welcome the arrests if they
involve individuals who may have been planning terrorist attacks against UK
assets."

Rohan Gunaratna, the author of Inside al-Qaeda, said the would-be Big Ben
attacker was Afroz Muhammed, who was later arrested in India.

Security agents in India have documents indicating Afroz had admitted to the
London hijack plan before retracting his confession.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman said yesterday that the UK
remained vigilant over the threat posed by al-Qaeda.

He added: "We don't comment on intelligence matters but as you might expect when
British ships are alleged to be targeted, we are in touch with our allies and
partners."

The terrorists also planned to blow up US navy ships patrolling in the Med.

The threats to British security follow revelations on Monday of a plot to
detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb" in America.

US agents have arrested a man from Chicago who is accused of plotting to build
and plant a bomb in Washington DC.

He is being treated as an enemy combatant in a US navy jail in South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 19, 2002

Blitz on al-Qaeda plotters

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.4

LENGTH: 563 words


TERRORISTS linked with al-Qaeda may have been plotting a series of Christmas
chemical attacks across Europe it emerged yesterday after a series of dramatic
arrests.

Armed anti-terrorism detectives detained seven men in separate dawn swoops in
London and Edinburgh - just 48 hours after four arrests in Paris.

Tony Blair later revealed a number of al-Qaeda attacks have been thwarted but
warned "the terrorist threat remains real and serious."

The suspects seized in France have links with one of three men held in Britain
last month amid claims they were plotting a nerve gas attack on the London
Underground.

Scotland Yard warned the public earlier this week to be vigilant because of the
threat of terror attacks over Christmas and the New Year.

The Metropolitan police highlighted the risk of bomb outrages by dissident Irish
republican groups as well as attacks by militant Muslims linked with Osama bin
Laden, who masterminded the September 11 atrocities.

And a United Nations report, led by a British expert, yesterday said new foot
soldiers for Islam's holy war are streaming into al-Qaeda training camps
recently reactivated in eastern Afghanistan.

Yesterday South Dorset Labour MP Jim Knight told Mr Blair at Prime Minister's
Questions how Dorset police have warned shoppers to be vigilant about terror
attacks in the run-up for Christmas.

Mr Blair said it was important to be vigilant, and the UK has a lot of
experience of terrorist threats because of the IRA.

But he warned the threat could take many forms and it was important to remember
there was a limit to what the Government can do.

He played down the alleged Tube poison attack plot, saying there was no evidence
of it.

But Mr Blair's spokesman said the arrests underlined how "the threat from
international terrorism is very real."

He added: "There may be no specific threat that we are aware of but there is a
general threat here and elsewhere, and the security services, police and others
will continue to do whatever they can to counter that."

All seven men arrested under the Terrorism Act yesterday morning were of north
African origin and in their 30s.

Four were seized in West London and three in the Meadowbank area of Edinburgh.
All were being questioned in Scotland last night. Scottish police led the
operation, although it is unclear whether the suspects were planning an attack
there or elsewhere on the mainland.

They were trying to establish any links with the four people found in a flat in
a Paris suburb allegedly preparing a chemical attack. They were found with two
flasks of chemical materials which could be used to pollute public drinking
water supplies and a nuclear, biological and chemical warfare protection suit,
as well as extremist Islamic literature.

French authorities believe the suspects have been to training camps in
Afghanistan and Chechnya.

They have been linked to Abu Doha, an Algerian based in London who has been
named in a German court as having a connection with al-Qaeda. And French
interior minister Nicolas Sarkozy said they were in contact with Rabah Kadre,
who was arrested in London in November over an alleged chemical attack plot.

Kadre, and two other men, are currently in custody accused of possessing items
connected with the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 23, 2002, Saturday

Overseas flights for Easter rise by 30pc

BYLINE: By Becky Barrow

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 307 words

ABOUT 30 per cent more people are flying overseas this Easter compared with last
year, confounding fears over tourism after the terrorist attacks in America.

Flights to Florida are fully booked as parents rush to take their children to
Disneyland, according to Thomson Holidays, one of Britain's largest tour
operators. Any last-minute seats are being "snapped up".

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents said: "People view
their holidays as a necessity, not a luxury. It is very much a part of life."

The number of people flying overseas is expected to jump from 1.25 million last
year to 1.6 million this year over the four-day Easter holiday, according to
BAA, which operates seven airports.

In Britain, tourism is finally picking up after a disastrous period last year
when the countryside was in the grip of the foot and mouth crisis.

The English Tourism Council is expecting up to two million people to go on
holiday in Britain, which is roughly the same as the figure from 2000.

Acknowledging the family tension sometimes associated with spending Easter
together, the figure for "holidays", classified by the ETC as a break of one
night or more, does not include trips to see friends and relatives.

Visits to the countryside are back on the agenda as well as city breaks in
places such as Blackpool, Bournemouth, Torquay and Brighton. Shopping trips in
Newcastle are also proving increasingly popular.

Museums in the capital are expecting a record number of visitors since many of
them scrapped the entrance fee in December last year.

The Met Office was yesterday remaining cautious about whether or not the weather
over the Easter holiday period would be disappointing.

It said that long-range forecasts could be misleading and refused to disclose
any information until Wednesday.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                 March 5, 2002

Tourism's plan to be the very best.

BYLINE: Keith Winsper

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 215 words


Plans are being drawn up to make the tourist industry in Sussex the best in
Britain. The West Sussex Economic Forum (WSEF) wants the county's tourist
industry to be held up as an example and is planning a hospitality skills drive.
The first stop will be the most detailed skills needs study ever undertaken,
funded by the Sussex Learning and Skills Council. WSEF executive officer Pam
Foden said: "Hospitality contributes more than GBP 337 million to the economy of
West Sussex. Following foot and mouth and the terrorism attack last autumn, the
market has become more competitive than ever. "We must ensure the very highest
quality training to retain and attract the best people. "There is already a
shortage of chefs in the UK and other skills such as housekeeping suffer from
high staff turnover and little formal qualification." Researchers will talk in
detail to hotels and further education colleges. The aim is to provide valuable
information on skill levels and to help structure training provision. It will
also identify best practice training opportunities within the industry in West
Sussex. Mrs Foden said: "If the next Jamie Oliver lives in West Sussex, we want
to make sure he has the best possible training. If we can achieve this, we'll
help the industry grow."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 23, 2002

Blair turns video star in GBP 5m bid to revive tourism

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 369 words



TONY BLAIR is to play a starring role in a promotional video aimed at wooing
foreign tourists back to Britain, Downing Street announced today.

The film is intended to help Britain profit from its newly regained status as
being officially free of foot-and-mouth disease, and from a return of confidence
among air travellers in the wake of the 11 September terror attacks.

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell is masterminding a GBP 5million publicity drive,
tagged "UK OK", in which the video will play a central part. Mr Blair has
continually stressed the importance of the tourist industry to the British
economy and will record his personal message at Downing Street tonight.

However, it comes in the wake of past attempts by Labour's high command to
"rebrand" the country - most notably as "Cool Britannia" in a campaign widely
regarded as an embarrassing flop.

Downing Street said that in the film, the Prime Minister would recognise that
2001 had been a difficult-year for tourism in Britain, but that it was now time
to "look forward". His spokesman said: "We believe the tourist industry can and
will recover." The sector has a turnover of GBP 75billion a year and provides
two million jobs in the UK.

Foot-and-mouth crippled tourism in the first half of last year and the trade is
only gradually recovering lost ground. At the time of the outbreak, Mr Blair
personally requested British embassies to do all they could to counter reports
overseas that the UK had turned into "Plague Island".

The "UK OK" campaign is being spearheaded through the British Tourist Authority,
and it is hoped the effort will recover at least half of the GBP 2billion lost
nationally last year to the trade - GBP 1billion of that in London - in which
the strong pound has played its part. Lavish celebrations surrounding the
Queen's golden jubilee will play a large role in the capital's drive to woo back
foreign visitors.

The marketing drive, allied to millions of pounds' worth of discounts on
accommodation and travel offered by thousands of individual firms, was launched
at the Tower of London today and is targeted at the US, Canada, France, Germany,
Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE NEW "UK OK LOGO" SHINING ON THE TOWER OF LONDON: A 5MILLION DRIVE
AIMS TO BOOST FLAGGING TOURISM

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 9, 2002, Saturday

TERRORISM NIGHTMARE WARNING FROM BLUNKETT

BYLINE: Chris Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


DRAMATIC warnings of a chemical or nuclear attack must not stop people from
watching out for other terror threats, Downing Street said last night.

Al-Qaeda could use a radioactive "dirty bomb, or some kind of poison gas", a
stark security assessment from Home Secretary David Blunkett said. And the
Islamic terrorists behind the September 11 attacks could turn to trains and
boats to strike at the heart of Britain's cities, he warned.

The nightmare scenario was given extra credence when Interpol chief Ronald Noble
warned that the terrorist group was planning a large-scale outrage, and that he
believed terror chief Osama bin Laden "is alive".

His warning came after Mr Blunkett's assessment was hastily recalled by
officials who wanted it shredded. It was replaced with a bland warning about
attacks on "key economic targets or upon our transport infrastructure".

The Home Office said the later version omitted details of specific threats
because that might lower public vigilance.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said officials had been "quite open" in
admitting their blun-der. "What is important is not to get diverted by that, and
to concentrate on the substance of what the document says," he said.

"What it says is that there is a serious and ongoing threat from Al-Qaeda, that
that is confirmed by intelligence reports from various parts of the world, that
that threat applies just as much to this country as to others, and that as we
learned on September 11, this is a qualitatively different kind of threat from
previous terrorist threats.

"That general threat we all have to be aware of, that is why we have to remain
vigilant." The blunder came in the foreword to a summary of anti-terrorist
measures.

It was published as Mr Blunkett and British intelligence chiefs met US homeland
security chief Tom Ridge. "If Al-Qaeda could mount an attack upon key economic
targets, or upon our transport infrastructure, they would," it says. "If they
could inflict damage upon the health of our population, they would."

Later Mr Blunkett said, "A simple clerical error within the Home Office meant
that a much earlier draft of the document was circulated rather than the
finished product. But of course, I take responsibility for the mistakes of my
department."

He added, "What I do not apologise for is the underlying purpose of the
document. I want to give people the best assessment I can of the nature of the
threats we face so that individuals can be vigilant and work with us to do
everything we can to minimise the risks we face.

"But I have to balance that message against the risk of creating unjustified
panic and disruption which would itself give the terrorists the victory they
crave."

'Outsider' Archbishop Rowan Williams - page 15

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOUGH STANCE: President Bush; and Colin Powell walking to the Rose;
Garden at the White House in Wa s h i ng t on; VOTE TENSION: Left to right;
Syria's UN ambassador Mikhail Wehbe, Britain's ambassador Jeremy; Greenstocke
and US ambassador John Negroponte vote on the Iraq resolution in the UN security
council chambers

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 15, 2002

Families call for inquiry

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 608 words


The relatives of the British victims of the Lockerbie bombing have renewed their
calls for an independent inquiry.

Speaking at a Press conference held after Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi saw
his bid to overturn his murder conviction rejected, Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for
the UK Families Flight 103 Group, said the way was now clear for a public
investigation.

Dr Swire, whose 23-year-old daughter Flora, died in the 1988 disaster, said:
Following today's judgment, which we endorse, we seek an inquiry into why our
loved ones were simply not protected and we expect that the British Government
will assist us in achieving that.

I think the Lockerbie families and all of us who fly, particularly in America
and Britain, should endorse this call. Ever since September 11 it has become
plain that civil aviation security did not protect the citizens and now that the
devil of using passenger aircraft as weapons against the population has been
established, the next atrocity might be many times worse than Manhattan.

Referring to the Lockerbie bombing itself, he said: This was a crime against
humanity and the process of Scottish criminal justice has completed today in
finding a man guilty of complicity in that crime. Many other aspects of this
atrocity remain unanswered and following it, we the UK Families Flight 103, look
for an immediate inquiry into why our people climbed into an aircraft that was
essentially unprotected.

In Britain there has been no independent inquiry into why there was no
protection and we feel that after all this time it is long overdue.

Twelve years almost have been occupied by the search for the criminals
responsible. The focus now must be to try and achieve something good by making
yet another terrorist atrocity which might be many times worse than Lockerbie
less likely to happen.

And we believe it is reasonable to expect our politicians to analyse what went
wrong in 1988, to look at everything that has been done in terms of aviation
security and intelligence since, and to provide meaningful security for our
wider population in the future in the new world in which we live since September
11.

Dr Swire warned that terrorism experts generally believe the run-up time to an
international terrorist incident was about six months.

We're almost six months to the day since September 11. We don't have much time
to put our house in order if we are to be hit again, he said.

Dr Swire explained that the destruction of Flight Pan Am 103 came six months
after an American destroyer shot down an Iranian Airbus, killing 290 people.

Many believe that Lockerbie was Iran's revenge.

Just as Mr Megrahi represents conditions as they were in Libya in 1988, we have
a need to know who it was who ordained that our children should be slaughtered
like this.

He added that it was now essential that a proper professional security service
be established to guard British civil aviation.

The Rev John Mosey said: The current Government do seem willing to engage in
discussions and have treated us very fairly in that respect.

We have already had meetings with Mr Blair and we are looking forward to another
one in the near future.

Dr Swire added: We are not going to go away.

The lack of a proper inquiry remains a standing insult to those who died. It's
as if their deaths didn't matter.

Dr Swire added: The British families had a conference call with the Foreign
Secretary (Jack Straw) this morning after the court delivered its ruling.

He said simply that the Government would have to consider the implications of
today's verdict. We shall have to take it from there.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 30, 2002

Yet again, a warning ignored;
 Australians had been told to avoid latest holiday resort to become a terror
target

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.4

LENGTH: 809 words


TONY Blair was accused yesterday of a second security warning blunder after it
emerged Australians had been told not to travel to Mombasa.

The Foreign Office failed to issue a specific warning before 16 people died in a
suicide bomb attack on a hotel in the city.

Terrorists also came within inches of killing 271 people in a missile attack on
an Israeli passenger jet.

Mombasa is a popular holiday resort for British tourists but they were given
nothing more than a general warning about Kenya.

The row echoes one which broke out after the car bomb attack on a Bali nightclub
seven weeks ago which killed 184.

As the Western Daily Press revealed, American tourists were told to stay away
from night spots in Indonesia just 48 hours before the atrocity. Most of those
who died then were Australians, and this time the country's government took no
chances.

Australian foreign minister Alexander Downer revealed yesterday he issued advice
on November 12 warning against all non-essential travel to Mombasa because of
"possible terrorist attacks against Western interests". But Britain issued a
vague warning of a danger of "indiscriminate attacks" on public places.

The revelation prompted Shadow foreign secretary and Devizes MP Michael Ancram
to write to Foreign Secretary Jack Straw yesterday demanding an urgent review of
international security co-operation.

He said the Australian warning was quite specific, and mentioned both Mombasa
and Kenya's capital Nairobi by name.

"How can it be that the Australians issued a warning on the 12 November and the
UK remained silent?" he demanded.

The Mombasa attacks are suspected of being the work of Osama bin Laden's terror
network al-Qaeda, which is thought also to have links with the Bali bombers.

Since September 11, Western tourists have become the frontline targets in the
War on Terror and there are calls for a complete overhaul of the travel advice
system, which currently relies on travellers logging on to the Foreign Office
website.

Yesterday, Mr Blair's official spokesman refused to confirm or deny whether the
intelligence which triggered the Australian warning was given to Britain. "I am
not going to comment on specific intelligence. The Government will make any
response mindful of the need to act as appropriate and not to do the terrorists'
job for them," he said.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of the British-based radical Islamic group
al-Muhajiroun, said information suggesting an attack had been circulating in the
Muslim community. Muslim communities around the world were warned to avoid East
Africa, but there was no specific mention of Kenya.

Meanwhile, two people were last night being questioned in connection with the
attacks in Mombasa.

Israel vowed to track down those responsible and Mossad, its infamous national
intelligence agency, has been charged with the task. "Our long arm will get
those who carried out the terror attacks. No-one will be forgiven," said Israeli
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Britain would do whatever it could to help
track down the "appalling" terrorists. Mr Straw said Mr Blair had written to Mr
Sharon and President Daniel Arap Moi of Kenya to emphasise the Government's
"condemnation and our condolences".He added: "So far as travel advice to Kenya
is concerned, it already warns of possible dangers and we will be reviewing that
straight away."

He said he had personally seen "no evidence" immediately linking the atrocity to
al-Qaeda but would be making an assessment.

Mombasa is the most popular tourist resort for Britons in the whole of East
Africa, attracting a large proportion of Kenya's 80,000 UK visitors each year.

The carnage began at about 8am on Thursday, when a green four-wheel-drive
vehicle crashed through a barrier outside the Paradise Hotel, 12 miles north of
Mombasa.

A man with a bomb leapt out and ran into the reception where he detonated
himself. Two others stayed in the vehicle which exploded at the same time,
searing off the front of the building. It emerged that 200 guests had been in
the lobby checking in moments earlier, meaning the death toll could have been
far higher if the terrorists had not been delayed at the gates arguing with
guards.

At least 80 people were injured, while the two dead children were identified as
12 and 13-year-old brothers from the Jewish settlement of Ariel on the West
Bank.

Meanwhile, Israeli fighter aircraft were scrambled to escort the passenger jet
safely back to Israel. The pilot of the Arkia Airlines Boeing 757, Rafi Marek,
said he felt a "light hit" moments after taking off from Mombasa International
Airport and saw two white vapour trails on the left of his aircraft.

Police later found two Stinger missile launchers in a field near the airport.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 April 17, 2002

Trial unveils Europe-wide hunt that led to Sheffield

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

BYLINE: By Nadia Brooks

LENGTH: 429 words


THE trial of the five Algerians charged with plotting to blow up a French
holiday market threatens to expose the extent of the al-Qaida network in Europe.

They are in the dock following a huge international investigation linking cities
in Italy, Germany and France, as well as Sheffield, where Lamine Maroni had
lived.

The recent trial of other al-Qaida suspects, in Italy, revealed that the plot to
bomb the Strasbourg market was masterminded and funded by British members of
Osama bin Laden's terror network.

The men on trial in Frankfurt are accused of planning a murderous attack on New
Year's Eve 2000, belonging to a terrorist organisation, falsifying documents and
weapons violations. If found guilty, they face up to 10 years in prison.

The potential massacre was stopped when German counter-terrorism experts were
warned from Britain on the Christmas Eve that an attack was pending.

British investigators intercepted a telephone conversation involving a suspect
in the UK. They overheard the plans of a terrorist attack towards the end of the
year.

Two days later officers raided addresses in the Frankfurt area and arrested four
of the five men who are on trial. The fifth was arrested the following April.

Officers found that the fingerprints of Lamine Maroni allegedly matched those of
a man convicted of robbery in Britain.

During a search of two Frankfurt flats at the time of the initial arrests,
authorities seized 20 kilos of a chemical used to make explosives, home-made
detonators, a hand grenade, sub-machine guns, rifles, revolvers and ammunition.

Among bomb-making equipment found was material for an unusual detonator that was
reportedly also used in the shoe-bomb worn by Richard Reid, the Briton accused
of attempting to blow up a flight just weeks after September 11.

German officers also found handwritten instructions for making and using the
explosives and details of how to use toxic substances in lethal doses.

Bugged mobile phone conversations picked up by Italian authorities show that the
five suspects were in contact with other suspected terrorists operating near
Milan last October.

Italian anti-terrorist police identified the suspects by their full names of
Aeurobi Beandalis, 26, Fouhad Sabour, 37, Salim Boukari, 30, Samir Karimou, 33
and the previously Sheffield-based Maroni.

German prosecutors believe the five men had all trained in Afghanistan, possibly
in camps run by Osama bin Laden's network. It is here they are thought to have
received training in constructing home-made explosives.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:22:48

