



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:52:10
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 3 1990, Wednesday

IRA bomb kills loyalist taxi-driver

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Further reports, page 2

LENGTH: 504 words


THE IRA yesterday signalled its intention to keep up a campaign of violence of
almost two decades by causing the first violent death of 1990, the assassination
of a minor loyalist figure in east Belfast.

Although the overall number of killings dropped last year, the security forces
regard the organisation as being well-equipped and intent on maintaining its
activities on three separate fronts - in Northern Ireland, mainland Britain and
Europe.


Yesterday's killing was the latest in a series in recent years in which actual
or alleged loyalist paramilitaries have been attacked by republicans, chiefly
the IRA. The victim was Harry Dickey, a 38-year-old father of two children. He
was driving his daughter Gillian, aged 16, to school when a boobytrap bomb
exploded underneath the car, killing him almost instantly.

A man who arrived at the scene later told of his efforts to stop the girl, who
was slightly injured, seeing her father's mutilated body. He said: 'I put my
arms around her so she couldn't see him. She kept asking for her daddy. I kept
holding her, saying everything was all right. It was all I could do - I was just
telling her lies.'

Mr Dickey, a taxi-driver, also had a 14-month old son. He was a member of the
Ulster Democratic Party, which is associated with the paramilitary Ulster
Defence Association. His brother-in-law is in charge of the UDA in east Belfast.
Both loyalists and non-loyalists said Mr Dickey had been active in community and
social work, and reliable sources say he was not involved in the UDA's more
violent activities.

It was at first thought that he might have been killed in mistake for a member
of the security forces, a number of whom live in the almost entirely Protestant
part of east Belfast where Mr Dickey lived.

The IRA said he was a member of the UDA's ruling six-man 'inner council' but he
appears to have been involved only on the fringes of the organisation. The UDA
said the IRA claim was 'complete and utter nonsense', adding: 'His connection
with the loyalist cause was political and community-based and nothing else.'

Nineteen Protestants alleged to have paramilitary links have now been killed
since September 1986, most of them in Belfast. Fifteen have died at the hands of
the IRA while two smaller groups, the Irish Peoples Liberation Organisation and
the Irish National Liberation Army, have killed four.

Yesterday's incident was condemned by a range of political and other figures who
said it could only increase community tensions. John Hume, leader of the Social
Democratic and Labour Party, said people in Northern Ireland should use 'people
power' to bring the IRA campaign to an end. He asked: 'Are the IRA the only
people in Europe today who need guns to achieve their objectives?'

Scotland Yard and RUC sources said they had no knowledge of a report that a
sophisticated operation to 'launder' up to pounds 15m of IRA funds had been
unearthed in the City of London.

Further reports, page 2

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 3, 1990, Wednesday

IRA bomb kills loyalist taxi-driver

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 500 words


THE IRA yesterday signalled its intention to keep up a campaign of violence of
almost two decades by causing the first violent death of 1990, the assassination
of a minor loyalist figure in east Belfast.

Although the overall number of killings dropped last year, the security forces
regard the organisation as being well-equipped and intent on maintaining its
activities on three separate fronts - in Northern Ireland, mainland Britain and
Europe.

Yesterday's killing was the latest in a series in recent years in which actual
or alleged loyalist paramilitaries have been attacked by republicans, chiefly
the IRA. The victim was Harry Dickey, a 38-year-old father of two children. He
was driving his daughter Gillian, aged 16, to school when a boobytrap bomb
exploded underneath the car, killing him almost instantly.

A man who arrived at the scene later told of his efforts to stop the girl, who
was slightly injured, seeing her father's mutilated body. He said: ''I put my
arms around her so she couldn't see him. She kept asking for her daddy. I kept
holding her, saying everything was all right. It was all I could do - I was just
telling her lies.''

Mr Dickey, a taxi-driver, also had a 14-month old son. He was a member of the
Ulster Democratic Party, which is associated with the paramilitary Ulster
Defence Association. His brother-in-law is in charge of the UDA in east Belfast.
Both loyalists and non-loyalists said Mr Dickey had been active in community and
social work, and reliable sources say he was not involved in the UDA's more
violent activities.

It was at first thought that he might have been killed in mistake for a member
of the security forces, a number of whom live in the almost entirely Protestant
part of east Belfast where Mr Dickey lived.

The IRA said he was a member of the UDA's ruling six-man ''inner council'' but
he appears to have been involved only on the fringes of the organisation. The
UDA said the IRA claim was ''complete and utter nonsense'', adding: ''His
connection with the loyalist cause was political and community-based and nothing
else.''

Nineteen Protestants alleged to have paramilitary links have now been killed
since September 1986, most of them in Belfast. Fifteen have died at the hands of
the IRA while two smaller groups, the Irish Peoples Liberation Organisation and
the Irish National Liberation Army, have killed four.

Yesterday's incident was condemned by a range of political and other figures who
said it could only increase community tensions. John Hume, leader of the Social
Democratic and Labour Party, said people in Northern Ireland should use ''people
power'' to bring the IRA campaign to an end. He asked: ''Are the IRA the only
people in Europe today who need guns to achieve their objectives?''

- Scotland Yard and RUC sources said they had no knowledge of a report that a
sophisticated operation to ''launder'' up to pounds 15m of IRA funds had been
unearthed in the City of London.

Further reports, page 2


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 4 1990, Thursday

Public's help sought in hunt for Home Counties IRA base

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63594.

LENGTH: 652 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch is searching for a safe house in the Home
Counties used by active service units behind the IRA bombing campaign in
mainland Britain over the past 18 months.

The Yard and Bedfordshire police issued a public appeal yesterday for help in
tracing the house, which could be a rented flat or small house in the Luton
area, where there is a big Irish population. Two raids in Luton and Dunstable
before Christmas failed to uncover the base, which police say would probably not
hold any explosives. Landlords are asked to contact them if they had Irish men
or women lodgers or tenants who had disappeared in the Christmas period, leaving
behind their belongings.


In December, 1988, the Metropolitan Police stumbled on a flat in Clapham,
south-west London, containing 150lb of Semtex high explosive, arms and bombs
under construction. Detectives do not believe the IRA units would repeat the
mistake of living alongside their caches.

The safe house is likely to have been used as a base from which to plan,
reconnoitre or launch attacks. It could provide a wealth of clues such as maps
and lists indicating possible targets and fingerprints to identify members of
the unit.

Other safe houses have been uncovered in areas with big transitory populations
where terrorists could hide without drawing too much attention.

In Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, the public was urged yesterday to be on the
lookout for possible terrorist activity in the run-up to a Conservative Party
conference in March. Assistant Chief Constable Hubert Reynolds, of the
Gloucestershire police, said the force was mounting its biggest-ever security
operation to safeguard the public and those attending, including the Prime
Minister and Cabinet ministers.

There have been no reports of any specific threats to the meeting of the Central
Council of Conservative and Unionist Associations. However, Mr Reynolds urged
the public to be the 'eyes and ears' of the police in reporting anything
suspicious in the town.

More than 6,000 leaflets are to be sent to hoteliers, business premises and
residents close to the town hall, urging them to be vigilant. Mr Reynolds said:
'I in no way wish to overstate the case, but there is a threat. That threat can
so easily be nullified by people in the community thinking differently over the
next few weeks, and indicating any suspicious activities straight away.'

Mr Reynolds said a top-level security operation would be in force around the
town hall, where the conference will be held, and the Queen's Hotel near-by.
Some police might be armed. On March 13 to 15, two weeks before the conference,
Cheltenham hosts the Gold Cup race meeting, which will be attended by thousands
of Irish racegoers. Mr Reynolds said: 'The fact that the races are two weeks
before the conference means there is no chance we are going to be complacent. We
are leaving nothing to chance.'

In the 1970s, IRA units operating in London used a variety of addresses ranging
from short-stay flats to bed-sitters. Tracking down the bases of the Balcombe
Street gang, the most prolific IRA unit of the time, detectives found addresses
they had used ranging from Fulham in south-west London, to Clapham south of the
Thames and north to the Muswell Hill area. In those days, the units would often
keep arms and explosives with them. Builders or decorators have twice uncovered
small caches left by units in London flats.

Police hunts persuaded the IRA to change its tactics so that units would use a
chain of safe houses as bases while their weapons and bombs would be kept in
countryside hides.

IRA units have often relied on a network of helpers to get accommodation. When
two Belfast IRA men were caught setting up explosives caches in North Wales in
1987, police found their flat in Manchester had been rented for them by an
Englishman who had disappeared.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 4, 1990, Thursday

Public's help sought in hunt for Home Counties IRA base

BYLINE:  By Stewart Tendler, Crime Correspondent

SECTION:  Home news

LENGTH: 649 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch is searching for a safe house in the Home
Counties used by active service units behind the IRA bombing campaign in
mainland Britain over the past 18 months.

The Yard and Bedfordshire police issued a public appeal yesterday for help in
tracing the house, which could be a rented flat or small house in the Luton
area, where there is a big Irish population. Two raids in Luton and Dunstable
before Christmas failed to uncover the base, which police say would probably not
hold any explosives. Landlords are asked to contact them if they had Irish men
or women lodgers or tenants who had disappeared in the Christmas period, leaving
behind their belongings.

In December, 1988, the Metropolitan Police stumbled on a flat in Clapham,
south-west London, containing 150lb of Semtex high explosive, arms and bombs
under construction. Detectives do not believe the IRA units would repeat the
mistake of living alongside their caches.

The safe house is likely to have been used as a base from which to plan,
reconnoitre or launch attacks. It could provide a wealth of clues such as maps
and lists indicating possible targets and fingerprints to identify members of
the unit.

Other safe houses have been uncovered in areas with big transitory populations
where terrorists could hide without drawing too much attention.

In Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, the public was urged yesterday to be on the
lookout for possible terrorist activity in the run-up to a Conservative Party
conference in March. Assistant Chief Constable Hubert Reynolds, of the
Gloucestershire police, said the force was mounting its biggest-ever security
operation to safeguard the public and those attending, including the Prime
Minister and Cabinet ministers.

There have been no reports of any specific threats to the meeting of the Central
Council of Conservative and Unionist Associations. However, Mr Reynolds urged
the public to be the ''eyes and ears'' of the police in reporting anything
suspicious in the town.

More than 6,000 leaflets are to be sent to hoteliers, business premises and
residents close to the town hall, urging them to be vigilant. Mr Reynolds said:
''I in no way wish to overstate the case, but there is a threat. That threat can
so easily be nullified by people in the community thinking differently over the
next few weeks, and indicating any suspicious activities straight away.''

Mr Reynolds said a top-level security operation would be in force around the
town hall, where the conference will be held, and the Queen's Hotel near-by.
Some police might be armed. On March 13 to 15, two weeks before the conference,
Cheltenham hosts the Gold Cup race meeting, which will be attended by thousands
of Irish racegoers. Mr Reynolds said: ''The fact that the races are two weeks
before the conference means there is no chance we are going to be complacent. We
are leaving nothing to chance.''

In the 1970s, IRA units operating in London used a variety of addresses ranging
from short-stay flats to bed-sitters. Tracking down the bases of the Balcombe
Street gang, the most prolific IRA unit of the time, detectives found addresses
they had used ranging from Fulham in south-west London, to Clapham south of the
Thames and north to the Muswell Hill area. In those days, the units would often
keep arms and explosives with them. Builders or decorators have twice uncovered
small caches left by units in London flats.

Police hunts persuaded the IRA to change its tactics so that units would use a
chain of safe houses as bases while their weapons and bombs would be kept in
countryside hides.

IRA units have often relied on a network of helpers to get accommodation. When
two Belfast IRA men were caught setting up explosives caches in North Wales in
1987, police found their flat in Manchester had been rented for them by an
Englishman who had disappeared.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 9, 1990

Freed bomb suspect deported

BYLINE: By DAVID ROSE, Crime Correspondent

LENGTH: 421 words


The Crown Prosecution Service yesterday withdrew explosives charges against a
man from Northern Ireland, on grounds of lack of evidence.

Mr Daniel McBrearty, who had been in custody for three months, was rearrested as
he left Lambeth magistrates court in south London. Last night the Home
Secretary, Mr David Waddington, granted an exclusion order expelling him from
Britain.


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch applied for the exclusion order under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, under which he will be deported to Belfast, after
the Crown Prosecution service case was dropped.

Mr Martin Hislop, for the Crown, told the magistrates that the case had
collapsed because it rested on forensic evidence that Mr McBrearty may have
handled an explosive, RDX.

It was now acknowledged that alleged traces found on his hands could have come
from 'fortuitous contact with another person at work or where he resides. There
is not sufficient evidence to proceed with this case'.

There was no corroborative evidence. Mr Hislop said that there was no suggestion
of malpractice by police.

As Mr McBrearty left the dock before his rearrest, he clenched his fist and
shouted: 'Always innocent, always innocent.'

Aged 36, he lives in east London with his wife Moira, and three children, and
was arrested on October 5 as he left his workplace at a building site in
Hammersmith, west London.

This is the second explosives case to collapse within a year. Last June, no
evidence was offered against two prisoners accused of planning to cause
explosions in Durham jail, after a forensic scientist said that their alleged
bomb was not, in fact, an explosive device.

All prosecutions under the Explosives Act must be specially ratified by the
Attorney General, who should in law be satisfied that there is the basis for a
case.

It emerged yesterday that the charges against Mr McBrearty were dropped only
after the prosecutors, for the first time, asked the forensic scientist involved
if it was possible for the positive traces on Mr McBrearty's hands to have
arisen innocuously.

Ms Gareth Pierce, his lawyer, said that this case and the one in Durham
demonstrated that the Crown Prosecution Service and the Attorney General were
merely 'rubber-stamping' prosecutions of a very serious nature. Moreover, the
tests given Mr McBrearty - now officially shown to be insufficient without
corroboration - were much more precise than those used in the 1970s for the
Birmingham Six and the Maguire Seven.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 9 1990, Tuesday

Waddington looks at new evidence; Birmingham Six

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63598.

LENGTH: 456 words


New submissions on behalf of the six men convicted of the Birmingham public
house bombings will get speedy consideration, Mr David Waddington said at his
first meeting as Home Secretary with Mr Gerry Collins, the Irish Foreign
Minister, in London yesterday.

Submissions on behalf of the Birmingham six were sent to the Home Office in
December by Mrs Gareth Peirce, one of the defence solicitors. The six Patrick
Hill, Hugh Callaghan, John Walker, Dick McIlkenny, Gerry Hunter and Billy Power
have protested their innocence in the bombings, claiming they confessed after
they were beaten.


It is almost two years since the Court of Appeal threw out the second appeal by
the six against their conviction for the 1974 bombings.

The new submissions are said by the Home Office to be substantial and detailed.
It will take Mr Waddington some time to examine them and decide if there is a
new case to go to the Court of Appeal, but no one could say yesterday how long
his deliberations will take.

It is understood that the new evidence is 'not very startling' and concerns
discrepancies in the timing given by police when certain forensic tests were
made.

An Irish labourer who was re-arrested within minutes of being cleared of
possessing explosives was ordered out of mainland Britain last night (Robin
Young writes).

At the request of police the Home Secretary granted an exclusion order banning
Mr Daniel McBrearty, of Burgess Road, East Ham, east London, from returning to
this country for at least three years.

Earlier Mr McBrearty had been cleared of possessing RDX, a component of Semtex,
by Lambeth Magistrates' Court. He was then detained at Paddington Green police
station while police applied for the exclusion order.

During the 10-minute hearing the Crown Prosecution Service said it would offer
no evidence to support the charge against Mr McBrearty.

Mrs Peirce, Mr McBrearty's solicitor, said he had consistently maintained that
he was completely innocent and had no involvement with explosives. After the
exclusion order she said the whole process of these was profoundly unfair.

A Dublin court yesterday ordered the extradition of Desmond Ellis, aged 37, a
television engineer, of Dunsink Road, Finglas, to stand trial for terrorist
bombings in Britain.

Police have warrants alleging that he had explosives in his possession and
conspired with three others to cause explosions in the United Kingdom between
January 1, 1981 and October 27, 1983.

Papers have been stolen from a Ford Fiesta belonging to Dr Brian Mawhinney, the
junior Northern Ireland minister, it was disclosed yesterday. The papers, in a
holdall also containing personal effects, concerned constituency matters.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            January 9, 1990, Tuesday

Waddington looks at new evidence

BYLINE:  By Richard Ford and Stewart Tendler

SECTION:  Home news

LENGTH: 452 words


New submissions on behalf of the six men convicted of the Birmingham public
house bombings will get speedy consideration, Mr David Waddington said at his
first meeting as Home Secretary with Mr Gerry Collins, the Irish Foreign
Minister, in London yesterday.

Submissions on behalf of the Birmingham six were sent to the Home Office in
December by Mrs Gareth Peirce, one of the defence solicitors. The six Patrick
Hill, Hugh Callaghan, John Walker, Dick McIlkenny, Gerry Hunter and Billy Power
have protested their innocence in the bombings, claiming they confessed after
they were beaten.

It is almost two years since the Court of Appeal threw out the second appeal by
the six against their conviction for the 1974 bombings.

The new submissions are said by the Home Office to be substantial and detailed.
It will take Mr Waddington some time to examine them and decide if there is a
new case to go to the Court of Appeal, but no one could say yesterday how long
his deliberations will take.

It is understood that the new evidence is ''not very startling'' and concerns
discrepancies in the timing given by police when certain forensic tests were
made.

An Irish labourer who was re-arrested within minutes of being cleared of
possessing explosives was ordered out of mainland Britain last night (Robin
Young writes).

At the request of police the Home Secretary granted an exclusion order banning
Mr Daniel McBrearty, of Burgess Road, East Ham, east London, from returning to
this country for at least three years.

Earlier Mr McBrearty had been cleared of possessing RDX, a component of Semtex,
by Lambeth Magistrates' Court. He was then detained at Paddington Green police
station while police applied for the exclusion order.

During the 10-minute hearing the Crown Prosecution Service said it would offer
no evidence to support the charge against Mr McBrearty.

Mrs Peirce, Mr McBrearty's solicitor, said he had consistently maintained that
he was completely innocent and had no involvement with explosives. After the
exclusion order she said the whole process of these was profoundly unfair.

A Dublin court yesterday ordered the extradition of Desmond Ellis, aged 37, a
television engineer, of Dunsink Road, Finglas, to stand trial for terrorist
bombings in Britain.

Police have warrants alleging that he had explosives in his possession and
conspired with three others to cause explosions in the United Kingdom between
January 1, 1981 and October 27, 1983.

Papers have been stolen from a Ford Fiesta belonging to Dr Brian Mawhinney, the
junior Northern Ireland minister, it was disclosed yesterday. The papers, in a
holdall also containing personal effects, concerned constituency matters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 11 1990, Thursday

New find near Welsh Semtex discovery

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

LENGTH: 241 words


A SMALL quantity of equipment which may have been used for making IRA bombs was
found on a Pembrokeshire coastal path close to the spot where 100lbs of Semtex
plastic explosive was discovered just before Christmas, it was disclosed
yesterday.

Forensic scientists are examining a handful of thin wire, two small torch
batteries and a quantity of connectors found on New Year's eve in undergrowth
near Newgale, west Wales.


The spot was less than a mile from where Semtex explosive, firearms, timers and
detonators were discovered on 22 December, after a seven-week surveillance
operation by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch and Dyfed-Powys police. The
area was extensively searched by police using explosive and metal detectors
immediately after the operation. Two men arrested at the scene were later
charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.

Following the Newgale find, police operations led to the discovery of a further
15lbs of Semtex explosive at one of two houses searched in the Luton area in
Bedfordshire.

Officers are working on the theory that an IRA safe house in the area has been
used as a base for some of the attacks on mainland Britain since 1987.

Yesterday, Bedfordshire police searched part of the grounds of Luton Hoo, a
large country house owned by Nicholas Phillips, brother-in-law of the Duke of
Westminster. It is not known whether it was part of the continuing search.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 11, 1990, Thursday

New find near Welsh Semtex discovery

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 236 words


A SMALL quantity of equipment which may have been used for making IRA bombs was
found on a Pembrokeshire coastal path close to the spot where 100lbs of Semtex
plastic explosive was discovered just before Christmas, it was disclosed
yesterday.

Forensic scientists are examining a handful of thin wire, two small torch
batteries and a quantity of connectors found on New Year's eve in undergrowth
near Newgale, west Wales.

The spot was less than a mile from where Semtex explosive, firearms, timers and
detonators were discovered on 22 December, after a seven-week surveillance
operation by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch and Dyfed-Powys police. The
area was extensively searched by police using explosive and metal detectors
immediately after the operation. Two men arrested at the scene were later
charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.

Following the Newgale find, police operations led to the discovery of a further
15lbs of Semtex explosive at one of two houses searched in the Luton area in
Bedfordshire.

Officers are working on the theory that an IRA safe house in the area has been
used as a base for some of the attacks on mainland Britain since 1987.

Yesterday, Bedfordshire police searched part of the grounds of Luton Hoo, a
large country house owned by Nicholas Phillips, brother-in-law of the Duke of
Westminster. It is not known whether it was part of the continuing search.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 13 1990, Saturday

Ryan says Hume is behind expulsion

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES

LENGTH: 281 words


PATRICK RYAN, wanted in Britain on terrorist charges, yesterday blamed Cardinal
Basil Hume for his sacking from his order of the Catholic priesthood.

The Society of the Catholic Apostolate, known as the Pallottine Fathers, said on
Wednesday that Mr Ryan had been dismissed for 'prolonged unlawful absence' and
'persistent refusal to comply with the legitimate instructions of his
superiors'.


The move means Mr Ryan, 59, is technically a priest, but can not offer Mass,
preach, or administer the sacraments without the permission of a bishop.

Mr Ryan, wanted by Scotland Yard for questioning over terrorist attacks in
London in the 1970s, yesterday appeared at a press conference in his native Co
Tipperary. He said he believed Cardinal Hume, and not the head of the Pallottine
society, was the 'real deciding factor' in his sacking.

'It was not a surprise in view of the major campaign launched in Rome by the
British state and ecclesiastical authorities over the past 12 months,' he said.
He added he was one of several Irish clergy who had had to take the
consequences, from church authorities in Rome, of supporting Irish national
aspirations.

'I feel sorry that Cardinal Hume allowed himself to be used as an instrument of
the British Crown against me and all Irish Catholics who hold national ideals,'
he said.

Mr Ryan's allegations were denied strongly by the Catholic Press Office in
Dublin. Its director, Jim Cantwell, said: 'The initiative in this matter was
taken by the Pallottine Fathers and sustained by them throughout.'

A spokesman for Cardinal Hume said: 'The matter would not even have crossed the
Cardinal's desk.'

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 13, 1990, Saturday

Ryan says Hume is behind expulsion

BYLINE: By PHIL REEVES

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 277 words


PATRICK RYAN, wanted in Britain on terrorist charges, yesterday blamed Cardinal
Basil Hume for his sacking from his order of the Catholic priesthood.

The Society of the Catholic Apostolate, known as the Pallottine Fathers, said on
Wednesday that Mr Ryan had been dismissed for ''prolonged unlawful absence'' and
''persistent refusal to comply with the legitimate instructions of his
superiors''.

The move means Mr Ryan, 59, is technically a priest, but can not offer Mass,
preach, or administer the sacraments without the permission of a bishop.

Mr Ryan, wanted by Scotland Yard for questioning over terrorist attacks in
London in the 1970s, yesterday appeared at a press conference in his native Co
Tipperary. He said he believed Cardinal Hume, and not the head of the Pallottine
society, was the ''real deciding factor'' in his sacking.

''It was not a surprise in view of the major campaign launched in Rome by the
British state and ecclesiastical authorities over the past 12 months,'' he said.
He added he was one of several Irish clergy who had had to take the
consequences, from church authorities in Rome, of supporting Irish national
aspirations.

''I feel sorry that Cardinal Hume allowed himself to be used as an instrument of
the British Crown against me and all Irish Catholics who hold national ideals,''
he said.

Mr Ryan's allegations were denied strongly by the Catholic Press Office in
Dublin. Its director, Jim Cantwell, said: ''The initiative in this matter was
taken by the Pallottine Fathers and sustained by them throughout.''

A spokesman for Cardinal Hume said: ''The matter would not even have crossed the
Cardinal's desk.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 17 1990, Wednesday

Bombs mark IRA tactical switch: The discovery of parcel bombs addressed to Army
officers has led to calls for greater vigilance by the public. Terry Kirby
assesses the IRA's new strategy

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY

LENGTH: 494 words


THE PARCEL bombs discovered at the Army's South-East District headquarters in
Aldershot yesterday represent the IRA's third switch of tactic during its 17-
month campaign directed at military targets in Britain.

Yesterday's incident has led to renewed warnings from Commander George
Churchill- Coleman, the head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, for the
public in general and all those connected with the military, and Northern
Ireland in particular, to be vigilant for IRA bombs.


Detectives are working on the theory that the bombs were posted on the mainland
and are part of the same campaign. There is some concern that others may still
be in the postal system or already delivered but unopened.

The first phase of the campaign by the IRA unit was focused on Army depots and
large bombs of Semtex plastic explosives were planted at Mill Hill Barracks in
north London, where one person died and Tern Hill Barracks in Shropshire, which
was evacuated just in time, and at Deal in Kent last September, when 11 Royal
Marines Bandsmen died.

The second phase came in December when a huge car bomb was planted underneath a
car which was believed to have belonged to a senior Army officer in west London.
It failed to detonate. Despite a nationwide alert, a similar bomb exploded a few
days later underneath the car of a staff sergeant in Colchester, an Army town
like Aldershot. He lost both legs.

Republican terrorists take the view that parcel bombs can be deadly 'the first
time', and are a useful way of attracting large amounts of publicity for a
minimum of effort. Although the IRA might have sought a more dramatic response
to the successful police operation in Wales - in which Semtex bomb-making
material was found - it is clear that they remain a substantial threat.

Parcel bombs are used rarely in Northern Ireland and only occasionally on the
mainland. The last attempt was in April 1987 when six bombs were sent to senior
civil servants, including Bernard Ingham, the Prime Minister's press secretary.
All had University of Belfast postmarks and were defused safely.

Anti-terrorist squad detectives who have been hunting the IRA unit, were last
night liaising with Hampshire police and the Army. The devices recovered
yesterday should provide extra forensic science information to add to the large
amount of Semtex and bomb-making equipment which has been recovered by
detectives in various parts of the country since December 1988, when an IRA bomb
factory was discovered in Clapham, south London.

Since the seizure of bomb-making equipment at Newgale in Pembrokeshire shortly
before Christmas, one main strand of police inquiries has focused on Luton in
Bedfordshire where it is believed the IRA may have had a safe house.

Despite an appeal to hoteliers and landlords, the location has not been
discovered. Two men arrested in Wales have been charged with conspiracy to cause
explosions.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          January 17, 1990, Wednesday

Bombs mark IRA tactical switch: The discovery of parcel bombs addressed to Army
officers has led to calls for greater vigilance by the public. Terry Kirby
assesses the IRA's new strategy

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 488 words


THE PARCEL bombs discovered at the Army's South-East District headquarters in
Aldershot yesterday represent the IRA's third switch of tactic during its 17-
month campaign directed at military targets in Britain.

Yesterday's incident has led to renewed warnings from Commander George
Churchill- Coleman, the head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, for the
public in general and all those connected with the military, and Northern
Ireland in particular, to be vigilant for IRA bombs.

Detectives are working on the theory that the bombs were posted on the mainland
and are part of the same campaign. There is some concern that others may still
be in the postal system or already delivered but unopened.

The first phase of the campaign by the IRA unit was focused on Army depots and
large bombs of Semtex plastic explosives were planted at Mill Hill Barracks in
north London, where one person died and Tern Hill Barracks in Shropshire, which
was evacuated just in time, and at Deal in Kent last September, when 11 Royal
Marines Bandsmen died.

The second phase came in December when a huge car bomb was planted underneath a
car which was believed to have belonged to a senior Army officer in west London.
It failed to detonate. Despite a nationwide alert, a similar bomb exploded a few
days later underneath the car of a staff sergeant in Colchester, an Army town
like Aldershot. He lost both legs.

Republican terrorists take the view that parcel bombs can be deadly ''the first
time'', and are a useful way of attracting large amounts of publicity for a
minimum of effort. Although the IRA might have sought a more dramatic response
to the successful police operation in Wales - in which Semtex bomb-making
material was found - it is clear that they remain a substantial threat.

Parcel bombs are used rarely in Northern Ireland and only occasionally on the
mainland. The last attempt was in April 1987 when six bombs were sent to senior
civil servants, including Bernard Ingham, the Prime Minister's press secretary.
All had University of Belfast postmarks and were defused safely.

Anti-terrorist squad detectives who have been hunting the IRA unit, were last
night liaising with Hampshire police and the Army. The devices recovered
yesterday should provide extra forensic science information to add to the large
amount of Semtex and bomb-making equipment which has been recovered by
detectives in various parts of the country since December 1988, when an IRA bomb
factory was discovered in Clapham, south London.

Since the seizure of bomb-making equipment at Newgale in Pembrokeshire shortly
before Christmas, one main strand of police inquiries has focused on Luton in
Bedfordshire where it is believed the IRA may have had a safe house.

Despite an appeal to hoteliers and landlords, the location has not been
discovered. Two men arrested in Wales have been charged with conspiracy to cause
explosions.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 25 1990, Thursday

MoD may cut back on security companies

BYLINE: JOHN PIENAAR, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 508 words


THE MINISTRY of Defence is considering plans to reorganise and strengthen its
civilian guard force, to ease the burden on servicemen and MoD police and reduce
the use of private security firms.

The proposals, contained in an MoD study, were outlined to the Commons Defence
Select Committee by Richard Hastie-Smith, the ministry's deputy under-secretary
in charge of civilian management, yesterday. The study was launched after the
IRA bomb attack at Mill Hill barracks, north London, in September 1988 and
intensified following last September's attack on the Royal Marines band school
in Deal, Kent.


The Deal bombing prompted criticism of the use of private security firms to
guard military bases. The MoD admitted yesterday that some private firms had
been dismissed for failure to meet agreed standards.

It had tightened the monitoring of private firms, currently employed at 56
establishments, and the latest proposals represented an attempt to enhance
security while limiting costs.

The study will be completed in March, and a ministerial announcement is expected
shortly afterwards.

Mr Hastie-Smith told MPs that more unarmed security staff would be recruited to
add to the 580 in his department and the Property Services Agency, who would be
trained to higher levels of competence. The study envisaged combining the eight
grades of watchmen, patrolmen and dog handlers into a single unit.

'We believe we could substitute a single civilian guard force for this variety
of types of employee. In some areas we could move towards a mixture of
resources, with a greater emphasis on this new civilian guard force,' he said.

Mr Hastie-Smith told reporters afterwards that the scheme, if approved, would
'flatten out, or even reduce' the steadily-increasing use of private firms. It
would also be cheaper than private contracts and halve the cost of using MoD
police officers.

An MoD memorandum admitted that standards specified in contracts had not been
met by private firms, and 'in these cases the contracts have been, or are being,
terminated'. Private firms were now subject to a monthly reporting system, to
monitor agreed levels of manpower, turnover of staff and the hours worked by
security personnel.

The memorandum stressed that the firms were not a complete substitute for
servicemen or MoD personnel at bases where servicemen and their families were
quartered, or to protect highly-classified material. That was a 'general
misconception'.

Meanwhile, an extra pounds 88m had been allocated over three years to improve
the security of defence installations in Britain against terrorist attack.
Higher states of alert had increased demands on manpower, particularly on armed
service personnel and MoD police officers.

Service personnel are to be issued with hand-held mirrors to check their motor
vehicles for terrorist bombs. Mr Hastie-Smith said the mirrors would be issued
to British forces in West Germany this month, and would be provided eventually
throughout Britain.

Home News Page 4

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 25, 1990, Thursday

MoD may cut back on security companies

BYLINE: By JOHN PIENAAR, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 503 words


THE MINISTRY of Defence is considering plans to reorganise and strengthen its
civilian guard force, to ease the burden on servicemen and MoD police and reduce
the use of private security firms.

The proposals, contained in an MoD study, were outlined to the Commons Defence
Select Committee by Richard Hastie-Smith, the ministry's deputy under-secretary
in charge of civilian management, yesterday. The study was launched after the
IRA bomb attack at Mill Hill barracks, north London, in September 1988 and
intensified following last September's attack on the Royal Marines band school
in Deal, Kent.

The Deal bombing prompted criticism of the use of private security firms to
guard military bases. The MoD admitted yesterday that some private firms had
been dismissed for failure to meet agreed standards.

It had tightened the monitoring of private firms, currently employed at 56
establishments, and the latest proposals represented an attempt to enhance
security while limiting costs.

The study will be completed in March, and a ministerial announcement is expected
shortly afterwards.

Mr Hastie-Smith told MPs that more unarmed security staff would be recruited to
add to the 580 in his department and the Property Services Agency, who would be
trained to higher levels of competence. The study envisaged combining the eight
grades of watchmen, patrolmen and dog handlers into a single unit.

''We believe we could substitute a single civilian guard force for this variety
of types of employee. In some areas we could move towards a mixture of
resources, with a greater emphasis on this new civilian guard force,'' he said.

Mr Hastie-Smith told reporters afterwards that the scheme, if approved, would
''flatten out, or even reduce'' the steadily-increasing use of private firms. It
would also be cheaper than private contracts and halve the cost of using MoD
police officers.

An MoD memorandum admitted that standards specified in contracts had not been
met by private firms, and ''in these cases the contracts have been, or are
being, terminated''. Private firms were now subject to a monthly reporting
system, to monitor agreed levels of manpower, turnover of staff and the hours
worked by security personnel.

The memorandum stressed that the firms were not a complete substitute for
servicemen or MoD personnel at bases where servicemen and their families were
quartered, or to protect highly-classified material. That was a ''general
misconception''.

Meanwhile, an extra pounds 88m had been allocated over three years to improve
the security of defence installations in Britain against terrorist attack.
Higher states of alert had increased demands on manpower, particularly on armed
service personnel and MoD police officers.

- Service personnel are to be issued with hand-held mirrors to check their motor
vehicles for terrorist bombs. Mr Hastie-Smith said the mirrors would be issued
to British forces in West Germany this month, and would be provided eventually
throughout Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 27 1990, Saturday

Airlines 'failing to tackle bomb threat': More than a year after the Lockerbie
disaster, security may still be insufficient to prevent another outrage

BYLINE: DAVID BLACK and HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1230 words


THE AIRLINE industry, and Western governments realised as early as 1982 that
sophisticated terrorist bombs, not hijackers, had become the principal danger to
civil aviation - yet they took no measures to combat the new threat, according
to the former head of the US Federal Aviation Administration's security branch.

In evidence to a Congressional committee investigating the events and
circumstances surrounding the bombing of Pan Am 103, over Lockerbie in December
1988, Billie H Vincent said: 'The security procedures and processes that have
been implemented since . . . are not sufficient to prevent another, similar
tragedy.'


Although Mr Vincent's comments deal largely with the US situation, his
criticisms are all too relevant to Britain's response to the same threat. After
the bombing of an Air India 747, south of Ireland in 1985, the House of Commons
Transport Select Committee investigated UK airport security, and made numerous
security recommendations. All were rejected by the Government, yet many of them
form the basis of Mr Vincent's proposals for combating the bomb menace.

The Department of Transport, at the end of last year, published a new Aviation
and Maritime Security Bill to beef up Britain's powers to enforce airline
security, yet it fails to meet the necesary requirements outlined by the select
committee four years ago, and the Vincent report.

Mr Vincent listed in his evidence examples of 30 bomb incidents directed against
airliners since 11 August 1982, when a bomb went off on board a Pan Am Boeing
747 en route from Tokyo to Honolulu, killing a Japanese passenger, and injuring
15 others.

The bomb was later believed to have been constructed from the now familiar
combination of electronic timer, barometric sensor, household batteries and
sheets of Semtex plastic explosive. Indeed, two weeks later, such a device was
found on board another Pan Am 747 at Rio de Janeiro.

Mr Vincent, who was for four years the FAA's Director of the Office of Aviation
Security, said his list was 'not exhaustive' and was compiled only from
published incidents. However, his evidence shows how the full extent of bomb
threats to airliners has been obscured from the public for seven years because
some attempts were foiled, nearly always by chance, and in other cases, the
bombs failed to go off.

In the past, airline security staff were trained to be on the lookout for
potential hijackers. But in 1985, Mr Vincent said, the FAA sought the assistance
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to develop new personality profiles of
terrorists who might be carrying sophisticated bombs. This effort failed,
however, in so far as the new profiles did not include unwitting 'dupe' carriers
of bombs. Suitcase bombs can be unknowingly carried by passengers who were given
baggage for ostensibly legitimate reasons.

On a number of occasions, young Western women have been duped by their Middle
Eastern boyfriends to take bombs on aircraft, most notably an Irish woman who
attempted to board an El Al flight at Heathrow on 17 April 1986 with a bomb
which had been planted in her handbag by Nezar Hindawi. The bag had already
cleared British security when the device was discovered by an El Al security
agent. Hindawi was later sentenced to 45 years in prison.

The Israeli airline, in many ways a model for tough and exhaustive security
measures, routinely questions passengers flying to and from Israel and pays
particular attention to young Western women travelling alone.

In another less-publicised incident more than two years earlier, a young English
woman unknowingly succeeded in getting a bomb on board an aircraft from Athens
to Tel Aviv and on to London. A disaster was only averted because the device
failed to explode and she returned to Athens still unaware of what she had been
carrying. The woman had been given the suitcase by her boyfriend, a Jordanian
passport-holder.

The Athens incident also highlighted another barrier to better anti-terrorist
security - lack of co-operation among international police and intelligence
agencies.

Mr Vincent relates the official version that Greek police confiscated the
suitcase on the woman's return to Athens in January 1984 and subsequently
discovered the faulty bomb. Intelligence sources, however, say that the Athens
incident was a security fiasco which led to a diplomatic incident involving
Britain, Greece and the United States. British and American agents were tipped
off about the existence of the suitcase bomb and, because of lack of
co-operation from the Greek police, decided to burgle the Athens apartment where
it was being kept. Greece's response was to have the agents, listed as
diplomats, expelled.

Both the Hindawi and the Athens bomb would have caused disasters on the scale of
the Lockerbie bombing. Pan Am 103 was also destoyed by a suitcase bomb, which
evaded all existing security checks.

Mr Vincent told the Congressional committee that for years prior to the
Lockerbie bombing, the US government and airlines operating in high threat areas
had 'wilfully evaded their responsibilities', by failing to adapt to the
changing threat.

'Unfortunately, unlike its action in the early 1970s to protect against
hijackings, the US government has not required the development and
implementation of a comprehensive aviation security system to protect against
sophisticated bombs . . . Civil Aviation security was inadequate at the time of
the Pan Am 103 bombing, else why did it happen?' Mr Vincent said.

Since Lockerbie, efforts to tighten airport security have been 'crisis driven',
according to Dr Richard Morgado, of the Los Alamos National Laboratories. He
says the current US plan to rely on the introduction of TNA (Thermal Neutron
Analysis) detectors to sniff out explosives is doomed, because existing designs
cannot detect bombs as small as the device which brought down Pan Am 103. These
machines are seen by Western governments as a panacea.

But according to Mr Vincent, the TNA detector which is due to be installed for
an experimental period at Gatwick airport, risks creating a sense of false
security. He said: 'The use of the TNA hyperbole to quiet the fears of the
public ill-serves the best interests of the passenger. The TNA is wrongly being
put forward as a cure to the ills of the civil aviation security system. It can
never be any more than a supplement.'

For one 747 with 350 passengers, one TNA detector would take at least 70 minutes
to screen the baggage. At peak periods, up to a dozen 747s may be queueing to
depart every hour, requiring billions of pounds to be spent on ranks of these
devices.

Mr Vincent said: 'Civil aviation security systems have historically placed an
over-reliance on technology. Staff have been insufficiently trained to detect
sophisticated sabotage devices. Without a fully trained and functioning 'people
element', no security system will be effective.'

Airport security in most countries relies on poorly-paid, inexperienced and
badly-trained personnel. 'By contrast, the Israeli aviation security system
invests four to five weeks in each individual,' he said.

Mr Vincent believes this complacency is born of an over-reliance on intelligence
and prior warnings - yet half the bomb incidents listed in his report occurred
without warning.

Home News Page 4

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 27, 1990, Saturday

Airlines 'failing to tackle bomb threat'; More than a year after the Lockerbie
disaster, security may still be insufficient to prevent another outrage

BYLINE: By DAVID BLACK and HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 1222 words


THE AIRLINE industry, and Western governments realised as early as 1982 that
sophisticated terrorist bombs, not hijackers, had become the principal danger to
civil aviation - yet they took no measures to combat the new threat, according
to the former head of the US Federal Aviation Administration's security branch.

In evidence to a Congressional committee investigating the events and
circumstances surrounding the bombing of Pan Am 103, over Lockerbie in December
1988, Billie H Vincent said: ''The security procedures and processes that have
been implemented since . . . are not sufficient to prevent another, similar
tragedy.''

Although Mr Vincent's comments deal largely with the US situation, his
criticisms are all too relevant to Britain's response to the same threat. After
the bombing of an Air India 747, south of Ireland in 1985, the House of Commons
Transport Select Committee investigated UK airport security, and made numerous
security recommendations. All were rejected by the Government, yet many of them
form the basis of Mr Vincent's proposals for combating the bomb menace.

The Department of Transport, at the end of last year, published a new Aviation
and Maritime Security Bill to beef up Britain's powers to enforce airline
security, yet it fails to meet the necesary requirements outlined by the select
committee four years ago, and the Vincent report.

Mr Vincent listed in his evidence examples of 30 bomb incidents directed against
airliners since 11 August 1982, when a bomb went off on board a Pan Am Boeing
747 en route from Tokyo to Honolulu, killing a Japanese passenger, and injuring
15 others.

The bomb was later believed to have been constructed from the now familiar
combination of electronic timer, barometric sensor, household batteries and
sheets of Semtex plastic explosive. Indeed, two weeks later, such a device was
found on board another Pan Am 747 at Rio de Janeiro.

Mr Vincent, who was for four years the FAA's Director of the Office of Aviation
Security, said his list was ''not exhaustive'' and was compiled only from
published incidents. However, his evidence shows how the full extent of bomb
threats to airliners has been obscured from the public for seven years because
some attempts were foiled, nearly always by chance, and in other cases, the
bombs failed to go off.

In the past, airline security staff were trained to be on the lookout for
potential hijackers. But in 1985, Mr Vincent said, the FAA sought the assistance
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to develop new personality profiles of
terrorists who might be carrying sophisticated bombs. This effort failed,
however, in so far as the new profiles did not include unwitting ''dupe''
carriers of bombs. Suitcase bombs can be unknowingly carried by passengers who
were given baggage for ostensibly legitimate reasons.

On a number of occasions, young Western women have been duped by their Middle
Eastern boyfriends to take bombs on aircraft, most notably an Irish woman who
attempted to board an El Al flight at Heathrow on 17 April 1986 with a bomb
which had been planted in her handbag by Nezar Hindawi. The bag had already
cleared British security when the device was discovered by an El Al security
agent. Hindawi was later sentenced to 45 years in prison.

The Israeli airline, in many ways a model for tough and exhaustive security
measures, routinely questions passengers flying to and from Israel and pays
particular attention to young Western women travelling alone.

In another less-publicised incident more than two years earlier, a young English
woman unknowingly succeeded in getting a bomb on board an aircraft from Athens
to Tel Aviv and on to London. A disaster was only averted because the device
failed to explode and she returned to Athens still unaware of what she had been
carrying. The woman had been given the suitcase by her boyfriend, a Jordanian
passport-holder.

The Athens incident also highlighted another barrier to better anti-terrorist
security - lack of co-operation among international police and intelligence
agencies.

Mr Vincent relates the official version that Greek police confiscated the
suitcase on the woman's return to Athens in January 1984 and subsequently
discovered the faulty bomb. Intelligence sources, however, say that the Athens
incident was a security fiasco which led to a diplomatic incident involving
Britain, Greece and the United States. British and American agents were tipped
off about the existence of the suitcase bomb and, because of lack of
co-operation from the Greek police, decided to burgle the Athens apartment where
it was being kept. Greece's response was to have the agents, listed as
diplomats, expelled.

Both the Hindawi and the Athens bomb would have caused disasters on the scale of
the Lockerbie bombing. Pan Am 103 was also destoyed by a suitcase bomb, which
evaded all existing security checks.

Mr Vincent told the Congressional committee that for years prior to the
Lockerbie bombing, the US government and airlines operating in high threat areas
had ''wilfully evaded their responsibilities'', by failing to adapt to the
changing threat.

''Unfortunately, unlike its action in the early 1970s to protect against
hijackings, the US government has not required the development and
implementation of a comprehensive aviation security system to protect against
sophisticated bombs . . . Civil Aviation security was inadequate at the time of
the Pan Am 103 bombing, else why did it happen?'' Mr Vincent said.

Since Lockerbie, efforts to tighten airport security have been ''crisis
driven'', according to Dr Richard Morgado, of the Los Alamos National
Laboratories. He says the current US plan to rely on the introduction of TNA
(Thermal Neutron Analysis) detectors to sniff out explosives is doomed, because
existing designs cannot detect bombs as small as the device which brought down
Pan Am 103. These machines are seen by Western governments as a panacea.

But according to Mr Vincent, the TNA detector which is due to be installed for
an experimental period at Gatwick airport, risks creating a sense of false
security. He said: ''The use of the TNA hyperbole to quiet the fears of the
public ill-serves the best interests of the passenger. The TNA is wrongly being
put forward as a cure to the ills of the civil aviation security system. It can
never be any more than a supplement.''

For one 747 with 350 passengers, one TNA detector would take at least 70 minutes
to screen the baggage. At peak periods, up to a dozen 747s may be queueing to
depart every hour, requiring billions of pounds to be spent on ranks of these
devices.

Mr Vincent said: ''Civil aviation security systems have historically placed an
over-reliance on technology. Staff have been insufficiently trained to detect
sophisticated sabotage devices. Without a fully trained and functioning 'people
element', no security system will be effective.''

Airport security in most countries relies on poorly-paid, inexperienced and
badly-trained personnel. ''By contrast, the Israeli aviation security system
invests four to five weeks in each individual,'' he said.

Mr Vincent believes this complacency is born of an over-reliance on intelligence
and prior warnings - yet half the bomb incidents listed in his report occurred
without warning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 4, 1990, Sunday

Huge costs force Yard to review VIP security

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: Page 3

LENGTH: 846 words


SCOTLAND YARD is reviewing the way it protects VIPs because of the huge cost of
guarding potential terrorist targets, including some whom the police believe are
no longer under threat.

More than pounds 40m is spent on VIP protection, and in 1988, the latest year
for which figures are available, nearly 4 per cent of the total budget for the
Metropolitan Police was spent on such duties.

As well as politicians and diplomats, those being guarded include the
Palestinian Liberation Organisation's London representative and the author
Salman Rushdie.

The guard duties mean a huge overtime bill for police. The highest-paid
Metropolitan police officer last year was reported to be a Detective Sergeant
assigned to protect a leading politician. The money which boosted his pay came
from overtime payments in connection with his guard duties.

In 1988 personal protection for foreign and domestic dignitaries provided by
Special Branch officers amounted to a total of 29,248 man days. They arrested
183 people for a variety of offences.

But Scotland Yard officers say they are wasting money protecting people who no
longer need it. Some politicians have protested when it was suggested their
protection be withdrawn or scaled down because the threat against them had
receded.

''Some MPs in particular have kicked up a fuss when it was suggested they were
no longer under threat and didn't need personal protection. With some people it
becomes a status symbol to have police protection and they are peeved when it
goes,'' one source familiar with security arrangements said.

Politicians who do need protection can pose other problems. Tom King, the
Secretary of State for Defence, is said to be one of the most arduous
personal-protection assignments. Not only is Mr King a high-risk target, but he
also has a habit of encouraging the officers to help him with manual work at his
farm in Wiltshire.

As well as reviewing protection, senior officers are also studying a report
which highlights ways of improving round- the-clock security for individuals
thought to be under threat of terrorist attack.

The cost and extent of protection has dramatically expanded since the attempt to
kill Margaret Thatcher at the Conservative Party conference in Brighton in
October 1984.

The risks facing all potential terrorist targets are assessed by the police, who
then make recommendations about the type of protection provided. Risks are
assessed on the basis of intelligence about the likelihood of attack and the
vulnerability of the target.

Discussions then take place between the police and the person being protected.
Some people have objected to police recommendations, often on the grounds of
intrusiveness and disruption to the person's home life, and a compromise is
worked out.

Police and the security services jointly decide who will be guarded. The largest
proportion of protection duties are carried out by Special Branch officers,
although many uniformed officers also take part.

The officers receive training in firearm use, close protection and emergency
driving skills. Their work is arduous and irregular and it is said to be
''extremely disruptive'' of their home life. When members of the Royal family or
politicians travel abroad, officers are involved in detailed preparatory work
about security long before the visit takes place.

Many officers become extremely close to their charges and remain friends even
after the protection has ended.

When Scotland Yard attempted to change Mrs Thatcher's personal protection
officer, she objected. She insisted that the officer remain in the post and
Scotland Yard judiciously relented.

Special Branch used to be responsible for the protection of the Royal Family but
this responsibility was passed on to a specially-formed Metropolitan police
squad, in part to distance the monarchy from the quasi-political nature of the
Special Branch.

The Royalty Protection Department, under the command of a Deputy Assistant
Commissioner based at Buckingham Palace, consists of uniformed and plain-
clothes officers responsible for the personal protection of members of the Royal
Family and their homes. They receive additional protection from local police
when travelling.

The Diplomatic Protection group was introduced in 1974 to patrol embassies in
central London. It was set up during the height of terrorist campaigns on
mainland Britain by the IRA and Middle East groups.

It was merged with the Royalty Protection Department in 1983 following an
inquiry into an incident when a man, Michael Fagan, managed to avoid security,
enter Buckingham Palace, go to the Queen's bedroom and sit on her bed talking to
her before being captured.

Last year there was criticism of the security arrangements surrounding the Queen
and other Royal Family. It was claimed that the Royalty Protection Branch was
underfunded and that budgetary constraints were compromising security and
causing low morale among officers on the squad.

Scotland Yard last week refused to comment, saying it was not policy to talk
about security.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 10, 1990

Rushdie death decree renewed by Tehran

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT, SUSAN TIRBUTT and KEITH SULLIVAN in Tokyo

LENGTH: 591 words


IRAN'S spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, yesterday renewed the Islamic
decree calling for the death of the author Mr Salman Rushdie almost a year after
he was first condemned for 'blasphemy' over passages in his novel The Satanic
Verses.

The Ayatollah's pronouncement at a prayer meeting in Tehran set back any hopes
that the affair might be beginning to lose its capacity to poison international
and race relations.


Tehran radio quoted the Ayatollah as saying: 'Imam Khomeini's decree about the
author of the blasphemous book The Satanic Verses remains in force and must be
implemented.'

The Iranian leader made no reference to alarms raised by Washington that
pro-Iranian gunmen might mount anti-American attacks in Europe tomorrow, the
11th anniversary of Iran's Islamic revolution.

But Tehran Radio did highlight the expulsion from Britain of nine Iranians for
'national security reasons'.

One of those who arrived back in Tehran, was Ali Kayvan-ara, Iranian
television's London Bureau chief, who said the expulsions were a political move
timed to coincide with the first anniversary of the Rushdie death call.

Iran's UN mission dismissed the State Department warning as a baseless attempt
to discredit the Islamic revolution.

The Foreign Office said Britain had taken note of the warning. American miltary
bases throughout Britain were on alert today as airports stepped up security
measures to guard against terrorist attack.

At Heathrow staff were told to be on their guard, particularly where PanAm and
TWA flights were involved.

The Foreign Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, praised the Americans for their handling
of the threat. 'They have got some information, obviously of a very general
kind, and if they sat on it and did nothing and something terrible goes wrong,
of course they are heavily blamed.'

The renewed threat against Mr Rushdie was deplored by British authors and
politicians. The Prime Minister said it was 'much to be regretted that threats
of this nature are made'. The shadow Home Secretary, Mr Roy Hattersley, said the
author must 'continue to receive all the protection that is necessary in order
to safeguard him against these threats'.

The Czechoslovak president and playwright, Mr Vaclav Havel, was among 160
writers who signed a statement in support of the author issued by the
International Committee for the Defence of Salman Rushdie.

Other signatories included Arthur Miller, John Fowles, Allen Ginsberg, Nadine
Gordimer and Kurt Vonnegut.

Mr Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council for Mosques, repeated promises
that British Muslims would abide by the law of Britain, and called for the law
of blasphemy to be extended to cover Islam.

Dr Kalim Siddiqi, of the British Council of Mosques, said: 'We are not here to
appease Mr Rushdie. He is up for the high jump. We are a very, very angry
people.' But he called on British Muslims not to take the law into their own
hands.

In Japan, a year after the project was abandoned by mainstream publishers, a
Japanese language edition of The Satanic Verses will be brought out next week by
a small company in Tokyo. The book has drawn protest not only from Islamic
fundamentalists but from rightwing nationalists.

Mr Gianni Palma, an Italian businessman who acquired rights to the Japanese
edition, dedicated the first imprint of 15,000 copies to Hitoshi Motoshima,
mayor of Nagasaki, who was shot and wounded by a rightwing fanatic last month
because he criticised Emperor Hirohito two years ago.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 10, 1990, Saturday

Britain on alert after US terrorist warning

BYLINE: By HARVEY MORRIS, Middle East Editor and SANDRA BARWICK

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 589 words


US MILITARY bases in Britain are on alert and air travellers are likely to face
tighter security measures at airports this weekend after the US State Department
warned of a terrorist threat.

The Foreign Office said Britain had ''taken note'' of the warning that
terrorists may strike tomorrow, the 11th anniversary of the Iranian revolution.
The Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, said in a speech in Leicester that the
Americans had been right to publicise it.

''They got some information of a general kind,'' he said. ''If they sit on it
and do nothing and something terrible goes wrong then of course they are heavily
blamed.''

A Department of Transport spokesman said: ''The US announcement does not advise
of any threat against civil aviation but we have taken the notice into
account.'' US military bases and civilian establishments across Britain are in a
heightened state of alert after the Americans said they were ''deeply
concerned'' about a possible attack.

At the United Nations in New York, the Iranian mission said the US warning was
baseless. ''The Islamic Republic of Iran categorically rejects the baseless
allegations made by the US State Department, and considers them vain attempts to
discredit the Islamic revolution,'' it said in a statement.

Robert Kupperman, of the Washington-based Centre for Strategic and International
Studies, said the US warning might signal a new sense of caution prompted by the
1988 Lockerbie bombing of Pan Am flight 103.

Although airport procedures were substantially improved last year after the
Lockerbie tragedy, there is expected to be extra care because of this specific
warning. Passengers in Britain face the prospect of extra delays as baggage is
examined in detail. At Heathrow, staff are being alerted to be on their guard.
No official directive has been given, but advice had been sought and taken on
the warning, and according to airport sources, guidelines have been issued to
staff on the ground. Baggage carried on the American airlines is already
routinely X-rayed, but there are likely to be more hand searches. The quizzing
of passengers about travel and baggage arrangements and purpose of visits will
be more intense.

A Pan Am spokesman said yesterday: ''The warning is not specific to airlines -
it talks about US interests. We are taking it seriously and we are taking all
the appropriate security precautions. But we are not cancelling any flights.
There is no cause for alarm.'' British Airways said that its employees were
constantly vigilant and that were reassuring passengers of this. They are not
receiving cancellations, and they expect tomorrow's flights to be as busy as
usual.

Sources in Western Europe and the Middle East were taking a relatively relaxed
attitude to the US warning on the grounds that they were unaware of any specific
threat over the weekend.

''It looks as if the Americans are just covering themselves in view of the
pressure they are under from relatives'' of the Lockerbie victims, one Western
source said.

The sources said they were aware of the interception of weapons shipments
destined for pro-Iranian groups in Spain and Africa, but that these did not
point to a specific threat.

The Lockerbie bombing happened after a warning issued in Helsinki, which has not
been authenticated, that an American plane flying from Europe to the United
States was the target of a bomb plot. Several US diplomatic staff members
altered their bookings as a result of the warning, which was given only limited
circulation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 21, 1990, Wednesday

Brothers claim libel damages

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 398 words


Two brothers living along the Ulster border claimed in the High Court in Dublin
yesterday that a newspaper article led some people to believe that one of them
was involved in planning an IRA bombing campaign aimed at British seaside
resorts.

The article, in The Sunday Times, referred to a farmer called ''Slab'' Murphy
who was appointed an IRA operations commander. Counsel for the brothers said
both men, surnamed Murphy, had inherited the nickname ''Slab'' from their
father.

Patrick Murphy, a farmer of Cornonagh, Crossmaglen, Co Armagh, on the northern
side of the border, and Thomas Murphy, also a farmer, of Ballybinby, Dundalk, Co
Louth - in the south - are claiming damages for libel.

They are suing Times Newspapers Ltd, Andrew Neil, editor of The Sunday Times,
and four other journalists.

The article, published in The Sunday Times on June 30 1985, under the headline
''Portrait of a check-in terrorist'', dealt with an IRA plot to plant bombs at
12 seaside resorts in Britain.

It stated: ''In Ireland itself, the planning of mainland campaigns is surrounded
now by a more tightly knit security. The IRA's Army Council last February
appointed a farmer in the republic called ''Slab'' Murphy (which is not his real
name) to be its Operations Commander for the whole of Northern Ireland. He has
no convictions for terrorist activities and this, plus the fact that he is on
the other side of the border, makes him a security headache hard to cure.

''Murphy is likely to have had to sanction certain key provisionals travelling
to Britain to take part in this summer's planned bombing campaign. It would have
been a task made easier by the fact that his farm is close to the small town of
Dundalk where IRA men on the run can gain sanctuary in 'safe houses'.''

Seamus McKenna, for the plaintiffs, said there could be no worse defamation than
to say someone had been involved in planning the murder of innocent people. He
said there would be evidence from respected witnesses who would say they knew
that the words in the article referred to the Murphys.

Mr McKenna said Patrick Murphy had moved home within 24 hours of the publication
of the article to Crossmaglen, an area which he believed was safer from
Protestant paramilitaries.

The defence maintains that no reasonable person would think the words referred
to the plaintiffs.

The hearing continues today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 21, 1990, Wednesday

Three hurt as bomb explodes in Leicester

BYLINE: By IAN MACKINNON, HEATHER MILLS and TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 481 words


A bomb exploded in the centre of Leicester yesterday, injuring a woman army
sergeant and two passers-by. Last night the city centre was closed off as bomb
disposal experts searched the area, and an immediate warning was issued to
service men and women to be on their guard.

The device, attached to the bottom of a military vehicle driven by the woman
sergeant, exploded in a narrow sidestreet. A second sergeant travelling in the
van escaped unharmed. There was no warning. The two military personnel worked at
a joint services recruiting office near the scene of the blast.

Last night the Anti-Terrorist Squad urged the public to be on the alert for
similar bombs placed under vehicles and warned that it could be the start of a
renewed car bomb campaign.

Yesterday's bomb exploded at about 4.30pm as the green, unmarked Sherpa van was
travelling along Rutland Street, shortly after being driven away from a car park
near the recruiting office in Yeoman Street. Police said the van had been parked
in the private car park and left unattended for most of the day.

The device blew up as the van moved off, injuring a sergeant from the Women's
Royal Army Corps, and two passers-by, hit by flying glass from shattered office
windows. None of the injured was seriously hurt. A male Coldstream Guards
sergeant in the van was uninjured.

The manager of a nearby building society office, Paul Dutton, said: ''I quaked
in shock. The noise was unbelievable. All the glass was falling out of the
windows on the right hand side of Rutland Street. There was debris all over the
road.''

As police searched the area, Scotland Yard Anti-Terrorist Squad detectives, led
by Commander George Churchill-Coleman, were heading for Leicester.

Keith Vaz, MP for Leicester East, speaking in the Commons, said the bomb was not
a terrorist device but belonged to the Army and was being transported on a
lorry. He said: ''Apparently it fell off the back of the lorry and caused an
explosion which resulted in injury and damage to property. This is obviously a
very serious matter raising questions as to why this particular vehicle carrying
this particular device was travelling through the centre of a major city in
Britain.''

The police emphatically denied Mr Vaz's claims. Tony Butler, Leicestershire's
assistant chief constable in charge of operations, said: ''There is no evidence
it was a military bomb. I do not know where Mr Vaz gets his information, but the
evidence I have is that this was an improvised device placed under the
vehicle.''

Although the bomb was not confirmed as the work of the Provisional IRA, it had
all the hallmarks. It serves as a signal that republican terrorists are still
active on the mainland in a campaign that began in August 1988 and has
concentrated on military targets, including the 11 Royal Marines bandsmen who
died at Deal barracks in September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          February 22, 1990, Thursday

Bomb in van linked to earlier IRA murder attempt

BYLINE: By Craig Seton and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 702 words


The IRA claimed responsibility last night for the booby trap bomb attack on an
Army van in Leicester city centre on Tuesday afternoon in which two Army
sergeants were hurt.

The claim came as police disclosed they had found forensic evidence which
suggested links between the device, which went off after falling from the
underside of the vehicle, and a murder attempt in London last year.

Yesterday as Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch worked with Leicester police
Mr David Waddington, the Home Secretary, added his voice to police calls for
greater public vigilance.

Mr Waddington said: ''This appears to be another diabolical enterprise by the
IRA which this time went slightly wrong. It is very fortunate that far more
people were not injured. Everybody must be on their guard for there are likely
to be more attacks, although the police are doing all they can to catch the
perpetrators.''

Mr Tony Butler, the assistant chief constable of Leicestershire, said the
terrorist who planted the bomb had no thought for other people. ''These devices
are unpredictable. Fortunately it went off in a side street. If it had exploded
in a main thoroughfare the results could have been devastating,'' he said.

''There were bus queues and it could have gone off alongside or even alongside a
bus. It was only by luck that people were not seriously injured.''

Mr Butler confirmed that the bomb was similar to a device intended for
Lieutenant-General Sir David Ramsbotham, Commander UK Field Army, last November.
That device, consisting of 5lb of Semtex high explosive, was attached to a car
outside his home in Kensington, west London, but fell off and failed to
detonate.

The bomb is a standard IRA booby trap device made from Semtex explosive, placed
in a lunch-box and attached to its target with a powerful magnet. In Northern
Ireland the device has killed or maimed up to a score of victims.

Mr Butler said that the Leicester bomb exploded several hundred yards after the
military Sherpa van had left the car park behind a joint careers office, where
it had been parked. The driver, Sergeant Kerry Finch, aged 32, of the Women's
Royal Army Corps, her passenger an NCO in the Coldstream Guards, and a civilian
were injured, though not seriously.

Mr Butler said the device was ''with the vehicle'' when it exploded in Rutland
Street, but refused to say whether it had fallen from the base of the moving van
before exploding.

Anti-terrorist squad officers are still hunting Patrick Sheehy who has been
wanted by Scotland Yard since December 1988 when he and another man identified
as John Conaty fled allegedly while abandoned a bomb factory in a south London
flat. , Police discovered 150lb of Semtex high explosive there.

Sheehy is described as 28 years old, 5ft 11in, with brown hair, prominent teeth,
a muscular build and a slight limp.

Last night police in Leicester ruled out of their investigation a man who had
been seen twice before explosion near the car park where the military van had
been parked. A man came forward and gave an innocent explanation for his
presence.

Mr Butler strongly criticized Mr Keith Vaz, the Labour MP for Leicester East,
for claiming in the Commons after the blast that the device was being carried in
an Army vehicle. Mr Vaz was accused by senior police officers of confusing
potential witnesses and possibly impeding the investigation.

Mr Vaz had told MPs: ''I have been informed that a bomb exploded in Leicester
this afternoon. An Army bomb was strapped to the back of a Sherpa vehicle driven
by an Army officer.

''Apparently it fell off the back of the lorry and caused an explosion that
resulted in injury and damage to property. Clearly this is a serious matter
which raises questions of why that particular vehicle carrying such a device was
travelling through the centre of a major city in Britain.''

Mr Butler met Mr Vaz in Leicester yesterday and afterwards said that the MP
recognized he was in error.

The threat to British servicemen in West Germany from the bombs is now taken so
seriously that the Ministry of Defence is buying 50,000 devices for checking the
underside of cars and issuing them to all drivers in service families there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The The Sunday Times (London)

                           February 25, 1990, Sunday

The lesson of Leicester

BYLINE: James Adams

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 859 words


Two army sergeants escaped with their lives in Leicester last week because of
faults in a bomb the IRA set to kill them. But members of the counter-terrorist
agencies fear that faults within their own antiquated intelligence structure
were to blame for the bomb having been set at all.

The bomb was a fairly new IRA design and the magnets that held it in place were
not strong enough to support the weight of the Semtex explosive. It is a basic
design flaw, and one that caused a similar device to drop from a car in London
last November.

The bomb attack was the latest in a three-year campaign being waged by the IRA
on the British mainland. Police and intelligence sources readily acknowledge
that luck, rather than skilled detective work, has prevented the number of
casualties running into dozens or even hundreds.

There is growing frustration among all branches of the counter-terrorism
community, including the army, police and intelligence services, which believe
urgent reform is essential to counter today's IRA terrorist.

There is a widespread feeling that the structure of Britain's counter-terrorist
forces is years, possibly even decades, behind the IRA in terms of
sophistication, direction and purpose. The IRA is a single organisation with
clear aims. Opposing it are the Royal Ulster Constabulary, the Security Service,
the Secret Intelligence Service, the Special Branch, the Defence Intelligence
Service, SO13, the specialist counter-terrorist force at New Scotland Yard, and
all the local British police forces.

The Special Branch was formed on St Patrick's day 1883 to counter Fenian bomb
attacks and is still responsible for countering the Provisional IRA in Britain.
The Security Service, also known as MI5, gathers intelligence on Protestant
terrorism in Britain, the IRA abroad and in the Irish republic. The RUC is
responsible for the Provisional IRA in Northern Ireland.

This enormously cumbersome structure is inefficient and ill-equipped to cope
with today's threat. While the IRA has evolved from an accident-prone and
incompetent group relying on the Irish community for its support in Britain,
each of these counter-terrorist forces has fought to retain its fiefdom.

When the IRA operated on the British mainland in 1975, its four-month campaign
killed nine people and injured 77. The terrorists were caught because they tried
to attack the same place twice and drove into a police trap.

Ten years later, when the IRA was laying the foundations for its present
campaign, the organisation had clearly learned its lessons well. A new cell
structure was set up by commanders in Dublin which used a completely different
support network.

The police believe this network uses activists some of whom may have shown some
support for the IRA in the late 1960s or early 1970s but have been politically
dormant since then. These individuals are not on any current intelligence files.
In addition, Special Branch does not consider it part of its job to run
long-term agents and so useful information on the new network is scarce.

The network employs different cells, with individual units responsible for
general reconnaissance, planning, provision of weapons, safe houses, false
papers and detailed target information. Only at the last minute, when a target
has been thoroughly scouted, are the terrorists called in to pull the trigger or
plant the bomb.

There is plenty of evidence that the IRA began planning the current campaign at
least three years ago, and it has prepared the ground well. Safe houses have
been rented all over the country, a large number of weapons dumps have been
established and concealed, and detailed information of potential targets has
been prepared.

This dedicated and professional approach makes effective counter-terrorism
extraordinarily difficult. The few arrests that have been made have had little
impact on the hunt for the terrorists carrying out the attacks. There is still
no serious intelligence coming from inside the IRA, in part because the agents
working for British intelligence inside the IRA in Northern Ireland simply do
not know the targets or the location of the safe houses.

Although communication between the different counter-terrorist agencies has
improved in recent years there is a weekly meeting at Scotland Yard to pool
information there are still serious problems and old enmities surface at the
slightest provocation. Information the currency of intelligence is hoarded
rather than shared.

The current structure is clearly not in the national interest and all the
different groups responsible for countering terrorism recognise that change is
needed. But, while arguing for change, each group wants to end up controlling
the others.

Senior Home Office officials recognise that now the threat posed by the Warsaw
Pact has been reduced, changes in British intelligence are needed. It would be
logical to make MI5 responsible for all intelligence gathering on terrorists,
taking this duty away from Special Branch and the Ministry of Defence. Britain
would then have a single service fighting a single threat once again meeting the
IRA on equal terms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  how the IRA must be fought on equal terms

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 11, 1990, Sunday

Instilling terror at the heart of quiet St Andrews study

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1156 words


THE dreaming spires of St Andrews and its venerable university seem light years
away from IRA gunmen or Beirut's murderous death squads. But Scotland's oldest
seat of learning has a new department of international relations, and the man
heading it is armed with a grant to study the victims of terrorism.

As director of the Research Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism,
Professor Paul Wilkinson is a world authority on the brand of mayhem peddled by
fanatical organisations. His interest began during the early 1960s while he was
an education officer in the RAF.

''My job was really teaching A-levels to NCOs but I gradually developed a
sideline looking at how certain outlawed groups choose extreme measures to
achieve their goals.''

On leaving the services in 1965, Wilkinson took a job at the University of
Wales, researching and writing articles on terrorism. His ''sideline'' has
mushroomed into a full-blown academic study.

Wilkinson has written numerous papers, articles and books including the highly
acclaimed Terrorism and the Liberal State, and The New Fascists. He was also
professor of international relations and head of the politics department at
Aberdeen university for 10 years before taking up his present appointment.

At St Andrews, Wilkinson intends creating a department dedicated to analysing
the seeds of international terrorism. He talks enthusiastically about the
7,000-book library inherited from the Institute for the Study of Conflict in
London and the press archive covering 100 countries, donated by private
companies.

''The department will have about 150 students from all over the world. The
courses include a master's degree in security studies as well as an option
specialising in terrorism. But we will be involved in a publication programme
with three large projects.''

An initial two-year study of the victims of terrorism will take Wilkinson and a
research assistant throughout Europe, talking to the injured and their families
and trying to assess their needs in the aftermath of outrages such as the
Lockerbie bombing. ''To the best of my knowledge, such a comprehensive project
has never been undertaken before and we hope our findings will be used as a
reference for the hospitals and social-work departments which look after the
victims of terrorist attacks.''

Wilkinson will also spearhead a study into aviation security (he was author of a
prestigious report on the Lockerbie disaster just before Christmas) and another
project examining international drug trafficking.

He maps out four distinct eras of terrorism as well as a changing type of
terrorist. In the 1950s and 1960s, terrorist activities were aimed at
de-colonisation and centered on Algeria, Cyprus and Aden. Following
de-colonisation, conflicts erupted between ethnic groups caught within new
boundaries, dissatisfied with their place in the sun. ''The Palestinians are the
classic example, claiming their land has been stolen from them.''

During the late 1960s and 1970s a threat to western democracies emerged from
radical left-wing groups. But groups such as Italy's Red Brigade, Britain's
Angry Brigade or America's Weathermen patently failed to undermine governments
and they are now footnotes in history.

Wilkinson views the rise of state-sponsored terror during the mid-1970s and
1980s as a much more disturbing phenomenon, with countries such as Iran, Syria,
North Korea and Libya being prepared to offer sanctuary, funding and training
facilities to a wide variety of terrorist factions. But he believes there has
been greater international co-operation and a distinct hardening of attitudes
towards terrorists in the last few years.

''I think the West German government is a good example of this change. They
adopted a concessionist policy during the early 1970s, but by 1977 and with the
great success of the Mogadishu rescue, they were taking a very hard line.

''The change in response of third-world countries has also been marked. In the
early 1970s the UN Secretary-General could not get any firm action. But since
then these countries, too, have seen their planes and people blown up.

''Since 1985 the world-community view of terrorism has changed. It has now
realised for the first time that the conflict is not national but
international.''

Wilkinson views the IRA and the anti-Arafat factions as the most organised and
experienced threat. But he sees possible new dangers in the momentous happenings
in the Soviet Union and eastern Europe. ''Improvements in east-west relations
have in many ways taken the lid off the bottle and released grievances with a
multitude of fanatical ethnic groups each pursuing its own claims. But it would
be unrealistic to assume we are going to witness such fundamental changes free
from trouble.''

Wilkinson declared, however, that violence has almost always failed to achieve
the ultimate aim of terrorist organisations.

''If you look at the way political changes have been achieved throughout the
19th and 20th centuries, terrorism has almost totally failed to alter anything.
The one exception was during the 1950s and the struggles over de-colonisation
where the colonial governments were half-hearted and desperately trying to find
a way out anyway.''

Wilkinson, married with three grown-up children, said a contented family life is
extremely important in the kind of work he does. ''My family are very supportive
and they would never dream of trying to influence my ideas or attempt to stop me
saying what I believe is right.

''But the study of terrorism is a dark science, so when I get home we are far
too busy talking about happy things, rather than thinking about my gloomy old
subject.''

He is a private man, totally immersed in his work, but when schedules permit his
main enjoyment is long country walks with the family labrador. Trips abroad
allow him to indulge his other pleasure visits to view modern art in local
galleries. Poetry is also an interest. But in spite of something of a jet-set
lifestyle, Wilkinson is never happier than when at home.

He acts as adviser to several western governments, international organisations
and large corporations operating in politically volatile parts of the world.
Wilkinson is evasive on that subject. Behind the ivory-tower image, is there a
Le Carre-style character, activated by a midnight call from some secret
government agency seeking instant advice on the latest atrocity?

''The only midnight call I ever get is from someone in the BBC wanting me to
tell them who they should speak to after a crisis has developed in the Middle
East.''

Wilkinson is one of the first experts the media call upon. Given such a high
profile on television and in newspapers, is he not on some hit-list himself? The
52-year-old academic gives an enigmatic smile. ''If they don't like the music
there is always the chance they may shoot the piano player. It is a hazard of
the trade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Professor Paul Wilkinson; Profile; Scotland

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 16, 1990, Friday

Execution in Iraq: Britain has secret agreement over terrorism

BYLINE: By HARVEY MORRIS, Middle East Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 585 words


FOR SEVERAL years there has been an informal secret agreement between the
governments of Britain and Iraq that Baghdad will not mount terrorist operations
on British soil.

Its existence is a recognition, on the one hand, that the Saddam Hussein regime
is capable of international terrorism, while on the other, it gives a measure of
the pragmatic working relationship that has been established between London and
Baghdad.

Britain has been fully aware of the nature of the Iraqi state and its
involvement in terrorist activities, and yet Iraq has generally escaped the
measures imposed against such so-called ''pariah'' states as Libya, Syria and
Iran. In 1978, when the Iraqi regime was still in its ultra-Baathist,
anti-imperialist phase, 11 Iraqi diplomats were expelled from London for
organising terrorist activities and smuggling weapons. The 1980 siege of the
Iranian Embassy in London, which was broken by the SAS, was known to be an
Iraqi-sponsored operation, although the perpetrators were ostensibly dissident
Iranian Arabs.

In 1982, an Arab hit-squad which shot and seriously wounded the Israeli
Ambassador, Shlomo Argov, outside a London hotel - an act which arguably
provided the motive for the Israeli invasion of Lebanon a few days later - was
traced back to the Iraqis.

As late as 1986, a post-mortem examination on a London-based Iraqi businessman
who died after dining with visitors from Baghdad at a London restaurant, showed
that the body contained Thalium - a poison known to be favoured by the Iraqi
secret service.

Despite the evidence against Iraq, relations have nevertheless tended to
improve, particularly since the outbreak of the Gulf war in 1980.

For both sides, it was a pragmatic relationship based on both trade and
diplomacy. Iraq wanted British technology; British firms wanted the business;
Iraq wanted British diplomatic support in a search for a settlement of the Gulf
War; Britain wanted to regain influence in a region where Western standing had
suffered with the overthrow of the Shah and his replacement by an unpredictable,
potentially dangerous regime.

British imperialism had carved Iraq out of the ruins of the Ottoman Empire, but
British influence had dissolved with the revolution which ousted the Iraqi
monarchy in 1958. It was a slow climb back over more than 20 years to a new
working relationship.

The importance of the relationship was also underscored by the collapse of
relations with other states in the region - with Libya over Britain's assistance
in the US bombing of Tripoli, and with Syria over the foiled attempt to plant a
bomb on an Israeli airliner at Heathrow. Relations with Iran, meanwhile, had
been fraught since the revolution and were finally broken last year over the
Salman Rushdie affair.

Despite unease about Iraq's internal repression and its development and use of
chemical weapons and missilery, Britain has, nevertheless, remained keen to keep
the relationship on an even keel. It is now Iraq's third biggest trade partner
and Iraq has given Britain preferential treatment by not requesting, as it has
of all other creditors except the United States, a rescheduling of its debt.
Underlying Britain's pragmatism is the knowledge that, after Saudi Arabia, Iraq
possesses the largest oil reserves in the world. British strategic thinkers,
therefore, see Iraq as a key regional power and insist that a working
relationship must be maintained. In the short term, however, that strategy has
been severely strained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 21, 1990, Wednesday

IRA bombs Belfast missiles plant

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 422 words


THE IRA yesterday penetrated security at Shorts' guided missile plant in Belfast
and exploded two bombs, injuring five workers.

It is the first attack on the highly sensitive plant, which is developing the
latest Starstreak ground-to-air missile for the Ministry of Defence under a
pounds 225m contract.

Security at the Castlereagh plant was strongly criticised in 1988 after missile
parts were stolen by armed loyalists who tried to trade them to South Africa in
exchange for arms shipments.

The incident comes after three bombings in eight months at the company's
aircraft factory a few miles away. Each of those was followed by government
assurances that security at Shorts was to be subject to thorough review. The
bombs went off yesterday as workers were being evacuated after a 15-minute
warning delivered in a telephone call to a Belfast newspaper. Workers said they
had little time to get clear, while staff and students at an adjoining further
education college complained they had received no warning and were close by when
the first bomb went off.

The company is clearly regarded as a prestige target by the IRA, which has said
that Shorts workers ''must recognise the consequences'' of being involved in
defence work for the British government. The terrorists' repeated successes in
breaching the company's security are a source of mounting embarrassment to the
authorities. Security reviews had been carried out by the MoD in conjunction
with the RUC.

As well as developing Starstreak, Shorts produces Blowpipe and Javelin missiles
for British forces and the lucrative export market.

Given the sensitive nature of the work, security at the missile plant - which is
close to the RUC's heavily guarded main Castlereagh interrogation centre - had
the reputation of being surprisingly relaxed. One Shorts worker who has visited
missile plants in Britain says security is noticeably tighter there.

After the theft of missile parts in 1988, however, security arrangements were
tightened. The Independent pointed out then that the top-secret research
division sat 20 yards from a busy public road and was protected by a sagging
chain fence. The authorities subsequently closed the road and surrounded the
premises with a 10ft steel fence.

The company was largely untouched during most of the Northern Ireland troubles,
but is clearly still coming to terms with the emergence of a double threat -
from loyalists who might steal its equipment, and from republicans intent on
causing damage to its premises.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 24, 1990

Killer's sentence upheld

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 300 words


WILLIAM Quinn, an Irish-American who joined the IRA in the early 1970s and
became part of its London active service unit, lost his appeal yesterday against
a life sentence passed last year for murder of a policeman in 1975.

The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Lane, said in a reserved judgment that the judge at
the 1988 Old Bailey trial of Mr Quinn, aged 42, acted correctly in allowing the
jury to hear evidence of a 'secret' identification at the Dublin Special
Criminal Court in 1975, which convicted Mr Quinn of IRA membership. A British
police constable who had witnessed the shooting of PC Stephen Tibble, aged 21,
in west London was taken into the back of the court and identified Mr Quinn.


The identification did not, however, conform to requirements of a Home Office
circular, said Lord Lane. He said the Home Secretary had no jurisdiction in the
Irish capital.

Sitting with Mr Justice Hirst and Mr Justice Kennedy, he said that while the
identification made by PC Adrian Blackledge was 'very far from being the best
sort of identification evidence, it was relevant evidence of significant
weight.'

Mr Quinn was arrested in San Francisco in 1981 and held in custody until his
extradition to Britain five years later.

Lord Lane said it was 'inconceivable' Mr Quinn did not know of the murder.

In 1975 Mr Quinn was stopped in the street and questioned by a policeman. He ran
off pursued by PC Blackledge. PC Tibble, who was off duty, joined in the chase.

In a search of the surrounding area detectives unearthed an IRA bomb factory at
Fairholme Road. Mr Quinn's fingerprints were found there.

After being released from the 12-month sentence imposed for membership of the
IRA, Mr Quinn left for America and was eventually arrested by the FBI in San
Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 29, 1990

Profiles of men who deny guilt

BYLINE: By DAVID SHARROCK

LENGTH: 407 words


PATRICK Joseph Hill, aged 45, was born in the Ardoyne district of Belfast. He
moved to Birmingham in 1960. By 1970 he had 17 convictions for brawling,
breaking and entering, and violence, mainly against his wife.

In 1962 he served three months for safe-breaking, and in 1970 served 13 months
for stabbing three nightclub bouncers.


He was unemployed at the time of his arrest. He helped with fund-raising for the
families of internees in Northern Ireland.

William Power, aged 41, was the son of a British army sergeant major. As a boy
he was sent to an approved school for truancy.

He came to England to seek work in 1963, married an Irish woman, and had four
children. He worked as a painter. Described as a soft-spoken man, he was an
obsessive gambler.

Robert Gerald Hunter, aged 43, left the Ardoyne and came to Birmingham in 1963.
He was described at the time of his arrest as a quick-tempered youth, and had
acquired two minor convictions, one for brawling.

He married a Birmingham woman and worked as an industrial painter at the same
firm as Mr Hill, James McDade (the IRA bomber who blew himself up before the pub
bombings), and Mr Power but left a month before the bombings.

Richard McIlkenny, aged 56, left Belfast at 17 to enlist in the army of the
Irish Republic but he was discharged after three years on compassionate grounds.

He came to Britain in 1956, married an Irish woman, and had six children. He
worked as a millwright at a factory in Witton, and helped organise fundraising
in Birmingham for internees' families.

John Walker, aged 54, was born in Londonderry and came to England in 1953.

He became a republican believing that his father, who died in 1972, had been
tear-gassed by British soldiers in Derry's Bogside. He married an Irish woman
and had six children, one of whom, Bernadette, gave evidence for the
prosecution.

In 1973 he became treasurer of a fund-raising organisation for prisoners'
dependants, based at Sinn Fein headquarters in Dublin.

He worked as a crane driver with Mr McIlkenny.

Hugh Daniel Callaghan, aged 59, was born in the Ardoyne. He was a staunch
republican two of his brothers being interned and had known James McDade all his
life.

He moved to Birmingham in 1947 and lived with his wife and daughter in an
Erdington council house. He had been off work with an ulcer for four years. He
was also a fundraiser for internees' families.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 1, 1990, Sunday

Vigils and rallies in cities across the world

BYLINE: By JAMES DALRYMPLE

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 256 words


(First Edition)

THE CAMPAIGN to secure the release of the six men who have served 15 years for
the Birmingham pub bombing attacks in 1974 held its biggest mass protest
yesterday with vigils and rallies in more than 50 cities and towns throughout
the world.

The demonstrations involved hundreds of supporters from dozens of self-contained
Birmingham Six protest groups which have been established in recent years in
Britain, America, Ireland and several centres on the Continent. Banners called
for their immediate release and full exoneration.

In Britain, protest meetings were held in London, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Sheffield
and Nottingham. Others took place in Belfast, Londonderry and Dublin. Silent
vigils were held outside British embassies, consulates and high commissions in
Paris, Berlin, New York, Washington and New York, with smaller gatherings at
other centres in America, Europe and South Africa.

The main demonstration was a two-hour vigil involving the families of the Six
outside the Birmingham headquarters of West Midlands police, the force which
arrested the men in the hours after the explosions. It was held not far from the
Bullring, scene of Britain's worst terrorist attack. Among those taking part
were Ann Farrell and Siobhan McIlkenny, daughters of one of the men, Richard
McIlkenny.

Yesterday's protest was timed to follow last Wednesday's Granada TV
drama-documentary which claimed to show the men's innocence. A fresh police
inquiry into their arrests has been ordered by the Home Secretary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 6, 1990, Friday

Parliament and Politics: Refusal to extradite attacked; Republic of Ireland:
Commons debates

BYLINE: By JUDY JONES, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 383 words


THE REFUSAL of the Irish Supreme Court to allow the extradition to Ulster of two
convicted terrorists last month was condemned as ''baffling and deplorable'' by
a government minister in the Commons yesterday.

Brian Mawhinney, Under-Secretary for Northern Ireland, said the implications of
the judgment in the cases of Maze Prison fugitives Dermot Finucane and James
Clarke were ''extremely serious'' for future extraditions.

His attack came on the eve of the expected Dublin Supreme Court ruling today on
Britain's application to extradite to Ulster Owen Carron, a former Sinn Fein MP,
who escaped to the Republic in 1986 while on bail.

The minister was responding to backbench protests, voiced during a short debate
initiated by Willie Ross (UUP, Londonderry E), at the Supreme Court decision on
Finucane and Clarke. They were serving sentences of 18 years each for terrorist
offences when they escaped from the Maze prison during a mass break-out in 1983.
The Dublin court had found that Finucane should not be extradited because he had
committed a ''political offence''.

Mr Mawhinney said the Government had previously understood the political offence
exception could only be invoked ''with difficulty''. He said: ''The judgments
have now rolled back from that position. They are a step in a very unhelpful and
regrettable direction. We shall be pursuing urgently with the . . . Republic of
Ireland our concern that the system . . . should work effectively.''

In a subsequent debate on the operation of the Anglo-Irish Agreement, Ian Gow
(C, Eastbourne) said Eire risked being seen as a ''safe haven for terrorists''.
He said: ''It is not impossible for those two, whose extradition was refused, to
now engage in further terrorist activities. That is greatly to be deplored.'' Mr
Gow, who resigned from government over the Anglo-Irish agreement in 1985, said
the accord had increased uncertainty in the province.

John Cope, Minister of State for Northern Ireland, said the agreement had
spawned a valuable forum for strengthening cross-border co-operation on
security. He added: ''I hope Northern Ireland remains part of this United
Kingdom. But it is the wish of a majority of the people of Northern Ireland
which matters and should be paramount, as the agreement recognises.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 7, 1990

'Political offence' revived

BYLINE: By A Correspondent

LENGTH: 270 words


WHEN Chief Justice O'Higgins gave his judgment in the Irish Supreme Court in
1982 in the case of Dominic McGlinchey, it was presumed that the so-called
'political offence' defence to extradition had been drastically curtailed, if
not consigned to legal history.

Mr McGlinchey, wanted over the murder of a postmistress in 1977, was later
acquitted in Belfast. But in the Supreme Court Chief Justice O'Higgins found
that 'modern terrorist violence . . . is often the antithesis of what could be
reasonably regarded as political'.


Subsequent judgments appeared not only to reinforce that judgment, but in one
case to go a stage further by declaring that members of the IRA or the Irish
National Liberation Army, which were dedicated to 'overthrowing the constitution
by force of arms, could not claim the benefit of the political offence exemption
at all'.

However, the new climate of political co-operation between the British and Irish
governments has been changed by Supreme Court decisions on extradition in the
past three weeks.

Last month it refused to extradite two convicted IRA terrorists recaptured after
the mass breakout from the Maze Prison seven years ago, because of a 'probable
risk' of assault by Northern Ireland prison officers.

After the decision Dublin sources refused to accept that it meant extraditions
from Ireland to Britain had ended, but it clearly confirmed the 'political
offence' exemption, and offers little hope of Britain securing any future
extraditions from Ireland under the 1965 act.

Six extradition cases are now on their way to the Irish Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 9, 1990, Monday

FOUR SOLDIERS DIE IN HOLY WEEK 'HOLOCAUST'

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2104 words


Four soldiers were killed today in a Holy Week "holocaust" when a huge terrorist
landmine blew their Land Rover off the road and hurled it over a hedge and 30
yards into a field.  The Ulster Defence Regiment members died as the bomb,
hidden in a culvert under a country lane, blasted a crater 50ft long, 40ft wide
and 15ft deep.  Shattered pieces of their heavily armoured vehicle were
scattered over countryside outside Downpatrick, County Down, near the town's
racecourse.  As police and troops flooded the area Mr Eddie McGrady, SDLP MP for
Southdown, vowed there would be no hiding place in the district for the "Godless
men" behind the attack.  At the scene he said: "Four young men safeguarding our
own safety have been barbarously murdered in this holocaust in Holy Week.  "This
is one of the most tragic events to hit this district." The people there felt
"total and absolute revulsion".  "There will be no safe haven in this particular
area for the terrorists." The IRA claimed responsibility for the attack and said
in a statement that it was carried out by several units of its South Down
Brigade.  Mrs Thatcher, speaking on BBC Radio Four, said: "You take these
murders of these four people today alongside those decisions in the Supreme
Court of the Republic not to extradite those accused of violent crime - and one
is very, very depressed.  "We need all the help we can get to fight people who
attempt these murders and those who succeed." UDR commander Brigadier Charles
Ritchie, taken by helicopter to the blast site, said: "I am sure you will
appreciate that having just come from visiting the scene of a mass murder my
thoughts at this time are very much with those families who have so sadly been
bereaved.  "Wives have had husbands murdered and mothers have lost their sons.
My heart goes out to the families of the dead." Northern Ireland Secretary Mr
Peter Brooke, in Belfast, said he was appalled by the bombing.

The four men died trapped inside the mangled wreckage of their vehicle, which
was "crushed like a sardine can" as it followed another Land Rover on patrol,
said an Army spokesman.  Four soldiers in the leading vehicle were airlifted to
hospital suffering from shock. Staggering, they raised the alarm which sent
ambulances and the fire brigade to the scene on the Ballyduggan Road in minutes.
A photographer, who came on the horror on his way to work, said: "I arrived the
same time as the ambulance and fire brigade. The Land Rover had been thrown into
the field. It was all buckled and bent, a scene of utter carnage." A woman who
heard the blast said: "There was a huge explosion which shook the house. I
didn't know what it was at first, my husband ran outside and said he could see
black smoke rising just down the road. He said he could smell sulphur." Two
civilians narrowly escaped death in the explosion. A motorist driving towards
the Land Rovers suffered cuts and bruises when his car was damaged by the blast.
Another driving behind the soldiers was also taken to hospital suffering from
shock after debris rained down on his car.  As a ground search went on to
pinpoint the bomb's detonation site, extra soldiers were airlifted in to mount a
follow-up hunt for the killers.  One of the first buildings to be searched was a
derelict house overlooking the bomb crater.  Police and troops saturated the
nationalist Flying Horse housing estate on the outskirts of Downpatrick to
establish if the bombers had taken refuge in any of the houses.

On BBC Television news Mrs Thatcher admitted she was "depressed" at the
reluctance of the Supreme Court in Dublin to extradite people suspected of
involvement in "common criminal" attacks.  "We need all the help we can get to
fight people who attempt these murders and those who succeed," she added. "These
people are not only against Northern Ireland being part of the United Kingdom,
they are against democracy itself.  "It is in the interests of everyone south of
the border to fight the terrorism as hard as we do." There was already "a great
deal of co-operation" but she hoped to give "every facility to bring such people
to justice".  Mrs Thatcher said she was aware the Supreme Court claimed
political grounds for refusing to extradite some people wanted in connection
with terrorism.  "Violent crime is not political, it's common criminal," she
stressed.  Today's attack was "yet another horror. Yet another four families
have lost a soldier".  Condemnation and disgust at the bombing was widespread.
Ulster Unionist Party councillor, Mr Sam McCartney, went to the blast scene and
said it was "the most grotesque sight I have ever seen in my life".  And Mr
Brooke said: "I'm absolutely appalled by events in Downpatrick and the loss of
four UDR men.  "Actions of this sort are wholly senseless in that they will not
deflect us from our intention to defend the community against these evil men.It
seems to me to be a peculiarly sad and deeply unchristian way to start Holy
Week.

"The security forces have the difficult job of protecting the community
throughout Northern Ireland against the terrorists. The resolve to continue to
do that will not weaken in any way despite tragedies like this morning's." He
was asked if he thought last week's decision in the Dublin Supreme Court to free
former MP and terror suspect Owen Carron had given the IRA a mandate for such
attacks, a suggestion made by the Rev Ian Paisley, Democratic Unionist Party
leader.  The judgment, he replied, like earlier judgments on Maze Prison
escapees James Pius Clarke and Dermot Finucane, "might have given terrorists
grounds for believing there was a safe haven for them within the republic".  It
was, however, "perfectly possible" the attack would have happened anyway, even
if there had not have been the Carron extradition case in Dublin on Friday.  Mr
Paisley laid "the guilt for this massacre" on Irish Prime Minister Charles
Haughey and his Foreign Minister Gerry Collins.  "He (Mr Haughey) has been
campaigning to get the UDR removed from the streets of Northern Ireland. The IRA
are now continuing to do his dirty work." Referring to the court ruling, which
refused extradition for Mr Carron on firearm charges, he said the republic was
now a safe haven for those using the weapons of war.  The IRA had been given an
added incentive and encouragement by the decision and the British Government
"has failed completely in dealing with the matter".

Mr John Taylor, Ulster Unionist MP for Strangford, said he understood the four
dead were from his constituency and added: "This tragedy will be widely
resented.  "Regrettably, such obscene atrocities will continue so long as 25% of
the Roman Catholic community encourage the IRA murder campaign by voting Sinn
Fein, Mr Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland Secretary and the Conservative Party
refuse to change their security policies which are seen by all to have failed
again, and the Dublin Government is seen to encourage the IRA by making the
republic a safe haven for republican terrorists." Ulster Unionist security
spokesman Ken Maginnis, MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone, criticised the recent
extradition refusals and the reinforcement of articles two and three of the
Irish Constitution which laid claim to Northern Ireland.  The IRA, he said,
would feel it had a mandate to continue its attacks and a safe haven in the
republic into which to flee.  The killings were condemned by Irish Prime
Minister Charles Haughey.  Mr Haughey, a frequent critic of the UDR following
allegations about security leaks to loyalist paramilitaries, described the
killings as "an atrocity which yet again demonstrates the evil of the IRA's
murderous campaign in Northern Ireland".  There was also condemnation from
Dublin's Fine Gael opposition party leader Alan Dukes, who said: "It is my view
that there is no such thing as a legitimate target for terrorism."

Irish Foreign Minister Mr Collins highlighted the need to bring today's bombers
to justice.  Mr Collins, joint chairman with Mr Brooke of the Anglo-Irish
Conference, described the atrocity as "a foul and evil deed".  "As our Prime
Minister Mr Charles Haughey and I have said, there is no place in our society
for such evil-minded persons," he added.  "This certainly will deepen and
strengthen our resolve to marginalise those who are involved in this
terrorist-type activity." His remarks followed renewed the controversy over the
issue of terrorist extradition between the Irish Republic and the United Kingdom
following the Carron ruling.  At the annual conference of Mr Haughey's Fianna
Fail party at the weekend, Justice Minister Ray Burke emphasised that the
republic was not a "bolt-hole or safe haven" for on-the-run terror suspects.
But delegates backed a call on the Irish Government to oppose the extradition of
Irish citizens to Britain and Northern Ireland "in present circumstances".  And
today, a former member of Fianna Fail's national executive, one-time Irish Army
Captain James Kelly, said that the IRA gang behind today's murders should not be
extradited if found in the Irish republic.  He claimed: "You are only dealing
with the symptoms of the violence, not the cause. There is no point in bringing
people from down here and incarcerating them in Britain.  "You are not going to
solve the violence that way. The Irish Government knows quite well what the
cause is. Mr Haughey knows what it is about and if the cause is not tackled we
cannot have peace in this country." Captain Kelly resigned from the Fianna Fail
national executive last year over the extradition issue.
    In its 20-year history the UDR has lost 187 members - six of them this year.
 Today's loss of men was the worst in a single incident since four members of
the regiment were killed in a similar bomb explosion in Co Tyrone in 1983.  In
1980 three members died in a landmine blast at Castle Wellan, a few miles from
the scene of today's attack.

Irish premier Charles Haughey, speaking in Brussels, backed Mrs Thatcher's call
for greater co-operation between the two governments following today's blast.
"I fully support Mrs Thatcher's wish for the greatest possible, and the closest
possible, security co-operation. Co-operation is good at present and has been
constantly improved in recent years.  "I think those on the ground would agree
it is at a pretty high level at the moment," Mr Haughey said.  "But if it can be
improved it should and must be improved. Every effort must be made to bring
those responsible for this latest atrocity to justice." Lord Fitt - who as Gerry
Fitt was SDLP MP for Belfast West - said he "totally and absolutely agreed" with
the way Mrs Thatcher had linked today's murders with the recent extradition
decisions in the Dublin courts.  He said: "I know for a fact that the IRA was
tremendously heartened by these decisions. And I was amazed at Charles Haughey's
sneer at his conference at the weekend when he said the British were getting
hysterical over these court cases.  "I would humbly suggest that if the vicious
series of murders in Northern Ireland had taken place in the Republic of Ireland
Mr Haughey and his government would also be hysterical."

Mr Haughey, however, denied that the Supreme Court refusal to extradite former
MP Owen Carron had any connection with today's bombings.  "I couldn't accept any
such relationship. Unfortunately the violence in the north of Ireland is both
random and unpredictable.  "I don't think anybody could seriously believe that
the people who conduct this violence and carry out these atrocities could have
any regard for the decisions of any court. They follow their own futile agenda."
Mr Haughey pointed out that Carron was freed by the Supreme Court under a piece
of legislation dating from 1965, which includes an exemption for political
crimes.  However, new legislation came into force in 1987 under which IRA
terrorists could be extradited.  "From now on practically all cases will be
dealt with under the 1987 legislation, certainly if the perpetrators of
Downpatrick were to be apprehended," he said.  "I have to maintain very
strenuously that the extradition arrangements we have with Great Britain are as
fine as any anywhere in the world between two friendly democratic states."
Labour leader Neil Kinnock said: "The IRA can always find new depths of
cowardice and murder and these killings are as despicable as others they have
committed.  "Our sympathy must go to families whose men showed great courage in
trying to maintain normality in Northern Ireland despite the vicious terrorism
of the IRA."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 27, 1990, Friday

Divided by our union

BYLINE: Philip Howard

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 883 words


When the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs addressed the
Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris on Tuesday, he broke into respectable
French in compliment to his hosts. And quite right too, demonstrating that he
comes from the threatened Cultivated Tendency in his party, and had been well
taught at his Old Coll (founded by a king with a French mother and a French
wife) by M.Peyrefitte in French conversation as well as in Moliere. If the
Foreign Secretary cannot speak passable French, who can? As Douglas Hurd's
predecessor, Robert of Gloucester, put it seven centuries ago: ''Unless a man
knows French, he is held of little account in England.'' Would that this were
still the case.

What Douglas Hurd said in French was perspicuous and pointed, as well as polite.
He said that the nations of Europe find it difficult to come together because
their languages all mean something slightly different by union. This is shrewd
linguistics as well as politics. Exact translations between languages are
literally impossible, because every word in every language is encrusted with
barnacles of connotation and history. Words that sound the same can be wildly
different.

For example, the President of West Germany addressed a British audience after
the SAS had shot the IRA bombers on the Rock of Gibraltar. He spoke partly in
English, and congratulated the British Army on its ''cold-blooded'' way of
dealing with terrorists. A frisson ran through the audience, because that
epithet was not at all the official party line. Kaltblutig looks like ''cold
blooded'', and has the same root, but it certainly does not mean what English
means by cold blooded. In German, the phrase means what English idiom describes
as ''cool-headed''. Sie ist kaltblutig hineingegangen: she just walked in, as
cool as a cucumber (but there is no room to go into the interlinguistic
connotation of cucumbers here).

In the same way, the different European words for union have different
connotations, according to the accidents of history and language. Union is in
part a political value word, and therefore highly volatile. In countries and
languages founded on unions, such as Switzerland, Italy, and the United States,
union tends to be a strong pro-word, because unity is the rock of their
establishment. In insular and old imperialist countries, such as England and
France, union has more complex resonances, because of history. We live in the
United Kingdom, and our national emblem is called the Union flag or Union Jack
because it was introduced to symbolize the union of the crowns of England and
Scotland in March 1707.

The word came into English from the Old French union and the ecclesiastical
Latin unio, meaning the number one. It was first recorded in English in 1432-50
in ecclesiastical Rolls referring to the union of the Church unto Christ. The
meaning of a political union, introducing value judgements about unity and
liberty, came as early as 1460, referring to the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick's
schism and then union with Rome. Here is Thomas Cromwell, Wolsey's secretary,
banging on about the Tudor regime's centralizing attitude towards unity in 1539:
''Ye shall bring a very union between all them there & conduce them to such a
knot as there shall be perfect union among them without strife.''

The word's meanings proliferated down the centuries. In English it was notably
affected by such events as the Union of the English and Scottish crowns, and of
the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland in 1801; by the rebellion of the
American colonials to form a union of states, and by the choice of the word to
describe a trade union. This last grew out of the use of union by the religious
sects of the English Civil War. Our attitudes to the word are coloured by our
views of these events and institutions. For example, a Poujadist small
shopkeeper in England hears the alarm bell of trade union behind the word union
and regards it as a boo-word. In France, the shopkeeper does not hear thes
echoes, because a trade union tends to be called a syndicat. Your Swiss
Poujadist, when he hears the word union, thinks warmly of William Tell, but only
if he lives in the French-speaking part of Switzerland. In German, Union is a
descriptive word for states, but the normal words for our English union are
Vereinigung and Verbindung, uniting and connection. In all European languages,
the words for union have different connotations of boo and hooray.

In English, unity is a less loaded word than union, which rings tocsins of
continental imperial ambition among the bulldog Brits. Unity is not just a good
thing for the European nations. It is the only endurable road to our future. The
disunity of Europe has stained the world (and the dictionaries) with blood for
30 centuries. And we are in fact a unity, because our cultures and languages
grew out of the founding mother of Greece and the founding father of Rome. We
must have unity, while of course learning each other's languages, and
maintaining the marvellous diversity of the languages of Dante and Racine,
Goethe and Cervantes. Come to think of it, would it not be a good idea, with
1992 approaching fast, if newspapers started publishing articles from their
European contemporaries in the original tongue?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 29, 1990, Sunday

Airlines reject call to X-ray hold baggage

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 620 words


MANY international airlines will ignore the Government's proposals to screen
passengers' luggage on flights leaving British airports.

The requirement to X-ray baggage loaded in an aircraft's hold was one of several
measures drawn up by the Government after a bomb blew up a Pan Am flight over
Lockerbie in 1988.

Some European carriers say that if the Government enforces the requirement they
will switch flights away from UK airports. The plan is futile, they say, because
other countries do not have such safeguards.

Last month, the Department of Transport wrote to all airlines operating
international flights out of Britain warning them of the requirement to X-ray
hold baggage. They were given two months to give details of how they intended to
put it into action.

When the deadline passes on Tuesday, many airlines, including Lufthansa and Aer
Lingus, will not have replied.

American airlines already X- ray all luggage as do flights to and from Northern
Ireland and the Irish Republic. Other carriers adopt a less rigorous procedure
and say that British airports would be ''choked to death'' if all luggage were
X-rayed.

''Airlines do not like being forced into total legal and financial
responsibility for making sure baggage carried in the aircraft hold will not
blow up,'' one airline official said. Others say that the Department of
Transport's proposals cannot be carried out without building new airport
terminals. ''Heathrow and Gatwick are already crowded beyond capacity during the
summer months. Checking every hold bag will make this a nightmare,'' another
official said.

Derek Kemp, managing director of EG & G Astrophysics, which makes airport
security equipment, estimated that at least 200 X-ray machines would be
necessary for 100 per cent checks. The investment could be about pounds 6m.

Lufthansa, the West German airline, said that it had asked for a delay in
replying to the department's letter because it was a complex question. ''Many
airlines will have to consult with their head offices, with security officials
and their governments. The UK is isolated. It only makes sense if other airports
and countries do similar things, otherwise it is futile. It is not a boycott.''

Many airlines hope a uniform security agreement can be reached at an
International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) meeting being held in Canada.
''What is being suggested in the UK is not being suggested elsewhere. Why should
the airlines alone take this responsibility? In other countries governments take
this responsibility. Often when there is an act of terrorism the airline is not
the target but the government,'' Lufthansa said.

Aer Lingus said it would wait for an agreed response with other airlines.

British Airways is more sympathetic to the Government. It said: ''A project team
has been examining each airport. Security and safety is important and we believe
total screening is possible in the future. Obviously we cannot divulge the
details of our proposals to the Department of Transport but we believe it can be
done.''

A senior Department of Transport source said that the views of the airlines had
been sought because ''it is a major event and there will be problems of space.
There are also labour implications. The airlines are very, very difficult to
motivate. The trouble is you are dealing with the commercial world.

''Our inspectors are discovering that if a proposal is not a directive with
backing in law, but advice or a recommendation, then the attitude from the
industry is 'Oh well, we don't really have to do this. We are not going to get
our knuckles rapped if we don't introduce these measures. They will cost us
money so we won't do it until we have to.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 1, 1990

Semtex find 'halted IRA campaign'

BYLINE: By DAVID SHARROCK

LENGTH: 541 words


AN IRA Christmas bombing campaign in mainland Britain was prevented by chance
when one of the largest caches of terrorist equipment found in this country was
uncovered in a south London flat, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

The find, in December 1988 at Staplehurst Court, Clapham, represented the means
to mount a sustained campaign of terrorism, John Nutting, prosecuting, told the
court at the start of the trial of Nicholas Mullen, an electronics dealer, and
Eamon Wadley, a hospital porter.


Mr Mullen, the more deeply involved according to Mr Nutting, 'played a central
role in the conduct of the conspiracy'. This included hiring, in false names,
safe houses and a garage and workshop for the bombing campaign, and providing
transport, false car registration numbers, bank facilities and driving licences.

'An indication of the depth of his involvement is that among property found at
the flat was an inventory of terrorist equipment in code, which was in his
handwriting,' said Mr Nutting.

Mr Mullen, aged 42, of Wood Green, north London, is accused of conspiracy to
cause explosions in the UK between January 1, 1988 and February 7, 1989, and
aiding and abetting a crime under the Explosive Substances Act by the provision
of transport and accommodation.

He and Mr Wadley, aged 36, also of Wood Green, are jointly charged with making
three driving licences available for use in connection with terrorism.

Mr Wadley 'allowed his premises to be used as a post office' for the delivery of
bank cards, licences and letters which were then passed to Mr Mullen, said Mr
Nutting. He is accused of making property available to Mr Mullen for use in
terrorism, and of failing to disclose information relating to terrorist acts.

Both men deny all the charges. Mr Mullen later admitted to many of the
activities, 'but pretended it was all in the furtherance of a credit card
fraud', said Mr Nutting. Mr Mullen said he had no idea two bombers known to him
as Sean and Martin were terrorists, and that although he had republican
sympathies, he did not support terrorism.

The plot was smashed when a young man was shot in panic by one of the active
service unit members outside the bomb factory late on the night of December 20,
1988. In a sworn statement read in court, Lionel Barrett said a man in the
driver's seat of a silvery saloon car shot him with an automatic-type handgun.
The man appeared to be trying to stare him out, when 'there was a bang and the
driver's window shattered'. He realised he had been shot, but punched the man
through the car window before staggering to his parents' flat.

Police arrived within minutes. In the flat they found an assortment of arms and
ammunition, including an assault rifle, 44 kilos of Semtex explosive, 40
detonators, detonator fuse, 15 delay devices, five booby-trap bombs charged with
semtex, three steel-encased incendiary devices and a number of radio-control
devices.

The following month, a list of more than 100 figures from the Government, armed
forces, police, civil service, business, the judiciary and universities was
found hidden in the flat. A list of targets included the British Telecom
headquarters and two satellite communication centres.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 8, 1990, Tuesday

Libyan arms fuel surge in terrorism; An intelligence failure in the 1980's has
led to a sharp rise in IRA activities, David McKittrick reports

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 644 words


THE security forces and the IRA are locked in a struggle of unusually high
intensity in Northern Ireland, with terrorist activity running at its highest
level for several years.

Although there have been comparatively few fatal casualties this year, the
authorities have been surprised by the scale of IRA activity. It is clear that a
significant regrouping of the IRA has been carried out, and that the threat
posed by the organisation is particularly high.

Although there has been fitful activity from other republican and loyalist
groups such as the Irish People's Liberation Organisation and the Ulster Defence
Association, the bulk of terrorist activity this year has come from the IRA. The
organisation has carried out numerous attacks in all of Northern Ireland's six
counties, especially in Belfast and Tyrone.

Its ''active service units'' in Britain and on the Continent have been
reasonably quiet, with the exception of last week's attempt to bomb army
sleeping quarters in Hanover, West Germany. In Ulster, however, the campaign of
violence is being sustained at a high level.

At the same time the authorities have had a series of notable successes this
year, making an almost unprecedented number of interceptions of bombing teams
and uncovering a series of bomb factories and terrorist ''hides''.

Many significant arrests have been made. As a result, Crumlin Road remand prison
in Belfast holds an unusually large number of republican prisoners - more than
130 are awaiting trial.

Republicans and security sources are reluctant to discuss exactly how the
security forces have been so successful in finding weapons and catching
terrorists, but inevitably there is speculation that the Army or police have
penetrated the IRA with one or more key informers.

Although many gaps remain, it appears that the intelligence organisations have
significantly improved their performance in recent years. The intelligence
failure, in the late 1980s, to spot the IRA's renewed link with Libya led to the
present situation. The IRA was able to import more than 100 tons of modern
weaponry, including perhaps 1,000 rifles, rocket launchers, heavy machine guns
and Semtex plastic explosive, before the route was closed off with the
interception of the gun- running ship Eksund in November 1987.

Although some of the weaponry has been found, the vast bulk is assumed to have
been secreted in ''deep hides'', mainly south of the border in the Irish
Republic. The existence of this formidable armoury means that the IRA has almost
all the material it needs to carry on its campaign for a decade at least.

During 1989 the IRA attempted to bring its new weaponry into play, with limited
success. The authorities responded with a battery of measures which included
political actions, such as television censorship of Sinn Fein, and military
tactics, which included much heavier patrolling of republican areas and a large
increase in the number of house searches. As a result, the offensive which the
IRA had hoped to stage a year ago was largely contained. It is only recently
that it has found it possible to take on the security forces and to use the
Libyan weaponry to escalate its campaign.

It is against this background that the battle is taking place. There have been
attacks on army helicopters using heavy machineguns, and RPG-7 rocket attacks.
The organisation has also refined a new type of mortar bomb with an improved
detonator.

There have been numerous attacks this year on security force bases and
personnel, on and off duty. Two people connected with firms who carry out work
for the police have been shot dead. As the chronology of IRA activity indicates,
many other targets have also come under attack.

With no sign of the current offensive running out of steam, the security forces
are preparing for further months of intense activity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 9, 1990

Cardinal O Fiaich dies on pilgrimage to Lourdes

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 477 words


CARDINAL Tomas O Fiaich, the Catholic Primate of All Ireland, died suddenly last
night while on a pilgrimage to Lourdes. He was 66.

Cardinal O Fiaich, who arrived in France with a party of 600 from his diocese on
Monday, collapsed with a suspected heart attack and died in Toulouse hospital.


The Cardinal, an ebullient man with an infectious joviality, was born in
November 1923 in the village of Cullyhanna, in south Armagh. He was known in his
home area simply as Father Tom.

He had considerable intellectual powers and became a leading theologian in the
Irish Catholic Church's university, Maynooth, where he was professor of history.

It was a measure of his political influence that many of Ireland's leading
intellectuals and politicians, including John Hume, Northern Ireland's Social
Democratic and Labour Party leader, were taught by him.

He became Archbishop of Armagh in 1977, and was made Cardinal in 1979 after a
two-year time lag blamed on British Catholic and political opposition to his
promotion. His essentially republican sympathies were well known, and in Britain
he was the subject of criticism when he urged first the Labour Northern Ireland
Secretary, and then Mrs Thatcher, to compromise over the IRA-INLA hunger strike
in the Maze prison.

The controversy over his political as well as religious influence was repeated
through his years in office, although he also made clear his opposition to IRA
violence.

In January this year he made a plea to the IRA to end the violence, saying: 'You
cannot unite people with bombs and bullets.'

Last night Jim Cantwell, of the Catholic Press and Information office in Dublin,
said: 'Being a historian, he knew the consequences of coffins leaving prisons
and the effects that would have on young people in driving them towards
violence.'

Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister, said he was devastated and deeply
grieved by Cardinal O Fiaich's death. 'I will remember him as a great Irishman.'

Seamus Mallon, SDLP MP for Newry and Armagh, said: 'He will be remembered as a
man whose devotion to ordinary people far outstretched the call of duty.'

Robert Runcie, the Archbishop of Canterbury, referred to the Cardinal as a
friend. He said: 'Cardinal O Fiaich was a devout and staunch churchman, whom I
counted as a friend.'

The Rev Martin Smyth, Ulster Unionist MP for Belfast South, said: 'We mourn the
passing of any person, but hope the opportunity will be given to the Roman
Catholic community in Ireland for a more positive spiritual leadership and a
less republican stance than has been taken recently.'

The next most senior churchman in the Catholic church is Dr Cahal Daly, Bishop
of Down and Connor, who is regarded as much more hostile to the IRA. The
Cardinal's death will re-open the question of the political orientation of the
Church.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 9, 1990, Wednesday

Cardinal taken aback by storms of his own making; David McKittrick reflects on
the controversial career of Cardinal Tomas O Fiaich, who died yesterday

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 386 words


Cardinal Tomas O Fiaich's 13 years at the head of the Catholic church in Ireland
were punctuated by political storms, almost always caused by his own remarks. He
often seemed taken aback by the impact of his comments.

The most recent came last November, when he made one of his sporadic calls for
Britain to declare that it intended to leave Northern Ireland. The comment
brought much angry reaction: yet all the signs are that he had not realised it
might receive a wider audience than the patients listening to the hospital radio
station on which he made it.

To many Northern Ireland Protestants, Cardinal O Fiaich was a ''sneaking
regarder'' of Sinn Fein and the IRA. His multitudinous condemnations of IRA
violence cut little ice with Unionists, who viewed them in the context of other
comments which they saw as backing Sinn Fein policy.

For his part, he clearly had difficulties coming to terms with the concept of a
Protestant community that resolutely refused to regard itself as part of the
Irish nation.

Many Protestants marked him down from the start as a republican, noting that he
came from south Armagh. The Rev Ian Paisley, asked what he thought of him,
replied: ''He comes from Crossmaglen. You can take him out of Crossmaglen but
you can't taken Crossmaglen out of him.''

Cardinal O Fiaich was a popular man, noted for his fondness of convivial
company, cigarettes and Irish whiskey. The students whom he taught at Maynooth
College in the republic, where he served both as history professor and college
president, remember him with great affection.

But as Cardinal he was never regarded as a strong leader in either the religious
or political spheres. Politically, his beliefs seemed to start and finish with
the idea that Britain should pull out, a stance which many political figures -
nationalists as well as unionist and British politicians - criticised as
simplistic.

He took surprisingly little part in the great public debates on abortion and
divorce in the republic, leaving the running to other bishops. Then, when the
debates were over, he baffled his supporters and critics alike by reversing the
standard position and declaring that there should be divorce in a united
Ireland. He will be remembered as a prelate who had more than the normal quota
of unguarded moments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                                  May 11, 1990

SURVEY: Northern Ireland: Tourism And The Image Problem - Terrorism, or rather
fear of it, still presents a considerable challenge to the tourism industry

BYLINE: By ROBERT WATERHOUSE

SECTION: Pg. 86

LENGTH: 828 words


A MAP illustrating a Sunday Times article on golfing in Ireland earlier this
year left a gap for the Province. There are, in fact, some 80 golf courses in
Northern Ireland from humble 9-hole meadow clubs to splendid championship links
at Royal Portrush and Royal County Down. Golf is just one example of Ulster's
image problem where perception defies and denies reality.

Terrorism, or rather fear of it, is the reason why tourism contributes just 1.5
per cent of the Province's GDP and employs only 9,000 people. In the twenty
years since the Troubles returned, visitors, having plummeted to 40 per cent of
the 1970 level, are now back to the original annual figure of around one
million. In the same period the Republic increased its share of visitors by 50
per cent, while almost three times as many came to Great Britain.


However, the visitor profile shows an even more worrying trend. In mainland
Britain and the Republic, holidaymakers form between 45-50 per cent of the
total. In Northern Ireland they are less than 15 per cent. Half of those
trayelling to the Province do so to visit friends and relations compared with
about 20 per cent in the rest of the British Isles. Such visitors, by
definition, are not big tourism spenders.

The Northern Ireland Tourism Board, an arm of the Department of Economic
Development, is well aware of the challenge. Last year the board published its
response, 'A View to the Future', spelling out the need for niche marketing, for
cooperation with the British Tourist Authority and with Bord Failte of the
Republic, and for product coordination and packaging. The report's conclusion,
accepted by the government, was that effective promotion, though unlikely to
change global perceptions, could make worthwhile gains in target areas.

Visitors, cornucopia

Few would deny the Province's assets. Outside Belfast - and Belfast itself has
improved greatly - Northern Ireland is a visitors' cornucopia. Its natural
beauties, highlighted in the Mourne and Sperrin mountains, Strangford Lough, the
Causeway coast and the Fermanagh lakeland, are all within a couple of hours'
drive of the capital. Quality fishing, cruising and sailing, pony trekking and
golfing come at a price which Scotland and the Republic find hard to match.
Welcoming inns, farmhouses and guest houses offer excellent short-break terms.
Good restaurants are surprisingly plentiful.

Because it is both compact and sparsely populated, and because tourism is so
unexploited, visitors stand every chance of satisfaction. However, things aren't
quite the same as elsewhere. Driving through Newcastle, the faded resort where
the Mountains of Mourne sweep down to the Sea, we passed an army foot patrol.
And the return road by Downpatrick on the way to Strangford was where four UDR
soldiers lost their lives in a huge IRA bomb ambush just one week later.
Downpatrick is the reputed burial place of St Patrick himself.

First-time visitors to the Province learn quickly enough to accept fortified
police stations in the smallest country towns, security checks which involve
opening car bonnets and boots, and the occasional armoured vehicle in the
street.

By way of compensation, people are extraordinarily friendly to the stranger.
Northern lreland has little of the wistful sadness found in the South and West.
The Province's best ambassadors are those who have seen for themselves. Repeat
business accounts for a high proportion of tourism spend.

Tourism initiatives, and the jobs they create, can form a bridgehead to reduce
communal tensions. From Derry, the city known around the world for 'No
surrender', the Bogside and Bloody Sunday, the SDLP-controlled city council is
poised to launch an advertising campaign via Ulster TV (watched in much of the
Republic) promoting its historic role as regional capital of north-west Ireland.

Trust House Forte has just announced a new hotel close to the proposed pounds
60m O'Connell Centre. Derry has a target of 200,000 visitors a year by 1992,
when citizens of the Republic should no longer be constrained by the 48-hour
rule preventing day trips. Historic city walls are being restored and, it is
hoped, largely freed from barbed wire. Interpretive centres will seek to explain
controversial events of the past four centuries.

Optimism

The chairperson of Derry's Tourism Panel, CIIr Annie Courtley, shows evident
pride in the city's restored Guildhall, where DSLP and Sinn Fein councillors sit
down with Official and Democratic Unionists under an agreement which rotates the
mayorality and committee control between Catholic and Protestant. Stained glass
recalling Derry's longstanding links with the City of London is matched by a new
window dedicated to those who died on Bloody Sunday.

CIIr Courtley insists that the tourist will have nothing to fear.' There is no
possibility of conflict,' she says'People are only too happy to see visitors
coming here again.'

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 1990 Financial Times Business

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 13, 1990, Sunday

Ireland pays its respects to Tomas O Fiaich

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 369 words


DUBLIN (Reuter, AP) - The body of Cardinal Tomas O Fiaich was flown to Dublin
from Paris yesterday as thousands of mourning Irish Catholics lined the route
for his last journey home to Northern Ireland.

The Cardinal, head of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, died of a heart
attack on Tuesday during a pilgrimage to the French shrine of Lourdes. He was
66.

O Fiaich, a fervent believer in a united Ireland, often criticised Britain's
presence in Northern Ireland but was equally vocal in condemning the terrorist
activities of the IRA.

Some of the Cardinal's favourite hymns were sung on the two-hour flight from
France to Dublin. Passengers on the St Eunan, an Aer Lingus Boeing 737 sent
especially by the Irish state airline, called it ''an emotion- charged flight''.

The Irish President, Patrick Hillery, the Prime Minister, Charles Haughey, and
most of his cabinet as well as the opposition Fine Gael leader, Alan Dukes, were
at Dublin airport to meet the cortege and attend a brief service with some 400
Catholics.

The service was covered live by Irish television and all the hymns were sung in
Irish as a tribute to the Cardinal, a noted Gaelic language scholar.

The cortege then left for the 85- mile trip by road to his birthplace and
diocese of Armagh. It stopped for prayers along the way at Drogheda and Dundalk,
where thousands gathered to pay their respects.

The next stops were across the border in Northern Ireland at Crossmaglen, and
finally St Patrick's Cathedral in Armagh, where the body will lie in state. On
Tuesday five cardinals and 50 bishops will concelebrate requiem Mass before
burial.

Mr Haughey and Mr Hillery are to attend the funeral, as are the Northern Ireland
Secretary, Peter Brooke, and the Vatican's papal nuncio, Emmanuele Gerada. Also
to attend are Cardinal Basil Hume of Westminster, Cardinal John O'Connor of New
York, Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, Cardinal Adrian Simonis of Utrecht, and
Cardinal Francis Arinze of the Vatican. O Fiaich will be buried beside his two
immediate predecessors, Cardinals d'Alton and Conway, in the grounds of St
Patrick's Cathedral.

Northern Ireland police plan a massive security operation to protect the
dignitaries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 14, 1990, Monday

POLICE HUNT YOUNG HIT-AND-RUN BOMBERS

BYLINE:  Alastair Percival, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


Security chiefs are convinced that the perpetrators of the recent spate of IRA
bombings are young, inexperienced Provisionals trained to hit and run.
Anti-terrorist squad officers are still hunting Patrick Sheehy, wanted by
Scotland Yard since December 1988, when he and a man identified as John Conaty
allegedly fled from a bomb factory in a south London flat.  Police discovered
150lb of Semtex high explosive inside.  When two smaller caches were found in
the next few months, the security services' worst fears were confirmed - the IRA
was intent on a sustained mainland campaign to mark the 20th anniversary of
troops being sent into Northern Ireland.  Despite a string of successes by
police, the IRA proved capable of mounting a two-pronged campaign against
British targets here and abroad.  In West Germany, a 31-year-old soldier and two
service wives were killed in 1989.  Security at barracks and military bases
across Britain was stepped up when IRA bombers murdered 11 bandsmen at the Royal
Marines School of Music in Deal, Kent, last September.  In November, an Army
sergeant's legs were blown off in a car bomb near the Army base in Colchester.
The mainland toll would have been higher if terrorists had not bungled an attack
on Lieutenant General Sir David Ramsbotham, commander of the UK Field Army, a
few days earlier.  A car bomb placed outside his west London home fell into a
gutter and was spotted by a passer-by. It was an improvised device containing
5lbs of Semtex placed in a lunch box. The IRA has widened its targets from
military bases to non-operational military personnel. The two cells believed to
be operating on the mainland both prefer "soft" targets.  In February, two Army
sergeants were injured when an explosion ripped through a military van parked
near a recruiting office in Leicester.  Six days later, a parcel bomb exploded
at an Army careers office in Halifax.  The IRA admitted being behind both
incidents.  Intelligence services are now focusing on transient Irish people who
travel regularly between Northern Ireland and the Republic and who also make
similar trips to the mainland and the Continent.  The IRA bombers plant their
devices between six and seven hours before a blast, leaving plenty of time to
escape the country by any route.  Owners of hotels and bed and breakfast
lodgings and other landlords are urged to remain alert if an Irish man or woman
takes a room or flat on a short let.  Police warn that they should be
particularly suspicious if the flat stands empty for weeks on end.  Lettings
might be arranged months before a planned attack, and when the tenants return it
could be on a day trip to plant their bomb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 15, 1990

Eltham joins list of 'soft' targets picked by the IRA. David Pallister reports
on the shift in tactics behind the latest mainland terror campaign

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 445 words


THE headquarters of the Royal Army Educational Corps in Eltham, south London, is
one of dozens of soft military targets which the IRA has selected on the
mainland since the bombing of bandsmen and ceremonial guards in London in 1982.

The current campaign, which started with the August 1988 attack on Inglis
Barracks in Mill Hill, north London, follows the earlier series of bombings that
culminated in the attempt to blow up the Cabinet at the Grand Hotel, Brighton,
during the Conservative conference in 1984.


That earlier campaign was originally conceived as a new IRA offensive, directed
from Dublin rather than Belfast, and directly controlled by the IRA's general
headquarters staff.

For operating overseas in Britain or on the Continent active service units were
hand-picked for their experience. This has on occasion meant that well-known
Republicans were used, almost recklessly, on high-risk operations.

After the death of Mairead Farrell and two others in Gibraltar in 1988, they
were claimed by the IRA as being attached to 'GHQ Staff,' the first fatalities
from that unit since 1973.

Another familiar name emerged last July when Patrick Murray was arrested in
France. West Germany is seeking to extradite him for bombing attacks on British
barracks in 1987 and 1988, but he first came to prominence as a suspect in the
Brighton bombing.

A chief organiser of the 1980s offensive has been identified by the RUC and
Scotland Yard as Michael Hayes.

Earlier this year, he instructed lawyers to go to the High Court in Dublin to
remove his name from a Granada TV programme claiming to identify him as one of
the real Birmingham pub bombers.

The police have discovered four IRA arms and explosive caches as far apart as
Wales and Hampstead Heath but there have been no significant arrests.

The biggest haul was found in December 1988, at a flat in Clapham, south London,
where 107 lb of Semtex, five car bombs, and various radio and time-delay
detonators were found.

Police were able to publish the names of two suspects Patrick Sheehy and John
Conaty, neither of whom possesses a record of terrorist activities.

Although soft targets like the Education Corps as well as the Royal Marine band
headquarters in Deal, Kent, which was bombed last September are clearly high on
the IRA list, the present campaign includes magnet car bombs and parcel bombs
aimed at individuals.

In February last year, the IRA also attempted an attack on the barracks of the
Second Battalion of the Parachute Regiment in Shropshire.

The geographical spread of the campaign includes magnet bombs in Leicester,
Colchester, and London.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 15, 1990

IRA bomb injures seven civilians

BYLINE: By STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 685 words


THE IRA's sporadic campaign against 'soft' military targets in Britain continued
yesterday with a bomb attack which injured seven civilians in the lightly
defended Royal Army Education Corps headquarters in Eltham, south-east London.

Between five and 10 pounds of high explosive was buried in a flowerbed by the
front door and detonated by a timing device just before 10am when about 60
people 40 of them civilian women were in the building. The blast, the third on
the mainland this year, blew down windows and walls and mangled cars.


Trevor Hills, aged 47, was in a room about 20ft from the explosion when he was
thrown against a wall, breaking two ribs. He was taken to the Brook Hospital in
Greenwich with three other men and three women suffering from shock, cuts and
bruises.

The IRA last night admitted placing the bomb, and one in Halifax in February.
'This institute is a facility for the training of British army officers to a
high level in maintaining military and colonial domination in our country,' it
said.

Mr Hill's son, Hannibal, attacked the IRA for 'shameless terrorism'. 'The
Education Institute at Eltham is barely a military establishment. It's full of
civilians. If my father is a terrorist target, then so is everyone in Britain.'

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said it was the first time in two years that a bomb had been buried on
the mainland.

Politicians of all parties condemned the attack. Archie Hamilton, minister for
the armed forces, who visited casualties in hospital, described it as a
despicable crime. He denied that security at the headquarters was insufficient.
'We are always looking at security of MoD establishments, and the security has
improved here.'

The windows of the modern, two-storey building had recently been covered with
film which holds shattered glass together. Injuries would have been worse
without it, said Lt-Col John Simmonds, the unit commander. Local residents were
told recently a new security fence was to be put round the back of the building,
replacing a wire fence about 5ft high. There are no signs identifying it as an
army site, and all staff wear civilian clothes.

The front of the building, sited in the grounds of Eltham Palace, is protected
by a spiked iron fence 4ft high, beyond which are trees and bushes next to the
small car park where the bomb was planted.

The front gates are locked at nights and weekends, said Lt-Col Simmonds, and MoD
staff made 'irregular security patrols'. Anyone watching the building would find
it hard to know that military personnel worked there.

'It was three minutes to ten when the blast went off. There was a tremendous
explosion followed by smoke billowing through the building. I shot straight out
of my seat and went downstairs, where the staff were very cool and calm and
tending the injured.

'We have a procedure for evacuation. It worked very well and it was only 10
minutes before the emergency services arrived. My office window blew in, but
didn't shatter. Downstairs, whole walls were blown down. There's no doubt about
it, we were very lucky. Compared with front-line organisations, we are very
soft, but we're not exempt. I'm appalled that the terrorists go for a target of
this nature, with such a high proportion of civilians.'

The blast was heard several miles away. Suze McQuibban, who lives two doors away
in Court Road, said all the windows at the back of her house were shattered. A
retired couple breakfasting on their terrace was showered with glass but escaped
unhurt.

Mrs McQuibban said: 'There were always guards around, and you could see patrols
in the grounds of the palace, which is also run by the army.'

Peter Bottomley, Conservative MP for Eltham and a junior Northern Ireland
minister, visited the scene and called the IRA the last prehistoric beasts in
Europe. They had proved again that they could set off bombs. 'The real test is
whether they can use the democratic process to improve lives and work through
political differences.'

'Soft' targets, page 3

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 1990, Tuesday

IRA London bomb injures seven

BYLINE: By WILL BENNETT, TERRY KIRBY and JOHN PIENAAR

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 551 words


SEVEN people were injured, one seriously, when a 10lb IRA Semtex bomb, buried in
a flowerbed, blasted an army educational office in south-east London yesterday.

The explosion was the latest in a series of IRA attacks on lowsecurity military
targets on mainland Britain and revived questions over the protection given to
such establishments.

The Government faces fresh embarrassment in a critical report by the
Tory-dominated Defence Select Committee, it emerged last night. The report, to
be published next week, demands action to raise the performance of private
security firms employed by the ministry. MoD police have been replaced with
private guards at several Royal Ordnance factories.

The report will fuel criticism that security has been subordinated to
cost-cutting and MPs will demand action to ensure proper training and tighter
enforcement of standards.

Yesterday's target was the Royal Army Education Corps in Eltham, south-east
London, which provides education for children of servicemen, and is protected by
a low metal railings, irregularly patrolled by civilian security staff employed
by the Ministry of Defence. Some similar establishments are protected by private
security firms.

Although there is no noticeboard to reveal a military use the establishment is
clearly marked in the London street guide. The ministry confirmed yesterday
that, as part of a security review following earlier explosions, it was
constructing a new fence. Windows have already been laminated with plastic film
and it is believed this protected many of the 50 to 60 staff from serious
injuries.

The IRA in Dublin last night admitted responsibility for the attack and also for
the bomb in February which wrecked an army recruitment office in Halifax.

Commander George Churchill- Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Squad, warned that the device could be one of several buried around the country.
He said the bomb would have had a timer that could have been set a couple of
hours or many days before the explosion. Buried bombs are commonplace in
Northern Ireland but have not been used in the present mainland campaign.

The bomb exploded just before 10am yesterday, blowing down walls, smashing
windows and damaging cars. The most seriously injured was Trevor Hills, 47, from
Winchester, a civil servant who heads an organisation finding employment for
ex-service staff. He was 20ft from the explosion, which demolished his office
wall and left him with severe head and back injuries. Six others were treated
for minor injuries and shock.

Lieutenant Colonel John Simmonds, base commander, said: ''There was a tremendous
explosion. I shot out of my seat and went downstairs to see what had happened.
Luckily nobody was in the car park when the bomb exploded.'' Accepting that the
perimeter was only ''irregularly'' patrolled, he said the base did not want to
end up as ''a fortress''.

Archie Hamilton, the Armed Forces Minister, said: ''It is extremely difficult
ever to get 100 per cent security in any establishment. We are always looking to
improve the security of MOD bases.'' He accepted that the building was ''a soft
target'' and added: ''We're talking about a predominance of civilians here and
no markers to indicate it is an MoD establishment.''

IRA campaign, page 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 1990, Tuesday

Bomb attack is warning of IRA strength

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 720 words


THE BOMB explosion at an Army education office in south- east London yesterday
is a clear signal that IRA units have the ability to strike at low-security
defence establishments, in spite of the organisation's repeated warnings to the
Ministry of Defence that they are key targets.

In August 1988, when the first blow in the current wave of attacks was struck at
the Inglis barracks in Mill Hill, north London, headquarters of the MoD's postal
system, it became clear that a whole range of low security defence
establishments now fell within the IRA's range of targets. One person died and a
number were injured in the attack, the first mainland attack by the IRA since
the bombing of Brighton's Grand Hotel in autumn 1984.

Despite the warnings, security at Mill Hill was reported to be lax and the
public wandered in and out freely. The inevitable review of security demanded by
MP's was only partially accepted by the Government.

But security at all bases was stepped-up after subsequent attacks at the
Parachute Regiment's Tern Hill barracks in Shropshire in February last year, and
the bombing of the Royal Marine barracks at Deal, Kent, last September, in which
11 bandsmen died. This last attack led to an outcry over the use of private
security companies to guard military bases.

Yesterday, the MoD said that, as part of the review following earlier incidents,
measures to increase security were planned at the Eltham building, including a
new security fence. It emphasised that, like many such establishments, the base
was in a residential road and there was a limit to the amount of security that
could be imposed. The site is guarded by civilian MoD security staff.

Anti-terrorist detectives at Scotland Yard, who have been co- ordinating
inquiries between all the police forces involved, believe one or two units could
be operating in mainland Britain. Detectives have warned guest-houses and
landlords to be on the lookout for guests who take short-term lets on flats or
houses, particularly if they leave the property empty for long periods.

The units clearly have access to large amounts of Semtex explosive - sold to the
IRA by Colonel Gaddafi - and caches have been discovered stored or dumped on
Hampstead Heath, in a waterworks in north London, and in undergrowth near
Scarborough, North Yorkshire, shortly before a Conservative Party meeting. Some
arms and ammunition have also been recovered.

The units have already attempted three methods of attack and yesterday's burial
of a bomb in a flower bed may indicate a new variant. Until now, they have used
Semtex bombs, with timers and detonators, dumped in bags on the fringes of the
site or buildings.

Car bombs similar to those used by the IRA in Ulster have also been discovered.
These contain small amounts of Semtex packed into a plastic box, with a timer
set to allow time for the bomber to get free. Once the timer ends, the bomb is
live and any movement can detonate the device, which is attached to the
underside of the car by a magnet.

But they are unpredictable. Last November, one was planted outside the west
London home of a senior Army officer, underneath what was believed to have been
his car. Before the timer period ended it fell off, and lay in the gutter until
spotted by a passer-by.

A few days later, a similar device exploded underneath the car of an Army staff
sergeant at Colchester barracks in Essex. He lost both legs.

In February, a device planted underneath a military vehicle used by staff at an
Army recruiting office in Leicester dropped off and exploded, slightly injuring
three people. The following week, a timed device pushed through the letter box
wrecked an Army careers office in Halifax, West Yorkshire.

A third method of attack is the letter bomb. Last January, two were sent to the
Army's south-east regional headquarters at Aldershot, but were detected in the
sorting room.

Commander George Churchill- Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, yesterday
repeated the warning he has now given on each occasion since Mill Hill - that
the public, particularly anyone connected with the military or Northern Ireland,
should be extra vigilant for bombs at all times.

But, after yesterday's attack, he had to accept that even the keenest eye may
not spot the danger when it is buried.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             May 15, 1990, Tuesday

Political leaders condemn latest bomb outrage by the IRA

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 655 words


POLITICIANS from all parties condemned yesterday's IRA bombing at an Army base
in Eltham, south-east London, but supported the idea that it should not
undermine the laborious moves towards round-table talks in Northern Ireland
aimed at breaking the political deadlock.

Mr Neil Kinnock said it was a cowardly and vicious act that would only serve to
reinforce Britain's determination to make no concessions to terrorists. ''Their
particular psychosis is to damage and to maim without ever facing up to
responsibility,'' he said.

Mr Peter Bottomley, Under Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and
Conservative MP for Eltham, said after a visit to the scene that the people who
had committed the latest outrage were ''dinosaurs'' who failed to understand
that violence was not the way to settle political differences. He also expressed
sympathy to the victims and the relatives and paid tribute to the swift response
from the emergency services.

Mr Paddy Ashdown, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, said he suspected that
the bombing was an attempt to get the IRA involved in the talks on the
province's future. ''This is where the Government and those political parties
must stand absolutely firm.''

Mr Ashdown, a former Royal Marines officer who served in Northern Ireland, said
that he very much hoped that the Unionists and nationalists would respond
quickly and effectively to the ''very useful initiative'' taken by Mr Peter
Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, to allow bilateral talks to
begin on the province's future.

Last Friday, Mr Brooke held talks with Mr James Molyneaux, leader of the
Official Unionists, and Mr Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists. Mr
Brooke agreed to a break in meetings of the Anglo-Irish conference.

The Eltham bombing is the latest strike in an IRA campaign on the British
mainland which has cost the lives of 12 soldiers, injured dozens more and
constantly tested military defences in a hit and run strategy stretching over 21
months. The IRA has abandoned the prolonged campaigns of the mid 1970s and the
carefully planned single major attacks, such as the Harrods and Brighton
bombings, which became the hallmark of the 1980s. Since the summer of 1988, the
IRA active service units have concentrated on soft targets, either units away
from operational soldiering or the homes of personnel.

The units police believe there could be at least two have applied techniques,
including a car bombing device, to trade on unpreparedness and the Miistry of
Defence's apparent difficulty in providing guards for all establishments. Since
operations began with the bombing of an Army postal unit in north London in
August 1988, the IRA has mounted, or attempted, nine attacks.

The worst was the bombing of the Royal Marines' music school at Deal, Kent, last
September which led to 11 deaths. The terrosrists tried and failed to kill
Lieutenant-General Sir David Ramsbotham, commander UK Field Army, with a booby
trap car bomb last November. A few weeks later the IRA severely injured a
sergeant with another car bomb left at service quarters in Colchester, Essex.

There have been attacks this year in two recruiting offices, one in Leicester
using another car booby trap bomb and the second in Halifax, West Yorkshire.
There was an attempt to start a letter bomb campaign which stopped quickly.

There is strong suspicion that the units are alternating personnel with IRA
groups operating on the Continent so that bombers switch backwards and forwards,
slipping in and out of Britain by ferry or aircraft. Targets and attacks in
Europe have often mirrored the British mainland campaign.

The use of buried bombs yesterday raises questions about security. It marks a
new development which should cause concern to the Forces and police, since the
planter would have needed more time to hide the device than for a bomb left
against a wall or clamped to a car.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 16, 1990

The Lockerbie Report: No sign of British inquiry on security

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 648 words


WHILE British relatives of the Lockerbie victims were last night digesting the
fruits of the extensive American inquiry into the disaster, they were still
waiting for a similar investigation in this country.

The stock answer by the Lockerbie police and in Whitehall is that the whole
matter here is sub judice. Asked why the findings of a British inquiry into the
way Heathrow authorities and the Department of Transport reacted to early
warnings of a possible terrorist attack could not be published, a Lockerbie
police spokesman replied: 'No comment.'


Airport and aviation officials privately concede that as the US report
demonstrates there is nothing to prevent the British Government from undertaking
a similar exercise, separating the question of security lapses from the criminal
investigations.

The answer supplied yesterday by the DoT, the butt of the relatives' criticism,
was that the police inquiry covers not only the hunt for the terrorists but also
the handling of the baggage at Heathrow.

The suggestion was that nothing could be said about any of the circumstances
surrounding the disaster until completion of the criminal investigation itself
dogged by recriminations and buck-passing between the authorities in Britain and
Wester Germany, where the flight originated.

Relatives of Lockerbie victims believe the DoT has questions to answer. On
November 22, 1988, a month before the disaster, the department circulated to
airport security managers a warning that a bomb contained in a Toshiba radio
cassette recorder the type planted on Pan Am Flight 103 had been discovered in
West Germany.

But another warning, with new information, was drawn up by the department on
December 19, two days before the jet blew up over Lockerbie.

This warning was not circulated until the New Year. Paul Channon, then Transport
Minister, played down the significance of the second warning, describing it as
'a bit of supporting information.'

However, the December 19 circular contained valuable new details of the bomb
which were foreshadowed in the earlier memo. This circular also contained the
astonishing recommendation that 'any item about which a searcher is unable to
satisfy himself/herself must, if it is to be carried in the aircraft, be
consigned to the aircraft hold.'

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for UK Families-Flight 103, noted yesterday that James
Jack, the DoT's chief of aviation security and the author of the December 19
circular, was still in place. But he said that his argument was not with one
man, it was with the department as a whole.

He added: 'The US report makes the department's position look even more
foolish.'

He said that a week after the disaster the department admitted that if X-ray
machines had been used to inspect the baggage a radio cassette recorder would
have been detected. By keeping information secret the department was continuing
to jeopardise safety.

It was unclear whether even an internal investigation had yet been set up into
management and intelligence-gathering failures.

Dr Swire dismissed the sub judice argument, noting that inquiries took place
into the Hillsborough football disaster and the Strangeways prison riot even
though criminal charges were pending.

The Department of Transport said yesterday that the Aviation and Maritime
Security Bill will set up a new airport security inspectorate. But the agency
will be under the department's control.

Dr Swire wants a separate air security organisation, with its own career
officers, in a position to receive sensitive information from the security and
intelligence agencies.

'Civil servants are not the right people,' he said.

John Prescott, Labour's transport spokesman, praised the courage of the US
administration in publishing yesterday's report. It laid Whitehall open to the
charge that it was covering up.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 16, 1990

The Lockerbie Report: Counterstrikes 'could risk war'

LENGTH: 172 words


THE Conservative MP who represents Lockerbie, Sir Hector Munro, said yesterday
that retaliatory or pre-emptive strikes against alleged perpetrators of
international terrorism could lead to full-scale war.

'I really don't think we, or the French or Germans or Americans, can start
attacking other countries, presumably in the Middle East, on the suspicion a
terrorist attack might take place,' he said.


'There would be a grave possibility of running into a war if you started doing
that sort of thing.'

While the US report would be greeted with interest in Lockerbie, where 11 died
when the jumbo exploded on a housing estate, people there were 'concentrating on
the rehabilitation of the town rather than airport security.' he said.
'Naturally we are all very much in favour of catching the murderer who
perpetrated the disaster.'

The Labour transport spokesman, John Prescott, said there was need of a similar
inquiry in Britain. He accused the Department of Transport of 'hiding its role
in this matter.'

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 16, 1990

Young Guardian: IRA strikes at military's soft underbelly again - News round up

BYLINE: By MELANIE MCFADYEAN

LENGTH: 517 words


THE HEADQUARTERS of the Royal Army Educational Corps in Eltham, South London,
was the target of an IRA bomb on Monday as a result of which seven people were
injured, one seriously. Although not obviously a military establishment, it is
one of dozens of potential 'soft' military targets for the IRA on mainland
Britian, following on from the bombing of the bandsmen in Regents Park in 1982.

Although four arms dumps have been found by police in the last year, there have
not been any arrests of suspected leading members of the IRA in Britain.


WILLIAM Carer was crushed to death while working at the British end of the
Channel Tunnel last week. He is the sixth to die since January last year, and
there have been 300 notifiable accidents. So far only one French worker has
died.

Employment secretary Michael Howard told Jack Lemley, the chief executive of the
consortium running the project, of the government's growing concern over safety
on the site. The contractors have been prosecuted three times and fined a total
of Pounds 50,000 for failure in respect of health and safety precautions.

Stern words came from Conservative MP Jonathan Aitken, saying it was 'little
short of scandalous that it has taken six unnecessary deaths before the Channel
Tunnel bosses get a carpeting for their deplorable safety standards.' Workers at
the tunnel have said they are forced to cut corners to save time and maximize
profit.

PAUL Cullen, a 46-year-old Texan, was apparently trying to impress a woman when
he attacked a 500 year old oak tree in the Texan capital, Austin. He was jailed
for nine years and fined Pounds 600. His attorney told the court: 'He wanted her
to think he was somebody.' A spokesman for the tree said, 'It is still pretty
ill. We have done everything we could to help it and are now keeping it cool.'

SHOULD teachers of maths, science and computing be paid more than their
colleagues? Education secretary Mr John MacGregor welcomes the proposal. There
is a premium on these teachers and a shortage, therefore, the reasoning goes,
pay them more.

Perhaps it's part of the same drive to get five year olds involved in market
forces he has also proposed that children from five up should learn about
economic and industrial affairs. He has recommended that children should know
and understand 'what wealth creation is about' and should develop
'entrepreneurial skills at the earliest possible stage.'

BAD news for students: the government plans to bar them from claiming welfare
benefits from the autumn. They will lose entitlement to housing benefit, income
support and unemployment benefit during summer vacations. They will be expected
to live on Pounds 2265 grant, plus a repayable Pounds 420 loan.

A critical report from government advisers warns of hardship followed by chaos
as students apply for special hardship grants. The National Union of Students
calculated that after rent, students in London were left with Pounds 18.06 a
week and outside London, with Pounds 25.40. The government's 'poverty line' for
18-24 year olds is Pounds 28.80.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            May 16, 1990, Wednesday

Disaster victims' relatives renew demand for British inquiry

BYLINE: By Kerry Gill and Susan Ellicott

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 784 words


RELATIVES of the British victims of the Lockerbie air disaster welcomed the
publication of the United States presidential commission report on the disaster.
Their spokesman Dr Jim Swire said the inquiry emphasized the lack of a similar
inquiry in Britain, but was at least a ''first rung on the ladder''.

Dr Swire, whose 23-year-old daughter Flora died in the disaster, said: ''It is
interesting that this is the first major report that has come out and, in the
UK, absolutely nothing has been done to meet the claims of the relatives that
all was not right before Lockerbie.''

He said the head of security for the Federal Aviation Administration in the
United States had been dismissed and similar action should be taken against the
Department of Transport's principal aviation security officer. Mr Raymond
Salazar, the FAA security chief, resigned late last week and was reassigned to
its Centre for Management Development.

The report, issued last night by the Aviation Security and Terrorism Commission,
recommended that the United States should consider military action against known
terrorist bases prepared to attack innocent targets. If ''pre-emptive or
retaliatory'' strikes were impossible, the report suggested that covert
operations should be launched.

Dr Swire said: ''Our group has always been against military action in
retaliation for Lockerbie. I think that the recommendations about pre-emptive
strikes are a little different. Lockerbie was a revenge attack paid for by Iran.
To kill Iranians and Syrians in return is only going to make the situation worse
and produce more grieving families.'' He said the F1-11 bombers that flew from
Britain to attack Libyan targets ''resulted in Gadaffi getting out of the
terrorist scene for a number of years after the strike, so that did achieve a
great deal and probably saved very many lives''.

Relatives of the American victims welcomed the recommendations. Mrs Aphrodite
Tsairis, a spokesman for the Victims of Pan Am 103 organization, said that in
the absence of government action, the commission had taken the leadership in
stemming the tide of international terrorism.

Many of the families were annoyed that the United States thanked Iran for its
part in bringing about the release of two hostages. ''It's like having a knife
plunged into your side,'' Mrs Sue Kosmowski, whose husband was among the dead.
Mrs Susan Cohen, who lost her 20-year-old daughter, was so angry with the Bush
administration for failing to take action against Iran that she refused to stand
for the President when he met relatives at the White House yesterday. ''It was
obvious that he wanted the whole thing swept under a rug,'' she said. ''We all
feel for the hostages, but Bush has to clear this up.''

Mr Bert Ammerman accused the US Government of double standards in its dealings
with foreign governments by sending in troops to overthrow Panama's former
leader, General Noriega, but refusing to take action against Iran. The victims'
families burst into applause when Mrs Ann McLaughlin, the chairman of the
commission that compiled the report, was asked her view of the Government's
stance. ''The same as the families,'' she said. ''A sense of outrage, a sense of
wanting to do something.''

Senator Alfonse D'Amato, a commission member, said the FAA's performance was
nothing short of dismal. He, too, demanded immediate government action. ''It is
time to punish anyone we can prove took our airplane down. We are not going to
accept any dilly-dallying any more.''

Sir Hector Monro, the Conservative MP for Dumfries whose constituency covers
Lockerbie, rejected the idea of a pre-emptive strike. ''I really don't think we,
or the French or Germans or Americans, can start attacking other countries,
presumably in the Middle East, on the suspicion a terrorist attack might take
place. There would be a grave possibility of running into a war if you started
doing that sort of thing,'' he said. The Rev James Annand, minister of
Dryfesdale parish church in Lockerbie, said yesterday: ''I'm horrified at the
commission's suggestion that the United States should consider launching
military strikes. This would do no good whatsoever. I'm afraid the Americans are
prone to this sort of thing. It is very sad.''

Mr John Prescott, Labour's transport spokesman, said that a British inquiry,
similar to the US presidential commission's inquiry, must be held. The
Department of Transport was ''hiding its role in this matter. We are constantly
in a cover-up.'' But the department rejected his criticism, saying two British
inquiries were under way. The department, the Civil Aviation Authority and
Heathrow airport all declined to comment on the report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 17, 1990, Thursday

Provisionals set sights on 'soft' security targets; Terry Kirby, Crime
Correspondent, looks at the ability of the IRA to hit low-security targets on
mainland Britain in spite of repeated warnings

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 626 words


EVEN BEFORE last night's car bomb attack on an Army recruitment office van in
north-west London, there was little doubt that such low-security soft targets
are directly in the sights of Provisional IRA terrorists operating in mainland
Britain.

The attack comes only two days after the explosion of a bomb buried in a flower
bed outside the Army education corps offices in Eltham, south-east London.

The Eltham office block has a low metal fence, is only irregularly patrolled by
unarmed civilian security guards and was staffed mainly by civilian women. Only
the recently installed blast-protected windows prevented more than seven
injuries, of which only one was serious.

For the IRA, the Wembley bomb was third time lucky. It is the third Army
recruitment office the Provisionals have targeted this year. The fatality is the
first in such circumstances and the first since the murder of 11 Royal Marines
bandsmen in Deal, Kent, in September.

It is the fourth car bomb in the current campaign. The first was in west London
in November, aimed at a senior Army officer. It dropped off, did not explode and
lay primed and live in the gutter for two days. A few days later, an Army staff
sergeant lost his legs when a bomb exploded underneath his car in Colchester,
Essex. In Leicester in February, a bomb planted in almost identical
circumstances to Wembley dropped off as the Army vehicle drove away and exploded
when the vehicle was clear. Three people were slightly injured.

At Wembley, the bomb remained attached by its magnet to the underside of the van
long enough for the first jolt, probably caused by the ignition, to trigger the
mercury tilt switch which in turn dentonated probably about 5lb of Semtex,
contained in a plastic box, of the type used to carry sandwiches.

Despite this picture of likely targets and method of attacks, coupled with the
repeated warnings to all military personel by Commander George Churchill-
Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad, the terrorists were able
to strike with apparent ease again yesterday.

Last night, first reports indicated that the unmarked van which was blown up,
killing its driver and seriously injuring the passenger, was regularly parked in
a public place outside the recruitment office, presenting an obvious target.

The Ministry of Defence refused to say whether recruitment office staff around
the country had been given extra warnings following the Leicester explosion and
destruction of the unmanned Halifax office the following week when a timed bomb
was posted through its door. A spokesman said: ''Security measures are
commensurate with the threat received.'' After the Eltham attack, the Ministry
emphasised that it was reviewing security at similar establishments.

It is clearly possible that the two recruitment office staff did check
underneath their vehicle before moving off, but did not spot the bomb. In
Northern Ireland, the bomb-maker sometimes covers them in black tape to make
them less easy to spot. A timer allows the terrorist up to an hour to get free
and only when it ends does the bomb become live and tilt switch active.

Soft targets have been the hallmark of this current IRA campaign since it began
in August 1988 with an explosion at the Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill, north
London, which killed one person. Further attacks followed the following February
at Tern Hill barracks in Shropshire and then at Deal last September. Detectives
have also found three large caches of Semtex plastic explosive, arms and
ammunition.

Anti-Terrorist Squad detectives believe the campaign is well organised and
possibly the work of two separate units, supported by large amounts of cash and
a support network among IRA sympathisers in Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 17, 1990, Thursday

London IRA bomb kills soldier; Security review demanded in face of developing
campaign against 'soft' mainland targets

BYLINE: By IAN MACKINNON, WILL BENNETT and NICHOLAS TIMMINS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 707 words


A SOLDIER was killed and another seriously injured when a bomb blew up a minibus
outside an army careers information office in London last night. It was the
second attack by IRA terrorists in the capital in three days.

The explosion behind the office half a mile from Wembley Stadium raised fears,
underpinned last night by Archie Hamilton, the Armed Forces Minister, that the
IRA had started a summer offensive on the British mainland.

The attack highlighted the ease with which the IRA appears able to strike at
''soft'' military targets in Britain and led to calls at Westminster last night
for a security review. The bomb had been planted under an unmarked white army
Sherpa minibus, with civilian licence plates, parked in an alleyway behind the
careers office in Thurlow Gardens, Wembley. It went off at 5.12pm, wrecking the
vehicle, just after staff had finished work for the day.

Sgt Charles Chapman, 34, of the Queen's Regiment, married with two children, was
killed instantly. The other soldier, also a sergeant, suffered shrapnel wounds
and shock. He was taken to Northwick Park Hospital, Harrow, where his condition
was described as stable.

The two soldiers had just got into the van and the driver was moving it away
from a wall to enable a woman civilian colleague to get in when the bomb went
off. She suffered shock and minor injuries. Two passers-by were also badly
shocked.

Deepi Kausha, who runs a travel agency opposite the army office, said: ''I saw a
man coming away from the vehicle. He was badly hurt; he could hardly walk and
his eyes were bleeding.''

Another witness, Joe Byrne, said: ''I just heard a really loud explosion. There
was a white minibus, which was completely crushed. A woman standing by it had
blood coming from her mouth. I think she had been hit by flying glass. There was
one man in the van. He was completely black from the blast. He was shouting to
the people around, 'Help me to get out, help me out.' ''

Although the van was unmarked local people said last night it had been parked
there all day and was known to be used by staff at the recruiting office.

The explosion, two days after a bomb injured seven people at the headquarters of
the Royal Army Education Corps in Eltham, south-east London, points to an
increased IRA bombing campaign in mainland Britain. Mr Hamilton said after
visiting the scene: ''It must be the work of the IRA. It means we seem to have a
campaign taking place in London.''

Last night's bombing shows how vulnerable hundreds of Ministry of Defence
offices and bases around Britain are to terrorist attack. Often situated in the
middle of residential or shopping areas, they are very difficult to protect. Mr
Hamilton said: ''By their very nature they are open to the community. If they
were not open we would not be able to recruit anyone.''

Previous attacks such as those on the Royal Marine barracks at Deal, Kent, where
11 bandsmen died, and the army postal headquarters at Mill Hill, London, where a
soldier was killed, show that the IRA now favours such ''soft'' targets.

Martin O'Neill, Labour's defence spokesman, said the attack ''must bring bring
home to the Ministry of Defence that they have to review the dispositions of
military establishments, of which there are some 2,000 in the UK''.

But Peter Bottomley, a Northern Ireland minister, said armed guards at all bases
''would turn our high streets and many suburban areas into armed camps''.

David Waddington, the Home Secretary, said: ''Yet again, we see a sickening
attack by the IRA which can do no good to their cause or to the name of the
Irish people. All decent people will feel the deepest sympathy for those injured
and the friends and relatives of those killed and maimed in the bestial attacks
which have taken place this week.''

Paul Boateng, the Labour MP for Brent South, in whose constituency the explosion
happened, said: ''This is a vile and murderous outrage on a totally unsuspecting
community. The vile perpetrators of this act must be caught, and caught quickly.
I will be calling on the Government for an urgent statement. Clearly there is a
pattern to these events and action must be taken, and taken soon, to prevent any
more outrages.''

Analysis, page 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             May 17, 1990, Thursday

PREPARE FOR NEW IRA BOMB BLITZ, WARNS POLICE CHIEF

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down and Tony Halpin, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1185 words


Look and live if you value your life - that was the message today from the head
of the police anti-terrorist squad who warned mainland Britain faces a new IRA
bomb blitz.  Commander George Churchill-Coleman said it was a "fair assumption"
that the terrorist team who killed a soldier in Wembley, north-west London, on
Wednesday night with a booby trap bomb was also responsible for Monday's bombing
of the Army Education Unit at Eltham, south-east London.  The IRA team was
mobile, involved two or three people, possibly including a woman, and was
involved in a "sophisticated campaign using sophisticated devices". He said the
next attack could take place anywhere on mainland Britain.  Mrs Thatcher and
Labour leader Neil Kinnock joined forces in condemning the "sick minds"
responsible for the bombings.  Mr Kinnock said the whole House was united in its
condemnation of the attacks and offered condolences to the family of Sergeant
Charles Chapman, 34, who was killed on Wednesday.  During Question Time in the
Commons, Mrs Thatcher also renewed her criticism of Irish extradition
arrangements.  Asked if she was confident they could be used to return the
bombers - should they escape to Ireland - Mrs Thatcher said: "I wish I could
answer you that I would be confident that an extradition order would be upheld.
I cannot do so as you know." Commander Churchill-Coleman told a press conference
at Scotland Yard that Sgt Chapman and his injured colleague had checked beneath
their van in Wembley but the bomb had been well concealed. It contained between
two and five pounds of high explosive, and was fixed by a magnet on the
underside of the white unmarked Sherpa van in line with the gear lever.  "The
only way you would ever have found that device would be to get on your hands and
knees or lie on your back to look underneath," said Commander Churchill-Coleman.
But he said this highlighted the need for intense vigilance.  "If you value your
life you need to look and live, not only today but tomorrow and the next week
and for the immediate foreseeable future." He went on: "I think you have to say
without causing people to panic that the next attack could take place anywhere
on mainland Britain.  "This is the danger you are talking about - it can be an
Army recruiting office one day, tomorrow something entirely different, perhaps
in a different part of the country." He said it would have taken only seconds to
place the bomb under the van and urged people to familiarise themselves with the
underside of their vehicles so they could spot anything untoward.  Wednesday's
blast could have brought death and destruction to members of the public if it
had not exploded before the soldiers reached a main road.  Sgt Chapman joined
the Army in 1972 and was married with a son and daughter. He was a member of the
3rd Battalion Queen's Regiment currently based in Cyprus.  Commander
Churchill-Coleman said he wanted to hear from anyone who may have sold a
secondhand car to people, possibly with southern Irish accents, which could have
been used to transport the bomb team.  "They would certainly have paid cash for
the vehicle and would have paid scant regard for its condition," he said.  Army
staff, politicians and others need to remember that this was an under-car booby
trap device and made increased vigilance vital, said the commander.  The IRA
today praised their own "successes" in London in the republican weekly newspaper
An Phoblacht/Republican News.  The lead story under the headline "IRA strikes in
London" said their two bomb attacks had "thrown the British military into
another security crisis in its heartland".
    A 300lb car bomb was defused on a country road in Co Armagh today.  The
device was left in a vehicle sitting at the side of the Armagh to Milford Road.

Army bomb disposal experts tonight defused a 650lb bomb in Co Tyrone.  The
device had been dug into a ditch on a country road outside Coalisland.

People should familiarise themselves with the underside of their vehicles so
they could spot with even a cursory glance anything untoward.  The device "would
not be marked with something saying bomb. It may be covered in black paint or
tape, moulded into the contours of the vehicle".  He was not surprised that the
terrorist cells - likely to be at least two operating on the mainland - had
access to large quantities of explosives, although the police had achieved
several successes in recovering vast quantities stored or dumped on the
mainland.  "It is a fairly simple thing, if you are determined enough and clever
enough, to bring it in. We live in a democracy, we don't live in a police state
to prevent this happening," he said.

It would only have taken a matter of minutes to place the bomb under the van.
Since the IRA began its mainland attacks in the 1970s, the terrorists had
learned and developed new techniques and were constantly trying to improve their
own sophistication to counter police and security force tactics, he said.
Commenting on their choice of targets, the Commander said: "They are criminals,
whatever they may pretend to be, and a criminal will always take the soft
option."

Earlier, Armed Forces Minister Archie Hamilton urged service personnel and the
public to be on full alert for further terrorist activity after the death of Sgt
Charles Chapman, 34, in Thurlow Gardens.  Mr Hamilton said: "I am saying to
anybody who works in the Ministry of Defence or the three armed services they
can't be too careful. They must not only inspect their vehicles, they must keep
their eyes skinned all the time for sinister packages left around where they are
working.  "Indeed, I would appeal to the British public as a whole, because they
can play a very important role in keeping their eyes open.  "The IRA always
carry out quite a prolonged reconnaissance before they actually attack anything.
Therefore there will be people around just observing what is going on, loitering
around, and these are the people we want to pick up before the crimes are
committed." The IRA claimed responsibility for the latest atrocity in a
statement issued in Dublin late last night. It said an active service unit
planted the device, containing two pounds of explosive, in the unmarked Army
van.  The body of Kent-born Sgt Chapman, a father-of-two who joined the Army in
1972, was removed from the wreckage overnight.  His wife Marian is from Durham
and the couple have a son and daughter. Sgt Chapman was a member of the 3rd
Battalion Queen's Regiment currently based in Cyprus.  Another staff sergeant
seriously injured in the attack and a civilian woman secretary who suffered
shock were recovering today. All three left the office together.  After
treatment for shock at Northwick Park hospital, the secretary was allowed home.
The injured sergeant, who suffered blast injuries and shrapnel wounds, was said
to be in a satisfactory condition in hospital.  As the hunt for the killers
continued, police traced a motorcyclist seen speeding from the scene of the
blast and established he was not connected with the inquiry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 18, 1990

Bomb blast soldiers had checked van

BYLINE: By DAVID SHARROCK

LENGTH: 527 words


THE army sergeant killed by an IRA booby-trap bomb in London on Wednesday and
his colleague who was seriously injured had checked beneath their vehicle, the
head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch said yesterday.

But the device 2-5 lbs of explosive attached by a magnet was too well concealed
under the unmarked Sherpa van, Commander George Churchill-Coleman said.


'The only way you would ever have found that device would be to get on your
hands and knees or lie on your back to look underneath.'

He urged anyone connected with the armed forces or Northern Ireland to
familiarise themselves with the underside of their car.

The bomb, which would have taken minutes to plant, went off as the van moved off
from behind the army recruiting office in Wembley, north London, killing the
driver, Sergeant Charles Chapman, aged 34.

'Had that vehicle moved another few yards into the main road, the death and
destruction, certainly to members of the public, would have been much, much
higher,' Mr Churchill-Coleman said.

He appealed to the public for information. In particular, he urged anyone who
had recently sold a car to people, possibly with soft Irish accents which might
indicate that they came from the Irish Republic, to tell the police. The
purchasers would have paid in cash and given 'scant regard' to the vehicle's
condition.

To those in the armed services or connected with Northern Ireland the message
was: 'If you value your life you need to look and live, not only today, but
tomorrow and the next week and for the immediate and foreseeable future.'

He added: 'Today if you are at risk you may well find you have a bomb inside the
car or that you are the recipient of a letter bomb, parcel bomb, or that your
house has been booby-trapped.'

It was a fair assumption that the same IRA unit carried out the bombing of the
army's directorate of education at Eltham, south London, on Monday, Mr
Churchill-Coleman said.

The unit, comprising two or three people, clearly had access to weaponry in the
London area, but was highly mobile, and could strike anywhere.

'I think you have to say that the next attack could take place anywhere on
mainland Britain.'

He said that a motorcyclist seen near the scene minutes before the explosion had
been discounted from the investigation.

Sergeant Chapman, who was born in Kent and joined the army in 1972, was a member
of the 3rd Battalion Queen's Regiment. His wife Marian is from Durham and the
couple have a son and daughter. Earlier, Archie Hamilton, the Armed Forces
Minister, urged service personnel and the public to be alert for further
terrorist activity.

Patrick Wintour adds: The Commons Defence Committee will next week call for a
tightening of security around 'low level' military installations and demand that
the Ministry of Defence takes greater care in its use of private security firms
to patrol them.

The committee is believed to be concerned that the ministry, to cut costs, has
been employing some of the less reliable companies in the market.

It will also call for regulation of the private security sector.

Politics, page 7

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 18, 1990

Devices reveal IRA know-how

BYLINE: By DAVID ROSE, Crime Correspondent

LENGTH: 441 words


ALL the bombs planted by the IRA on the British mainland in the present 'soft
target' campaign which began in August 1988 with the explosion at Mill Hill
barracks, north London, have been of the same type, security sources said last
night.

It is likely that their key detonation and timing mechanisms were made by the
same small group of technical experts, or even by a single person.


IRA bomb technology has grown enormously in variety and sophistication since the
Troubles restarted in 1969, to be followed three years later by the mainland
campaigns. Early bombs, including many of those detonated in 1974-75 by the
Balcombe Street active service unit, the most successful mainland IRA cell, were
often of a crude grenade type: lumps of plastic explosive around which nails
were taped, detonated by lighting a fuse.

Time bombs from this period such as those which killed 26 people in the attacks
on Guildford and Birmingham pubs were equally simple: gelignite with a quarry
explosives detonator connected to an alarm clock and batteries. The vagaries of
this method led to several IRA bomb-makers killing themselves.

It was in the late 1970s that the IRA began an extensive programme of explosives
research and development, coupled with international efforts to acquire the
necessary components. A few experts including trained electricians and
electronics engineers turned their skills to bombs, evolving a range of designs
that were safer to use, and far more varied and deadly in their application.

The crucial advances have been made in the field of electronic timers. As in the
Brighton Grand Hotel bomb at the 1984 Tory conference, they enable the IRA to
plant a device weeks before intended detonation. A typical circuit now also
includes one or two secondary, cruder timers, wired up 'memo park' alarm
watches, which act as a circuit cut-out. This enables the bomber to prime the
main electronic timer and plant the bomb with the circuit broken.

The IRA also uses mercury tilt switches, an effective system for bombs placed
under cars, radio control, and remote wire detonation common in 'culvert bombs'
planted under roads.

But all the mainland bombs since 1988 have been essentially simple, relying on
electronic and memo park timers wired to usually 2-3 lbs of semtex plastic
explosive. The destructive force is considerable a hand grenade containing 3 oz
of semtex is powerful enough to kill a roomful of people.

It is thought that the IRA has considerable stockpiles both of semtex and timing
circuits in Britain. Only the frequency of mainland attacks in coming weeks will
reveal its size.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 18, 1990, Friday

Thatcher fears Irish haven for IRA bomb team

BYLINE: By WILL BENNETT and STEPHEN GOODWIN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 475 words


THE BOMBERS who killed an Army sergeant in an IRA attack in London on Wednesday
could find a safe haven in the Irish Republic, Margaret Thatcher said last
night.

The Prime Minister said that she was not confident that the Irish courts would
uphold an extradition order if the bombers fled to the Republic. She was
responding to a Parliamentary question from Ian Gow, Conservative MP for
Eastbourne.

Mrs Thatcher added: ''It is vital that, if justice is to be meted out, that we
must be able to extradite people so that they have no safe haven in the Irish
Republic.''

Her comments are bound to fuel the simmering dispute between London and Dublin
over the apparent unwillingness of Irish courts to sanction the extradition of
IRA suspects.

Mrs Thatcher's intervention came as Scotland Yard gave a warning that an IRA
unit from the Irish Republic is thought to be carrying out a series of attacks
in Britain. The police said that the active service unit responsible for the car
bomb attack in Wembley could strike again soon.

Last night, police asked anyone serving in the armed forces or working for the
Ministry of Defence to be on their guard.

Commander George Churchill- Coleman, head of the Metropolitan Police's
Anti-Terrorist Branch, said: ''If you value your life you need to look and live,
not only today but tomorrow and the next week and for the immediate and
forseeable future.''

Commander Churchill-Coleman said that the two soldiers in the van blown up
outside the recuiting office in Wembley, had checked underneath the vehicle.

But the bomb, containing two to five pounds of high explosive, was fixed by a
magnet underneath their vehicle, in line with the gear lever, he said. ''The
only way you would ever have found that device would be to get on your hands and
knees or lie on your back to look underneath.''

He said it was likely the IRA unit which planted the bomb in Wembley was
responsible for the attack on the Royal Army Education Corps in Eltham,
south-east London, on Monday.

Scotland Yard believes from its intelligence sources that the unit consists of
two to three people, possibly including one woman, from the Irish Republic,
rather than Northern Ireland. The group is thought to be renting rooms and
keeping on the move. It is almost certainly using a second-hand car, which will
have been bought via a newspaper or magazine advertisement and paid for in cash.

Yesterday, Archie Hamilton, urged all service personnel to be on their guard
after the explosion in which Sgt Charles Chapman, 34, died and another sergeant
was seriously injured.

Army bomb disposal experts last night defused a 650lb bomb buried in a ditch
near Coalisland, Co Tyrone.

In the Irish Republic police uncovered arms, including mortar bombs and machine
guns, in a dump near Buncrana, Co Donegal, near the Ulster border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 20, 1990, Sunday
                              Correction Appended

Police fear terrorist 'fast lane' into UK

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 720 words


POLICE say their fight against terrorism has been undermined by changes in the
way visitors are checked at Britain's ports and airports.

The changes, part of moves towards dismantling customs and immigration barriers
between European countries, allow EC nationals and freight to speed through
checkpoints. This means that potential terrorists are not being challenged,
according to police.

The power to stop and detain terrorist suspects is regarded by police as one of
the most vital weapons in their armoury. Terrorist attacks on mainland Britain
decreased after the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) was introduced in 1974.
Many police officers fear that groups like the IRA are now exploiting relaxed
controls and entering mainland Britain from the Continent, rather than directly
from Ireland, to avoid Special Branch surveillance.

Under new arrangements, visitors arriving in Britain are confronted by two
passport channels: one for EC citizens, another for the rest. Immigration
officers treat British and EC passport holders in the same manner, with emphasis
placed on easing the formalities for them. New customs procedures have resulted
in fewer checks on freight, which passes through on a ''fast lane'' customs
clearance system.

According to evidence submitted to the all- party House of Commons Home Affairs
select committee, police believe that ''these developments have weakened the
effectiveness of the Prevention of Terrorism legislation at ports in Great
Britain and have placed a greater onus on the limited police port resources''.

One senior police officer said: ''The appearance of a suspect at a port or
airport is often the first indication we have there is something going on.''

Last year 181 people were detained in the UK under the PTA. Of these, 163 were
allegedly connected with Northern Irish terrorism and 18 with international
terrorism. Police port units are set up throughout Britain and monitor the
majority of traffic using air and sea ports.

Most detentions under the PTA are made at ports served by Irish ferry services,
monitored by the police themselves. At other ports, however, Special Branch has
traditionally looked to Immigration for help in keeping an eye on suspect
terrorists. This was recognised by the inclusion of immigration officers as
examining officers under prevention of terrorism legislation.

But the changes have disrupted the system built up over the last 16 years. ''The
effectiveness of the working arrangements was greatly reduced when, without
notification to police, new policies were introduced by immigration . . . in
anticipation of post-1992 requirements,'' according to evidence to the
committee.

British and European Community passport lines at ports were merged to ensure all
EC nationals were subject to identical procedures and the work of immigration
officers was targeted towards non-EC travellers.

''As immigration officers seldom use their powers under the prevention of
terrorism legislation, their method of conducting EC controls now leaves little
opportunity for identifying persons involved in terrorism, or otherwise of
interest to the police,'' the MPs are told. The introduction by Customs of
''freeway'' and ''fast lane'' operations which allow for fewer but very thorough
examinations has significantly reduced the scrutiny of travellers in vehicles,
police say.

A Customs spokesman said the ''fast lane'' procedure was introduced last August
to speed the flow of freight. All freight treated this way was checked for its
eligibility before being approved. The spokesman said the system did not affect
officers' powers to stop and search freight or passengers.

There were suggestions last week that the IRA bombers involved in the attacks on
a van and an Army recruiting office in London might have arrived in Britain from
Europe.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman of the Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist
Branch said the terrorists might have close connections with a second team
operating on the Continent.

One soldier died and another was wounded after a bomb exploded under their van
after they left an Army recruiting office in Wembley, north London. Three days
earlier, a bomb buried in a flower-bed exploded outside an Army education office
in Eltham, south-east London, wounding several people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1990, Sunday

CORRECTION: The figures for people detained under the Prevention of Terrorism
Acts last year in our report ''Police fear terrorist 'fast lane' into UK'' (20
May), apply to Great Britain (Northern Ireland excluded), not to the United
Kingdom as stated in the report.

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 23, 1990

Guards at bases 'afraid of dark'

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 443 words


SOME commercial security guards at military bases proved so hopeless that they
fell asleep at their post, were too weak to lift barriers, or were afraid of the
dark, the Commons defence select committee reported yesterday.

The MPs' report, commissioned after the IRA bomb explosion at the Royal Marines
School of Music at Deal, Kent, last September, says some private firms used to
guard British bases have endangered lives by providing a consistently
unsatisfactory service.


It is scathing about the Government's policy of increasing the use of private
contractors at the bases, and will add to the pressure on ministers to act after
last week's bombings at Eltham and Wembley in London. The MPs say no contracts
should be let at bases that have not yet used commercial guards until there is
legislation specifying minimum standards.

They recommend an annual security review. Within two years commercial guards
should be used only at sites where there is no assessed security risk. The
companies should be replaced by Ministry of Defence guards.

In January there were 46 commercial contracts covering 56 bases, employing more
than 500 guards involved mainly in access control and 24-hour gate manning. The
MPs note that MoD spending on these contracts has risen tenfold to nearly Pounds
4.5 million in the past five years.

'While the service given overall has been by and large at least as good as could
be expected,' the report says, 'some firms offering a consistently
unsatisfactory, and therefore potentially dangerous, guarding service have for
contractual reasons, and in the absence of a readily available alternative, been
permitted to remain for month after month.'

In one case, which the MPs describe as 'one of the more appalling stories we
have heard in the last 10 years', the director of MoD security 'unfolded a
horrifying tale of inefficiency, idleness and absenteeism' at an outer London
base.

The MPs criticise the contractors' screening procedures, which they say failed
to ensure that proven criminals or those with criminal intentions were not
employed.

They blame low pay, high staff turnover, and low-quality personnel for many of
the companies' failings.

They say they were dismayed to be told that MoD officials had felt unwilling to
draw ministers' attention to the unsatisfactory service, lest they be suspected
of lacking enthusiasm for ministerial policy.

Labour defence spokesman Allan Rogers last night said the report fully justified
concern about the security of MoD personnel in Britain and demonstrated that
regulation of the private security industry was an absolute necessity.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            May 23, 1990, Wednesday

Ex-criminals guarding MoD sites shock MPs

BYLINE: By Sheila Gunn, Political Reporter

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 685 words


PRIVATE guard patrols at Britain's military bases include former criminals,
commit acts of vandalism while on duty or turn out to be hopeless because they
are afraid of the dark or are physically feeble, according to the Commons
defence committee.

The committee's much-leaked report today relates an appalling inventory of
failings by private security firms, which are being used as a cost-cutting
exercise to guard 56 defence sites. The blame is put squarely on defence
ministers who favour contracts based on much lower pay rates than those paid to
Ministry of Defence guards.

The cross-party committee demands: no more contracts to private firms for
replacing MoD guards; stricter vetting of all guards; legislation to regulate
commercial security firms; and thorough and regular reviews of existing
contracts. By May 30 1992, the committee said, the MoD must assure Parliament
that commercial guards are only employed at sites carrying no security risk or
where replacement by an MoD guard force had been ruled out.

The investigation was launched in the wake of the terrorist bomb attacks on the
Royal Marine School of Music at Deal, Kent, in which 11 bandsmen died, and the
Inglis barracks at Mill Hill, north London, in which one soldier was killed.
However, the report will carry extra weight with ministers faced with the
increasing threat of a renewed IRA campaign this summer against ''soft'' defence
targets on mainland Britain.

The Government's trend towards privatization and contracting-out cannot fail to
dilute the MoD's responsibility for security, the MPs said. The ''blue riband''
security firms are not generally attracted to the defence contracts because of
the low pay.

The worst case unearthed by the MPs was a defence depot in north London, where
19 private guards had been employed at an annual cost of Pounds 150,000. For
more than 12 months the company received numerous formal warnings of too few
staff on duty, too high a turnover, staff not always wearing the right uniform
nor properly briefed. After receiving classified information about that
particular contract, the committee concluded: ''To cap this litany, there were
on more than one occasion cases of vandalism committed by the guards, including
the smashing of windows.''

In spite of its bad record going back to early 1988, the firm's contract was not
stopped until February this year. The director of MoD security unfolded a
horrifying tale of inefficiency, idleness and absenteeism, the MPs added one of
the more appalling reports they had heard in the past 10 years.

''That commercial security guards should be unable to prevent occasional
criminal damage on dispersed civilian sites is understandable, if regrettable.
But that they should themselves indulge in an apparent spree of vandalism on a
MoD site; that it should not even be an isolated occurrence, but one matched by
employees of other companies at other MoD sites; and that MoD should not be able
instantly to remove the security guards for lack of a viable alternative beggars
belief.''

Mr Bruce George, a Labour MP on the committee, said: ''I have always said there
will be an issue that will compel the Government to face the inevitable; that
there must be a system of licensing for private security firms. History will say
it was Deal that finally focused attention on the growing weakness of the
British private security industry.''

The MPs were also allowed access to the unpublished 1988 report on commercial
security firms carried out by the Association of Chief Police Officers. They
reported: ''We cannot overlook the weight of evidence presented to us on the
private security industry which demonstrates its inability to ensure that it
does not employ proven criminals or those with criminal intentions.''

Last night, Reliance Security Services, which guarded the Deal site, called for
a ''more realistic approach'' by the MoD to rates of pay and access for private
security firms to criminal records.

The Physical Security of Military Installations in the UK: Defence Committee
Sixth Report (Stationery Office; Pounds 15.45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 29, 1990

Town reels under repeat shooting: Peter Spinks finds Roermond citizens divided
over the presence of British servicemen

BYLINE: By PETER SPINKS

LENGTH: 590 words


THE market town of Roermond in the agricultural heartland of south Holland awoke
with a jolt on Sunday night to a deafening volley of semi-automatic gunfire.

'My father, grandfather and great-grandfather all lived here peacefully without
ever hearing the sound of a gunshot in their lifetimes,' said one elderly
Roermonder.


'Then the British servicemen started coming here and bringing with them their
machine guns. I knew it wouldn't be long before the IRA or some other counter
group arrived with theirs.'

This is the second time in as many years that Roermond the province of Limburg's
most important agricultural town and its centre of Catholicism has been the
target for an IRA attack.

On May Day 1988 an RAF serviceman, Ian Skinner, was machine-gunned as he
returned with colleagues to his parked car.

'For several weeks after the 1988 attack we received no visitors here,' said
Marianne Laarakkers, director of the Roermond Tourist Board.

Local hotel managers blame the spate of IRA attacks in the area on the RAF base
at Elmpt, about five miles across the border in West Germany.

'There is insufficient accommodation there for the families of British
servicemen and so many of them live here instead,' said one manager.

'They bring in quite a lot of good business because they like going out at night
and drink heavily in our local pubs and cafes. But, frankly, I don't need this
custom so desperately if they are responsible for constantly attracting IRA
hitmen to our respectable town.'

Several residents said they enjoyed the presence of British servicemen.

'They are always full of jokes and have nice manners,' said one.

But there was also widespread sympathy for the IRA's political cause, if not its
violent actions.

'Britain has made Ireland a kind of colony and we are having to pay the price
for IRA reprisals which now take place on the continent because of the crackdown
by police in Britain,' said a resident. 'I genuinely sympathise with their
political aims but certainly not the kind of attacks we've just witnessed.'

Several witnesses said they saw the party of four Australians leaving a Chinese
restaurant across the road from their parked car.

'After leaving the restaurant they set up a camera tripod outside their car and
started taking snaps of the old town hall building,' said one.

'Suddenly this Mazda drove up and out jumped two men in black and wearing hoods.
They kept firing their guns and then joined the third man in the car who drove
off with tyres screeching in the direction of Belgium.'

The Chinese restaurateur was last night unavailable for comment, but another
cafe owner, Mark Vaessen, told of how one of the women, Lyndal Melrose, rushed
into his cafe after the shooting.

'She was crying and shaking and just kept saying get me my mother on the phone,'
he said. 'I dialled the number for her because her hand was trembling so much.
She seemed more composed after speaking to her mother.'

'I heard more than a dozen very loud gunshots go off in rapid succession,' said
Anneke Visser, who lives near the 600-year-old market square. 'They seemed to be
fired very fast in several bursts, each of a couple of seconds. My first
reaction was oh no, not another attack like the one two years ago.'

The usual hustle and bustle of the Monday morning country market was replaced by
camera crews jostling for positions as a snack-shop owner served hot coffees to
police who had spent the night sifting through the debris for clues

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 29, 1990, Tuesday

'Evil cowards' shock Australia

BYLINE: From ROBERT MILLIKEN in Sydney

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 553 words


THE AUSTRALIAN government last night expressed its outrage at the killing of the
two young Australians in The Netherlands by IRA gunmen. It pledged its support
for efforts to catch the killers.

Authorities in Australia began co-operating with police in The Netherlands and
Interpol within hours of the two men being shot dead.

Neal Blewett, Australia's acting minister for foreign affairs, described the
killers as cowards. He said: ''This outrageous and cowardly act of violence has
shocked all Australians . . . The Australian government will give its full
support to all efforts to bring the perpetrators of this appalling and evil deed
to justice.''

He said the government offered its deep sympathy to the families of the murdered
men, Nick Spanos, 28, of Sydney, and Stephen Melrose, 24, of Brisbane.

The minister echoed a feeling of grief and horror among Australians over the IRA
killings.

Public opinion towards the IRA in Australia, where immigrants of Irish descent
make up a large proportion of the population, has traditionally been less
hostile and more sympathetic than in Britain. But now that an outrage has been
committed against two innocent Australians of the type that has claimed the
lives of many British civilians and soldiers, the question must be raised
whether Australian perceptions of the IRA and its cause in Northern Ireland are
about to change.

An estimated 3.5 million Australians, almost a quarter of the population, are of
Irish descent. British and Irish immigrants still comprise the largest
proportion of Australia's new settlers. But with Protestants outnumbering
Catholics almost two to one, Irish troubles in Australia have traditionally
focused on the strong influence of Irish Catholics in the Australian Labour
Party rather than on a transplanting of bloody and violent battles from Ireland.

There have been occasional exceptions. When Margaret Thatcher visited Melbourne
two years ago, hundreds of rowdy demonstrators claiming to be IRA supporters
jostled and heckled her on a street walkabout, forcing her to take refuge in a
shop. Nine years ago Eamonn O'Connor, an Irishman in Sydney, embarked on a
prolonged hunger strike at the city's Gaelic Club in sympathy with
hunger-striking IRA prisoners in Northern Ireland.

Mr O'Connor, the first person outside Northern Ireland to stage such a
sympathetic hunger strike, was supported by the Irish National Association, a
republican group that claimed 200,000 members in Australia. But Australia has
never been a systematic source of IRA fund-raising as the United States has
been.

Yesterday's killings are also likely to have an impact on the flow of young
Australian and New Zealand tourists to Europe this summer. Thousands of
Australians traditionally spend the summer months travelling around Europe, many
from bases in London in cars and vans with British number plates.

Travel companies in Australia last night warned people planning trips to take
extra care by not driving in British registered cars, particularly in The
Netherlands and Germany, the scenes of several IRA attacks on British soldiers.

The last Australian civilian victim of an IRA attack was an Australian doctor
resident in London who was killed in October 1975. He was walking past an IRA
car bomb when it exploded in Holland Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             May 29, 1990, Tuesday

No easy answers on soldiers' safety when any number plate tells a tale

BYLINE: By Michael Evans, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 379 words


THE murder of the two Australian lawyers seems to expose an unfortunate
side-effect of the Government's decision 18 months ago to scrap special car
number plates for servicemen in West Germany.

Ministers and military authorities were aware that by replacing servicemen's
distinctive registration plates with ordinary UK plates, there was a risk that
tourists using British cars on the Continent might be mistaken for servicemen by
IRA gunmen. The risk was considered small, compared to the danger faced by
British military personnel driving with identifiable servicemen's plates. The
main risks for tourists with British-registered cars are in areas frequented by
servicemen.

Yesterday, British military sources in Germany said there was no perfect
solution to the number plate question.

Military personnel had been relieved when British Forces Germany plates were
scrapped, after the murder of Warrant Officer Richard Heakin at Ostend, Belgium,
in August 1988. He had been a target purely because his car's number plate
included the ''B'' for military personnel with the British Army of the Rhine.
''By changing to ordinary British plates, we spread the risk,'' a military
source said.

Another option was to use German plates. However, there were the problems that,
on British right-hand drive cars, they would be ''a give-away'', and that if
servicemen drove German-plated cars back home, they could be recognized by the
IRA in Britain.

British military authorities have not ruled out any more changes, including the
use of German plates, although not on right-hand drive cars. British sources
said that the German authorities had been ''extremely co-operative'' in seeking
the best way to increase security for the 55,000 soldiers and 12,000 airmen, and
their families, in West Germany. Since the killing at Ostend, military
authorities have been satisfied that the switch to ordinary British plates has
worked well for servicemen using Channel ports.

With so many British tourists in the ports, there is no obvious way for IRA
gunmen to notice a serviceman's car. In towns visited by soldiers as in the
latest case and in other places that are not obvious transit points for British
tourists, the IRA's chance of a mistaken shooting is, theoretically, less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 30, 1990, Wednesday

Two gunmen in Roermond IRA killing, widow says

BYLINE: By ALEX RENTON in Roermond and WILL BENNETT in London

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 520 words


TWO IRA gunmen were involved in the murder of the Australian lawyers Stephan
Melrose and Nick Spanos in the Netherlands, the widow of one of the men said
yesterday. Originally it was thought that only one terrorist carried out the
killings in Roermond while at least two more remained in a getaway car near by.

But Lyndal Melrose, who survived the attack unhurt, said yesterday: ''I saw men
running with balaclavas on, two of them had short guns.

''They didn't just come to us and shoot. We were parked in a square, a market
place, and they started running and shooting from the bottom of the square to
the car, which was three-quarters of the way up it.''

Mrs Melrose and Vicky Coss, Mr Spanos's girlfriend, talked about the murders of
the two men, who were mistaken for British servicemen, at a press conference in
London yesterday.

Mrs Melrose described the tragedy as being a ''nightmare'' and ''like something
out of a horror movie''. Miss Coss said: ''It was nothing that we could have
foreseen. We were just sitting ducks.''

In Roermond yesterday Dutch police followed up information from 15 witnesses of
the shooting and scientific evidence from the IRA men's getaway car, which was
found burnt out in Belgium.

But they appeared to be no nearer finding those responsible for one of the
Provisionals' worst blunders, and they cannot cross borders into Belgium or
Germany to investigate.

The IRA's apology for the murder of the two men, who had been working in London
and were on a four-day visit to the Continent, was dismissed contemptuously by
Bob Hawke, the Australian Prime Minister, yesterday. He said: ''This sort of
warped logic of war casualties adds insult to a mortal injury. That twisted
logic cuts no ice with anyone in this country.''

Mr Melrose's mother, Beverley, said she wished her son's killers knew how her
family felt about his murder and added: ''We just hope that they have children.

''I guess that people who do things like this have absolutely no feeling so it
probably doesn't affect them a great deal, but if they knew how we felt they
should feel sorry.

''They must have just shot them irrespective of what they were and who they
were. How could they not understand they were

tourists?''

No new security precautions are being taken to protect either the 600 members of
British servicemen's families who live in Roermond or the 150,000 based across
the border in West Germany. The Ministry of Defence takes the view that security
has already been tightened up, frequent warnings have been issued to British
service families and not much more can be done.

The distinctive servicemen's car number plates were scrapped after a series of
IRA attacks two years ago and soldiers and airmen stationed in Germany now have
civilian British plates.

They can take out West German car registration and are being encouraged to buy
left-hand drive vehicles. But they are often reluctant to purchase these as they
are less saleable when they bring them back to Britain. A special tax deal means
that they can make a big profit on cars bought in Germany.

Further reports, page 2


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 30, 1990, Wednesday

Servicemen prefer right-hand drive cars despite risks

BYLINE: By WILL BENNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 495 words


BRITISH servicemen stationed in Germany are reluctant to buy left- hand drive
cars despite the danger of becoming targets for the IRA, writes Will Bennett.

This is because they can make a substantial profit from buying a car in Germany
and then selling it in Britain.

Cars owned by British Forces families have been distinctive and therefore
vulnerable in the past because of their number plates and also that they are
right-hand drive.

The British Government reduced the danger posed by the registration plates two
years ago after a spate of IRA attacks by scrapping numbers used only by
servicemen. Servicemen's cars can now have British civilian plates.

This makes it more difficult for terrorists to distinguish between military and
civilian targets as tragically illustrated by the murder of the two Australians
with a British registered car on Sunday.

However, under an agreement signed between the governments in London and Bonn
last year, British servicemen can now register their cars in West Germany.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said yesterday: ''The Germans have been
extremely helpful over this matter. When you register a car in Germany you also
pay the road tax in the same transaction. There is no tax disc to display, which
is a peculiarly British institution.

''Under the agreement the Germans have administratively separated the
registration from the road tax when British forces personnel buy a car there.''

This enables British servicemen to be exempted from German road tax just as they
were when they registered their cars in Britain. Exemption from purchase tax in
Germany has also been retained so in theory there should be no financial
disadvantages if servicemen have German number plates.

But although thousands have opted for this safer option it is only of use if
they buy left-hand drive cars. A right-hand drive vehicle with German number
plates would obviously be British owned.

However, Army and RAF families may not wish to sell the right- hand drive cars
they brought with them from the United Kingdom.

If they buy a car in Germany a left-hand drive one will be less useful when they
return to Britain and, crucially, have a much lower resale price. They can bring
them back to Britain without having to pay duty if they keep them in Germany for
at least six months.

The duty is 10 per cent of the British wholesale value of the car and then 15
per cent VAT on the combined value of the car and the duty. This can be
thousands of pounds.

They must keep the car in Britain for a year before they are allowed to resell
it.

But buying an expensive car in Germany and selling it in Britain can be highly
profitable.

The regulations apply equally to left and right-hand drive cars. But the resale
value of left-hand drive vehicles in Britain is far lower.

If British servicemen want to blend in more with the civilian population in
Germany and surrounding countries they will have to make a financial sacrifice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 30, 1990, Wednesday

Two gunmen in Roermond IRA killing, widow says

BYLINE: By ALEX RENTON in Roermond and WILL BENNETT in London

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 520 words


TWO IRA gunmen were involved in the murder of the Australian lawyers Stephan
Melrose and Nick Spanos in the Netherlands, the widow of one of the men said
yesterday. Originally it was thought that only one terrorist carried out the
killings in Roermond while at least two more remained in a getaway car near by.

But Lyndal Melrose, who survived the attack unhurt, said yesterday: ''I saw men
running with balaclavas on, two of them had short guns.

''They didn't just come to us and shoot. We were parked in a square, a market
place, and they started running and shooting from the bottom of the square to
the car, which was three-quarters of the way up it.''

Mrs Melrose and Vicky Coss, Mr Spanos's girlfriend, talked about the murders of
the two men, who were mistaken for British servicemen, at a press conference in
London yesterday.

Mrs Melrose described the tragedy as being a ''nightmare'' and ''like something
out of a horror movie''. Miss Coss said: ''It was nothing that we could have
foreseen. We were just sitting ducks.''

In Roermond yesterday Dutch police followed up information from 15 witnesses of
the shooting and scientific evidence from the IRA men's getaway car, which was
found burnt out in Belgium.

But they appeared to be no nearer finding those responsible for one of the
Provisionals' worst blunders, and they cannot cross borders into Belgium or
Germany to investigate.

The IRA's apology for the murder of the two men, who had been working in London
and were on a four-day visit to the Continent, was dismissed contemptuously by
Bob Hawke, the Australian Prime Minister, yesterday. He said: ''This sort of
warped logic of war casualties adds insult to a mortal injury. That twisted
logic cuts no ice with anyone in this country.''

Mr Melrose's mother, Beverley, said she wished her son's killers knew how her
family felt about his murder and added: ''We just hope that they have children.

''I guess that people who do things like this have absolutely no feeling so it
probably doesn't affect them a great deal, but if they knew how we felt they
should feel sorry.

''They must have just shot them irrespective of what they were and who they
were. How could they not understand they were

tourists?''

No new security precautions are being taken to protect either the 600 members of
British servicemen's families who live in Roermond or the 150,000 based across
the border in West Germany. The Ministry of Defence takes the view that security
has already been tightened up, frequent warnings have been issued to British
service families and not much more can be done.

The distinctive servicemen's car number plates were scrapped after a series of
IRA attacks two years ago and soldiers and airmen stationed in Germany now have
civilian British plates.

They can take out West German car registration and are being encouraged to buy
left-hand drive vehicles. But they are often reluctant to purchase these as they
are less saleable when they bring them back to Britain. A special tax deal means
that they can make a big profit on cars bought in Germany.

Further reports, page 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            May 30, 1990, Wednesday

Tax on left-hand drive cars waived

BYLINE: By Michael Evans, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 303 words


HUNDREDS of British servicemen in West Germany have taken up the option of
buying left-hand drive cars with German registration plates as an extra
safeguard against terrorist attacks.

The German authorities agreed towards the end of last year to extend tax
concessions to cover German cars as well as British models. The agreement to
waive payment of value-added tax on new German cars meant that British
servicemen could still benefit from the special tax arrangements which had
always existed for the purchase of right-hand drive UK cars.

Even though the cars are registered in Germany, servicemen are also exempted
from German road tax. The decision by the West Germans, which was not
publicized, has underlined the extent to which the Bonn government has been
prepared to safeguard British servicemen and their families.

The tax concessions have encouraged many servicemen to go for the German car
option. British military sources said yesterday that about one in five
servicemen now had left-hand drive cars with German plates.

Under the VAT arrangement, servicemen who buy cars British or German while on
tour in West Germany, have to keep the vehicle for a minimum of six months in
the country and one year in Britain. If they sell the car, they lose the tax
exemption.

After the murder of the two Australian tourists, servicemen have again been
warned to be vigilant. A British military spokesman in Germany said: ''There is
no such thing as being completely safe. But we are not keeping our people behind
barbed wire or telling them what to do with their free time. If we did that, we
would be giving the terrorists a victory.''

The Army is not involved in the hunt for the IRA gunmen, but an appeal on
forces' television called for witnesses and the Army said it would help in any
way possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 2, 1990

Killing of major in West Germany follows recent pattern: Detectives warned of
similar attacks to follow on the mainland Shooting may mark new era of violence

BYLINE: By ANGELLA JOHNSON

LENGTH: 557 words


IF THE IRA claims responsibility for last night's shooting in Lichfield it would
mark a dramatic shift in tactics from a bombing campaign to more open attacks on
the mainland.

The killing of Major M. J. Dillon-Lee in West Germany, however, conforms to a
pattern of IRA gun attacks on the continent.


In October last year, a corporal and his six-month-old daughter were shot dead
in Wildenrath, West Germany.

A month earlier, six soldiers were shot and seriously injured at Munster, West
Germany. In the same month Heidi Hazell, aged 26, the German-born wife of a
British soldier, was shot dead in her car in Dortmund, West Germany.

In summer 1988, Warrant Officer Richard Heakin, aged 38, was shot in his car at
traffic lights in the centre of the Belgian port of Ostend.

Six days ago, two London-based Australians were murdered by two hooded gunmen in
Roermond, Holland. The IRA later apologised.

Detectives in Britain had warned that the next attack could be a shooting of
army personnel or VIPs on the mainland.

Police believe an IRA unit in Europe is operating independently of at least two
cells in Britain. One of those cells planted the car bomb which killed an army
sergeant and wounded another outside a recruiting office in Wembley, north
London, on May 16.

Two days earlier, a time bomb buried in a flower bed outside the army education
centre in Eltham, south-east London, exploded injuring seven people.

The cell members are believed to be young, to have been working in Britain for
some time to establish a cover story, and to be supported by a network of IRA
sympathisers.

Eight days ago, police arrested a man after a chase in which a car containing
two loaded Kalishnikov AK47 assault rifles was stopped.

Last night's shootings were 20 miles from where police searched for a suspected
IRA arms cache at a student hall of residence near Gnosall, Staffs. Nothing was
found.

Police discoveries of IRA arms and explosives caches have foiled several attacks
in recent years.

Detectives investigating a Clapham bomb factory found 104lbs of Semtex
explosives, machine guns and other firearms.

Caches of Semtex, bomb-making equipment and weapons were also discovered on
Hampstead Heath; in a waterworks in north London; and in undergrowth near
Scarborough, north Yorkshire. Last November, about 100lbs of Semtex and more
than a dozen hand weapons and AK47 rifles were found at St David's, Dyfed.

Recent attacks include:

February 24, 1990: A device pushed through a letterbox wrecked an army careers
office in Halifax, West Yorkshire.

February 20, 1990: Three people were injured after a car bomb dropped off the
bottom of a military vehicle used by army recruiting office staff in Leicester
and exploded.

November 18, 1989: A staff sergeant lost both legs when a booby-trapped car bomb
exploded under his vehicle outside married quarters at Colchester barracks.

November, 1989: A bomb planted under the car of a senior army officer outside
his west London home fell off and lay in a gutter until spotted by a passer-by.

September 22, 1989: Eleven bandsmen died when a bomb exploded at the Royal
Marines School of Music in Deal, Kent.

February 20, 1989: Three bomb explosions demolished buildings at Tern Hill
barracks near Shrewsbury. No one was injured.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 2, 1990

Soldiers killed in twin raids: Gunmen murder recruit in Britain, officer in
Germany

BYLINE: By ANGELLA JOHNSON and PAUL HOYLAND

LENGTH: 879 words


A BRITISH army officer was shot dead by a gunman in West Germany late last
night, only hours after two suspected IRA attackers, wearing balaclavas, opened
fire on three army recruits at Lichfield railway station in Staffordshire,
killing one and injuring two.

The victim in Germany was a Royal Artillery major, who was killed as he drove
home with his wife in Dortmund, the Ministry of Defence said in London early
today.


Major MJ Dillon-Lee was shot several times in the head and died immediately
after he stopped his car in front of his house in the Gartendstadt area of
Dortmund.

The ministry said that the soldier killed in Lichfield was Private William
Davies, aged 19, from Pontardulais in West Glamorgan. He was shot in the neck
and body.

The two injured men were Robert Parkin, aged 20, from the West Country, who was
seriously hurt by shots to the neck and shoulder, and Neil Evans, aged 19, from
South Wales, who was hit in the arm.

Chief Inspector Tony Johnson of Staffordshire police said: 'Both men are sitting
up in bed. They are as comfortable as can be expected.'

The men are from the depot of the Prince of Wales's Division at Whittington
Barracks, Lichfield. They were attacked while waiting for a train to Birmingham
at about 6pm. No warning was given and the station was crowded with commuters.

Major Dillon-Lee was serving with the 32 Heavy Regiment, Royal Artillery. An
army press officer in Dortmund said Major Dillon-Lee and his wife 'were together
outside the married quarters at the time of the shooting'.

The area had been sealed off and Dortmund police were investigating.

There was no confirmation that either shooting was carried out by the IRA, but
Scotland Yard said officers from the anti-terrorist squad were at the scene in
Lichfield.

The station was sealed off last night as police hunted for clues. More than 100
officers up by dog handlers, were combing the countryside around the cathedral
city while a police helicopter hovered over the area.

Detective Chief Superintendent Malcolm Bevington, head of Staffordshire CID,
said the soldiers had taken a seat on the platform when two men appeared,
produced guns and fired. Commuters scattered as they heard shots. 'The men were
seen to jump down on the railway track, cross the track, round the corner of a
wall, and run across a builder's yard. We have no description of any vehicle.'

The soldiers had been on a basic training course and were dressed in civilian
clothes as they went on leave. They were taken to hospital in Sutton Coldfield,
West Midlands.

A witness said: 'The three soldiers were standing on the platform when they were
approached by two other men. I thought they were just messing about when there
were six loud bangs.

'The soldiers collapsed, two on the platform and one slumped on to a bench. One
had been shot in the chest and another through the arm.

'We did our best to stanch the blood. The two men ran across the line to get
away.'

Another witness said: 'The soldiers were wearing civilian clothes, but were easy
to recognise. They were about 18 years old. The station is always full of them
on a Friday.'

The gunmen wore dark leather jackets and blue tracksuits or overalls. One was
aged 18-20 and the other about 29.

The Prince of Wales's Division has carried out several tours of duty in Northern
Ireland.

The training depot, two miles outside Lichfield, provides basic training for
rookie soldiers from the age of 17. Trained soldiers then enter the Prince of
Wales's Division.

Security was stepped up at the barracks last night. A spokesman for the army's
western district said recruits would be given further advice on vigilance.

The shooting took place 20 miles from where police are hunting for a suspected
IRA arms cache at a students' hall of residence near Gnosall.

If ithe Lichfield shooting was the work of the IRA, it marks a switch in
tactics. Previous mainland attacks have included time bombs on cars or buildings
and parcel bombs. But anti-terrorist detectives had warned that the terrorists'
next move could be an attack on army personnel or VIPs on the mainland.

Six days ago, two London-based Australians were murdered in Holland by the IRA,
which mistook them for off-duty British servicemen.

But detectives believe the IRA unit in Europe is operating independently of at
least two cells on the mainland. One of those cells planted the car bomb which
killed an army sergeant and seriously wounded another in Wembley, north London,
on May 16.

Two days earlier, a time bomb buried in a flower bed exploded outside an army
education centre in Eltham, south-east London, injuring seven.

Martin O'Neill, the shadow defence secretary, described the latest incident as
cowardly. He added: 'It is a crude and brutal attempt to frighten youngsters
from joining the forces.'

Labour leader Neil Kinnock said: 'Everyone will mourn with the families who have
suffered death and injury and everyone will be determined that attacks of this
kind will gain no profit for the murderers.'

The Defence Secretary, Tom King, has sent a message of sympathy to the dead
man's family.

The Prime Minister was being kept informed.

New era of violence, page 3

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 2, 1990, Saturday

Shooting adds vicious twist to the threat of terrorism; Terry Kirby examines the
IRA's tactics in the light of last night's attack on three soldiers at Lichfield

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 510 words


THE SCREW of terrorism was tightened several turns last night in what appeared
to be the first deliberate daylight shooting of soldiers in England.

On the assumption that yesterday's attack in Lichfield, by two gunmen in leather
jackets and balaclavas, is claimed by the Provisional IRA, the shooting is
highly significant and will cause serious concern to the police and security
services.

Since January the rate of mainland attacks has increased in frequency and
recklessness, displaying an unpredictable variety of different methods.

In January letter bombs were delivered to a military base. Car bombs were
planted at Leicester in February and at Wembley, north London, just two weeks
ago, while at Eltham, south-east London, just a few days before that, a bomb was
buried in a flower-bed. Last weekend, two Australians were shot dead by mistake
in Roermund, in The Netherlands.

Because of the similarities between the two shooting attacks there will be
speculation that the same terrorists are responsible, although there are strong
reasons why that may not be so: there are already highly active IRA teams on
both sides of the Channel and it would have been considered extremely dangerous
for IRA members to enter the United Kingdom from the Continent.

Since the current mainland campaign began in August 1988, detectives have seized
large amounts of Semtex explosive, bomb-making equipment and a variety of
weapons, including semi-automatic rifles and pistols.

The Provisional IRA has never shot at a military target in mainland Britain in
daylight before, although in the early 1970s the IRA unit arrested after the
Balcombe Street siege had shot at various targets after they had planted bombs
in London.

Yesterday's events raise the temperature markedly and put the IRA on the
offensive on three distinct fronts in Europe. They place all military personnel
in mainland Britain in the IRA's sights at any time.

Last night's attack may have been an example of the IRA habit of varying tactics
to catch the security forces off guard.

It remains to be seen what lies behind the increasing pace of the mainland
campaign. It may be the decision of the senior IRA command, possibly frustrated
at the optimistic talks being conducted by Peter Brook, Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, or simply growing daring and recklessness on the part of the
mainland units.

Detectives believe that at least two separate units may be operating in Britain.
Despite considerable success in seizures and arrests the ringleaders are still
at large.

Anti-Terrorist Squad detectives at Scotland Yard were last night analysing the
Staffordshire incident and working on the theory that it is the Provisionals.
Police have watched events over the past month with mounting concern but are
aware of their powerlessness against random attacks and inability to enforce
their warnings about personal security to military personnel.

A senior Scotland Yard source said last night: ''This is getting extremely
serious indeed, and that's an understatement.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 2, 1990, Saturday
                              Correction Appended

WE SHOT SOLDIERS, SAYS IRA

BYLINE:  Mervyn Tunbridge, Brendan Berry, Tim Cobb, Sally Weale, Chris
Moncrieff,

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2144 words


Charles Miller and Gavin Cordon, Press Association Two British soldiers murdered
within hours of each other were victims of the IRA, the terrorists said today.
The killings - one on mainland Britain and the other in West Germany - brought
to five the number of IRA attacks on military targets in the past three weeks.
Defence Secretary Tom King vowed Friday night's gunmen would be brought to
justice, and that the men of violence were "not going to be allowed to hold this
country to ransom".  Police investigating the two killings were tonight
assessing new information:
    A British Rail ticket collector said he came face to face with two IRA men
moments after they shot three soldiers at a railway station in Lichfield,
Staffs, killing 19-year-old Private William Davies,
    Officers found a Browning pistol in a getaway car used by a gunman who shot
dead Major Michael Dillon-Lee, 34, in Dortmund.

Pte Davies, from Pontarddulais, near Swansea, died in hospital after the station
attack.  The BR employee had an "eye to eye confrontation" with the gunmen from
several feet away, according to the head of Staffordshire CID, Det Chief Supt
Malcolm Bevington.  "He realised that he might be at risk and quite rightly put
himself on the floor as quickly as he could." The pair ran off after jumping on
to the tracks at the crowded station.  The ticket collector is understood to
have given police a fairly detailed description of the men. Police believe the
men were not masked, contrary to earlier reports.  Mr King, a former Ulster
Secretary, said the Lichfield killers would be caught.  "We will find you," he
said in an exclusive interview with the Press Association.  He added: "It is
right to say that there are a small group of very evil people who have no
compunction about killing. There are not many of them, and we have got to find
them." Maj Dillon-Lee, from Bournemouth, was shot as he drove home with his wife
Rosalind in Dortmund.  He was hit several times in the head and died instantly.
Brigadier Alan Gordon, commander of the First Artillery Brigade based in
Dortmund, said: "We are shocked and extremely angry." The terrorists were
"psychopaths who enjoy killing people," he told a news conference.  Detectives
said the major's killer fled by car and narrowly escaped arrest after a
high-speed police chase through the German countryside. Shots were fired from
the getaway Mazda and a policeman was injured in the foot.  Officers found a
Browning pistol and several plastic rubbish bags, probably used to pack weapons,
inside the car, which was abandoned about 20 miles from Dortmund.  Rolf Hannich,
spokesman for the West German federal prosecutor's office in Karlsruhe, said
cartridges discovered after the shooting indicated a Kalashnikov rifle - a
favourite of the IRA - was used in the attack.

The major's neighbours today described how they found his wife screaming as he
lay slumped in the driveway of their house.  The couple's sons, James, nine, and
Mark, seven, were in bed when they were woken by the sound of shots outside
their window.  Engineer Jurgen Dahlbudding, who lives almost opposite the
Dillon-Lees's home, told the Press Association he was closing his windows when
he heard up to six shots ring out.  "I saw a white car drive past very fast
outside in the street. I saw two young men were in the car. I could not see if
they were wearing masks.  "Then everybody came out of their houses. The wife was
calling for the police. She was shouting: 'Help me, help me.' "I saw the man
lying on the ground near the car. It was too late to help. I called for the
police, myself, and they got here very fast." Maj Dillon-Lee had been driving a
car with British number plates, it was learned today.  Service families living
in neighbouring homes said with fear in their voices: "It could have been any of
us." The latest killings happened less than a week after two Australian tourists
were murdered in Roermond, Holland.  They were "tragically" mistaken for
off-duty British servicemen, according to the IRA.  The current wave of
atrocities began on May 14 when a time bomb exploded outside an Army education
centre in Eltham, south-east London. Seven people were injured.  Two days later,
a booby trap car bomb killed an Army sergeant and seriously wounded another
outside a recruitment office in Wembley, north-west London.  West German
authorities said Maj Dillon-Lee may have been killed by the same IRA cell which
carried out the Roermond attack and the attempted bombing on May 5 of a British
Army base in Hanover.  The Lichfield shooting signalled a change in the
terrorists' tactics, according to the Ministry of Defence.  "As far as the
military is concerned, they have always been attacked by bombs in this country,"
a spokesman said.  The two privates who survived the attack were recovering
today at Good Hope hospital in Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands.  Robert Parkin,
20, of Cheltenham, suffered gunshot wounds to the neck and shoulder and Neil
Evans, 19, of Llanelli, Dyfed, Wales, was wounded in the right arm.  They looked
pale and drawn as they posed for photographers after visits from relatives.
Their bravery was praised by Lieutenant Colonel Colin Parslow, commanding
officer at Whittington Barracks, three miles from Lichfield, where the three
shot soldiers were in the 12th week of a 21-week training course.  He said:
"Both have suffered gunshot wounds but their spirits are very, very high and
they are determined to carry on with their training course when they get out of
hospital.  "And they have expressed a wish to pass out with the other members of
their platoon." Whittington barracks is home for the Army's Prince of Wales
division of batallions from nine county regiments.
    Mr Martin Flannery, chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party Northern
Ireland Committee, said the IRA's "miserable brutality" was deepening the Irish
problem.  The Sheffield Hillsborough MP said the terrorists were "preventing by
their actions any attempt to bring about the unity of Ireland".

A special service of remembrance for Pte Davies was held at Lichfield Cathedral
tonight.

Neighbours of Maj Dillon-Lee today described how they found his wife screaming:
"Help me, help me! Please help me," as he lay slumped in the driveway of their
house.  The couple's sons, James, nine, and Mark, seven, were tucked up in bed
when they were woken by the sound of shots outside their window.  Engineer
Jurgen Dahlbudding, who lives almost opposite the Dillon-Lees's home, said he
was closing his windows when he heard up to six shots ring out in the night.  He
said: "I saw a white car drive past very fast outside in the street. I saw two
young men were in the car. I could not see if they were wearing masks.  "Then
everybody came out of their houses. The wife was calling for the police. She was
shouting: 'Help me, help me.' "I saw the man lying on the ground near the car.
It was too late to help. I called for the police, myself, and they got here very
fast." Mr Dahlbudding, 43, said local residents feared terrorist attacks on
neighbouring British service personnel.  "We always are worried. In the evening
the military police controls come round searching the trees, lamps and
everywhere, but we are frightened. I would like to move out." This afternoon one
of the few signs of the shooting was a single bullet hole in the metallic garage
door to the left of the Dillon-Lees' neatly-kept two-storey home.  The family
name could be seen next to the door-bell - easily identifying the occupiers as
British - and it was learned the major had been driving a car with British
number plates.  Brig Gordon said during a visit to the area: "This was, of
course, an outrage and inevitably all of us are extremely angry at this
psychopathic killing indiscriminately in our streets." He pledged the
terrorists' tactics would not work or frighten British servicemen overseas from
going about their work.  Maj Dillon-Lee, from Bournemouth, joined the Army in
1974.

It was clear the gunman and his accomplice had been lying in wait on Friday
night, but both Brig Gordon and local residents were convinced other people in
the area could have been a target.  Service families living in neighbouring
homes - unwilling to be identified for obvious reasons - said with fear in their
voices: "It could have been any of us." One serviceman said: "We are always on
the alert here in any case. Everybody has got to have their common sense about
them at all times.  "They check their vehicles and the house - it's just common
sense." He added quietly: "But if it had been me, coming home at that time, it
could have been me they picked on." Mrs Dillon-Lee was tonight being comforted
with her two sons by friends after reliving the ordeal in interviews with
police, who have launched a massive inquiry to track down the murderer.  There
was no reply at the Dillon-Lees' home, number 23 Max Eyth Strasse, when
journalists called today.  The area was sealed off by police until late
afternoon and the family car removed for forensic tests.  Another German
neighbour, who would not be named, told how she rushed from her bed after
hearing the gunfire and saw the gunman and his driver speed away.  It appeared
they lost valuable minutes in their getaway - allowing neighbours to get a good
look at their vehicle - as they drove to one end of the road and then turned
round to speed back up it.  The silver Mazda was seen north of Dortmund 10
minutes after police were called to the shooting.  The police chase which
followed lasted 30 minutes, with the gunman firing several shots as officers
tailed them. One policeman was slightly injured in the foot.  The car was found
abandoned about 20 miles from Dortmund.

In it police discovered a Browning pistol and several plastic rubbish bags which
were probably used to pack weapons, it was revealed tonight.  Mr Rolf Hannich,
spokesman for the Federal Prosecutor's office in Karlsruhe, said cartridges
found after the shooting indicated that a Kalashnikov rifle was used in the
attack.  The weapon is a favourite of the IRA. The cartridges were now being
examined by forensic experts in Wiesbaden.  Mr Hannich said the gunman had been
wearing a balaclava when he opened fire on the major as he got out of his car in
the driveway to his home.  The only other descriptions of the gunman and his
accomplice, who was driving the getaway car, was that they appeared to have
short, blond hair.  German borders with neighbouring countries had not been
sealed, but were being closely guarded in the hope of preventing the terrorists
travelling out of the country.

Mr Hannich said: "We are sure that it was the work of the IRA." He said that
immediately following previous attacks, the IRA units crossed into other west
European countries such as France, Holland and Belgium.  German police were in
close contact with Dutch colleagues, as last night's attackers could also have
been responsible for the killings of the two Australian tourists in Roermond
last Sunday.  Mr Hannich said it appeared the gunman and his driver had leapt
into another getaway car after dumping the silver Mazda, which had been stolen
from Dortmund several hours before the shooting.  "It may be that another car
was waiting ready for them or that they stole another vehicle," he said.  "We
have no concrete evidence. There are so many stolen cars we cannot automatically
relate them to this case."

Army spokesman Major Peter Hicks said two of the soldiers were 19 and the third
20.  A British Rail employee, who wished to remain anonymous, said: "The three
soldiers were on the opposite platform when two men approached them.  "I thought
they were just messing about, but suddenly there were six loud bangs. Two
collapsed to the ground and the third slumped onto a bench.  "The two gunmen
then ran off across the railway tracks and I jumped across the tracks to try and
help them.  "I and a station employee tried to staunch the flow of blood from
the chest of one of the soldiers.  "I could not believe what had happened. The
soldiers were in civilian clothes, but it was obvious by their short hairstyle
and the way they carried themselves that they were military personnel.  "It is
hard to say what I feel, but my feelings are that these gunmen are just cowards
and I do not suppose they would dream about tackling our lads if they had been
armed. It is just such a shame, the soliders seemed so young." Taxi driver Peter
Irmer said: "There is a regular movement of troops to the station on a Friday
afternoon and evening from Whittington Barracks.  "The majority of soldiers go
home on a Friday and almost all of them start their weekends leave from
Lichfield City Station.  "I heard a loud bang and just thought that it was a car
back-firing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE:  June 2, 1990, Saturday

CORRECTION:  In DEFENCE Shot series, in view of later information, please
correct age of Major Michael Dillon-Lee to 35. This makes clear he was 35, not
34 as previously stated.

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 2, 1990, Saturday

THE GUN ATTACK POLICE FEARED

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-down, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1105 words


The brazen gun attack on three unarmed soldiers on a crowded railway station,
which left a young private dead, was the type of IRA strike which police had
feared would soon be attempted.  Anti-terrorist detectives had warned that an
attack on Army personnel or VIPs on the mainland could be the next move by the
hit-and-run terrorist cell bent on indiscriminate bombing and assassination.
The unit is also believed responsible for two blasts earlier this month.  Six
hours after the station shootings, an IRA gunman in West Germany shot dead Major
Michael Dillon-Lee, 34, as he drove home with his wife Rosalind in Dortmund.
Both attacks come just six days after two young London-based Australians were
murdered in Holland by the IRA who claimed they had "tragically" mistaken them
for off-duty British servicemen.  But detectives believe the IRA unit in Europe
is operating independently of at least two cells on the mainland.  One of those
cells planted the booby trap car bomb which killed an Army sergeant and
seriously wounded another outside a recruiting office in Wembley, north London,
on May 16.  Two days earlier, a time bomb buried in a flower-bed outside the
Army education centre in Eltham, south east London, exploded injuring seven
people.  Anti-terrorist detectives warned then that the bombs could be the start
of an intensive terror campaign and spelt out the need for constant vigilance
against a hit-and-run team of young terrorists prepared to vary their tactics to
keep their victims off guard. Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, warned those at risk and the public: "If
you value your life, you need to look and live, not only today, but tomorrow and
next week and for the immediate and foreseeable future." The cell is believed to
be young, to have been working on the mainland for some time to establish a
cover story, and supported by a network of IRA sympathisers in Britain.  They
have access to arms and explosives dumps, probably near to a motorway.  Scotland
Yard is convinced they have been ordered to kill as many people as possible -
preferably military personnel or those connected with Northern Ireland affairs
now living in Britain.  Eight days ago, police arrested a man after a chase in
which a car containing two loaded Kalishnikov AK47 assault rifles was stopped.
The second cell includes terrorists Patrick Sheehy and John Conaty who fled
after their bomb factory was discovered in Clapham, south west London, in
December 1988.  In the attack in the Dutch border town of Roermond on Sunday,
two terrorists wearing balaclavas ran up the square to the Australian's car
killing Stephan Melrose, 24, and Nick Spanos, 28, in a hail of bullets.  Armed
with semi-automatic weapons, the hooded killers escaped in a car within minutes
of the attack despite an immediate full-scale alert. Their burnt out Mazda 626
was found two hours later in Belgium.  The Yard's anti-terrorist squad is in
constant touch with the Dutch investigators but did not send detectives to
Holland.  Two years ago, IRA gunmen killed an RAF serviceman and injured another
in the same town.  Last night's station shootings took place 20 miles from where
police were involved in a search for a suspected IRA arms cache near a students'
hall of residence near Gnosall, Staffs.  An intensive three-day search for
weapons around Wilbrighton Hall was made last week but police said they did not
find any weapons.  Recent mainland attacks have involved bombs while shootings
of off-duty officers has been the hallmark of terrorists operating on the
continent.  In October last year, a corporal and his six-month-old daughter were
shot dead as they left a restaurant in Wildenrath, West Germany.  A month
earlier, six members of the King's Hussars were shot and seriously injured at
Munster, West Germany.  In the same month Heidi Hazell, 26, the German-born wife
of a British soldier, was shot dead in her car in Dortmund.  The IRA did not
apologise but admitted they thought she was "a member of the British Army
garrison".  In summer 1988, Warrant Officer Richard Heakin, 38, was shot at
point blank range when he stopped his car at traffic lights in the centre of the
Belgian port of Ostend on his way home for leave from West Germany.  On the
mainland, police discoveries of IRA arms and explosives caches have foiled
several attempted terror campaigns in recent years.  Detectives investigating a
Clapham bomb factory found 104lbs of Semtex explosives, machine guns and other
firearms, and believed the chance discovery halted a massive IRA Christmas
bombing campaign.  Caches of Semtex explosive, bomb-making equipment, arms and
ammunition have also been discovered stored or dumped on Hampstead Heath; in a
waterworks in north London; and in undergrowth near Scarborough, north
Yorkshire, shortly before a Conservative Party meeting.  Last November, about
100lbs of Semtex and more than a dozen hand weapons and AK47 rifles were found
at St David's, Dyfed.  The IRA has continued its policy of striking at "soft"
targets despite major reviews of security and repeated warnings for vigilance.
The terrorists kept the initiative by switching tactics - a time bomb buried in
a flowerbed, bombs dumped in bags on the fringes of sites or buildings or
booby-trapped devices hidden under cars.  After the Wembley and Eltham blasts
two weeks ago, Commander Churchill-Coleman said the next attack could be
anywhere in the country.  Previous attacks include:
    February 24, 1990 - Timed device pushed through letterbox wrecked Army
careers office in Halifax, West Yorkshire,
    February 20, 1990 - Three people slightly injured after car bomb dropped off
bottom of military vehicle used by Army recruiting office staff in Leicester and
exploded.
    November 18, 1989 - Army staff sergeant lost both legs when booby-trapped
car bomb exploded under his vehicle outside married quarters at Colchester
Barracks,
    November, 1989 - Car bomb planted under car of senior Army officer outside
west London home fell off before time period ended and lay in gutter until
spotted by passer-by,
    September 22, 1989 - 11 bandsmen killed when bomb exploded at Royal Marines
School of Music in Deal, Kent,
    February 20, 1989 - Three bomb explosions demolished buildings at Tern Hill
barracks near Shrewsbury. No-one injured,
    August 1, 1988 - One soldier died and nine injured at Inglis Army Barracks,
Mill Hill, north London, in the terrorists' first "successful" mainland attack
since the 1984 bombing of the Grand Hotel, Brighton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 3, 1990, Sunday

Leading Article: The futile search for a compromise in Ulster

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 978 words


CONSIDER how little the IRA has achieved. The terrorists can take, if they will,
an angry and perverse pleasure in the number of people they have killed,
including two British soldiers on Friday and two Australian tourists last
Monday. Should that not make the terrorists feel big enough, they can also
relish the thought that they have frightened millions. But their aim of a united
Ireland is further from being realised than it was two decades ago, at the
beginning of their present campaign. It will not be promoted by such desperate
expedients as sending gunmen, one apparently no more than a teenager, to commit
murder on the platform of Lichfield station, as happened on Friday. Such stunts
do not persuade the British people of anything, except that the terrorists are
disgusting and evil men to whom we shall not yield.

The idea that the IRA has been wasting its time may strike some readers as
surprising. On examination, however, the facts confirm that the terrorists'
efforts have been, in their own terms, counter-productive. The support which
their political wing, Sinn Fein, receives in elections in the Irish Republic is
negligible. Most people in the Republic treasure the aspiration of a united
Ireland, but would be appalled if in present circumstances it showed any sign of
being realised. There are several reasons for this practical aversion to unity.
The economic difficulties caused by the withdrawal of British support for the
North would be considerable, and the predominant role which the Roman Catholic
church plays in the Republic would have to end, if the Protestant people of
Ulster were to be added to the state. But above all, it is the IRA which has
killed any general desire for unity in the foreseeable future. Most citizens of
the Republic are just as appalled by events in the North, and just as keen to
keep the place at arm's length, as people in England are. In both cases, the
dominant impression of the province is drawn from television pictures shown
after terrorist atrocities. Thus does the IRA give a false idea of the province,
tarnishing the name of Ireland and making it far harder to obtain foreign
investment.

In Northern Ireland itself, the terrorists have made no more headway. Their
political allies do rather better, but still gain only a small proportion of the
vote, smaller than that won by the party of the constitutional nationalists, the
SDLP, itself a minority group. Members of the Roman Catholic middle class are
often far less attracted by the idea of unity with the rest of Ireland than
might be assumed. As for the unionist parties, which represent the majority of
the population, their sense of being besieged has been further strengthened by
the IRA. Only after a very long period of peace and security might unionists be
brought to accept a united Ireland.

That leaves the rest of Britain as a area where the IRA may hope to influence
public opinion. Here it can try to capitalise on most people's profound
ignorance of Ulster. If all one knows about somewhere is that it contains a
group of thugs called the IRA, which from time to time murders not only other
Irishmen but people from elsewhere in the British Isles, Australia etc, it is
easy to conclude that we would be better off without it.

Many of the politicians, usually English, who have been made Secretary of State
for Northern Ireland, begin their terms of office with this general feeling
about the province. But on studying the problem, they soon realise that there is
no way of driving Northern Ireland out of the United Kingdom against its will,
without in all probability precipitating a civil war from which every part of
these islands would suffer more grievously than from the present conflict. Hence
the undertaking given by both the British and Irish governments that there will
be no change in the status of Northern Ireland without the consent of the
majority.

Yet having grasped the reality that Northern Ireland is going to remain part of
the United Kingdom - or, to put it another way, that the IRA is going to go on
losing - the typical Secretary of State fails to think the subject through with
as much rigour as is desirable, especially when people are being murdered. The
need in Northern Ireland is to convince the IRA that it has lost. Though this
cannot be done quickly, the British Government could, by a judicious series of
reforms leading to the closer integration of the province into the United
Kingdom, encourage the terrorists to realise the hopelessness of their cause.
The IRA is accorded excessive respect. It is a small organisation which has set
itself an impossible task. The job of politicians should be to make this
impossibility evident, so that the terrorists cannot sustain themselves on the
deluded hope that one day the British Government will give in.

Instead, alas, the typical Secretary of State for Northern Ireland tries to
reach a compromise. For much of the last 20 years, British ministers have
attempted to gratify the aspirations of both sides in the province, by splitting
the differences between them. This is an unrealistic project. Nobody can tell
when the attempt by the present Secretary of State, Peter Brooke, to achieve it
will break down, but break down it will. Disraeli remarked that England does not
love coalitions. This is doubly true of Ulster, where the prospects for some
form of power-sharing, devolved government are as bad as anywhere in the UK. All
Mr Brooke's emollient skills will not change this truth. Good men before him
have failed. Mr Brooke will fail too. His foolishness will lead, extra murders
apart, to no irretrievable catastrophe. When the smoke clears, Northern Ireland
will still be part of the UK. But if this wild goose chase is the best policy Mr
Brooke can think of, he would do better to spend the summer watching cricket.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 3, 1990, Sunday

IRA attack marks change in tactics

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT, PHIL DAVISON, HELEN HAGUE, CHARLES OULTON and ROBIN
WILSON

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 1150 words


THE IRA yesterday claimed responsibility for the murders of two British soldiers
at a Staffordshire railway station and an Army base in West Germany.

The admission came nearly a day after Private Robert Davies, 19, was shot dead
as he waited with two other recruits for a train at Lichfield City station. Five
hours later, a gunman pumped several bullets into the head of Major Michael
Dillon-Lee in front of his wife outside their married quarters in Gartenstadt,
Dortmund, shortly after midnight.

The murder in Lichfield, carried out by two gunmen at rush hour on a platform
crowded with Birmingham commuters, marked a new tactic by the IRA, which had not
shot people on mainland Britain since 1975.

It was not a random attack, according to police. They said yesterday that it had
been well planned and probably involved a third man who could have been waiting
in a getaway car near-by.

Det Chief Supt Malcolm Brevington, leading the murder inquiry, said: ''They have
clearly visited the scene previously and worked out their escape route, which
followed a long wall which hid them as they ran off from the mayhem they left
behind.''

More than 120 detectives were making door-to-door inquiries to find witnesses.
The gunmen ran across the railway tracks after the shooting and through a
neighbouring builder's yard known as Barnes's Yard. Police believe that they
then made their way to the main road connecting Lichfield with Tamworth, the
A51, where the third man is believed to have been waiting.

Mr Brevington also revealed that a train was passing through the station at the
time of the shooting. All the passengers on the Trent Valley Redditch train had
left by the time the train was stopped by police at Birmingham. Police are
appealing for anyone who was on the train to contact them.

Mr Brevington said the police had interviewed four people who had been on the
platform when the three soldiers were shot. Police described one gunman as 5ft
10in to 6ft tall and aged 18 to 24. He wore a dark green, navy blue mix bomber
jacket type of top and dark trousers - possibly track suit trousers - and
trainers, and a baseball cap. Both men were clean shaven.

Mr Brevington said the two gunmen had fired at least seven shots from pistols at
a range of six to eight feet. Given the number of shots, both men were believed
to have fired. One bullet was found embedded in an empty train which was
stationary at the platform behind the three victims.

Major Colin Parslow, the commandant of the Prince of Wales depot at Whittington
Barracks, where the three soldiers were stationed, refused to talk yesterday
about security precautions at the camp. He said: ''Our soldiers are constantly
warned of the threat and they are all advised to take care.''

In Dortmund, Major Dillon-Lee, 35, who leaves two young children, was killed
after driving home from a party in the officers' mess. The killers had
apparently followed him and his wife.

After being alerted by a neighbour, Jurgen Dahlbuding, 43, an engineer, police
in two cars chased a silver Mazda car with two fair-haired men inside.

Mr Dahlbuding said: ''I was at my window, pulling my curtains, when I saw the
major's car pull up outside his garage. I heard a few shots, I'm not sure how
many, and then saw two men speed away in a light-coloured car. They didn't turn
right at the corner as they should but sped through a no-entry sign towards the
main highway. The major obviously had no chance. He appeared to be dead. His
wife was shouting, 'Help me help me, call the police'.''

The police almost trapped the killers' getaway car on a main street behind
Dortmund's main railway station. The gunmen were spotted a second time on a
highway north of Dortmund but again managed to shake off the police in a
high-speed chase. Shots were fired from the car and a policeman was injured in
the foot before the vehicle sped away. Police shot at the car, shattering its
rear window. The car, which had been stolen, was found abandoned 20 miles
north-east of the town.

British military officers were more angry than distressed yesterday,
particularly after a report that either the killers, or companions in a second
car, taunted British guards seconds after the killing. ''That was easy,'' a
passenger reportedly shouted as a car sped past the Royal Artillery Barracks
where the couple had attended a party only minutes before.

''We are shocked and extremely angry,'' said Brigadier Allen Gordon, commander
of the First Artillery Brigade, based in Dortmund, said. The killers were
''psychopaths, who enjoy killing people''.

Police believe that the killers could be members of an IRA cell thought
responsible for previous attacks on British military targets in Europe.

Tom King, the Secretary of State for Defence, warned the killers yesterday: ''We
will find you.'' Speaking of IRA godfathers who sent men out to murder in the
knowledge that the killings were going to achieve nothing, he said: ''They are
trapped by their own terror. They are not going to be allowed to hold this
country to ransom or in terror, or disrupt the life of this country.''

Mr King said of the Lichfield shootings: ''Nobody in this country can believe
that this is a political issue. We are not going to tolerate people in broad
daylight on a crowded platform gunning people down.

Last night, there were prayers in memory of Pte Davies during evensong at
Lichfield Cathedral. In his home town of Pontarddulais, near Swansea, West
Glamorgan, friends and relatives were trying to come to terms with the murder of
a young man who should have spent the weekend with his family and had planned to
go out for a drink with friends.

The shootings mark a new IRA tactic, if not a new strategy. The last person shot
dead by the IRA on the British mainland was Ross McWhirter in 1975; the only
other recent examples were at around the same time, when members of the Balcombe
Street gang shot at people after planting bombs in London.

Now the IRA has decided that the tactic should be resurrected, if only because
bombing has become more difficult. This follows increased security in Northern
Ireland and better intelligence resulting in more arms finds, arrests, and
interrupted IRA operations. The IRA is opting for targets on the mainland and
the Continent because it is easier to carry out terrorist attacks and escape
afterwards.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Institute for the Study of Conflict
and Terrorism, said there was ''an intelligence gap'' between Northern Ireland
and the rest of Europe, with much less information available about the IRA's
activities the further afield it operated.

Eamon Malley, a co-author of a book on the IRA, said: ''I think that using the
gun one day and the bomb another day in different circumstances confuses the
security forces in Britain - and the bomb is increasingly unpredictable in
impact.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 3, 1990, Sunday

Pistol link to IRA killings

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1286 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police hunting the killers of a British Army major in West
Germany were last night examining a Browning pistol found in the gang's
abandoned car and spent cartridges from a Kalashnikov rifle found at the murder
scene.

Detectives believe the same guns may have been used to kill two London-based
Australians who were slain in The Netherlands last Sunday. The IRA mistook them
for off-duty British servicemen.

Major Michael Dillon-Lee, 35, commander of a Royal Artillery battery, was shot
dead in front of his wife Rosalind at 11.10pm on Friday as the couple returned
to their home, among the civilian population in Dortmund's Max Eyth Strasse,
from a party in the officers' mess at his barracks 400 metres away.

Their children, James, aged nine, and Mark, seven, were asleep indoors with a
babysitter as their parents parked in the tree-lined street. Another officer's
wife living next door has told police she saw a long-barrelled gun being poked
from the window of a silver Mazda car as the major stepped from his own vehicle,
a Volvo with British number plates, in formal evening wear.

There were at least 10 shots and Dillon-Lee, a crack shot who has competed with
the British pistol team, fell with bullet wounds in the head.

His father, Harry Dillon-Lee, said yesterday after flying to Dortmund: ''There
was nothing Ros could do to help Michael. It was hopeless. He was cut down in
front of her at point-blank range. Then when they had shot Michael the gunman
turned and pointed the gun at Ros. She thought she was going to be killed and
was terrified. Then he just turned around and got into the car.''

Last night the wives of other army officers living in the same street laid two
wreaths at the foot of a telephone junction box which was splattered with the
major's blood.

The gunman and an accomplice fled in the Mazda, a similar model to the stolen
vehicle that was used in the Dutch killings and later found burnt out. ''It has
been easy,'' a voice shouted from a second car, a red Volkswagen Polo, that
drove to the barracks five minutes later. But the gunmen in the Mazda narrowly
escaped arrest in a high-speed police chase through the German countryside in
which one officer was shot in the foot.

The murderers abandoned the Mazda at Bogge, 24 miles northeast of Dortmund,
where they are believed to have switched to a second car, possibly the Polo.

West Germany's Federal Criminal Bureau yesterday posted a Pounds 17,500 reward
and said it was looking for three men, two of whom were wearing blue overalls.

Dillon-Lee, from Bournemouth, was shot less than six hours after gunmen opened
fire on three army recruits at Lichfield railway station in Staffordshire,
killing Private William Robert Davies, 19, and wounding the other two.

Yesterday, the IRA claimed responsibility for both murders. ''While British
troops remain in Ireland such attacks will continue,'' said a statement issued
in Dublin.

But Brigadier Alan Gordon, Dillon-Lee's commanding officer, said: ''This is not
war; it's criminal murder. We will continue to live in Germany among the
civilian community and live our normal lives with all the difficulties that
there may be. The IRA will not stop us doing that.''

The security services believe the IRA has hurriedly mounted a murder campaign in
both Britain and Europe designed to overshadow the botched killings in The
Netherlands. ''When they got it so badly wrong, there were fears that they would
try and win one, so these attacks are not altogether surprising,'' said a
Ministry of Defence source.

It was revealed yesterday that the IRA was thwarted in a previous attack early
on Wednesday. A hooded man was spotted inside the perimeter fence of the Royal
Marine Commandos' training centre at Lympstone, near Exmouth, Devon. He was
challenged by a sentry but ran off. The base, which has 1,600 officers and men,
was evacuated but nothing was found.

The shootings mark a new departure for the terrorists, switching from bombs to
the gun attacks that have been relatively successful against military targets on
the Continent. This is the first time guns have been used in an attack on
off-duty servicemen on the mainland and the first IRA shooting in England since
Ross McWhirter, the author and broadcaster, was assassinated at his home in
Enfield, north London, in 1975.

The MoD has spent more than Pounds 100m improving security at its 2,000 British
bases since last September's bombing in Deal, where 10 Royal Marine bandsmen
were killed. Security sources acknowledge that there is little more that can be
done to improve security for off-duty servicemen outside the bases.

They are already advised to be as inconspicuous as possible, by not wearing
uniforms, not carrying military suitcases or green bags and avoiding obvious
patterns of behaviour. The victims of the Lichfield shooting were waiting for a
train to take them on their first weekend leave after 12 weeks of training. They
were conspicuous by their short army haircuts.

The three young men, dressed in casual civilian clothes and each carrying a
sports hold-all, were sitting on a bench on the southbound platform of Lichfield
station, waiting for the 5.52pm Trent Valley to Redditch train, scheduled to
call at Birmingham New Street where they would change for stations to south
Wales.

Four witnesses have told police what happened next. Two men approached, one
described as 5ft 5in tall, aged 18 to 20, of slim build and wearing a black
bomber jacket and black baseball cap. The other, 5ft 10in tall, in his early
20s, was wearing a dark green jacket, tracksuit bottoms and training shoes. Both
produced handguns and at least seven shots were fired, one of which was later
found embedded in the side of the stationary train.

The gunmen fled on foot into a builder's yard and a waiting getaway car.
Contrary to earlier reports, neither was masked. A British Rail ticket collector
had ''eyeball contact'' with the two killers.

Yesterday, 125 police were drafted into the cathedral city as the hunt was
stepped up. The station remained closed as forensic teams carried out an
inch-by-inch search of the area. Other officers began house-to-house inquiries
and questioning the owners of all hotels and lodging houses in the area.

Det Chief Supt Malcolm Bevington, head of Staffordshire CID, said: ''I am
satisfied that this was a well planned operation.''

Davies was scheduled to arrive later that evening at his parents' home in the
West Glamorgan village of Pontarddulais, where he played rugby and cricket for
the local teams. He was known by his middle name of Robert. His mother, Helen,
said yesterday: ''The people who did this are just cowards. Robert was not even
a soldier yet. We pleaded with him not to join the army, but he wanted to go.''

Yesterday, the two wounded soldiers, Neil Evans, aged 19, and Robert Parkin,
were recovering in hospital.

Colonel Colin Parslow, their commanding officer at Whittington Barracks, a
training camp for nine regiments three miles from the scene of the shooting,
said: ''I have been to see them both and spoke to one, who was sitting up in bed
with a cup of tea, a sandwich and cigarette.

''The other was also well, and both said they wanted to go to battle camp in two
weeks. Both are in good spirits and the rest of the camp is as outraged as I
am.''

Tom King, the defence secretary, said the IRA would achieve nothing from the
murders. ''They are out to cover the humiliation of their mistake in killing the
two young Australians in The Netherlands, as they saw it. That just shows that
all they know is to kill. The godfathers now know, after 20 years, that one more
killing does not have any purpose,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 4, 1990

Only defence is to be vigilant

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 436 words


DESPITE facing a flexible and increasingly reckless terrorist threat, the
British army remains as vulnerable as a tin duck at a fairground shooting range.

Security at the hundreds of bases in Britain and in Germany has been improved,
but Ministry of Defence officials admit that the only defence against the IRA is
personal vigilance.


'After each incident there is a hyper-awareness of the dangers, but human nature
being what it is, people do become blase after a while,' said a spokesman for
the British Army of the Rhine yesterday.

The advantage for the IRA intelligence officers is the wealth of published
details about the locations of service establishments from regimental pay
offices to engineering workshops and recruitment centres. In total they
represent a quarter of a million targets.

In British barrack towns, where units are signposted, soldiers are easily
identifiable; they tend to stick together and drink together. In Germany, where
66,000 servicemen and women are based, social life revolves around the messes or
regular off-duty haunts. On-site married accommodation is scarce, and other
ranks as well as officers can move into private rented accommodation, often in a
street adjacent to the base.

Much has been made of the IRA reverting to the tactic of shooting rather than
bombing, with suggestions that the attacks at Lichfield and Dortmund were
hurried responses to the mistaken killing of two Australian tourists in Holland
last week. Other analysis has linked the killings with the apparently successful
movement on political talks in Northern Ireland.

Each argument overestimates the IRA's capability and desire to co-ordinate
precisely-timed attacks and ignores its constant switching of methods and
targets.

A former Labour minister said yesterday that the detailed planning needed for
such attacks ruled out any connections with external events.

Republican sources also pointed out that active service units operate with a
high degree of autonomy. 'It's a cat and mouse game,' one said. 'The IRA is
always on the lookout for weak spots to take the security forces by surprise.'

IRA units on the continent have been using Kalashnikovs for two years. The
extensive motorway network and the closeness of the Belgium and Dutch borders to
many bases have encouraged this form of attack.

In urban Britain, however, gun attacks are an extremely high risk business.

The Lichfield attack points to the sort of over-confidence that led to the
repeated gun and bomb attacks in London's West End which ended in the Balcombe
Street seige in 1975.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 4, 1990, Monday

Middle East impasse 'a danger' says Hurd

BYLINE: By HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 13

LENGTH: 446 words


THE Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, yesterday spoke of a ''tremor of danger''
shaking the Middle East as a result of a deadlock in the peace process which was
allowing extremists on both sides to gain ground.

In remarks in Jeddah, after talks with Saudi leaders, Mr Hurd set out four steps
which he said were necessary to break the deadlock:

- The United States must maintain its ''constructive engagement'' in the search
for peace - a reference to the US dialogue with the PLO which Washington has
threatened to break off if the organisation fails to condemn terrorist attacks;

- There must be greater international involvement in the peace process, to which
the European Community has given its consistent support. Progress could be made
by allowing a representative of the UN secretary-general to visit and report on
Israeli-occupied territories;

- The PLO should not only reaffirm its renunciation of terrorism but respect
this strictly in practice - a reference to last week's raid on an Israeli beach
by a PLO-affiliated guerrilla group;

- The Israeli government must carry forward the peace process by entering into
dialogue with representative Palestinians.

The first two points appeared to reflect growing frustration in Britain and the
EC that Washington is not being firm enough in pushing forward the peace
process, as well as a view that Europe has an increasingly important role to
play. Britain abstained last week in a UN Security Council vote in which the US
vetoed a plan to send a UN team to the territories.

Mr Hurd acknowledged that there was a deep sense of frustration in the region
itself at the lack of progress towards peace and said the West must realise how
serious the consequences could be. He said the Arab world was deeply worried by
the prospect of Soviet Jewish immigrants settling in the territories.

''We welcome the Soviet Union's more liberal emigration policy, which we have
long urged, but the settlement of Soviet Jews in the occupied territories is
unjust, illegal and a real danger to stability,'' he said.

Mr Hurd said the security of Israel could not be ensured by ignoring the
existence of ''those whose territories her forces now occupy''.

Mr Hurd's remarks came after he was briefed by both Saudi and Jordanian
officials on the outcome of last week's Arab League summit which ended with a
condemnation of the US for its support for Israel. Sources at the summit said
that the future strategy of the Arab states would be to encourage the EC to take
an independent line in the Middle East process in the face of the apparent
unwillingness of the US to pressure its Israeli ally in the direction of
compromise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 4, 1990, Monday

Semtex stockpile the key to IRA's wider campaign; David McKittrick examines the
IRA's strategy of waging terrorism on three fronts

BYLINE: By DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 641 words


POLICE forces and intelligence services in Britain and on the Continent are
coming to terms with the fact that the IRA appears to be in a position to wage
sustained campaigns of violence outside Ireland.

All the indications are that the organisation has, over a period of years, put
together sophisticated structures of command and supply in Britain and on the
Continent, in particular in Germany and The Netherlands. Despite several arrests
and losses, the terrorists have demonstrated the capacity to keep up a stream of
attacks against British servicemen.

The attack on Friday at Lichfield represented a significant departure from the
normal pattern of attacks, however, in that it was the first IRA shooting in
Britain since the mid-Seventies. The terrorists have preferred to use bombs,
which obviously allow much more time for escape.

In this instance they must have calculated that the opportunity existed to kill
several soldiers, in a way which would make an impact on public opinion, and
that there was an easy escape route.

It is clear that the IRA has devoted a great deal of resources, in terms of
money, manpower and weaponry, towards keeping up the pressure in Britain and on
the Continent. It appears to have been in 1986 that the decision was taken to do
so, since early the following year the IRA appeared in Britain and in Germany
after a period of relative inactivity.

The republican strategy seemed to spring from two main considerations. First, it
had become steadily more difficult to inflict British army casualties within
Northern Ireland, where the locally-recruited RUC and Ulster Defence Regiment
have expanded their roles in recent years, and where the constant IRA threat
makes soldiers naturally vigilant. Second, army bases in England and on the
Continent are much more lightly-guarded than those in Northern Ireland, thus
offering the chance of staging night attacks which might cause casualties on a
large scale.

Tactically, the key to both campaigns lies in the large amounts of Semtex
plastic explosives obtained from Libya. Almost all the attacks have involved
Semtex as well as Libyan-supplied Kalashnikov rifles.

The attempt to open the British campaign was delayed when, in February 1987, the
security forces pounced on two IRA men as they dug up a cache of Semtex and
Kalashnikovs in a wood in Cheshire. A month later the European campaign began
with a bomb attack on an Army-RAF base at Rheindahlen in West Germany.

The present wave of attacks in England can be dated back to August 1988, when an
army base at Mill Hill was bombed and a soldier killed. Since then there has
been a series of actual and attempted bombings. The large amounts of Semtex used
in bombings or recovered by the security forces indicates that substantial
stockpiles have been established in England.

The continental campaign, by contrast, has consisted of a mixture of bombings
and shootings, presumably because escape is regarded as an easier prospect
there. After the March 1987 Rheindahlen attack the IRA appears to have
concentrated for a time on its plan to bomb Gibraltar; this was thwarted when
three of its members were shot dead by the SAS in March 1988.

The European campaign has, unlike the violence in England, been marked by
civilian deaths and errors which have cost the IRA and its political wing, Sinn
Fein, dear in terms of fringe support.

But the security forces have had only limited success against the IRA in Britain
and Europe and the intelligence agencies seem to have a notably incomplete
picture of the overall shape of the IRA, since for a year or more some security
sources have suggested that the organisation has had trouble with recruitment.

This year, however, the IRA has significantly stepped up its rate of activity
suggesting that recruitment has not been a big problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 5, 1990, Tuesday

Several questioned over IRA attacks

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and PHIL REEVES

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 547 words


AT LEAST six people detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act were last
night being questioned by detectives over recent IRA attacks in Britain.

Three men were being questioned by Staffordshire detectives investigating the
murder of Private Robert Davies at Lichfield City railway station on Friday
evening.

Gerry Adams, MP for West Belfast and president of Sinn Fein, in London yesterday
for the launch of his book about his time in the Maze prison, refused to condemn
the IRA for killing Pte Davies. ''You have a war situation. I don't like to see
anyone getting killed, much less a 19-year-old. But there is a conflict. There
is a war going on, and people join armies to fight.''

Anti-terrorism detectives from Scotland Yard were questioning two men said to
have been detained as they were about to board an Ireland-bound ferry at
Stranraer on Friday night and at least one other man arrested in London on
Saturday. They are believed to be at Paddington Green.

Last month, the IRA bombed an Army education corps office in Eltham, south- east
London, and killed an Army recruiting sergeant in a car bomb attack in Wembley,
north-west London, two days later. Two weeks ago, police launched a search for a
red Peugeot car following the arrest of a man on terrorist charges in north
London. It is possible that those detained are being questioned about this
incident.

The men being interviewed by Staffordshire police were arrested at different
addresses in London early yesterday. They were sought after being seen at the
Gresham Hotel in Nottingham shortly before the shooting and then, two hours
afterwards, at a second hotel in the city, the Forest Park.

Det Chief Supt Malcolm Bevington, of Staffordshire police, described the men as
''no fixed address types'' and said that at least one was of Irish origin. He
was keeping an open mind about links to the killing.

He said police were anxious to trace a red Ford Cortina with a black vinyl roof
seen by a number of witnesses in front of the railway station about 15 minutes
before the shooting. The appearances of two of the three men inside resembled
descriptions given by people who saw the killing. About 10 minutes later, a
vehicle of similar appearance, again containing three men, was seen speeding
away from Lichfield.

Pte Davies, 19, on his first weekend leave so he could go to his home in South
Wales, was shot at close range with a pistol when two men walked up to him and
two other young recruits as they waited for a train.

Detectives still want to question passengers on a train, either at or leaving
the station shortly before 6pm on Friday, who may have seen the gunmen. They
have already interviewed the driver and guard. The station reopened yesterday
after police scene-of-crime officers completed their examination. Last night,
Staffordshire police issued questionnaires to travellers on the line between
Lichfield and Birmingham, and a number of new witnesses were interviewed.

Mr Adams said the shooting dead of two Australians at Roermond, the Netherlands,
was ''a matter of deep regret''; it was ''inexcusable, and unjustifiable''. But
he said that the perpetrators should not be handed over to the Dutch authorities
for trial and punishment. It was for the IRA to deal with them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 6, 1990

The Day in Politics: German number plates could save soldiers from IRA attack

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 192 words


THE ARMED Forces Minister, Archie Hamilton, confirmed last night that British
soldiers in West Germany are being recommended to switch to left-hand drive cars
with German number plates.

The announcement follows the murder of two Australians in Holland on May 27 who
are believed to have been mistaken for soldiers by the IRA because they were
driving a car with British number plates.


The minister said German-style number plates are being issued for those service
personnel with left-hand drive cars to replace their GB plates.

There are about 60,000 cars owned by families of servicemen in West Germany.
Some personnel prefer to buy right-hand drive cars with British plates, which
are expected to have a higher resale price when the owner returns to Britain.

In the annual Commons debate on the army, Mr Hamilton declined to confirm that a
Defence Review was under way but indicated it existed in all but name by saying:
'We are conducting a review of the options for changes in our force structures
and levels, which is designed to ensure that our forces continue to be
appropriate in radically changing circumstances.'

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 9, 1990

'Jackal' who helped pave way for terror attacks

LENGTH: 468 words


THE role of Nicholas Mullen provides an insight into how IRA terrorists can
operate on the mainland.

Mullen, aged 42, was jailed for 30 years yesterday after being convicted at the
Old Bailey of helping preparations for the 1988 bombing campaign. A second man,
Eamon Wadley, aged 36, was cleared of four charges of making property available
for use in connection with terrorism.


Employing tactics used in the Frederick Forsyth thriller, The Day of the Jackal,
Mullen used the Public Records Office to find birth certificates of people who
had died with which he could apply for passports and driving licences.

Answering advertisements in newspapers and newsagents, he would rent houses or
flats and buy second-hand cars, always paying cash drawn from a series of bank
accounts set up in different names.

With his English accent and background in fraud, he fixed practical details for
the terrorists without raising suspicions, leaving them free to prepare their
huge cache of arms and equipment.

One of his tasks was to rent a workshop, which could have been used to build
mortars. He paid Pounds 500 to rent one in east London in July, 1988, using the
name Williams. But the workshop proved unsuitable.

He also drew up code lists on cigarette paper and wrote out specifications for
mortars. Arms and explosives had to be transported between safe houses. Police
found Semtex dumped in a north London waterworks near his home in Wood Green.

A security source said: 'He played an extremely important role. The cell could
not have existed without him. They don't want to risk being identified so they
have got to have someone renting flats, opening bank accounts and buying cars.'

The bombings last month in Eltham, south-east London, in which seven people were
injured, and in Wembley when an army recruiting sergeant was killed, prompted
fears of a second cell operating on the mainland. After the Wembley car bomb,
anti-terrorist detectives said it was crucial the public were aware of the
network of sympathisers who helped IRA cells strike and go to ground with such
apparent ease.

Mullen, whose Irish father had spent 38 years as an electrician in the RAF,
became a mature student at the Middlesex Polytechnic studying for a BA honours
degree in social sciences.

A fortnight after 21 people had died and 162 were injured in the 1974 Birmingham
pub bombings, he proposed a motion at the National Union of Students' conference
in Margate, Kent, approving the IRA's attacks on military and economic targets
in Britain.

His outspoken views would have put him on police files and ensured his name was
widely known within IRA circles. During the 1960s and 70s he collected 15
convictions for dishonesty, fraud and assault on police, serving 10 jail
sentences.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 9, 1990, Saturday

Student anarchist who became 'fixer' for IRA

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 410 words


NICHOLAS MULLEN, who started his criminal career at 15, was a student anarchist
before becoming ''fixer'' for one of the most lethal IRA cells to operate on the
mainland.

Senior staff and contemporaries during his years as a ''professional'' student
in the 1970s remembered him as ''a thoroughly bad hat, violent and vicious'',
and a wild, ultra-left extremist.

Anti-terrorist detectives described him as a man prepared to shield terrorists
knowing they were planning to slaughter people.

Mullen, who claimed he had believed he was involved in a credit card fraud and
would not have done the IRA's dirty work, was sent to approved school for theft
when he was 15 years old. During the 1960s and 1970s he collected 15 convictions
for dishonesty, fraud and assault on police, serving 10 jail sentences.

Mullen, whose Irish father had spent 38 years as an electrician in the RAF,
became a mature student at Middlesex Polytechnic, studying for a BA honours
degree in social sciences.

A fortnight after 21 people had died and 162 were injured in the 1974 Birmingham
pub bombings, he proposed a motion at the National Union of Students' conference
in Margate, Kent, approving the IRA's attacks on military and economic targets
in Britain.

The motion was heavily defeated but Mullen, then the polytechnic's union
president, said afterwards he did not support the IRA's nationalist stance.

''But we back them in their fight against British imperialism,'' he added. ''I
defend the right of the IRA to pick legitimate military and economic targets in
Britain.''

His outspoken views would have put him on police files and ensured his name was
widely known within IRA circles. But it was not until the late 1980s that they
activated him as ''fixer'' for one of their top terrorist cells.

One contemporary said: ''He was very proud of his Irish roots. But he was so
wild in his views and so spectacularly unsuccessful in his criminal dealings,
getting caught 15 times, I would have thought he would have been much too
visible for the IRA to use.''

A senior anti-terrorist source said: ''He is as guilty as the bombers. If the
guy had not been shot and the flat discovered, bombs would have gone off all
over the place and who the hell would have been looking for Nicholas Mullen? The
unit would have left the Clapham flat, moved on to another safe house and the
clues to his role would have disappeared. He would just have come back for the
next time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 9, 1990, Saturday

Bomb gang organiser gets 30 years

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 747 words


A MAN found guilty of helping IRA terrorists who were planning a mainland
bombing campaign was jailed for 30 years at the Old Bailey yesterday.

Nicholas Mullen, 42, of Palmerston Road, Wood Green, north London, was arrested
after the chance discovery of a bomb factory at a flat in Clapham, south London,
described during the trial as ''one of the biggest ever found in Britain''.

He was found guilty of conspiracy to cause explosions, aiding and abetting a
crime under the Explosive Substances Act, and three charges of making driving
licences available for use in connection with terrorism.

Eamon Wadley, 36, of Bury Road, Wood Green, was found not guilty of aiding the
terrorists. The jury acquitted him of four charges of making property available
for use in connection with terrorism.

Mullen acted as the organiser and ''administrator'' for the campaign that police
believe was to be launched by two IRA terrorists, Patrick Sheehy and John
Conaghty. They are believed to have narrowly escaped capture when police raided
the Clapham flat.

Senior Scotland Yard officers now believe the campaign, which began in August
1988 at the Mill Hill barracks, north London, was planned long in advance and
would have climaxed with a pre- Christmas bombing blitz. The chance discovery of
the bomb factory, when a shot was fired at a man who attempted to steal a car in
which one of the IRA men was keeping watch, averted the planned outrages.

The nondescript modern flat which had been rented by Mullen, using a false name
and identification for, it is believed, Sheehy and Conaghty, contained 106lbs of
Semtex explosives, the largest single find of Semtex in mainland Britain. The
Old Bailey trial also heard that it contained a 9mm automatic pistol, a 9mm sub-
machinegun, a 7.6mm semi-automatic rifle and ammunition for all these weapons.

Police also found 40 detonators, two metres of safety fuse, 15 timing devices of
variable types, five booby-trap bombs already charged with Semtex, and three
steel-cased blast incendiary devices. There was evidence also that the IRA had
considered staging mortar attacks on mainland targets because they had written
down details of the various distances that mortars might travel.

This development alarmed anti- terrorist detectives and the intelligence
services because such attacks have never been attempted in mainland Britain. It
is possible that the devices are still in the country.

Police also suspected from a list, in Mullen's handwriting, of code-words found
in the flat that the IRA had access on the mainland to SAM-7 missiles, referred
to in code as ''screwdrivers''. The IRA have never used SAM missiles but they
are known to have received several among shipments of arms and explosives from
Colonel Gaddafi.

Initially, police found no evidence of targets although it was clear that bombs
were due to be planted, probably that night or the next day. It was not until a
month later that a target list of 100 prominent individuals was found. It
included senior officials of the security services, politicians with Northern
Ireland connections and other figures such as Lord Lane, the Lord Chief Justice,
the head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad, Cabinet ministers and the
registration number of Margaret Thatcher's car.

Mullen, 42, was a small-time businessman based in north London with an interest
in importing office equipment from Zimbabwe.

On the day that the Clapham bomb factory was discovered, Mullen flew to
Zimbabwe. He was arrested on his return in February the following year, after
being identified by police because one payment to a rented house in east London
had been made with a cheque drawn on his name.

The court heard that Mullen arranged banking facilities for the terrorists,
supplied aliases by obtaining birth certificates and driving licences, used a
series of false names, addresses and references to rent flats and premises in
addition to Clapham, and to hire cars and procure false number plates.

It became clear to police as they tracked Mullen's activities that the IRA
campaign had been planned over a long period of time.

In the early part of the 1980s, the IRA had concentrated on one of maximum
impact attacks, but after the bombing at the Grand Hotel, Brighton, in 1985,
levels of security were stepped up to such an extent that soft targets became
the favoured option. To what extent a more ambitious campaign was thwarted by
the Clapham discovery is not clear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 11, 1990

The easy victims caught in front line

BYLINE: By ANGELLA JOHNSON

LENGTH: 297 words


THE latest wave of IRA attacks has seen a series of shootings and bombings on
'soft' military targets in mainland Britain and Europe.

Ten days ago a soldier was killed and two injured in a shooting at Lichfield
City railway station, Staffordshire. That evening an army major was shot dead in
Dortmund, West Germany as he returned home from a party with his wife.


The previous weekend two Australians were shot dead in Roermond, Holland. The
IRA said they were mistaken for British soldiers.

Other attacks include: May 17, 1990: An army sergeant was killed and another
injured when an IRA bomb, planted underneath a van, went off outside a
recruiting office in Wembley, north London.

May 15: A bomb exploded outside the front door of the headquarters of the
Directorate of Army Education in Eltham, south London, injuring seven people.
Also in May, a civilian dog handler foiled an attempt to blow up an
accommodation block at Langenhagen in West Germany where 20 soldiers were
sleeping.

February 24: A device pushed through a letter box wrecked an army careers office
in Halifax, West Yorkshire.

February 20: Three people were injured when a bomb exploded after dropping off
the bottom of a military vehicle used by army recruiting office staff in
Leicester.

November 18, 1989: A staff sergeant lost both legs when a bomb exploded under
his car outside married quarters at Colchester. Also in November, a bomb fell
from a senior officer's car outside his west London home and lay in a gutter
until a workman spotted it.

September 22: Eleven bandsmen died when a bomb exploded at the Royal Marine
School of Music in Deal, Kent.

February 20: Three bomb explosions demolished buildings at Tern Hill barracks
near Shrewsbury. No one was hurt.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 1990, Monday

Leading Article: Bombs and a sense of realism

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 451 words


SHARDS OF of window-glass litter the area outside The Independent's offices.
They are the remains of panes blown out by the device planted on Saturday night
in the nearby headquarters of the Honourable Artillery Company. Minimal property
damage: what have we to complain about by comparison with our neighbours and the
young people who suffered bodily injury? On the scale of terrorist attacks
carried out by Irish republican and nationalist adherents on the British
mainland, the HAC incident (we assume it to be the work of the Provisional IRA)
was a third division stunt. And in the big leagues of terror, in Ulster, against
British servicemen and their families in West Germany and the Netherlands, it
hardly ranks.

But when a scene dreadfully familiar from written and broadcast report, of
police road blocks, forensic teams, sniffer dogs and, yes, camera crews and
rubber-neckers, unfolds on your doorstep, it has an impact denied those reports.
The rational faculty says: analyse. Here is further evidence of the Irish
terrorist campaign on the British mainland; further evidence of how soft and
approachable are ''soft'' targets, with the vaguest of military associations
(the HAC, as Saturday's event showed, has a good deal more to do with parties
than parades). But emotion cries vengeance, and wonders impatiently at the
softness not of those defenceless targets but at the softness of civil society
in modern Britain that is so remarkably tolerant of offences against its very
being.

Rationalism wins, as it must. Irish nationalists have no patent on terrorism.
Which western democracy lacks its bomb-planters, its murderers and
maimers-for-a-cause? The figures may even say Britain is relatively unblooded,
compared, say, with Italy or Spain. The moral seizure that permits a believer -
separatist, class-warrior, self-appointed defender of animal rights - to condone
planting bombs does not seem temporary. Who would have predicted, a few years
ago, that certain vegetarians (for so we must suppose the terrorist opponents of
animal experimentation to be) would prove so dangerous?

So what posture do we, the soft targets or their neighbours, take? Certainly not
a fatalist acceptance that terrorism will always be with us, if that betokens
any lessening in civil vigilance or the will to defend and detect by the
rigorous use of lawful policing and prosecution. Our society must defend itself;
we must defend out society. But we must be realistic too. There ought to be no
talk of ''solutions'' or final victories. After all these years, such language
is just not convincing. Instead we must face the long, slow, hard slog, for
there is no other credible or useful response.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 1990, Monday

IRA campaign 'well supplied and managed'

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 642 words


THE BOMBING of the Honourable Artillery Company, if it is confirmed as the work
of the IRA, is the sixth IRA attack in mainland Britain and Europe in four
weeks, an average of one attack roughly every four-and-a-half days, or one
attack a week in Britain alone.

As the toll of deaths and injuries has mounted, senior counter-terrorist
officials have become convinced that the current mainland campaign has been long
prepared, well supplied and reconnoitred, and carefully managed. There have been
12 incidents since the bombing of the Mill Hill barracks, north London, in
August 1988.

Although police in Britain and mainland Europe have had some successes, the
rising pace of the attacks has resulted in increased internal and public
pressure on the police, military and government, one of the IRA's aims.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist squad at Scotland
Yard, has warned repeatedly that all military personnel and bases should be on
high alert. He has also emphasised the unpredictability of the campaign, marked
by a variety of bombs and targets.

The unit that bombed the HAC, one of two three-man teams believed to be
operating, were probably relieved injuries were not more serious, since civilian
casualties are bad publicity. Their intelligence may not have been good enough
to tell them that those at the birthday party were mainly young people without
military connections. It was held at the HAC because the birthday was that of
the son of an Army captain.

A purely Army function may have fallen within the IRA's stated policy of
attacking only military targets. The HAC holds such functions regularly so the
IRA could argue that Saturday's party was, according to its rules, a legitimate
target. The base had increased security because of the earlier incidents, but
could do little about its vulnerable flank, adjoining Bunhill Fields cemetery.

While other targets have almost exclusively been ''soft'' (low-security) sites,
none have been as far removed from the mainstream as the HAC, a largely
ceremonial unit of the Territorial Army. Even in Northern Ireland the TA has
been only an occasional target. But, in other ways, the attack fits with the
current campaign, which has often been against targets whose existence and
vulnerability are only detectable by careful surveillance.

Detectives have a number of theories about the campaign. It was certainly
planned in 1987 and initially led by Patrick Sheehy and John Conaghty. At the
Old Bailey last Friday, Nicholas Mullen, a Londoner and long-time IRA
sympathiser, was given a 30-year sentence for assisting them to set up the
Clapham bomb factory discovered in December 1988. The units have access to
considerable quantities of Semtex, bomb-making equipment and arms. They are
believed to comprise young IRA recruits, not previously known to the security
forces. Because several bombs have been planted at weekends, one theory is that
some of the unit have respectable weekday occupations.

Private Robert Davies, a young Army recruit, was the fourteenth person to die in
the campaign and the first by shooting, a tactic not used on the mainland since
the mid-1970s. Shot in daylight at Lichfield City railway station, he was buried
on Saturday.

A few hours after he had been shot, an Army major was shot dead in Dortmund,
West Germany. The previous weekend the IRA murdered two Australians in Roermond,
the Netherlands, believing them to be British soldiers.

In that week, seven people were injured in a bomb explosion at an Army education
office in south-east London, and an Army recruiting office sergeant was blown up
by a car bomb in Wembley, north London. Other attacks this year have included a
car bomb under a military vehicle in Leicester, and a device pushed through
recruiting office letter box in Halifax, West Yorkshire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 13, 1990, Wednesday

Index shows drop in militant attacks

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 352 words


CRIMINAL activity by animal rights militants has decreased sharply in recent
years, according to Scotland Yard statistics.

Figures from the the police Animal Rights National Index which collates
information from forces across the country suggest that activity peaked at 908
reported crimes in 1986, the year the index was created.

The number fell to 438 last year and there have been 51 incidents this year.

Consisting of six Special Branch officers, the index does not have an
operational role in investigations by the local forces. Most crimes reported
involve property damage, ranging from arson attacks on stores stocking furs and
scientific establishments to scratching of plate glass windows and paint
attacks.

This year there have been four involving incendiary devices. Links with
terrorist groups are discounted although there is liaison between animal
activists internationally, particularly between the US and Britain.

The fall in crimes suggests that there are less animal rights campaigners
prepared to risk illegal activity. Police sources feel the recent escalation in
violence may be owing to the activists' inability to mount a significant number
of attacks.

With conventional pressure groups able to show a drop in the fur trade and
animals used in experiments, few extremists are joining the Animal Liberation
Front and similar shadowy groups.

There has been a reduction in activity by hunt saboteurs partly owing to a split
within the movement. The saboteurs have been a traditional recruiting ground for
the ALF which has attracted those wanting to widen their activity.

The ALF is thought to have fewer than 1,000 members, with another 1,500
belonging to its supporters' group which funds its activities but claims no
involvement in illegal activity. Of the 1,000 members, only a handful are
probably prepared to take part in bomb attacks. While the front members are
largely young and well-educated, often active while still at college, the
supporters' group is more diverse.

The militant actions are carried out by cells without reference to any central
authority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 15, 1990, Friday

PLANNED IRA ATTACKS FOILED BY WEST GERMANS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 503 words


A number of planned IRA attacks in West Germany have been thwarted by police in
the past few weeks, EC security Ministers were told today.  West German Interior
Minister Wolfgang Schauble announced the news to the Trevi security summit in
Dublin, at which an action progamme was drawn up to deal with the terrorist
threat in Europe.  He declined to elaborate, but expressed confidence that the
"leeway" for the IRA to operate in Europe was getting smaller because of
cross-border police co-operation.  The action programme agreed by the 12
Ministers includes displaying "wanted" posters at frontier posts and in EC
states other than where the terrorist attack occurs.  Ministers also agreed to
set up a central computer file to collate intelligence on the terrorist threat -
to be available to all EC member states.  Special liaison officers will be
appointed in the different EC police forces with responsibility for terrorism.
The legal means for police forces from different states to investigate terrorist
finances will also be studied.  It was also agreed to improve security at
airports, railway stations and ferry ports and regularly to exchange information
on the terrorist threat.  Irish Justice Minister Ray Burke, who chaired the
two-day meeting, said of Mr Schauble's revelations: "It is heartening to be
aware that our German colleagues have had such recent successes." Home Secretary
David Waddington, representing Britain, said there was the very closest
co-operation between the German and British police.  He said IRA activities in
Northern Ireland, on the British mainland and the European continent meant the
organisation was a major threat to people throughout Europe. "The trouble with
terrorism is that you never know where the terrorist is going to strike. You can
never get 100% security," he told reporters.  Mr Burke said that in certain
circumstances "hot pursuit" of terrorists across land borders would be an
option.  But this did not apply to the land frontier between Northern Ireland
and the Republic because separate arrangements existed under the Anglo- Irish
Agreement.  "There is no safe haven anywhere in this island for people involved
in terrorism," he said.

Home Secretary David Waddington said he was not aware of IRA attacks thwarted in
West Germany.  "If this is true, then it is a good example of police
cooperation," he added.  Earlier the Home Secretary said the Trevi group,
initiated by the UK 15 years ago, now shared an agreed and regularly updated
analysis of the the terrorist threat throughout Europe.  Police units in all 12
Trevi member states had built up "uniquely close links", focused in Britain on
Scotland Yard's European Liaison Section, and had developed secure
communications systems.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad declined to discuss details of any
cooperation with West German police "for operational reasons".  A spokesman said
the Yard, like other European police forces, was continuing to liaise with the
German authorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            June 16, 1990, Saturday

IRA ATTACKS FOILED BY WEST GERMANS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


A number of planned IRA attacks in West Germany have been thwarted by police in
the past few weeks.  West German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schauble announced
the news to EC security ministers at their summit in Dublin yesterday, where an
action progamme was drawn up to deal with the terrorist threat in Europe. He
declined to elaborate, but expressed confidence that the "leeway" for the IRA to
operate in Europe was getting smaller because of cross-border police
co-operation.  The action programme agreed by the 12 Ministers includes
displaying "wanted" posters at frontier posts and in EC states other than where
the terrorist attack occurs.  Ministers also agreed to set up a central computer
file to collate intelligence on the terrorist threat - to be available to all EC
member states.  Special liaison officers will be appointed in the different EC
police forces with responsibility for terrorism. The legal means for police
forces from different states to investigate terrorist finances will also be
studied.  It was also agreed to improve security at airports, railway stations
and ferry ports and regularly to exchange information on the terrorist threat.
Home Secretary David Waddington, representing Britain, said there was the very
closest co-operation between the German and British police.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            June 16, 1990, Saturday

IRA claims three bomb attacks in past week

BYLINE: By Quentin Cowdry, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 438 words


THE IRA last night claimed responsibility for three bomb attacks in Britain and
overseas in the past week, highlighting the stepping-up of its terror campaign.

It said it had carried out bombings at the former home in Hampshire of Lord
McAlpine of West Green, an army diver training centre in West Germany and the
London base of the Honourable Artillery Company, where 17 people at a party were
hurt.

In a statement issued from Dublin the IRA said its active service unit had
returned safely to base after the attacks and its operations against British
forces in continental Europe would continue.

Ian Gow, MP for Eastbourne and chairman of the Conservative backbench Northern
Ireland Committee, said: ''These continuing attacks by the IRA on military and
non-military targets are as odious as they are futile. The IRA is succeeding in
uniting all decent people in a determination stronger than ever that we will
never make any concessions to terror.''

Last night's claims came as European Community ministers agreed to create a
network of police liaison officers in western Europe as part of a plan to combat
terrorism.

The plan, completed at the end of a two-day meeting of the Trevi group in
Dublin, will also mean a greater effort by police to identify and prosecute
terrorist paymasters and will ease the ''hot pursuit'' of suspects across
frontiers.

Wolfgang Schauble, the West German interior minister, said that police in the
Federal Republic had foiled several recent IRA attacks, though David Waddington,
the home secretary, said later that he had no knowledge of the alleged thwarted
strikes.

Herr Schauble said the IRA's freedom to travel in Europe was being increasingly
restricted by co-operation between EC forces. He added: ''The problem is that
the IRA withdraws immediately after each attack. The breakthrough in the search
for those responsible cannot be expected on the Continent alone.''

Ray Burke, justice minister, for the Irish Republic, said that discussions about
''hot pursuit'' had related strictly to the Continent.

Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland secretary, said yesterday that he hopes to
make a Commons statement next month on the outcome of his six months of ''talks
about talks'' on the political future of the province.

He said he will maintain informal contacts with the Dublin government and the
political parties in Northern Ireland. There is speculation that full talks
could to begin in the autumn. Mr Brooke was speaking after two hours of talks in
London with John Hume, the leader of Northern Ireland's mainly Roman Catholic
Social Democratic and Labour Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 17, 1990, Sunday

Animal lovers who export terror; British anti-vivisection militants are giving
international supporters lessons in bomb-making. Tim Kelsey reports

BYLINE: By TIM KELSEY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 1470 words


ANIMAL RIGHTS extremists in Britain have been training overseas groups in
bomb-making techniques. The Independent on Sunday has discovered that the Animal
Liberation Front, which recently carried out car-bomb attacks on a vet working
at the Ministry of Defence research establishment at Porton Down and a research
scientist at Bristol, has exported its expertise to America, Canadia and
Australia.

The ALF attacks in Britain have shocked police, who thought they had broken its
back in the late 1980s. In 1987, Ronnie Lee, founder of the organisation and
former law student, was jailed for 10 years for conspiracy after arson attacks
on department stores. Police felt the threat of a serious offensive had
disappeared with Lee. Instead, the movement went further underground and became
the centre of an international campaign of violence. In late 1986 or early 1987,
Interviews with ALF Activists made its first appearance in Britain. It is a
52-page booklet in the form of a talk between a freelance journalist named as
David Taggart and anonymous members of the ALF.

The Interviews describes step- by-step how to build incendiary devices and bombs
to be planted in buildings or cars. When sizing up a target, the book suggests
''carrying bird-watching books and binoculars'' for cover; when building a small
incendiary to fit into a cigarette packet ''use a black John Player box because
of the materials it is made from''. Such devices were used in the Christmas
bombing campaign of 1988 against six stores.

The idea, the book says, is for the incendiary to set off the store's sprinkler
system. The Interviews article could also have provided the basis for the
manufacture of the kind of explosive bomb was used against the senate house in
Bristol University in February 1989. The university was targeted because of
allegations that animals were mistreated during experiments. The ALF was accused
of responsibility.

The devices used over the past fortnight are of a different and more
sophisticated character. The explosive was plastic, and thought to be of a
military specification.

An explosives consultant said last week: ''Whoever wrote the Interviews would
have the know- how to take the step up. They've understood the fundamentals, how
it can be triggered. It would have presented no problems.''

The intensification is not just a cause for concern for the British authorities.
The Independent on Sunday has established that the British ALF has been offering
advice on bomb-making to overseas groups for years.

The Interviews has been found in the possession of American, Canadian, and
Australian ALF groups. Seven firebombs were found in the San Francisco bay area
earlier this year identical to the incendiary devices used in the British shop
bombings of 1987 and 1988. The investigating authorities in America, who said
the manner in which they were placed was similar to the methods of the British
ALF, have since made contact with Scotland Yard.

In Canada, five ALF activists were convicted in December 1988 for attacking a
restaurant and a supply company. The police found bomb-making materials similar
to those described in the Interviews but could not demonstrate a conclusive link
with the defendants. A lawyer for the five said: ''They admired the British
because they were so far ahead.''

Most alarming is the revelation that a British ALF activist was directly
involved in instructing Australian militants in the manufacture of the
Interviews incendiaries. Gary Rowson was arrested in 1987 after raiding
intensive chicken farms with two Australians. According to Sean Selleck, who is
not a member of the ALF but knew the men involved, Rowson had taken Australians
to England on two occasions in 1986 to meet Lee.

Rowson and an Australian at the trial had been charged with being in possession
of an explosive device. Mr Selleck said that this was ''a cigarette-type bomb
which he had hoped to use on a department store''. He added that he thought the
Interviews, which he had seen, was still circulating in Australia.

Rowson, a former hunt saboteur, committed suicide in 1988 at the age of 22.
Former British ALF activists deny that Rowson was a ''trainer'' sent to
Australia. Brendan McNally, 28, released from jail in June 1988 after serving 16
months for conspiring to cause criminal damage after arson attacks in Sheffield,
said: ''There is a spread of ideas but I don't think there is a spread of
expertise.'' He added that Rowson ''got active and went to Australia and carried
the struggle over there''.

The organisation of ALF groups overseas, in North America, Australia and Europe,
has been based on the British model. The British ALF was founded in 1976, a
descendant of the blood sports protest groups of the 1960s to which Ronnie Lee
and his inner circle belonged.

It was intended to be a loosely knit structure of small cells operating
independently to carry out a programme of ''economic sabotage'' against
institutions held responsible for cruelty to animals. The aim was to use
non-violent direct action as publicly as possible to move the national
consciousness towards recognising the need for an end to abuse.

But there was a split within the movement. The hardliners demanded attacks on
people, Lee pleaded to limit them to property. It is most likely the recent
attacks were the work of an extremist minority within the movement. Lee has
denied that the attacks were carried out by the ALF mainstream. There was never
any central policy committee. Cells were practically as well as theoretically
autonomous.

Speculation that the ALF may have had ties to other established terrorist
organisations, such as the IRA, and may have obtained the plastic explosive for
the recent car-bombs through them, have been ruled out by Scotland Yard.

In 1982, the ALF supporters group was established as a fund- raising body, and
to act as a semi- legal contact point for the media. Lee became chief press
officer. At the height of ALF activity in the mid-1980s hundreds of actions -
the smashing of butchers' shop windows, the daubing of slogans on walls, the
releasing of animals from research laboratories, and the burning of vehicles -
were being carried out each month.

The supporters' group may have had as many as 2,000 members - each paying pounds
24 a year - and there were in the region of 200 small cells operating.
Contributions were, and still are - from a vastly reduced membership - the key
source of income.

In the United States, an ALF group was first reported active in 1979, after
claiming responsibility for the release of five animals from New York University
Medical Centre. The American ALF was the first and most active offspring outside
Britain. In 1988, it claimed responsibility for the arson attack on a meat
packing plant.

Two years earlier it had destroyed an animal research centre worth $ 2.5m - the
first act to be officially classified as terrorism.

In Canada, a comparatively late starter, there has been no firebombing, but a
number of attacks over the past three years involving the glueing up of doors
and spray-painting. At one point there were seven cells in Australia, where the
ALF began in 1987.

In every country in continental Europe, with the exception of Greece, there is
an active ALF which corresponds directly with the British group. In the latest
edition of a magazine called Arkangel edited by Vivien Smith, a former ALF
activist imprisoned in 1987, and by Lee from prison, there is an appeal for
donations to the defence fund for a group of French ALF activists. The address
given is for the British ALF.

Steve McIvor, campaign director of the British Union for the Abolition of
Vivisection (BUAV) said: ''There is no doubt at all of an international
involvement. There is much cross-fertilisation of ideas, and apparently,
tactics. The ALF was the first of its kind and in subsequent years they have
moved into other countries.''

Legitimate organisations such as the BUAV, Britain's biggest and oldest animal
rights group, fear that the recent bombings in Britain, in the context of the
ALF's efforts abroad, are bound to help discredit the peaceful intentions of
most animal rights groups. They share the same broad vision as the ALF: an
immediate end to vivisection and a world in which animals are recognised as
independent social beings and not a means to human ends. But they condemn the
use of violence.

Mr McIvor said: ''We have spent a long time trying to build up our image. This
type of activity is likely to tarnish it.''

- Police in Plymouth were last night investigating the possibility that animal
rights activists planted an incendiary device on a meat trade supplier's van. It
was discovered when firemen were called to deal with the blazing van shortly
before midnight on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The The Sunday Times (London)

                             June 17, 1990, Sunday

War without end

BYLINE: James Adams and Liam Clarke

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 3343 words


THE BUILDING perched on stilts on the banks of the river Weser outside Hamelin
in West Germany made an unlikely target for IRA terrorists. Used only rarely by
British Army engineers to practise river crossings, it was unoccupied and housed
no equipment of any value.

Even so, on Thursday, the IRA planted a bomb on one of the stilts supporting the
building and blew it to pieces. It was an untypically feeble effort by the
terrorists, who in the past two years have been cutting a bloody swathe across
Europe, destroying life and property with abandon.

Five hundred miles away and two days earlier, a Provisional IRA unit operating
in Britain left a bomb in front of West Green House in Sussex. The IRA's
intelligence had led it to believe that the former treasurer of the Conservative
party, Lord McAlpine, still lived there. In fact, he had recently moved in a
blaze of media publicity and all the bombers achieved was a 4ft crater in the
lawn and extensive damage to the 18th-century National Trust property.

To the uninitiated, these two incidents looked like ''the Paddy Factor'' at work
the well known propensity of the IRA to score own-goals and bolster its
reputation for incompetence. But the truth is that the IRA terrorists are
skilful and experienced combatants engaged in a campaign which, in terms of
occupying the enemy in a war of wits as well as nerve, has proved remarkably
successful.

If the Provisionals sometimes made mistakes, then the security forces did not
have much to be pleased about either. On Thursday, David Waddington, the home
secretary, announced that the convictions of the Maguire Seven for running a
bomb factory in Britain in the early 1970s were ''unsafe and unsatisfactory''.
It was the third time in a year that Irish men and women falsely convicted of
terrorist acts had been set free.

First, the Guildford Four, convicted of a series of bombings in Britain nearly
20 years ago, were freed. Then, earlier this year, three people successfully
appealed against convictions for plotting to kill Tom King, the defence
secretary. It is also likely that the Birmingham Six, imprisoned for life for
their alleged role in the Birmingham pub bombings in 1974, will be released.

With the overturning of all these convictions, the British security forces have
been made to appear unjust, unprofessional, and even incompetent. IRA supporters
could have been expected to make much of the Maguire decision, while the British
government could have turned to propaganda advantage the failures of the two IRA
units. But the terrorist war in Northern Ireland is not about victory and
defeat, triumph and failure. It is a long and bitter war of attrition, with both
sides fighting a professional campaign which, as the Northern Ireland secretary,
Peter Brooke, once confided, neither expects to win.

The current IRA campaign has proved to the British that the terrorists are
better trained and armed than at any time. ''Without any doubt, they are the
most professional terrorist organisation in the world today,'' a senior security
source said. This respect for the terrorists is a measure of how far they have
come from the days in 1968 when all the arms the Belfast unit of the IRA could
muster was two Thomson sub-machineguns, a Sten gun, one rifle and nine pistols.

The IRA has since evolved from a few street-corner hoodlums, supported by old
men who remembered how once it might have been, into a sophisticated fighting
force. Today, the security forces believe that the IRA has stockpiled enough
modern weapons sub-machineguns, ground-to-air missiles and tons of Semtex
explosives to fight at the present level well into the next century.

All these weapons were supplied by Colonel Gadaffi of Libya. He renewed his
contacts with the IRA after Britain cut off diplomatic relations after the
shooting of WPC Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan embassy in London in 1984.

Over the past 20 years, the terrorists have learned how to take advantage of the
armoury at their disposal and have set up a small industry making effective
systems, such as new detonators, which keep them at the cutting edge of
terrorist technology.

At first, the Provisionals relied on crude timing devices based on a bedside
alarm clock. Then they moved to exploding bombs, using a radio beam based on the
control system of a model aircraft. This was relayed by a scrambled signal sent
from a converted walkie-talkie. Today, the IRA detonates bombs using radar beams
from American police speed traps. The British have developed an effective
counter-measure and it is expected that the IRA will move on to the use of
lasers.

The IRA believed that the combination of technology and Libyan weapons would
give it a new edge in its war with the security forces in Northern Ireland. Both
sides claimed their victories. Between 1986 and 1988, the number of deaths from
terrorism increased from 61 to 93, the number of weapons recovered rose from 270
to 543, ammunition found rose from 29,000 rounds to 104,000 rounds, shooting
incidents increased from 285 to 448, and bombings from 220 to 448.

But in 1989, the Provisionals' assault was temporarily blunted as the security
forces adopted a more aggressive policy. By an irony in which the theatre of war
shifted from the disputed ground to foreign fields, these successes in turn
forced the IRA to look to Britain and the Continent for targets.

But a terrorist war is not just about successful bomb attacks and
assassinations. Although better armed than at any time in its history, the IRA
is facing a crisis in morale. According to both republican and British security
sources, the most senior levels of the organisation are riven with faction.
There is disagreement over both political and military policy and a widespread
feeling that the terrorist movement, after 22 hard-fought years, is set on a
course to oblivion.

The IRA may have helped force the political pace but it still cannot stand and
fight a vital sign of a war making progress. Instead, the terrorists engage in
limited hit-and-run attacks that are of little value. There is good reason for
this. Intelligence on the IRA has improved and all the key players are known to
the security forces. The organisation has been infiltrated to the point where it
is difficult for it to plan operations in any detail. Couriers and those in
charge of explosives have been particular targets for recruitment by the
security forces. To counter this, the IRA has been forced to give increased
autonomy to units in the field, with mixed results.

The terrorists operating in Britain and on the Continent have been give very
general orders to ''attack military targets''. This wide brief has led to a
number of mistakes, including the murder of two Australian lawyers earlier this
month and the earlier killing of the German wife of a British soldier.

In Northern Ireland, too, there have been errors. For example, in the past three
years, 12 women, half of them pensioners, have been killed by the IRA. All of
these deaths have been described by the terrorists as ''mistakes''. Their
regular ''apologies'' for these ''tragic'' errors are a recurring feature of
Ulster's black vocabulary.

While the actual figure of people who will pull a trigger or press a detonator
may be fewer than 300, it is estimated that between 500 and 1,000 additional
activists are prepared to assist on an operation. There are roughly 1,000
convicted terrorists in jail, some of whom are released each week to rejoin the
ranks of the IRA, and the families of those in jail or serving in the IRA form a
hard core of around 10,000 supporters, to which can be added the 100,000 or so
Sinn Fein supporters. The number of activists has remained constant and the
security forces believe there will be little change. ''There is a base level
beyond which they cannot be eroded,'' said one source. There are some in the IRA
and many in the security forces who believe that plateau may have been reached.

In 1989, Sinn Fein received 11.2% of the vote in local elections in the north,
down 0.6% on four years earlier. In the European elections the same year, the
share of the vote in north and south was 2.4%, a serious blow to Sinn Fein,
which had invested considerable resources in the campaign. In the Republic, Sinn
Fein support is derisory.

The problem for the IRA is that the reasons for its original existence have
largely disappeared. When the terrorists first emerged at the end of the 1960s,
in the midst of a bitter US-style civil rights campaign, there was widespread
discrimination against Catholics in housing, employment and votes. This
political corruption gave the IRA a bedrock of resentment on which to build
support.

In the early years of the terror campaign, the British government had no clear
strategy. Each attack was dealt with as an isolated incident and both military
and political policy was based on damage limitation and finding short-term
solutions. But the government soon realised that to fight the IRA it needed to
address the legitimate grievances in the Catholic community. The result has been
an end to housing discrimination, a widespread programme of slum clearance and
legal reforms in employment. Working-class nationalists have seen that reform
within the existing structure albeit reform prompted by acute civil unrest is
possible.

For the IRA, this long-term strategy has created serious difficulties. No longer
can it plant a bomb in Londonderry and Belfast and know that the people will
welcome the destruction of old housing stock and rundown shops. Instead, the
windows that get blown out will probably belong to a recently rehoused Catholic
family, and, proportionately, as many Catholics as Protestants now own shops in
city centres.

To discover a new pressure point, the IRA widened its campaign to take in anyone
who had any dealings with the security forces, including milkmen, contractors
and removal companies. In the spate of killings that followed, the IRA found it
impossible to justify apparently indiscriminate murder.

When the IRA high command was planning its campaign to mark the twentieth
anniversary of the introduction of British troops in August 1989, it decided to
invest as many resources as it could spare in operations abroad. There is
disagreement in the intelligence community about how this was going to begin but
some believe the planned attack on Gibraltar in March 1988 was supposed to mark
the start of the new push. Gibraltar was also the price demanded by Gadaffi for
the supply of weapons in the preceding three years. The attack failed abruptly
when the three IRA terrorists were shot dead in an SAS ambush.

Despite this setback, the IRA had prepared the ground well. It had set up a new
network in Britain and on the Continent, employing a secure cell structure and
terrorists unknown to the security forces. The reconnaissance for the attacks,
which began in Germany in 1987 and with a bomb at Mill Hill, north London, in
August 1988, started at least a year earlier.

THE IRA uses a complex cell structure designed to protect operators from
detection by British intelligence. A reconnaissance cell gathers general
information on potential targets, which is relayed back to a headquarters cell
in Northern Ireland. Another cell prepares arms dumps. A third cell organises
logistics support for the killers, including the provision of safe houses and
cars. A number of cells in Britain and on the Continent were instructed to
attack military targets wherever and whenever they became available.

None of the members of one cell knows the members of another and even the
commanders of one cell may have little or no contact with the controller of
another. This makes it difficult for the security forces to roll up a complete
cell and almost impossible for them to capture all the operators. So, although
police in West Germany, France and Britain have caught several people, they are
still some way off finding the men who pull the triggers and plant the bombs.

According to sources in the Irish police, the Garda Siochana, the British have
been given details of some of those operating on the mainland. There are six
active terrorists, of whom ''a couple'' are experienced professionals from
Northern Ireland with criminal records. One of these is an accomplished
bomb-maker whose identity is known. The remainder are described as young people
who are members of republican families and have no criminal records.

The team operating in Britain lives and works in groups of two and meets only
occasionally, according to an intelligence source. They have spent two years
preparing for their lives underground and seem to have an apparently
inexhaustible supply of safe houses and money. Communication with Ireland is
through a system of couriers who go through France or The Netherlands.

The units have been told to remain at large and to carry out as many attacks as
possible over a long period. They have been ordered to avoid prestige targets if
the risk is too high. The IRA leadership believes a slow drip of attacks will
increase tension in Britain and keep Ireland on the political agenda.

THE FACT that the terrorists have remained active for so long is an indictment
of counter-terror forces on the mainland. Every advance has happened by
accident: the unearthing of the arms find in Clapham in December 1988 after a
would-be car thief was shot by a terrorist asleep in the back of the car; the
discovery by workmen of a hitlist and maps behind a radiator grill and under a
carpet after police failed to search the house properly; an arms cache in Wales
uncovered by a passer-by.

For many in the counter-terrorist community, reform of the structure, which some
argue bears no relation to modern needs, is long overdue. The IRA is a single
force with clear goals. By contrast, the British forces are made up of the Royal
Ulster Constabulary, the Security Service, the Secret Intelligence Service, the
Special Branch, the Defence Intelligence Service and all the local police
forces. The Special Branch is responsible for countering the IRA in Britain; the
Security Service gathers intelligence on ''Loyalist'' terrorism in Britain, the
IRA abroad and in the Irish Republic; the RUC is responsible for the Provisional
IRA in Ulster.

This unwieldy structure is ill-suited to combat an IRA that has learned from
experience precisely how to exploit the weaknesses in Britain's defences. There
is a recognition among senior officials in the Home Office and in the Northern
Ireland Office that reform is necessary and there have been preliminary talks to
explore a way forward.

What some officials want to see is a single counter-terrorist force, perhaps
modelled on the lines of the FBI, which could co-ordinate all intelligence and a
range of operational matters as well. Such a force would cut across traditional
boundaries and remove several bureaucratic layers from the edifice.

The need to streamline the entire process was underlined in Dublin last week at
a meeting of EC interior ministers of the Trevi group. It was agreed that there
would be an improvement in the exchange of information, including the
establishment of a European Common Information System (ECIS) which would develop
a Europe-wide database of terrorist group profiles, suspected members and their
fingerprints.

The irony of European ministers discussing and agreeing in principle levels of
co-operation and a breakdown of traditional barriers in the face of a common
enemy, while inside Britain the system struggles to meet the new challenges,
will not have been lost on those arguing for reform.

But even with the inefficiencies, enough has been done to limit the
effectiveness of IRA units operating both in Britain and on the continent, in
respect of the security forces themselves, if not always of civilians. The
Ministry of Defence has spent more than Pounds 100m in the past 12 months
improving security at British bases. All barracks are now protected by secure
fencing and, in many cases, night vision equipment and heavy, irregular,
patrols.

This has resulted in hits on soft targets such as the empty building on the
Weser last week. It has also produced a string of deaths and injuries among
non-combatants. But, if the IRA continues in this vein, its campaign will become
marginalised and all the investment of time, weapons and experience will have
been wasted.

It is a depressing prospect for the organisation, which has been mirrored by
political developments. Peter Brooke, the new Northern Ireland secretary, has
launched new initiatives which for the first time in many years seem to hold
some promise of reconciliation between Protestant and Catholic political
parties. He is proposing a local devolved assembly in which all the parties will
participate. But he has made it clear that Sinn Fein will be excluded as long as
the IRA's terror campaign continues.

''A deal will have been done without Sinn Fein, which would cause them a lot of
concern,'' said one British official. ''But if Gerry Adams (the Sinn Fein
president and absentee MP for Belfast West) joins the political process, the IRA
will split apart between the moderates and the militants, and it would be
unclear who would win the struggle for power.''

These tensions have already produced divisions at the top. Adams, a key figure
in the formation of the military strategy, believes that without political
compromise, the movement will become irrelevant in both Northern Ireland and the
Republic. Martin McGuinness, leader of the IRA in Londonderry and for many years
a close Adams confidante, takes a harder line, arguing that it is only through
increased military activity that political concessions can be won. The two men
have engaged in arguments at meetings of senior IRA leaders.

''There are many of us who despair of making any political progress while the
military campaign continues,'' said one senior republican source. ''But there
are more, sometimes the same people, who believe that if we end it, our
political representatives will count for nothing.

''Our basic tactic is to continue the struggle in order to show the Brits that
no solution is possible unless the republican agenda is addressed. You say this
is stagnation and stalemate for us and that we can't make political gains. That
may be so, but it is also stalemate for the Brits.''

The intention is not to win the war but to mobilise public opinion in Britain
against the government's involvement in Northern Ireland to such an extent that
the troops will be pulled out. This tactic has been a constant theme of the
republican movement and is the principal reason why the terrorists place such a
high value on operations in Britain.

''The fundamental error the IRA have always made is to judge political
importance by the size of the newspaper headlines, '' said one government
official. ''They have never understood that the British people just don't care
enough about Northern Ireland to mobilise public opinion. As far as the
government is concerned, there is no prospect of us pulling out of Northern
Ireland, and it is time they realised that.''

But a public recognition that the military policy is bankrupt leaves the IRA
with no other cards to play. Privately, IRA leaders may talk of compromise;
publicly, they must keep the flame of the republican movement burning. Even with
this cynical attitude, which is now prevalent in the republican movement, there
remains a bedrock of support for the terrorists. There is no sensible member of
the security forces who believes that the IRA can be destroyed, but there are
many who believe it can be made largely irrelevant.

For Adams and the other republican leaders, the future looks depressing. The
terrorist cells, which were supposed to drive the British to the negotiating
table, have become increasingly ineffective. The politics of Northern Ireland,
in which Sinn Fein once hoped to play a pivotal role, goes on without them.

Additional reporting by John Burns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Northern Ireland; Focus

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 19, 1990, Tuesday

Police claim breakthrough against IRA

BYLINE: By PHIL REEVES and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 634 words


SECURITY FORCES in Britain and the Irish Republic regard the arrests of three
IRA suspects on the Dutch-Belgian border as the most significant breakthrough
yet in the international effort against IRA terrorism on the Continent.

Police were last night hunting a fourth IRA suspect, named as Paul Hughes, of
Newry, Co Down, who tried to rescue a handcuffed fellow fugitive, earlier found
wandering in a Dutch village.

The continuing search follows Saturday's arrest of two widely known Irish
republican activists, Donna Maguire and Gerard Harte, who were discovered by
farmers in woods near Turnhout, Belgium, allegedly engaged in target practice. A
third man escaped, despite being handcuffed, after a scuffle with police, who
were called when the farmers spotted a buried weapons cache.

At 11am yesterday passers-by noticed a man wearing handcuffs outside a Catholic
church in Chaam, a village 15 miles north of Turnhout. Aware that a suspected
IRA terrorist was at large, they called the police, who arrested the man. Police
said he was unarmed, tired and dirty, as though he had been sleeping rough.

Twenty minutes later a red Ford Sierra driven by a man drew up in the same
street, apparently for a rendezvous. When police asked to see his documents, he
sped off, and a chase ensued. He abandoned the car several miles away. Last
night 90 armed police, using dogs and four helicopters, combed local woodlands.
A Dutch police spokesman said: ''We will continue all night until we find him.
We are convinced he is in there.''

Belgian police said British security services had identified the handcuffed man
as Michael Collins, a 31-year-old Irishman. Sinn Fein sources confirmed that
Miss Maguire and Mr Harte were in custody, but insisted that Mr Collins was
still in Northern Ireland. ''The man named saw his photograph on television in
his own home here'' Sinn Fein said. ''He is extremely upset.''

Detectives believe the missing man may have travelled from Britain for the
rescue mission, after receiving a telephone call from his handcuffed colleague.

Dutch police circulated a message via Interpol to police at British ports asking
when the car left Britain, and warning that its driver might attempt to re-enter
the country. The telex was marked ''not to be disclosed outside port networks''.

Last October the West German federal prosecutor indicted Miss Maguire, along
with Leonard Hardy, a Belfast man, and three other Irish people on suspicion of
the murder of Corporal Steven Smith, a British soldier killed by a car bomb in
Hanover in July. Moves were made to extradite Miss Maguire to West Germany, but
these were not completed.

The Irish government reacted testily to suggestions yesterday that it had not
fully co-operated in the attempt to extradite Miss Maguire. A government
statement said that ''appropriate'' procedures, as laid down in international
law, had been followed.

Miss Maguire, 23, from Newry, was acquitted in February by the Special Criminal
Court in Dublin of unlawful possession of explosives. Hardy was jailed for five
years after pleading guilty. The court was told the couple were arrested after
arriving by ferry from France last July. Hardy was carrying sodium chlorate and
mercury tilt-switches, while Miss Maguire was said to have traces of sodium
chlorate in her rucksack.

Mr Harte, 26, from Lurgan, Co Armagh, has a history of republican involvement.
In 1982 he was sentenced to five years' imprisonment in Dublin for armed
robbery, and in 1988 he was convicted of arson and petrol bombing.

NEW YORK - Two Americans and an Irishman, members of an IRA cell, were found
guilty yesterday of plotting to export anti- aircraft missiles and other arms to
Ireland from the United States.

US court case, page 2

Borders lifted today, page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 19, 1990, Tuesday

HISTORIC REGIMENTS FACE THE AXE

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 1456 words


Historic army regiments could face the axe because of defence cuts, the
Government warned the Commons tonight.  Armed Forces Minister Archie Hamilton,
opening the second day of the Defence Estimates debate, said some might have to
be disbanded or amalgamated, although he insisted that the regimental system
would stay.  The latest cuts warning follows last night's Defence Ministery
disclosure that more than £600 million savings will have to be found from this
year's budget, compared with £350 million indicated by Defence Secretary Tom
King only last month.  Changes in Eastern Europe have prompted speculation that
regiments might go as the Government comes under pressure to realise the "peace
dividend".  Mr Hamilton said: "I would like to take this opportunity to
reiterate that the Government believes in the regimental system and is convinced
it must be maintained for the espirt de corps that it brings to our front line
battalions.  But he added that, although the system will go on, "regiments may
have to be disbanded or amalgamated".  He said, after the latest IRA attacks,
that tight security for servicemen in Britain and Europe was the top aim.
"Protection of our service and civilian personnel and of our defence
establishments against terrorist attack remains our highest priority." He said:
"Thanks to the vigilance of a local farmer, important arrests have been made in
Belgium and Holland.  "This serves to emphasise what I have said on many
occasions before, that it is the involvement and support of ordinary people in
the community in the fight against terrorism which will lead to the IRA's
ultimate and inevitable defeat." He criticised Labour's latest defence policy as
designed by "window dressers".  Mr Hamilton claimed a number of its MPs made
clear their view to cut forces spending by as much as a half and dispose of
Britain's nuclear deterrent.  But he accused the rest of the party of putting
over different views because it was "not too concerned about principles or
conviction".  He said: "They believe presentation is all and that the thorny
issues like defence policy need to be carefully massaged." The minister taunted:
"These are the window dressers of the Labour Party."

For the Opposition Allan Rogers alleged that "sanctions busting" was taking
place, through the supply of arms to Iraq via Jordan.  He claimed that the
Defence Export Services Organisation, an MoD division helping British defence
manufacturers to sell, and International Military Services, an MoD subsidiary
which acts as Government arms dealing agent, had been involved in negotiations
with Jordan.  They were closely involved with the Midland Bank and the Export
Credit Guarantees Department, he said.  Subventions from the MoD budget were
used to allow Midland Montagu Bank to offer preferential interest rates to
Jordan for the purchase of arms and ammunition, Mr Rogers claimed.  Astra
Holdings, used by the Department, and involved in the Iraq gun scandal, had
purchased a Belgian explosive company which was shipping explosives to Iraq and
was "believed to be an extra-territorial supplier for the IMS, the MOD", said Mr
Rogers.  "Is it also true ... that IMS have been involved with South African arm
shipments to Iraq, particularly a shipment last year of 3000 twenty foot
containers through the Jordanian port of Aqaba to Iraq?" He had written to the
Prime Minister's office to ask if she had authorised preferential rates for
Jordan but had been told it was commercially confidential.

, a former army minister, said that without the nuclear deterrent there would
have been a third world war.  He urged: "We must maintain Britain's nuclear
deterrent." Tory Sir Michael Marshall (Arundel) demanded greater privatisation
of services in the armed forces and the Defence Ministry.  "The reaction from
within the traditional structure of the MoD has not been at all encouraging," he
said.  "There has been a tendency, I believe, to use the excuse of security as
one for not looking for further developments in that way.  "But the Amercian
experience shows there is a far greater degree of flexibility when you can
contract out ... for example, much of the procurement process." He urged
ministers to be "bold and imaginative".

Tory Michael Jack criticised yesterday's decision to axe the order for 33
Tornado strike planes as "a bucket of cold water" over British Aerospace
workers.  Mr Jack, whose Fylde constitutency contains the firm's military
aircraft division headquarters, said: "This morning in Lancashire people
probably felt as though they had had a bucket of cold water thrown on them.
"They woke up to the reality that the cutbacks in our defence systems had
started." He called for "full" aid from Government departments to help defence
companies diversify and said British Aerospace had to some extent anticipated
changes by buying Rover and going into construction, leisure and the Airbus.
But last night's announcement "instead of assisting the smooth transition, has
made the task more difficult," he protested.  He asked how the Defence Ministry
now expected British Aerospace to fulfill future orders from Saudi Arabia and
Italy.  Another Lancashire Tory, Keith Mans (Wyre) also said he regretted the
cancellation of the Tornado order.

Shadow defence secretary Martin O'Neill quipped, in later exchanges, that Mr
Hamilton's earlier attack on him over Labour's defence proposals had been
uncharacteristic.  He joked: "I don't need to come to this House to be abused.
As someone who has spoken for defence for the last six years, I can get it at
any Labour party meeting."

Mr O'Neill said in the wind-up of the debate: "There is considerable expertise
within government which could be brought to bear to assist companies when they
get into the kind of difficulties British Aerospace are in." He added that
reports that BAe management would come up with proposals for workers in four
weeks time, did not suggest that the cuts in the Tornado programme had been made
in a "relaxed or leisurely fashion".

Junior defence minister Michael Neubert said defence procurement minister Alan
Clark would write to Tories worried about Tornado cancellations.  Mr Neubert
highlighted one defence select committee report which disclosed much defence
equipment fell below standards of reliability.  "This has a direct and erosive
impact on our operational capability," Mr Neubert said.  A second and
significant factor was the cost of supporting this equipment, estimated at £1
billion of taxpayers' money wasted per year, he said.  "We must reduce this
figure substantially - indeed, we aim to halve it," Mr Neubert said, adding it
would take some years to achieve.

warned of possible threats to central Europe, other than from the Soviet Union.

"We must postpone giving ourselves the full peace dividend until the world we
live in is a much safer place," he said.

Leading Labour left winger Tony Benn (Chesterfield) demanded a European security
treaty to replace Nato and the Warsaw Pact.

He called for "a Europe where foreign troops were withdrawn from East and West,
and indeed where nuclear weapons were withdrawn".

Mr Benn said there were more serious problems facing humanity "than the
likelihood of the Red Army arriving by helicopter and forcing us to listen to
lectures on perestroika in Wandsworth or Streatham".


Defence Procurement Minister Alan Clark announced the cutting of the Tornado
strike aircraft programme.  Winding up for the Government, he said he could not
foresee "any place for additional Tornado aircraft in our programme".  "I have
therefore decided not to authorise further work on the eighth batch order of
these aircraft." It is believed around 40 batches were originally planned.  Mr
Clark also annnounced work to go ahead on the Westland EH101 helicoper project.
"It is more than ever important to place contractual arrangements on a sounder
basis." Rolls Royce Turbomeca RTM 322 engines would be required to be fitted to
the helicopters.  "The specification against which we will invite tenders calls
for the production aircraft to be fitted with a Rolls Royce Turbo Mecha RTM 322
engine to provide the the extra power needed for the aircraft to fulfil its
mission effectively.  "Work on integrating the engine in development aircraft
will now proceed." Tenders would be invited next month for the prime contract
for the navy variation of the helicopter.  Tory Richard Page (Hertfordshire SW)
said delays in making the announcment on the EH101 had resulted in lost orders.
"It is a good announcment but I wish it had been a lot earlier for British
industry." The debate was adjourned until tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 20, 1990

The Day in Politics: Axe poised over historic regiments - Defence debate

BYLINE: By NIKKI KNEWSTUB

LENGTH: 648 words


SOME of the army's historic regiments could be disbanded or amalgamated because
of defence cuts, the Armed Forces Minister, Archie Hamilton, confirmed in the
Commons yesterday.

But he stressed that the regiment system would remain. Opening the second day of
debate on defence spending, he acknowledged that such cuts were a matter of
great concern to the army.


'I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the Government believes
in the regimental system and is convinced it must be maintained for the esprit
de corps that it brings to our frontline battalions. Regiments may have to be
disbanded or amalgamated, but the regimental system will go on.'

Mr Hamilton said that tight security in Britain and Europe in the wake of recent
IRA attacks would remain the highest priority. 'Thanks to the vigilance of a
local farmer, important arrests have been made in Belgium and Holland.

'This serves to emphasise what I have said on many occasions before, that it is
the involvement and support of ordinary people in the community in the fight
against terrorism which will lead to the IRA's ultimate and inevitable defeat.'

He criticised the Labour's defence policy. A number of backbench Labour MPs
wanted to cut defence spending by as much as half, and get rid of the nuclear
deterrent.

But others 'believe presentation is all and that the thorny issues like defence
policy need to be carefully massaged. Say one thing, mean another. These are the
window dressers of the Labour Party.'

Allan Rogers, Labour's defence spokesman, said he had written to the Prime
Minister's office querying the sale of arms at preferential rates to Jordan, but
had been told it was a matter of commercial confidentiality.

He said he had reason to believe that arms were going by that route to Iraq, and
asked: 'Is she party to the sanctions busting, the arms smuggling and the
supplying of weapons to Iraq?'

Mr Rogers claimed that under agreements of 1986 and 1987, Pounds 350 million
credit was extended to Jordan for contracts on behalf of the Jordanian armed
forces. Contracts worth Pounds 150 million had been traced in military supplies
to Jordan, and he wanted to know were the other Pounds 200 million had gone.

Julian Amery (C. Brighton Pavilion), a former junior defence minister, said
there would have been a third world war if it had not been for the nuclear
deterrent.

'Whatever we must do, we must maintain Britain's nuclear deterrent,' he said. It
was essential for Britain's security, and for Europe's.

Julian Critchley (C. Aldershot) said it was up to Germany to decide whether
shorter range nuclear missiles were stationed on her soil. But Britain should
keep its strategic national nuclear force, and build a fourth Trident submarine.

John Cartright (Ind. Soc. Dem. Woolwich) said the Soviet Union would still keep
a massive nuclear arsenal. It was prudent for Britain to retain a minimum
nuclear deterrent, which was 'effective and credible.' He too plumped for four
Trident submarines.

Tony Banks (Lab. Newham NW) said Britain needed to arm itself with knowledge and
skills, not weapons of death and destruction.

Sir Michael Marshall (C. Arundel) urged greater privatisation of services in the
armed forces and the Defence Ministry.

'The reaction from within the traditional structure of the MoD has not been at
all encouraging,' he said. 'There has been a tendency, I believe, to use the
excuse of security as one for not looking for further developments in that way.
But the American experience shows there is a far greater degree of flexibility
when you can contract out . . . for example, much of the procurement process.'

He urged ministers to be 'bold and imaginative'.

At the end of the debate, the Government repulsed an Opposition attack on its
defence policy by 319 to 192 (Government majority 127).

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 26, 1990

Terrorists sustain mainland campaign

BYLINE: By ANDREW CULF

LENGTH: 596 words


LAST night's explosion at the Carlton Club appears to be the latest in a
sustained campaign of mainland terrorist attacks aimed at military and political
targets.

Most of the recent explosions and shootings carried out by the IRA have been
against soft military targets, but the former country home of Lord McAlpine,
recently retired treasurer of the Conservative party, was devastated by a bomb
10 days ago. The IRA later claimed responsibility for the explosion, which
caused no injuries, but shattered the 18th century manor house in Hampshire.


The house had been the scene of a Christmas party attended by the Prime Minister
and other senior politicians, and the Queen had attended functions there.

In October 1984, the IRA came close to killing Mrs Thatcher and her senior
colleagues, when it blew up the Grand Hotel, Brighton, during the Conservative
party conference week.

Five people died, including Sir Anthony Berry, the Conservative MP for Enfield
Southgate, and the wife of John Wakeham, then Government chief whip. Television
viewers saw firemen freeing Norman Tebbit, then a Cabinet minister, from the
wreckage. Mr Tebbit's wife, Margaret, was left paralysed from injuries she
received in the explosion, which was caused by a device planted weeks before the
conference.

After almost wiping out the Cabinet, the IRA boasted that they only had to be
lucky once, promising to maintain their terror campaign.

The Irish National Liberation Army cast a shadow over the 1979 General Election
campaign, when it murdered Airey Neave, the Conservative Northern Ireland
spokesman, a month before Mrs Thatcher's election victory.

The IRA started its mainland bombing campaign in 1973, with explosions at the
Old Bailey and Scotland Yard, in London. In 1974 terrorists penetrated security
at Westminster Hall, injuring 11 people.

Recent IRA attacks in Britain have borne the hallmarks of a relatively
inexperienced active service unit, searching out targets with a military
connection, where security is likely offer the chance for an attack.

Last week a guard prevented injury when a device exploded at RAF Stanmore Park,
north London. A nearby old people's home was evacuated minutes before the bomb
went off.

Three days before the attack on Lord McAlpine's home, a bomb exploded during a
student's 21st birthday party at the Territorial Army's headquarters in City
Road, Islington. Twenty-one party-goers were injured, none seriously.

At the beginning of this month, a trainee soldier was killed and two colleagues
were injured in a shooting at Lichfield railway station, Staffordshire.

The previous weekend the IRA had expressed regret at mistakenly shooting dead
two Australian tourists in the Dutch town of Roermond.

On May 17 an army recruiting sergeant died at Wembley, north London, when a bomb
went off under his van outside a recruitment office.

Seven people were injured two days before when a bomb exploded in a flowerbed
outside the Army Directorate of Education, Eltham, south London.

In February an army careers office in Halifax was wrecked by a device pushed
through the letter-box. Three people were injured when a device fell off the
bottom of a military vehicle in Leicester.

Last November, Staff Sgt Andy Mudd lost both his legs in a car bombing at an
army barracks in Colchester, Essex.

In September 1989, 11 bandsmen died at the Royal Marine School of Music, in
Deal, Kent.

Eight months earlier three explosions destroyed the Tern Hill barracks, near
Shrewsbury. No one was hurt.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 26, 1990

Attacks needed to boost morale

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 354 words


THE IRA's decision to turn its attention once again to a West End club used by
the conservative establishment should come as no surprise to Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, although it is a switch from recent attacks on military
targets.

In 1974, at the height of the bombing campaign in London, one IRA active service
unit bombed at least five clubs and tried to attack another before being
captured in the Balcombe Street siege a year later.


Now, as then, bombing the haunts of Conservative politicians is the closest the
IRA can come to attacking unprotected political targets without risking
shoot-outs with bodyguards.

In 1974, on October 11, the IRA bombed the Army and Navy Club in St James's
Square and The Victory, an ex-servicemen's club in Seymour Street, Marble Arch.
On October 22 the same unit bombed Brook's Club and activists were within 400
yards of their target Edward Heath, who was at that time in Pratt's Club. On
December 11 they bombed the Naval Military and Cavalry clubs.

These were hit-and-run affairs. Today's technology allows the bomber to set
electronically the time of detonation to seconds. The IRA is also using Semtex,
which has 100 times the power of gelignite.

After the capture of an active service unit in Belgium and Holland this month,
republican sources in Belfast claimed there were dozens of IRA scouts and
several more units in Britain to continue their campaign.

The IRA attacks in Britain and Europe are important to the republican movement,
because they represent success after last year's perceived failure to mark the
20th anniversary of the deployment of British troops in Ulster with a new
campaign.

At home the IRA can manage intensive bursts of activity, but the risk of death
or arrest is getting higher.

Also, for the first time, the political agenda in Northern Ireland could be
dominated by talks this autumn between the constitutional parties. The
possibility of political accommodation on devolution, threatens the republican
strategy of making Northern Ireland ungovernable and forcing a British military
withdrawal.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 26, 1990

IRA bomb blasts Carlton Club: Eight injured as terrorists target Conservative
haunt

BYLINE: By PAUL MYERS, STEPHEN COOK and ALAN TRAVIS

LENGTH: 621 words


A TERRORIST bomb exploded last night at the Carlton Club in central London, a
haunt of government ministers and prominent Conservative Party members, injuring
eight people, one seriously.

Firemen helped 24 people to safety from the ravaged building in St James's
Street and fought a blaze which filled the street with smoke and debris and
caused traffic chaos as police sealed off the area.


They were later pulled out of the area amid fears there might be a second bomb
in the badly-damaged building.

Lord Kaberry, aged 82, a former Tory MP who was vice-chairman of the
Conservative Party between 1955 and 1961, was among those slightly injured, his
wife reported from their home in Harrogate, North Yorkshire.

The bomb was taken to be the work of the IRA and marks a change from the soft
military targets chosen in recent weeks.

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, Commander George
Churchill-Coleman, said between 10 and 15lbs of high explosive had been placed
in the hall of the club. He appealed for witnesses, saying the bomb might have
been positioned in the afternoon or early evening.

He said there had been no warning. 'We are looking at the situation but it is a
new dimension to a campaign which we are all familiar with. These individuals
are quite capable of causing death, injury and maiming. We are now moving to a
new phase where they are attacking members of the public.'

One man, believed to be the club's porter, was stable after surgery at nearby
Westminster Hospital. Four others, among them Lord Kaberry and two police
officers who helped people to safety, were treated there for smoke and scratches
and kept in overnight.

Three others, all believed to be passers-by, were treated for minor injuries at
St Thomas's Hospital and sent home.

A witness, Nicholas Rossiter, who was 60 yards from the explosion, said: 'There
was a low thud. There was black smoke everywhere. Windows were blown out. We ran
to take cover from flying debris.'

The deputy Prime Minister, Sir Geoffrey Howe, who was within a few hundred yards
of the blast when it happened, said: 'It was a reckless, brutal attack and it
won't be allowed to alter our determination to bring these terrorists to book.'

Mrs Thatcher, a member of the club, was informed of the explosion at the
European Community summit in Dublin, but made it clear she would not be
returning home early.

She condemned 'one more outrage in a catalogue of terrorist inhumanity', adding:
'Whoever is responsible stands condemned of total and callous disregard for
human life both within the club and among passers-by. These people are prepared
to bomb and maim others indiscriminately for their own perverted satisfaction.
My thoughts this evening are with the injured and their families and all who
suffered shock at the time. We wish them a speedy recovery.'

The Labour leader, Neil Kinnock, said: 'These people are obviously willing to
inflict terrible harm indiscriminately. They don't care who gets hurt, such is
their savagery and cowardice. I say again that they must understand that attacks
of this sort will be rewarded by no concessions whatever.'

Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister, was last night horrified to learn of
the attack. He conveyed his sympathy to Mrs Thatcher, those injured in the blast
and their families.

Senior cabinet ministers regularly attend dinners at the 158-year-old Carlton,
and Mrs Thatcher and Sir Geoffrey have attended evening engagements there in the
last six months.

The recent IRA campaign in Britain and Europe has been aimed primarily at soft
targets, where 100 per cent security cannot be guaranteed.

Reports, page 3; Dublin summit, page 20

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 26, 1990, Tuesday

TERROR BOMBINGS 'DAMAGE INVESTMENT PROSPECTS'

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 146 words


Terrorist attacks such as the bombing of the Carlton Club damaged the prospects
of American investment in Britain, the United States Ambassador to London said
today.  Speaking during a two-day visit to Belfast, Mr Henry Catto said: "This
kind of thing really doesn't help. It horrifies most people throughout the
world. Senseless bombing and accidental murders are just not good things for
anybody.  "Certainly it does not do any good for Americans trying to make up
their minds whether to invest here or in some other place." He said American
businessmen were not likely to want to create jobs where they thought that
"violence is the rule".  But he said that if the efforts by Northern Ireland
Secretary Peter Brooke to develop some form of devolved government for Northern
Ireland led to an end to the violence, American investment would be
"increasingly available".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 27, 1990

Carlton Club Bombing: Limited success of counter-terrorism - Only three held
after 15 mainland attacks by IRA / IRA driven to different targets, says Home
Secretary; Expert calls for 'repentance law'; Method made servant
near-inevitable casualty

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 725 words


COUNTER-terrorism on the British mainland since the IRA began its latest
campaign nearly two years ago has not been getting glorious results.

Fourteen people have been killed and 58 injured, but the combined efforts of the
British security forces have so far seen the arrest of two men in connection
with an arms dump and the conviction of one man who acted as a fixer for the
IRA's London active service unit.


Six caches of Semtex, a quantity of arms, and half a dozen safe houses have also
been found. But those who have carried out the 15 attacks from York to the south
coast have all evaded arrest.

This record is part of the background to the call by Sir Peter Imbert,
Metropolitan Police Commissioner, for a national intelligence unit in his Police
Foundation lecture last year.

He said this would be linked with the Customs and immigration intelligence
systems, and have liaison officers in European countries.

The most advanced model is in Germany, where the internal security police and
the federal police established extensive and intrusive computer systems in the
late 1970s to deal with the threat from the Red Army Faction.

The techniques included screening tens of thousands of people who paid cash for
domestic bills or car hire. In 1987, the Federal Republic further scrutinised
its population by introducing machine-readable passports and identity cards.

In Britain, counter-terrorism is divided between six separate forces, each with
its own competitive ethos and territorial sensitivities. They have had
considerable successes in Northern Ireland, partly through the use of informers,
but intelligence on units operating on the mainland and the Continent appears
notably weak.

The first line of defence is the Special Branch, operating in every police
force, with particular responsibility for ports of entry and surveillance or
infiltration of Irish republican support groups.

In London, the Anti-Terrorist Branch is the leading detective agency, and since
its formation as the Bomb Squad, it has traditionally attracted some of the
brightest officers at Scotland Yard. Intelligence for these two police arms is
channelled from several directions. The most important information on movement
of people is from the Royal Ulster Constabulary Special Branch and military
intelligence in Northern Ireland, which includes surveillance work there by the
SAS Feeding into the network are telephone intercepts by the Government
Communications Headquarters, and when deemed appropriate, information from M15.

Despite this concentration of expertise, the modest successes on the mainland
have all come from vilgilant citizens or haphazard mistakes by the IRA.

The problem of monitoring the travels of the Irish is graphically illustrated by
the tens of thousands who have gone to Europe for the World Cup a perfect cover
for reinforcing the continental unit, either through new recruits or those
travelling on false documents.

Yet the IRA continues to use some of its well known activists, as well as
unknowns from the Republic a combination that has marked its overseas units for
the past 15 years. The last big round-up, for example, was in Glasgow in 1985.
In that case, police surveillance in Belfast and London led to the gang's base.

The present campaign, despite reports about new tactics or old ones revived,
fits in with the IRA's broad spectrum of legitimate targets, which can be found
in the published lists of the three armed services, the pages of Who's Who, and
the telephone directory.

In previous campaigns, ceremonial soldiers like the Royal Marine bandsmen killed
last year, the cars of senior army officers, and places frequented by the
establishment have all been singled out.

The only missing ingredient, which the IRA, under pressure from Sinn Fein, say
they want to avoid is the indiscriminate killing of civilians.

The IRA definition of a legitimate civilian target can be found in the Green
Book, an official manual for volunteers, which describes the establishment as
'all those who have a vested interest in maintaining the present status quo in
politicians, media, judiciary, business elements, and the Brit war machine.' It
is the task of the IRA, the book says, publicly to identify those unarmed people
considered enemies, and then 'effect a cure.'

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 27, 1990

Labour and Tories urge curb on publicity for IRA

BYLINE: By ANDREW CULF, ALAN TRAVIS and DAVID SHARROCK

LENGTH: 683 words


SENIOR Tory and Labour politicians yesterday united to urge the media to reduce
publicity for terrorists, after the bomb attack on the Carlton Club in central
London.

The IRA has admitted carrying out the bombing. David Waddington, the Home
Secretary, urged constant public vigilance, and said everyone was at risk in the
IRA's latest unpredictable mainland campaign, which appears to be aimed at
political rather than military targets.


Meanwhile, in Holland police said three more alleged IRA members would be
charged with murdering two Australian tourists in Roermond.

In the Commons, Mr Waddington readily agreed to a suggestion from Roy
Hattersley, the shadow home secretary, that politicians, journalists, and
broadcasters should consider ways to reduce publicity for those 'prepared to
kill and maim so their murderous deeds should be reported in our newspapers and
on our television screens. We should be careful not to play into their hands in
that regard.'

Mr Waddington said he had thought long and hard about making a statement, a
comment which produced a bitter response from Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionist
MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone. He said no statements had been made after the
Lichfield shooting and bombings in Germany. 'It is important that we do not,
because an incident like this happens on our doorstep, get this out of
perspective.'

Police were yesterday examining a security video taken by a remote-controlled
camera outside the Carlton Club, in the hope that it would identify the bombers.
The IRA said in a statement that the attack had struck at the heart of Tory
rule. No member of the Government would be safe until Britain pulled out of
Ireland.

Mrs Thatcher visited the club yesterday and described the damage as 'very much
worse than I thought.' The three-storey Victorian building in St James's Street,
Piccadilly, was severely damaged, and part of the ground floor collapsed into
the basement.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, said a bomb containing 15lb of explosives concealed in a bag or parcel
was left on steps in a porchway between the club's main entrance and an inner
security door about an hour before it exploded at 8.30pm on Monday. A porter,
Charles Henry, aged 76, of Crystal Palace, south London, suffered serious
injuries. Yesterday his condition was said to have improved after glass slivers
were removed from his left arm at Westminster Hospital.

Six other people were injured in the blast. Lord Kaberry of Adel, aged 82, a
former Tory party vice-chairman, suffered cuts and bruises and was likely to
remain in hospital for a few days. Two police constables, Ian Stebbings and Ray
Humble, were treated after being overcome by smoke during rescue operations.
Another man and two American tourists were also discharged after treatment for
minor cuts and bruises.

Mr Churchill-Coleman stressed the difficulty of preventing terrorist attacks.
'It is pretty easy, regrettably, to put a device in the door. It is a simple
thing to do and very hard to prevent. It could have been any building in
London.'

In Holland police investigating the Roermond shootings announced the new charges
last night. Paul Hughes, from Newry, Co Down, was charged last week.

A Kalashnikov rifle and revolver found at Turnhout in Belgium, where three
people were apparently practising with them, were used in the attack on the
Australians, Dutch police said.

They also think the Kalashnikov was used in October last year when RAF corporal
Maheshkumar Islahia and his six-month-old daughter were shot dead in Wildenrath,
West Germany, and a month earlier, in Munster, when soldiers were fired on.

Nick Spanos and Stephan Melrose, both aged 24, were shot in Roermond, on May 27.
The IRA later said it was a mistake.

Police said Gerald Harte, aged 27, and a man calling himself Andrew Thornton are
to be charged and will appear before the public prosecutor in the next few days.

Failings of counter-terrorism, page 3; Parliament, page 6; Leader comment, page
18

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 27, 1990, Wednesday

Jail fails to deter volunteers

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 298 words


THE IRA appears to have no difficulty in finding volunteers who are ready to
carry its campaign to Britain and continental Europe, and to face the high risk
of lengthy jail sentences in prisons abroad, writes David McKittrick.

Those operating for the organisation in Britain in particular know that if
caught, they will receive jail sentences much longer than those meted out to
their colleagues in Northern Ireland or the Irish Republic - time which will be
spent surrounded by hostile prisoners and prison officers.

The signs are that a substantial number of IRA personnel are involved in its
British and European campaigns; there is now a special committee in Belfast to
meet the welfare needs of republicans imprisoned in Europe.

The key decision for the IRA is whether to employ experienced members for its
operations overseas or to use supporters who are not known to the security
forces. In most cases it appears to opt for the former, despite the fact that
such a policy may have played a part in leading to the deaths of three of its
members in Gibraltar two years ago.

The median age of those who have been identified so far is around 29. They have
come from Belfast, from other parts of Northern Ireland and from the republic.
In most cases they have prison records and are regarded as seasoned operators,
though two teenagers who have republican backgrounds have been apprehended, as
has a man in his late forties. One of those traced is suspected of previous IRA
activity in Britain, while another has been active in arms smuggling from the
US.

On the Continent, IRA attacks have been concentrated during the holiday period,
leading police to believe that IRA members there use the cover of tourists, but
in England bombings have continued through the winter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 27, 1990, Wednesday

Terrorists widen their choice of targets

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 399 words


THE LOGIC of the evolving IRA campaign in Britain is that the terrorists will
widen their range of targets unless their ''active service units'' are caught or
broken up.

The experience in Northern Ireland has been that the IRA has created an
ever-widening list of what it classes as legitimate targets. The gradual
building up of such a register gives the IRA many more targets to choose from
while stretching the resources of the security forces.

In Northern Ireland the IRA's main target has always been members of the
security forces. But it has added many more, including judges, prison officers,
senior civil servants and anyone who works for or supplies the security forces.

Others who have been attacked include Unionist politicians, members or suspected
members of loyalist paramilitary groups and, on one occasion, a naval officer.
In one period in the 1970s the IRA attacked and killed several prominent
business figures. The IRA says that those attacked are members of ''the British
war machine''. They also offer many more opportunities for attack.

The wave of attacks which has been going on since the late summer of 1988 shows
that the IRA has put a great deal of resources into mounting a sustained
campaign in England. The number of incidents in England and in continental
Europe, and the substantial amount of material used or recovered by British
police forces, indicate that the IRA hopes to maintain its campaign on a
permanent basis on three fronts.

The first phase of its English campaign concentrated on military bases and
personnel, but this month's attacks on Lord McAlpine's former home and on the
Carlton Club demonstrate that people and premises associated with the
Conservative Party are now at risk. All the indications are that the IRA will
diversify into attacks on figures in other branches of public life.

A list of more than 100 VIPs was found at the bomb factory discovered in
Clapham, south London, in 1988. They included the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Lane;
the Attorney General, Sir Patrick Mayhew; the Lord Chancellor, Lord Mackay; the
former Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland Lord Mason, Lord Prior and Sir
Humphrey Atkins; and security figures such as the chairman of the Joint
Intelligence Committee, the head of MI5 and the head of GCHQ.

The IRA's number one target, however, must always be assumed to be Margaret
Thatcher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 1990, Sunday

Police fear terrorist 'fast lane' into UK ; Correction

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 43 words


The figures for people detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Acts last year
in our report ''Police fear terrorist 'fast lane' into UK'' (20 May), apply to
Great Britain (Northern Ireland excluded), not to the United Kingdom as stated
in the report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 1990, Sunday

Inside Story: The IRA: Round-up of zealots who stop at nothing; The terrorists
have had much less success on the Continent, writes David Connett

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: INSIDE STORY PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 778 words


THE IRA has had less success on the Continent than on the British mainland. The
attacks, using both bombs and guns, have had only a limited success while the
security forces have managed to arrest many of those believed to be responsible.

Eleven servicemen and civilians have been killed and a number of others wounded.
The continental campaign has been marked by a series of embarrassing
''mistakes'' including the killing of a baby and two Australian tourists
mistaken for British soldiers.

The recent capture of three suspects by police in Belgium and Holland brought
the total of arrests by security forces to 10. Two suspects, arrested on the
German-Dutch border in 1988 will soon come to trial.

Among the latest arrests is Donna Maguire, described as a middle-class
republican from a small housing estate in Newry, Co Down. Her father is a
respected businessman in the town and is said to be devastated by his daughter's
arrest. His wife, Patricia Maguire, is known for her republican views and is
said to have canvassed for Sinn Fein during elections.

Donna Maguire was previously arrested by the Gardai last July when she stepped
off the ferry from Cherbourg to Rosslare with Leonard Hardy from Belfast. They
were accused of possessing explosives, mercury tilt switches and maps of a
British army base in West Germany. Hardy pleaded guilty and was jailed for five
years.

The judge was not satisfied, however, that the evidence against Maguire was
sufficient and in February she was acquitted and released. The decision upset
the West German authorities, who were seeking her extradition in connection with
the murder of Corporal Steven Smith, killed in Hanover by a car bomb which also
injured his wife and their four children last July. Maguire was also wanted for
questioning about a bomb attack on an army barracks in Osnabruck.

Information found on Maguire and Hardy is believed to have led to the arrest of
three more people suspected of being responsible for attacks on British army
personnel on the Continent.

The three arrested in France include Patrick Murray, known as the Pope because
of a tattoo on his arm proclaiming support for the pontiff. Murray is thought to
be connected with Patrick Magee who was later convicted of the Brighton bomb
attack.

All three were using false papers. Press reports said a search of the cottage
they were living in uncovered documents connected with British military bases in
West Germany, detonators and electronic equipment that could be used for remote
control bombs.

One of the two men arrested with Maguire in Belgium included a republican
prisoner recently released from jail in Northern Ireland. Gerard Harte from
Lurgan in Co Armagh was well known to the security services as a republican
activist. He was extradited to Northern Ireland from the south in August 1988 to
face charges including petrol bombing of business premises and the Protestant
Orange Order headquarters in Craigavon, Co Armagh.

Harte fled to the Republic after escaping from custody but was arrested in
Dundalk after robbing an electricity board office. On his release from prison
for robbery he was served with extradition warrants for the offences in the
North. He fought extradition through to the Irish Supreme Court but disappeared
before the hearing. The Irish police arrested him again after staking out a
house in Dundalk and immediately passed him over to the RUC in a highly secret
hand-over.

He was sentenced to 12 months jail in December 1988 at Belfast Crown Court but
was released with remission early last year.

There have been criticisms that the fight against the IRA on the Continent has
been hampered by too many security agencies getting involved. Critics say
improved co-operation would lead to more arrests and fewer killings. But senior
police officers say it is hard to imagine any other area, save drugs, where
there is more co-operation between security forces.

There are regular meetings at diplomatic level on anti-terrorist co-operation
and the need for less formal, more practical meetings led to the formation of
the Police Working Group on Terrorism.

In Britain, the Metropolitan police Anti-Terrorist Branch and Special Branch
liaise with police forces on the continent.

The work is carried out by a group called the European Liaison Section within
Special Branch. Its staff speak all the main European languages, are familiar
with legal procedures on the Continent and are said to be in daily contact.

A network for encoded communications has been set up which enables the group to
send information quickly, including photographs and fingerprints, to most parts
of Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 1990, Sunday

Inside Story: The IRA: One small cell attacking the body politic ; Panic has
forced a change of IRA tactics. David Connett and Robin Wilson report

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT and ROBIN WILSON

SECTION: INSIDE STORY PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 2068 words


IT MIGHT seem absurd if it were not so lethal: there are thought to be only 10
to 20 dedicated Irish terrorists challenging the might and the mighty of the
British state.

But they are desperate. Czechoslovakia no longer supplies Semtex to the world's
terrorists and the IRA's stocks of the plastic explosive are dwindling. The
organisation also faces a growing political crisis in Ulster and Ireland. Its
present campaign of bombing and shooting was meant finally to drive Britain from
Ulster. It has not come near to achieving that but it has claimed the lives of
14 soldiers in Britain, and a further seven on the Continent. The IRA also
admitted the ''accidental'' murders of four civilians, including a six-month-old
baby and two Australian tourists, as well as wounding scores more. The campaign
is far from over.

The police believe they know who many of the terrorists are (pictured right);
they are an odd mixture of familiar faces and new recruits. Security experts
estimate that only 10-20 IRA members have been active in the current campaign.
Only a few are bomb makers, the others provide logistical support or act as
scouts, seek out safe houses or ''case'' potential targets.

The effectiveness of the attacks reflects the mixture. The bomb which killed 11
bandsmen at Deal in Kent was carefully prepared and executed. The explosion
which damaged a building at RAF Stanmore in north London had all the hallmarks
of an operation that went wrong.

Several of those arrested on the Continent have served prison sentences for
terrorist offences. Derek ''The Pope'' Murray was one of three people arrested
by French detectives for a series of terrorist attacks in West Germany last year
in which British soldiers were killed. Murray is regarded as a major figure in
the IRA and is known to have been involved with Patrick Magee in the Brighton
bomb attack.

Similarly, both Gerard Harte and Donna Maguire, arrested recently in Belgium,
have tangled with the law. Maguire was acquitted four months ago in Dublin of
possessing explosives.

THE IRA is expert in the logistics of terror on the mainland and it has years of
experience to draw on. And, as it has become increasingly difficult to operate
in Northern Ireland, the IRA has turned its attention to mainland Britain and
Europe, where the targets are softer and the danger to the terrorists slighter.

The IRA changed tactics in 1974. Before then, hit-and-run squads crossed to the
mainland, planted their bombs, and fled back to the safety of Ireland. But in
1974 the day-trip bombers gave way to sleeper gangs who lived and plotted on the
mainland and then launched their attacks from carefully constructed anonymity.
The first of these was the Balcombe Street gang, whose campaign lasted a year
until they were captured in their London flat.

Others followed, the most notable being led by Patrick Magee who planted the
bomb in the Grand Hotel in Brighton which nearly killed Margaret Thatcher and
members of her Cabinet. Five people died in that attack. Magee was captured
before he could embark upon a bombing campaign in English holiday resorts.
Shortly after he was jailed, detectives thwarted another attempt to set up an
active service unit on the mainland when they arrested Liam McCotter and Patrick
McLaughlin who had collected arms and explosives from an Irish fishing boat off
north Wales and then buried them in Cheshire.

The present campaign started in August 1988, two months after McCotter and
McLaughlin were jailed at the Old Bailey. The first bomb was at the Inglis
barracks in Mill Hill, north London, where one soldier was killed and nine
wounded. Inglis is a postal depot guarded by unarmed security firms hired by the
Ministry of Defence. Like other attacks since then, it was aimed at a soft
target.

The IRA devotes much care to logistics. Police believe it has established a
number of well-hidden, well-stocked arms dumps. Caches found in west Wales,
Yorkshire, and north and south London contained more than 300lbs of Semtex, guns
and other terrorist equipment.

For the gangs to live in anonymity, though, the IRA needs republican
sympathisers and people on the mainland hard-left to rent accommodation, hire
cars and pay the bills. Nicholas Mullen, recently jailed for life at the Old
Bailey for helping the IRA establish the present campaign, was one of these
sympathisers. He used false passports and driving licences to open bank
accounts, rent flats and buy cars.

The bombers stay away from Irish communities, which overwhelmingly do not
support the terrorists. The IRA also fears informers there will expose them.
''Safe houses'' on the mainland, where the terrorists stay while preparing to
bomb targets, have been rented by people without an Irish accent or by
''married'' couples. The present gang has used a woman carrying a child. The
terrorists take time to establish themselves before striking. Patrick Sheehy,
wanted for questioning about the Mill Hill bomb blast and the shooting of a
British soldier in Belgium, is believed to have been in Britain for at least a
year before any incidents occurred. He had a job on a building site and worked
regular hours.

Different forms of identification are used and payment is always in cash,
garnered by the IRA in Dublin from legitimate businesses, racketeering,
extortion and robbery. Couriers, preferably unknown to the security services,
travel from the Irish Republic with money and false documents for the bombers.
Otherwise, contact is kept to the barest minimum. When detectives raided the
Clapham ''safe house'' in December 1988 they found evidence that the terrorists
had been using small advertisements in the Irish Times to contact Dublin. It was
done without the knowledge of the newspaper.

Once established, the bomb team is given virtual autonomy. But the terrorists
have learnt that it is harder for the security services to catch them if they
vary their targets and methods. The Balcombe Street bombers in 1974 followed a
pattern which was quickly spotted by detectives who then simply flooded London
with police when the IRA team was most likely to strike, and were thus able to
trap them.

The present campaign has been the most varied yet: barracks, recruiting offices,
the Carlton Club, the station at Lichfield. And the methods vary too: several
car bombs have been planted, one killing a recruiting sergeant in Wembley, north
London. Letter bombs have been sent to military bases in south-east England. The
shooting of three soldiers, one fatally, in Lichfield, Staffordshire, last
month, was only the second IRA gun attack ever on mainland Britain.

The IRA believes the variety and rapidity of attacks keeps the security forces
off balance and at full stretch. The combination of flexible tactics and more
security-conscious techniques have made it harder for the security forces to
trap them.

Despite the difficulties they face, the security forces are not impotent. They
believe they have scored a number of successes against the IRA. Two men were
arrested in December last year when they approached an arms cache in Wales.
Another man was arrested following a car chase through north London. Detectives
have also made a number of arms and explosives finds.

Whitehall security sources say they have excluded a number of people they
believe were responsible for some attacks under the Prevention of Terrorism Act
and have managed to disrupt the campaign. At the same time police have been
steadily gathering evidence to make convictions stick.

''The IRA are desperate. The RUC has hit their Belfast people very hard. The
Crumlin Road prison is full of them. They have to move to the Republic if they
want to operate,'' said one source.

THE LATEST outrage was the detonation of 10-15lbs of plastic explosive in the
doorway of the country's leading Conservative club, the Carlton Club in London's
West End, which the IRA described as ''the rest and recreation centre of the
high and mighty, the hub of the higher echelons of the ruling establishment, a
place outside Downing Street where the policy makers meet''.

The Tory patrician who said the bombers were roughly a quarter of a century
late, as the club was no longer the haunt of Tory ministers, missed the point.
That didn't really matter - and the fact that the IRA nearly killed a
Conservative peer was merely a bonus. The death of an elderly porter or
passer-by could be shrugged off with a facile and fast-forgotten apology from
Belfast.

It was ''The Establishment'' which had been attacked and when it comes to
depicting ''The Establishment'' the IRA paints on a very broad canvas. The
organisation's Green Book, given to new recruits, defines legitimate targets for
terror. The guidelines are wide. It includes anyone or anything with a ''vested
interest in maintaining the present status quo'' in Northern Ireland. It
includes those in politics, in the media, the judiciary, business, and what it
terms the ''Brit war machine'', including the ''Brit Army, the RUC, reserves,
screws, civilian searchers''. It goes on to say the ''cure'' for these ''armed
branches of the Establishment is well known and documented''.

It also means that the IRA might strike just about anywhere. The Carlton bombing
was aimed wholly at civilians, be they Tory politicians or supporters of the
party, the porter who greeted Tory members - or tourists walking past outside.

IF THE size of the headlines is the yardstick by which the IRA measures its
success, then the attack on Carlton Club was a success. The timing of the
explosion stole the television news headlines away from the Dublin summit. The
IRA had planted a bomb on the doorstep of the inner sanctum of Conservatism and
that pushed the debate on the Ecu into second place.

It prompted the Home Secretary to make a statement to the Commons. In the Upper
House, Lord Mason spoke of a new breed of mindless younger terrorists who were
''addicted to the adventure and thrill of bombing, killing and attacking
unguarded establishments''.

It needed Ken Maginnis, a pragmatic Ulster Unionist MP, who lives with the daily
threat of assassination in his Fermanagh and South Tyrone constituency, to
steady the nerves. Maginnis, a former major in the Ulster Defence Regiment,
reminded MPs that special statements were not made when many people were
murdered by the IRA in Northern Ireland and mainland Britain previously.

He said: ''It is important we do not get an incident like this out of
proportion. The terrorist is not a mindless animal. He is someone who calculates
the effect the violence will have on this community. We must not assist him by
over-reacting to his actions.''

This dilemma lies at the heart of the political and security problem. One must
react but not overreact. There must be calls for extra vigilance but if security
begins to interfere with everyday life the terrorists score points.

THERE seems to be a growing sense of desperation within the IRA. Sinn Fein, its
political wing, is constantly undermined by the excesses of the assassins and
bombers. It has been steadily losing its political grip in Ulster and is
virtually squeezed out altogether in Irish politics.

When the current campaign opened with the Mill Hill bomb in August 1988 a senior
republican boasted: ''This is the final phase. The next 18 months to two years
will be critical because the IRA has the resources and will know then if it has
the capacity to end it the troubles .''

Adrian Guelke, a political scientist at Queen's University, Belfast, who has
made a study of international perspectives on Ulster's troubles, says the IRA
would, ideally, hit military targets with impunity in Northern Ireland. This
would indicate, he says, their ability to act as a domestic guerrilla force with
substantial popular support against the forces of ''occupation''.

''It would be better for them to hit the headlines by killing eight people in
Northern Ireland than killing one in Britain. I think it indicates they can't
kill eight people in Northern Ireland,'' he said.

Attacking ''soft'' or even civilian targets in Britain or Europe, by contrast,
tends to lead to a perception of the IRA as a fringe European terrorist group
such as the Red Army Faction. According to Mr Guelke, ''There is very little
debate in Britain about Northern Ireland. These kind of attacks are a kind of
desperate effort to reopen it''.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                              July 2, 1990, Monday

Doherty decision dismays law chiefs

BYLINE: From Charles Bremner in New York

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 412 words


JOE Doherty, an escaped IRA prisoner who has been held in New York for the past
eight years, has been given leave to apply for political asylum in the United
States. The decision by a federal appeals court was a serious blow to US
government prosecutors, who have been seeking to return Doherty to Britain to
finish a sentence for murder.

Irish supporters celebrated in New York, where Doherty's case has become a cause
celebre and a local political issue. David Dinkins, the mayor, who wants freedom
for Doherty, attacked his opponents in last year's mayoral elections for
favouring Britain's request for his extradition. Last month a street near the
Manhattan detention centre was named after him.

''This is a magnificent victory,'' Mary Pike, Doherty's lawyer, said. John
Dearie, a Bronx state assembly member, said: ''I'm literally breathless.'' It
could take a year for the immigration service to rule on Doherty's argument that
he would face political persecution if returned to the British authorities.

Doherty, aged 35, was convicted in 1981 of murdering a British army captain in
an ambush in the Antrim Road, Belfast. He escaped to the US before starting his
sentence and was arrested the next year while working in a New York bar. The US
press yesterday depicted Doherty's IRA action in purely military terms. New York
Newsday said: ''Doherty is a symbol of resistance to British rule in Northern
Ireland.'' The New York Times portrayed his action as one of heroic
self-defence.

Doherty delayed his extradition with a series of court decisions in his favour
until last year when Richard Thornburgh, the attorney-general, used his
administrative powers to over-rule the judicial proceedings. He ordered
Doherty's deportation without appeal. The appeals court ruling criticised Mr
Thornburgh, saying he was improperly influenced by political concerns when he
denied Doherty the right to show that he would be persecuted if he were sent
back.

The Rev Ian Paisley joined calls for greater security for police officers in
Belfast after two RUC constables were shot dead by two IRA gunmen on Saturday,
yards from Queen Street police station. Harold Beckett, aged 47, and Gary Meyer,
aged 36, were shot in the back of the head. One of the killers escaped through
the grounds of a church near by.

Mr Paisley, Democratic Unionist MP for North Antrim, said every resource should
be made available to provide cover for the officers patrolling city streets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 7, 1990, Saturday

Hitler's generals weigh strategies; 1940 Revisited

BYLINE: By TERRY COLEMAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 312 words


HITLER HAS returned from touring the 1914-1918 battlefields where he served as a
corporal, to a triumphal welcome in Berlin. A million swastika flags are handed
out to be waved and rose petals scattered before his Mercedes, writes Terry
Coleman.

In the lull after their triumphs on the western front, his generals mull over
two different strategies.

General Jodl, the chief of staff, produces a paper entitled Continuation of the
War against England. He is a professional soldier who believes, as do many in
the High Command, that the war is won and almost over. If Britain is too
stubborn to see this, a little more force will have to be applied - British
merchant ships sunk, factories and storage depots bombed and a few terror
attacks carried out against cities. Any invasion should not have as its object
the conquest of Britain as such. That should be left to the navy and Luftwaffe.
The aim of a landing should be just to administer the todesstoss, the death
blow, to a Britain no longer capable of fighting.

Meanwhile, in the command train in a Berlin siding, staff officers prepare
another paper, Foreign Armies East, planning Operation Fritz. This is for the
invasion of Russia, with whom at the moment Nazi Germany has a non-aggression
pact. This, says the study, is the battle that really counts, because otherwise
one day millions of Slavs will descend on Germany.

At the same time General Guderian, a panzer officer who fought with distinction
against France and will later fight on the Russian front, sees the German
armoured units left in France preparing for Operation Sealion, the invasion of
Britain, which he never takes seriously, thinking it a hopeless idea. Guderian
has at that time no connection with the High Command. His opinion as a soldier
is that the most important immediate object is to end the war with Britain, by
diplomacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 18, 1990, Wednesday

Russo-German accord pleases administration

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 593 words


FRIENDSHIP and partnership between Britain and Germany have been at the heart of
British foreign and defence policy, Tom King, the defence secretary, told MPs
when he spoke of the warmth of the relationship.

Mr King said that Britain had constantly supported the right of a united Germany
to be a full member of the Nato alliance ''and we are delighted that President
Gorbachev and Chancellor Kohl have reached agreement''.

Ms Joyce Quin (Gateshead East, Lab) asked during question time which Tory view
was likely to prevail on the reunification of Germany. Was it going to be the
Tory views of the former trade and industry secretary and presumably of the
prime minister or ''wiser and more moderate counsels''? As the Soviet Union,
despite its experience, was able to change its stance towards the defence role
of Germany, was there not the danger that only the United Kingdom would remain
negative and backward looking?

Mr King said that Douglas Hurd, the foreign secretary, had made clear that
friendship and partnership were at the heart of foreign policy with Germany.
Friendship and partnership were also at the heart of defence policy.

For more than 40 years Britain had stationed troops in Germany, with 60,000 to
70,000 servicemen and their families living there. Britain was deeply grateful
for the reception and the friendship and warmth shown by the Germans. Never was
that more evident than after terrorist attacks. Co-operation by the German
police and security forces had been beyond praise.

Martin O'Neill, Labour's chief defence spokesman, said that yesterday's
momentous agreement between Chancellor Kohl and President Gorbachev had come
about because of the persistence and patience of the federal republic and its
allies in seeking to do deals with the Soviet Union. The outcome would not have
been possible but for the long-standing co-operation between Britain and the
federal republic.

It was all the more surprising that one of his colleagues ''should have tried to
upset the apple cart with an ill tempered outburst last week''.

John Wilkinson (Ruislip Northwood, C) said that now that the Nato alliance had
unambiguously extended the hand of friendship to the Warsaw Pact and to the
Soviet Union that led it, Mr King should confer with the foreign secretary to
see if pressure could be brought on the Soviet Union to withdraw her remaining
troops from Poland.

Mr King said that he wished to see withdrawal of Russian troops as soon as
possible. Chancellor Kohl had accepted that it would take three or four years
for Soviet troops to be withdrawn from East Germany. The logistical problems of
withdrawal should not be underestimated.

He said later that the recent Nato summit had given Mr Gorbachev the confidence,
in his own domestic situation, courageously to accept the important step forward
involving a united Germany in Nato. That was an indicator of the success of the
summit. One factor that must have been of importance to Mr Gorbachev was that he
was dealing with a united alliance.

Sir Bernard Braine (Castle Point, C) said that the real test of Soviet sincerity
in its relationship with the West would be its withdrawal from a country that
had suffered grievously from the Germans and the Russians during the war and had
also suffered grievously since. ''Withdrawal of Soviet troops from Poland would
be a great step forward.''

Mr King said he understood Sir Bernard's feelings, but it should be recognised
that yesterday's landmark would not have been dreamt of as being possible a few
months ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 21, 1990

Financial Stocktake: Oils up amid talk of cutbacks and modest Wall Street rally

BYLINE: By TONY MAY

LENGTH: 581 words


THE IRA bomb attack on the Stock Exchange was naturally a major talking point
yesterday, but despite hoax calls elsewhere in the City it was business as usual
on the electronic stock market, except for the traded options market which was
suspended until Monday.

A modest rally on Wall Street and signs that institutional liquidity is building
up gave both gilts and equities a firmer appearance, although there was little
genuine business to back it up.


Oils made the running for most of the session buoyed up by the firmer crude
price on talk of production cutbacks in Alaska by Shell and BP. Gains in the
sector ranged between 7p and 14p in the wake of overnight strength on Wall
Street.

Wellcome lost 10p to 560p after news that the Medical Research Council and
pharmaceutical company British Biotechnology planned to test a potential Aids
vaccine on humans this year. Analysts said the market had been looking for an
excuse to mark the price lower since the recent Aids conference in San
Francisco.

Concern that the vaccine would pose a threat to Wellcome's anti-Aids drug
Retrovir in the short term are probably exaggerated as the vaccine is still in
its development stage. 'There's a long way to go before they get a commercial
product', one analyst said.

UPL joined the growing list of casualties on the corporate trading front,
dropping 7p to 27p after revealing losses.

Capital Radio is in discussions with Century Communications, which may or may
not lead to Capital acquiring a significant minority stake in Century and
participating in the development of the business. Century's turnover in the
first nine months of operation was about Pounds 1.5 million.

CH Industrial has cut its Pounds 45 million of debts by selling its 22.3 per
cent stake in Manganese Bronze Holdings for Pounds 7.45 million cash. The stake
was placed by Smith New Court.

HONGKONG and Shanghai Banking Corporation had better have deep pockets if its
proposed marriage with Midland is to be a success.

The UK group is banking on a tie to shore up its ailing finances. But the claims
on Hongkong's pocket intensified yesterday when its wholly-owned American
subsidiary Marine Midland reported second-quarter losses of Dollars 26 million
against the year earlier's Dollars 41.4 million profit. In the opening six
months the loss is running at Dollars 20 million against a profit of almost
Dollars 82 million.

Marine Midland's woes stem from provisions against real estate loans in the US.
In Britain, Midland Bank's half-time figures are likely to bear similar scars.

It is not a pretty picture for the Hong Kong giant. But shares in Midland held
steady at 302p despite fears Hongkong might get cold feet at the altar.

TINY Rowland has taken time out from celebrating his victory over Alan Bond and
the Fayeds to spend Pounds 100 million on a 10 per cent stake in German retail
giant ASKO. Mr Rowland is joining the board next month to look after his
investment.

ASKO, which has a Pounds 5 billion turnover a year, is keen to expand in Eastern
Europe.

COURTAULD'S chief Sir ChristopherHogg should have a smile on his face this
weekend as his group has been singled out for a rare upgrading. It could be that
Smith New Court's analysts simply got bored with cutting estimates for
companies, or they could be right to raise their estimate for group profit from
Pounds 200 million to Pounds 210 million. Either way, the shares were unchanged
at 375p.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 21, 1990, Saturday

Big Bang stole IRA bombers' thunder

BYLINE: By JOHN MOORE

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 383 words


IF THE IRA thought it was striking at the heart of capitalism in Britain, then
it had not been following developments in the securities markets over the last
five years closely.

Before October 1986, the Stock Exchange and its 23-floor building housed 3,000
individuals. Then, on the trading floor, stockbrokers bought and sold shares
from stock jobbers, the wholesalers of shares in the market.

But when the system of share dealing was overhauled and implemented in October
1986, in the ''Big Bang'', all the securities firms which had done business on
the trading floor moved out. Advances in technology, the development by the
Stock Exchange of a sophisticated system of relaying share price information
across television screens in securities dealers' offices, encouraged dealers to
trade from their own offices.

Almost immediately after ''Big Bang'' the trading floor of the exchange became
deserted. The building, constructed in the early 1970s, had little function to
fulfil as a securities dealing bourse.

Indeed, the exchange's present chairman, Andrew Hugh Smith, considered whether
the building should be pulled down and replaced with something more appropriate.
At one stage the exchange was seriously considering turning the trading floor
into a shopping arcade.

Now 900 individuals use the premises each day. And when the bomb warning came
yesterday only 200 had arrived for work.

The London Trade Options Market, a small specialist securities market, continues
to trade in one corner of the trading floor of the exchange. The trading floor
of the exchange was not damaged by the explosion. But business in the options
market did not take place yesterday with a loss of 30,000 contracts which might
have been traded.

On all the other markets of the exchange business continued uninterrupted. There
were few signs that computer systems had been affected by the bomb damage,
although some information services on the screen-based share price display
system were incomplete.

The exchange, in any event, has two back-up computer systems based in different
buildings which would be brought into play if the system in the exchange had
failed. As one trader remarked yesterday, ''a computer crash would have hit
London's financial markets far harder than this explosion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 25, 1990, Wednesday

Bombs trial charges kept changing

BYLINE: By HEATHER MILLS, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 829 words


In October 1987, Gilbert McNamee was jailed for 25 years for plotting to cause
explosions in the early 1980s, including the Hyde Park bombing. Branded by
Scotland Yard and the British media after his trial as an IRA master bombmaker,
he is serving his sentence in Parkhurst prison on the Isle of Wight.

But his case is once again threatening to undermine confidence that Irish people
can have a fair trial in England. It was cited in Dublin yesterday as a reason
for refusing extradition in the first court test of new arrangements between
Britain and the republic.

McNamee was convicted on fingerprint evidence of conspiracy to cause explosions
between January 1982 and January 1984. His prints were on a 1.5 volt Duracell
battery, found in an unexploded bomb in London, and on masking tape in two arms
caches in Northamptonshire and Oxfordshire.

There are no suggestions of police malpractice as in other Irish cases, such as
the Guildford Four or Birmingham Six, or serious forensic faults as in the case
of the Maguire family. It is the actions of the prosecution and the judge, which
will come under most scrutiny, when the case comes before the Court of Appeal in
November.

The central allegation about the trial was that the goal posts were shifted
every time the prosecution case was found lacking. The defence claim they were
severely disadvantaged and given no time to answer properly changing allegations
made during the trial by the prosecution and permitted by the judge, Mr Justice
McCowan. One lawyer who monitored the trial said: ''The way the entire trial was
conducted left a nasty taste in the mouth''.

McNamee maintains that if the prints were his, they could have easily got onto
the objects through his work as an electrician at Kimbles, which made gaming
machine parts, in Dundalk, in Ireland. One ''innocent'' explanation for the
fingerprints on tape and batteries which he handled all the time in his work,
the court heard, was that the brothers who ran the firm, James and George
McCann, were IRA members. George McCann was arrested in France for offences
connected with the Irish National Liberation Army, the court heard.

In the grounds of appeal, the judge's summing up is strongly criticised as being
''tantamount to a direction to convict'' by barely touching on and occasionally
misrepresenting McNamee's defence.

But foremost in the 12 appeal points is that the indictment against McNamee was
altered, twice. Ten days before the start of the trial the dates of the bomb
plot were extended by a year to take in the Hyde Park bombing, which killed four
soldiers. Up to this point, the charges had not specified any particular
bombing. The evidence linking McNamee to Hyde Park was that a circuit board in
one of the caches was said to have been copied from the same master pattern as
two pieces of board recovered from the scene of the explosion.

Richard Ferguson QC had argued that the evidence was inadmissible. If two
cardigans are made from the same pattern, it did not mean the same person made
the cardigan, he had said. In any event, McNamee's print on tape stuck on the
board did not prove he had made it.

At the appeal, it will be argued that not only was Mr Justice McCowan wrong to
permit the charge to be amended to allow evidence about Hyde Park, he also
failed to grant the defence an adjournment to properly deal with the new
allegation.

The defence will want to know why the charge was amended so late, when police
and prosecution must have had the circuit board evidence for at least three
years.

Terry Fields, Labour MP for Liverpool, Broad Green, said: ''In my view, the
prosecution deliberately introduced Hyde Park as an emotional element into his
trial at a late stage, leading to a hearing that was completely unjust.''

The indictment was altered again at the end of the case when all the evidence
had been heard and the prosecution and defence had finished their closing
speeches to the jury. Originally it had accused him of ''conspiring within the
United Kingdom'', but the thrust of the prosecution case was that any conspiracy
must have happened in the republic.

Mr Justice McCowan is said to have misdirected the jury and erred in law in
allowing the charge to be amended to ''within the UK and elsewhere'' at such a
late stage. The entire defence had been conducted on the basis of an alleged
conspiracy within the United Kingdom.

McNamee's appeal had been scheduled for hearing this month. Campaigners for him
believe it has been adjourned until November because of the sensitivity of
yesterday's extradition case.

Gilbert McNamee, known as Danny, is one of a family of eight brought up in
Crossmaglen, Co Armargh - a border town of strong republican and nationalist
sympathies. He says he was opposed to the IRA and abhorred violence - his father
was killed by a terrorist bomb in a Crossmaglen pub and two of his cousins were
killed by the IRA as alleged security service informants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 26, 1990

Quiet revolution puts squeeze on terrorists: David Pallister looks at moves
towards a common computer intelligence network

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 1039 words


THE swift identification of three IRA suspects in Holland and Belgium last month
was the fruit of a quiet revolution in European police co-operation that has
been developing for a decade outside of established EC institutions.

Details of that co-operation, which have traditionally been a matter for secrecy
in Whitehall, have emerged in the Home Affairs Committee's report.


Two years ago a coded facsimile system for the rapid transfer of photographs,
fingerprints and documents was set up for anti-terrorist units in 15 countries
the Community 12, plus Finland, Sweden and Norway. The lead agency, which
distributes the codes, is the European Liaison Service of the Metropolitan
Police Special Branch. One of the first uses was during the MI5 and SAS
operation against the IRA unit in Gibraltar in 1988.

The facsimile system grew out of a conference organised in 1979 by the Dutch
Centrale Recherche Informatiedienst after the IRA assassinated the British
ambassador to The Hague.

Initially only the British, Dutch, Belgians and Germans took part, but it
rapidly developed into what is now called the Police Working Group on Terrorism.
In unusually frank evidence to the committee, the Special Branch said that its
communications traffic had more than doubled in the past three years.

The working group, an entirely police-directed initiative, has been approved by
the principal political organisation dealing with European police co-operation.
This is the Trevi forum of the 12 interior ministers, a British initiative set
up in 1976 and which meets every six months. Trevi's workings have been
considered so sensitive that the Home Office has excluded from public records
the identity of the section within its police department that deals with Trevi
matters. The Special Branch, however, openly refers to section F4 as the
co-ordinating British agency.

It also acknowledges, albeit by the use of asterisks, the central role of MI5 in
the system, to the displeasure of the security service. MI5 is identified as
part of the group of senior officials who set policy and report to ministers.

Trevi's archives are divided between member states. Arab documents, for example,
are held by the Germans and explosives data by the French.

The business of Trevi is carried out by officials and police officers in four
working groups.

Group 1, which includes Home Office F4 officials, MI5 and the police, analyses
terrorist threats. Group 2 co-ordinated policing of the World Cup and its
British representative is head of the new National Football Intelligence Unit.
It also discusses training, forensic science and equipment.

Drugs and organised crime are dealt with by Group 3, with a British input from
Customs and Excise and the London Central Bureau of Interpol. It was from here
that the proposal emerged for a European Drugs Intelligence Unit.

The fourth group is examining the impact of the single European market in 1992
and in particular the need to compensate for loss of security and law
enforcement with the relaxation of internal border controls.

Group 4 is also considering one of the most complex and controversial of
Euro-policing questions: the need for a common information system, which is
likely to include more than police records and criminal intelligence.

The 1992 group is discussing the matter with the Mutual Assistance Group 1992,
another British initiative, which last year drew together EC customs services
and the Community's Working Group on Immigration.

Opinions differ on the feasibility, speed and method by which a European
computer intelligence network can be set up. David Waddington, the Home
Secretary, believes that an evolutionary process is necessary, building on the
proposed European Drugs Intelligence Unit. The Home Affairs Committee believes
that Interpol should provide the basis for such a system.

Since 1984, Interpol has used new technology to streamline its operations,
reducing the time to respond to inquiries from 14 days in 1986 to two hours in
1989.

The British police have an ambiguous attitude towards it. Special Branch
evidence to the committee was blunt: 'Interpol staff are not experienced in
affording the proper protection to classified material, do not possess the
requisite security clearances, and the politics and motives of some of its
member agencies are, to say the least, questionable in this context.'

Another complication with a European intelligence network is the advances
already made by the five nations who signed the Schengen agreement in June to
remove border controls. France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxemburg
have agreed to set up a new information system and senior British officers
believe that this will set the pace for the rest of Europe.

The West German firm Siemens is expected to be the main computer supplier. The
German Bundeskriminalamt, which developed Europe's most powerful computer system
to deal with the Red Army Faction, has Siemens equipment, and the company is
also handling Britain's enhanced Police National Computer, PNC2.

PNC2 will become within a year or so the basis for the new National Criminal
Intelligence Service which was agreed by the Association of Chief Police
Officers last week.

It is likely to include the indexes from the National Identification Bureau (the
old Criminal Records Office), the National Drugs Intelligence Unit, the National
Football Intelligence Unit, the London Interpol bureau, the Animal Rights Index,
regional criminal intelligence offices and the Special Branch. The extent of
input from the immigration and customs services' computers is unclear.

As an interim measure towards a national operational arm, the Home Affairs
Committee commends the new structure of the regional crime squads, which was the
chief police officers' answer to the constitutional problems of breaking up the
tripartite system of police forces, police authorities and the Home Office.

In the long run, however, the committee sees the possibility of an even wider
European force, or 'Euro-FBI'. Additional research by Tony Bunyon, research
fellow at the Centre for Studies in Crime and Social Justice, Edgehill College,
Ormskirk.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             July 30, 1990, Monday

TIMETABLE OF TERROR

BYLINE:  David Simpson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 273 words


The murder of Tory MP Ian Gow follows almost a dozen IRA bombings and shootings
in mainland Britain this year.  The terror timetable of recent attacks is:
    July 20 - Bomb containing up to 10 pounds of explosives damages the Stock
Exchange in the City of London. No-one injured although some trading was halted;

    July 6 - Small bomb in litter bin in the Strand in central London exploded
without injury but caused massive disruption. Second bomb defused later in
Regent Street believed to be work of Animal Liberation Front;
    June 25 - Time-bomb went off inside front hallway of Carlton Club, St
James's Street in London's West End injuring more than 20;
    June 21 - Bomb hidden in rucksack exploded at RAF Stanmore Park, north-west
London. No one hurt;
    June 12 - Bomb badly damaged empty former home of Lord McAlpine,
ex-treasurer of Conservative Party, in West Green, Hampshire;
    June 9 - Bomb left on roof of Honourable Artillery Company London
headquarters exploded injuring students at 21st birthday party;
    June 1 - IRA killers shot dead unarmed soldier and wounded two others at
Lichfield station, Staffordshire;
    May 16 - Car bomb killed Army recruiting sergeant at Wembley, north-west
London;
    May 14 - Time-bomb buried in flower garden exploded outside Army education
unit in Eltham, south-east London, injuring seven civilians;
    February 24 - Parcel bomb exploded at Army careers office in Halifax;
    February 20 - Two Army sergeants injured when car bomb ripped through
military van near recruiting office in Leicester.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 31, 1990

Leading Article: Murder in a futile and odious cause

LENGTH: 599 words


IN MARCH 1979, five weeks before Margaret Thatcher's first election victory, the
Irish National Liberation Army killed Airey Neave, her confidant, campaign
manager and prospective Northern Ireland secretary, by placing a bomb on his car
in the Commons car park. It was a purposeless killing. It made no difference at
all to the subsequent course of her Northern Ireland policy, except to stiffen
her resolve that the future of the province must not be dictated by terrorism.
It did not advance by one inch the cause that the INLA was supposed to be
serving. In so far as it could be measured, the effect was the reverse.

Yesterday morning, a bomb fixed to his car outside his Sussex home killed Ian
Gow, Mrs Thatcher's friend and confidant, her parliamentary private secretary in
the early days of her premiership, and one of her Treasury ministers till his
principled opposition to the Anglo-Irish agreement drove him to resign. Again,
it was a purposeless killing, which will make no difference at all to the course
of her Northern Ireland policy and can do nothing to advance the cause in whose
name it was perpetrated. If anything, the reverse. The chances of Britain
pulling out of Northern Ireland are reduced, not enhanced, by such events. Mr
Gow's own words only a few days ago, on the death of the three RUC officers and
a nun on the road west of Armagh, are the most appropriate summary of the case.
These deaths, he said, were as odious as they were futile; once again wives had
been turned into widows and children into orphans and for what purpose? There
would be no surrender to people who carried out murders of this kind. And that
was not just rhetoric. The whole dreadful, desperate catalogue of lives
pointlessly extinguished in Northern Ireland, on the mainland, and on the
continent of Europe over the 11 years since Airey Neave was killed underlines
the truth of it. None has brought Irish unification or British departure one
whit closer.


The first response to this murder has to be the strengthening of security: a
sober reassessment of all available precautions, together with renewed resolve
to try to understand and anticipate the way the Provisional IRA works. These
things are done for their propaganda value, the targets picked for their
symbolism. The Carlton Club was chosen to signify the Conservative
establishment. Ian Gow was chosen for his closeness to the Prime Minister and
because he stood for the essence of that Conservative and Unionist tradition
which most robustly asserts: They Shall Not Pass. It was he, forehead gleaming,
blinking behind his spectacles, who was invariably there on the green across the
road from the Commons after each IRA atrocity representing the bulldog spirit: a
symbol, and so one whose removal might also be seen as symbolic. There are
others in this tradition, not all of them within the Conservative Party, whose
security in this propaganda war may merit closer attention.

The response must also be measured. Those who demand instant draconian measures
because Ian Gow has died misunderstand the psychology. That not only signals
that the British Government and Parliament are being stampeded by terrorist
activity: it may even be giving the Provisional IRA (who surely know by now that
surrender is impossible) exactly what they need. In retrospect, the one real
propaganda gain for the Provisional IRA from their mainland bombing campaign in
the middle seventies came from subsequent rushes to judgment which are only now
in anguish and embarrassment being reversed. That must not be repeated.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 31, 1990

Publicity key element of strategy

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 381 words


ONE of main assumptions underpinning much of what the IRA does is the belief
that even if it cannot force Britain to the negotiating table, its terrorism
campaign dominates the British political agenda on Ireland.

Any political moves from which it is excluded are irrelevant, it claims, because
its campaign will continue regardless.


Securing publicity is therefore a key IRA objective. The leadership measure the
political effect of an attack not only in terms of the amount of media coverage,
but in the ability of a bomb to provoke a drama out of a security crisis.

The last time an IRA attack in Northern Ireland had that effect was two years
ago after the Ballygawley bus bombing which killed eight soldiers. This prompted
Mrs Thatcher to consider the reintroduction of selective internment. At that a
time, the Sinn Fein leadership was involved in talks with the Social Democratic
and Labour Party. Since then, however, the prominence of Sinn Fein as a
political voice, and to a lesser extent the IRA terror campaign, has diminished
in Northern Ireland.

As one senior republican source said earlier this year: 'It is getting harder
and harder for us to find street issues. Most of our supporters are spectators,
not activists.'

Sinn Fein attributes much of this to the broadcasting ban imposed by then Home
Secretary, Douglas Hurd.

The party finds it harder to maintain any form of presence between elections.

The gradual retrenchment of Sinn Fein to its base in the republican strongholds
is mirrored by the increasingly irregular nature of the IRA campaign in the
North.

The attrition rate is high with regular arrests by the Royal Ulster Constabulary
and convictions.

However, by shifting much of its campaign emphasis to the mainland and Europe,
it has kept the security forces at full stretch while maintaining widespread
media coverage.

Nobody was killed in the recent Carlton Club or Stock Exchange bombings. But
despite this, the BBC Nine O'Clock News and News At Ten were dominated by both
events.

But the regular car bomb attacks on part-time members of the Ulster Defence
Regiment scarcely merit a mention.

Senior BBC executives are now understood to be discussing the way they cover
bombing incidents on the mainland.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 31, 1990, Tuesday

Leading Article: Murder for its own sake

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 16

LENGTH: 642 words


THE murder of Ian Gow takes the IRA's war to the doorstep of No 10 Downing
Street. Mr Gow was a friend and confidant of the Prime Minister. For four years
of Thatcher government, he was her very able parliamentary private secretary.
His views on Northern Ireland were similar to those of her close friend Airey
Neave, who was murdered by a Republican terrorist bomb in Westminster shortly
before the 1979 elections. There is thus something very nastily personal in this
latest outrage. Having failed to kill the Prime Minister in the 1984 Brighton
hotel bombing, the IRA has eliminated a staunch friend.

Ian Gow's death is also a direct assault on parliamentary democracy and free
speech. As with Airey Neave, an MP has been killed specifically for the nature
of his views on Northern Ireland: as Neil Kinnock so well expressed it
yesterday, he was ''a man whose only offence was to speak his mind''. Mr Gow was
unequivocally Unionist in his sympathies: that is, he believed that Northern
Ireland should remain a part of the UK and that the Anglo-Irish Agreement was a
betrayal both of that position and of the Protestant Unionist majority, because
it gave a foreign power, the Republic of Ireland, a say in the administration of
a province of the UK.

It was to his credit that he resigned as a junior minister (at the Treasury)
when it was signed in 1985. He was also a courageous critic of IRA violence, not
least of last week's bombing near Armagh, which killed a nun and three RUC
constables. By any standards, he was a prime target, which makes it the harder
to understand why he was not being more effectively protected.

How should Mrs Thatcher react to the murder of so trusted and well-loved a
colleague, coming on top of a renewed IRA onslaught on the mainland? On
precedent, the likeliest response is to insist that the Government must not be
deflected by violence from its chosen path: a change of policy induced by murder
would, on that logic, be a victory for the IRA. The Government is committed to
the Anglo-Irish Agreement. It cannot be bombed into going back on that
commitment. Mr Gow's death might thus have the paradoxical effect of prolonging
the life of the instrument he so abhorred.

The alternative of scrapping the agreement looks politically impossible, despite
all the evidence of the damage it has done by alienating the Protestant majority
and raising false nationalist hopes. Yet the horror of yesterday's death in
Sussex throws a black shadow over the proposed talks in which the Northern
Ireland Secretary, Peter Brooke, hopes to thrash out a new political settlement
for Northern Ireland. The original initiative came to nothing, as we predicted
in these columns, precisely on the issue of Dublin's involvement. Mr Brooke has
promised to relaunch it in September.

The reality is that IRA violence will continue whether Ulster is being governed
from Westminster or from the old Stormont building in Belfast, and whether or
not Dublin has a finger in the pie. If that violence ever had any serious
long-term purpose, it has long since been lost to view. The IRA is as opposed to
the Anglo-Irish Agreement as the Protestant majority because it is an attempt,
however misguided, to stabilise the province as part of the UK and create
cross-border cooperation, notably in the security field. For the IRA, violence
has become the end as well as the means. The bigger the bang, the more
illustrious the victim, the bigger the ''victory''. But British troops will be
withdrawn from protecting British lives in Northern Ireland only when the
violence ceases. It is that message above all others that Britain, Ireland, the
United States and all other concerned parties must drive home to the mafia of
the IRA. Like all such murders, yesterday's was not only repellently heartless
but also profoundly stupid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             July 31, 1990, Tuesday

Friends and foes pay tribute to a man of honour and principle

BYLINE: By Richard Ford and Edward Gorman

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 850 words


IAN Gow's fiercest opponents yesterday joined his friends in praising his
integrity and in condemning the terrorist bomb attack that killed him.

Politicians from the left and right in Britain and from nationalist and Unionist
parties in Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic paid tribute to an MP who was
a loyal supporter of the prime minister and one of the few at Westminster who
took a keen interest in the affairs of Ulster.

They highlighted his strong principles, urbanity and good humour as qualities
which had won him friendship and respect and which would be missed in the House
of Commons.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the deputy prime minister, described Mr Gow as one of the
most courageous, warm-hearted and respected politicans of his generation. ''Ian
Gow was one of my closest friends ever since he first campaigned with me more
than 30 years ago. Since then his circle of Commons friends and admirers has
spread to every part of the House of Commons and, indeed, of the British
Isles.''

Condemning the killing, the home secretary, David Waddington, said: ''Coming
hard on the heels of last week's outrage in Armagh, we see another vile attack
by the IRA. It almost beggars belief that such depraved people should be walking
the streets of our country. They have killed a man of courage, who was never
afraid to speak his mind; they have struck at free speech and democracy.''

Neil Kinnock, leader of the Opposition, said: ''This is a terrible atrocity
against a man whose only offence was to speak his mind. No one must be daunted
by these murderers. I had great disagreements with Ian Gow and he with me, but
no one can doubt his sincerity or his courage and it is appalling that he should
lose his life because of these qualities. His killers proved their weakness in
the face of democracy, not their strength.''

Kevin McNamara, shadow Northern Ireland secretary, said Mr Gow would be missed
on both side of the Commons. ''He was a man of integrity, who had the highest
offices in his grasp, was a close friend of the prime minister but resigned on
an issue of principle.'' He added: ''He could laugh at himself, was well
informed and always courteous. That was why he was so well liked.''

Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Liberal Democrats, said he and his colleagues had
been sickened by a desperate act that was aimed at derailing the talks taking
place between the British and Irish governments and the constitutional parties
in Northern Ireland.

In Northern Ireland, Peter Brooke, the secretary of state, was clearly
distressed as he delivered a short tribute to Mr Gow on the steps of Stormont
Castle.

He said that freedom and free speech were the enemy of those who live by the
bomb and the bullet. ''Those who serve Northern Ireland know the dangers,'' he
said.

''Ian knew them as well as any, but in serving the province, he in particular
served it as part of the United Kingdom, and it is the United Kingdom which the
terrorists have made stronger in this sadness.''

John Hume, leader of the SDLP, said: ''This is an appalling murder of a decent
and honourable man. Ian Gow held strong unionist views, views which he was
entitled to hold. It underlines the essential fascism of the IRA that they
murder him because he holds different political views.'' He said the IRA's
campaign was futile, out of date, and going nowhere. Its members knew that, but
there was not one among them who had the moral courage to admit it and say
''stop'', Mr Hume added.

James Molyneaux, the Ulster Unionist party leader, described Ian Gow as a close
personal friend whose death was a savage blow to all in the province, who want
Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom.

''It wasn't just that he was pro-union, he had a deep understanding of the
realities which very few people at Westminster do have,'' Mr Molyneaux said.
''He was never taken in by any of this nonsense of political initiatives going
to lead to peace, stability and reconciliation he saw through the Anglo-Irish
agreement from day one.''

Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, described the killing as a
''diabolical murder which again showed the depths to which the IRA would sink in
order to achieve their nefarious ends''.

In the Irish Republic, Charles Haughey, the prime minister, described Mr Gow as
a man deeply concerned for the problems of Northern Ireland. He said: ''We might
differ in our views on aspects of Anglo-Irish relations but I always recognised
in him a man of honour, of integrity and of deep conviction.''

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Robert Runcie, said the murder was another
sickening twist in the spiral of merciless violence. ''I pray that God will
bring comfort to Ian Gow's wife and family, and that all the people of the UK
and Ireland will condemn this monstrous affront to the democratic way of life.''

Cardinal Basil Hume, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Westminster, said: ''I
utterly condemn this barbarous act. Those involved in such terrorism are
deliberately engaging in actions totally incompatible with Christian belief and
morality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 1, 1990

Young Guardian: News round-up

BYLINE: By MELANIE MCFADYEAN

LENGTH: 593 words


ON MONDAY, the Conservative MP for Eastbourne, Ian Gow, was killed by a bomb
left under his car by the IRA. His name was on their death list because of his
political philosophy on Northern Ireland. He believed so fervently in Ulster's
union with Britain that he resigned his government post in 1985 after the
signing of the Anglo-Irish Agreement between London and the 'foreign' government
in Dublin. He was a close personal friend and supporter of Margaret Thatcher,
and was close to Airey Neave, Mrs Thatcher's early mentor and former Northern
Ireland Shadow Secretary, who was also killed by a car bomb, that time planted
by the INLA. Gow's death marks the 17th terrorist attack on mainland Britain in
five months.

TRINIDAD'S parliament building was stormed on Friday by a group from the small
Muslim sect Al Jamaat Muslimeen. After taking Prime Minister Robinson and other
politicians hostage, their leader, Imam Yasin Abu Bakr, declared: 'We have come
to end the poverty and destruction of Trinidad.' Saying he did not recognise
'man's law', only 'the law of almighty Allah', Bakr sent a message out to his
three wives: 'Wash our shrouds. We will die before surrender.'


There are massive economic problems in Trinidad, once the richest of the
Caribbean islands, thriving on the then oil boom. But the standard of living has
been reduced by half and austerity measures introduced by the government have
been unpopular. In clashes following the coup attempt 25 were reported dead and
300 injured. Buildings in the capital, Port of Spain, were set alight and shops
were looted.

Abu Bakr called for an end to government corruption and gross immorality, and an
election. Even among the six per cent of the population who are Muslim, Bakr has
little following, but the many hundreds of thousands who are feeling poverty's
pinch, among them large numbers of teenagers who are twice as likely to be
unemployed as adults, haven't rushed to defend the Prime Minister, whom they
feel has done them no favours.

SCOTLAND YARD reckons that up to 20 young people reported missing in the last
six years may have been the victims of homicidal paedophiles. They fear some
have been murdered during the making of 'snuff' movies so called because those
forced to participate are killed during the filming. They are investigating nine
murders concentrating on paedophile rings in the South-East. Their inquiries are
linked to the murder of 14-year-old Jason Swift, in Hackney who was sexually
abused and strangled in 1985 during a male orgy in London. Four men were
sentenced to between 13 and 19 years for the killing. The police hot-line for
information is 071 488 6570.

SURVEYS published in the last few days show that one in four young adults has
difficulty reading and writing. Of those questioned 35 per cent can't spell, 43
per cent rarely or never read books and 9 per cent don't read newspapers and
magazines. Another survey of 1,700 A-level students turned up similar findings,
focusing on their inability to spell 'permanent' and 'equipped'.

IN A SILLY survey, a magazine established from readers that the most desirable
blind date would be Cliff Richard, beating Mel Gibson and Robert Redford. The
person least respected by either sex in the 3,000-replies survey was Margaret
Thatcher. Funny a couple of weeks ago in another magazine she was voted the
person everyone wanted popping up on a ladder to clean their windows. And, oddly
enough, one who failed to win that contest too was Robert Redford. What is the
world coming to?

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 2, 1990

Colorado summit to examine roles

BYLINE: By SIMON TISDALL in Denver

LENGTH: 313 words


MRS Thatcher was due to arrive in Colorado last night for a Rocky Mountain
summit with President George Bush which, despite its rugged designation, was
expected to proceed smoothly.

Mrs Thatcher, who meets Mr Bush today in the holiday resort of Aspen for a brief
session of talks, will also address a symposium organised by the prestigious
Aspen Institute on Sunday. British officials have billed her speech a 'major'
discussion of the issues and challenges facing Europe in the coming century.


Significantly, these home thoughts from abroad, entitled 'Renewal: Leadership
and Values for the 21st Century,' will be handed down from the physical if not
moral high ground of America's Continental Divide.

Before speaking, Mrs Thatcher will receive the institute's Statesman Award.
Previous recipients include Willy Brandt and Jean Monnet.

Security was extremely tight ahead of Mrs Thatcher's arrival in Aspen, after the
recent terrorist attacks in Britain. While in the mountain resort, home to
millionaires, film stars and 'ski bums', Mrs Thatcher and Mr Bush will be the
guests of the US ambassador to London, Henry Catto, who maintains a house there.

The two leaders would review developments in Germany and elsewhere during their
talks, British officials suggested, especially in the light of President
Gorbachev's recent agreement to a reunited Germany within Nato.

The future role of Nato; the continued, modernised nuclear defence for Western
Europe; and conventional force levels were other issues likely to be discussed.

Mr Bush is due to make a speech tonight and is to receive the institute's
Distinguished Leadership Award.

The institute's president, David McLaughlin, in prepared remarks, praised Mr
Bush's 'long and outstanding public service (which) exemplifies the Aspen ideal
of taking action to meet today's challenges'.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 4, 1990, Saturday

The Week in Review: Home News

BYLINE: By ALEX RENTON

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 559 words


ON MONDAY the IRA used a car bomb to murder Ian Gow. The MP for Eastbourne was a
close friend and confidant of Margaret Thatcher, and an outspoken critic of both
the British government's policy on Northern Ireland and of the terrorists. Only
last week he denounced the IRA after a bomb killed three Royal Ulster
Constabulary officers and a nun, saying the organisation ''turned wives into
widows and children into orphans''.

Jane Gow, his widow, issued a statement the following day, telling the IRA that
they would never win. ''Right will always triumph,'' she said. ''The ultimate
battle has already been won.'' The IRA said they had murdered Mr Gow because of
his close association with Mrs Thatcher and his involvement with policy
decisions on Northern Ireland.

In the first week of the parliamentary vacation, the Government had its easiest
ride for some time. But details emerged of significant backtracking over two
major and controversial policies. John MacGregor, the Secretary of State for
Education, announced a further massage of the more unbending parts of the new
national curriculum, in the face of teachers' worries. He confirmed that testing
of seven- year-olds would be relaxed, and that 14-year-olds could specialise
more.

Kenneth Clarke, the Secretary of State for Health, meanwhile moved to reassure
colleagues worried about the scheme by which NHS hospitals may opt out of local
health authority control, saying that they would be brought back under the wing
of the health service should standards drop.

And at the Home Office, a policy that predates this Government was irretrievably
reversed, as a minister, John Patten, announced a crackdown on domestic
violence, just the same, he said, as any other kind: ''A crime is a crime is a
crime''.

Liverpool's former council leader Keva Coombes offered to resign his council
seat - to little regret in the beleaguered, near-bankrupt city - having admitted
in an interview with The Independent that the council had ''fiddled'' tenders to
ensure that contracts did not go to the private sector.

He did not withdraw his statements, but regretted the ''intemperate'' language,
as is the fashion among resigning politicians this summer.

The British kept complaining. According to a poll the public services or charges
with which we are most dissatisfied are, in order, the television licence fee,
telephones, the rail service, electricity, water, gas, postage, buses. We are
most satisfied with the coach service.

The glossy pictures of naked ladies service is less complained about than
British Telecom, it seems. Paul Raymond, the porn magnate, proudly revealed his
own poll, carried out by NOP, which revealed that 55 per cent of a sample
thought ''adult'' magazines should be published, against 34 per cent who did
not. He sent the results for the Home Office to do with as they will, but must
have regretted the fact that headline-writers translated his news into ''one in
three backs ban on soft porn magazines''.

But the country seemed oddly torn between complaining about the weather, and
being proud of the fact that temperatures of up to 97F made Britain hotter than
much of

Africa.

And meanwhile, on Wednesday, in the East End of London: ''I waited all bleeding
day for her and didn't see a bleeding thing. I'm going home,'' complained
60-year-old Joan Vick.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 4, 1990, Saturday

Profile: Our man against the IRA; George Churchill-Coleman, bomb squad chief

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 16

LENGTH: 1643 words


Commander George Churchill- Coleman is a man who emerges from the shadows only
at times of death and destruction. On Monday, a week before he ''celebrates''
his fifth anniversary as head of the Anti- Terrorist Branch at Scotland Yard, he
was there again, on television, deferentially guiding Margaret Thatcher around
the wreckage at Ian Gow's house and then striding over to the cameras to deliver
another sound bite, then retreating behind the blue and white tape. He is a man
with his face in our living rooms, but with his feet in a secret world; a hunter
who must also be high among the hunted. For if, as one theory goes, the IRA
decided to ''exercise their option'' on Ian Gow because he had popped up on
television to condemn terrorism, the removal of Churchill-Coleman, one of their
official enemies-in-chief cannot be far from their thoughts.

Critics point to the branch's current lack of success. But Churchill-Coleman's
is a horribly difficult task. As the terrorists have become more efficient the
branch has been increasingly forced to rely on unspectacular technical and
forensic detective work. It has also become short of intelligence from the
mainland Irish communities.

The commander has already stayed longer than the traditional three years,
probably to ensure continuity after the discovery on 21 December, 1988 of a bomb
factory at Clapham, south London. But since the campaign has intensified, any
change might be interpreted as a panic measure and a victory for the IRA. While
he is happy to stay as long as required, there are said to be few willing to
step into his shoes.

''George isn't one for the limelight; he won't talk about himself. He's not like
some of the others who created personality cults,'' said a colleague. To be
realistic, it would be difficult to create a personality cult around
Churchill-Coleman, who is what he appears to be: an uncharismatic copper of the
old school, with all the good and bad that implies.

He took all three of the traditional paths to success as a police officer -
closeness to someone already in the force, a spell in the Army and freemasonry.
Both parents had died by the time he was a teenager and he lived with a family
friend who also happened to be a constable and freemason. He joined both the
police and the lodge, but left Surrey after two years as a cadet for the Army,
becoming a military policeman and eventually a sergeant in the Special
Investigation Branch by the time he was 22. He remains a freemason, but is said
to have stopped attending meetings until after retirement.

Although he left the Army to join the Metropolitan Police in 1960, the formative
years were crucial. His role now combines the notion of service to others and
the disciplined life. His manner has a touch of the NCO. He is a strict
disciplinarian with himself and those who work for him, a trait polished only by
studies in the university of life. He is one of the few in important positions
not to have attended the senior command course at Bramshill, the Police Staff
College.

His unostentatious tastes are typical of his background. When he does get away
from Scotland Yard, he plays golf and reads thrillers of the Tom Clancy and
Gerald Seymour variety. He cooks at home out of necessity since his marriage
broke up two years ago.

His integrity seems beyond question. He served through the late Sixties and
early Seventies, when the detective strength was riddled with corruption,
emerging in a senior position without the slightest stain on his character.

Much of that time was spent in specialist squads in the days when Scotland Yard
used to send officers around the country to handle big inquiries. He served in
the branch as a detective superintendent between 1979 and 1981 and was present
during the Iranian Embassy siege, overseeing the evidence gathering for both
inquest and trial.

Although he can appear solid and ponderous, colleagues see a calm, phlegmatic
approach, and praise his attention to detail, his dedication, his private
friendliness, his concern for the lower ranks.

''George is a good combination of the old-style detective who has adapted well
to new technology and open management,'' said a colleague. ''It's all very calm
when the balloon goes up. They get the men there quickly, by ground and by
helicopter and everyone knows what to do,'' said a senior colleague.

When Churchill-Coleman took over on promotion to commander in August 1985, it
was a quiet period in the aftermath of the Brighton bombing, while, in
retrospect, the Provisionals regrouped. Although there were important incidents
between 1985 and 1988, he was out of the spotlight. He did play a largely unseen
part in the arrests of two Irishmen at an arms dump in Cheshire and that of
Nezar Hindawi for the abortive attempt to place a bomb on an El-Al flight at
Heathrow.

The one mainland IRA strike, at Mill Hill barracks, in August 1988, could have
been a one-off. Everything changed on 21 December, 1988, with the discovery of
the Clapham bomb factory, and the disintegration of Flight 107 over Lockberbie,
setting in motion the world's biggest terrorist inquiry.

Since then, although the pace has been relentless, he has become, if anything,
more relaxed, drawing on the reserves of discipline from his Army days and even
further back from his childhood as the son of a domestic servant in Surrey. ''He
has a quiet, inner strength and a personal discipline which copes well with
pressure,'' said someone who has known him closely during his 30 years in the
police. The fact that his name was on the now infamous Clapham assassination
list, along with Mrs Thatcher and Ian Gow does not disturb him.

He moves around a lot, keeping tabs on all the strands. On the night the IRA
bombed a Territorial Army base in London he was in West Germany, where he has
had close contact with the BKA both over Lockerbie and the mainland European
campaign. By lunchtime the next day, he was at the scene.

Individual London incidents are handled by subordinates, but he keeps track of
everything, making his own judgements, based on a combination of experience and
the detective's ''nose''.

The work of the branch is evidence gathering, usually after the event. As branch
13 of the Specialist Operations Department of the Yard, it works in parallel
with the intelligence gatherers of Special Branch, SO12, reporting directly to
the Special Branch Deputy Assistant Commissioner. There is daily contact with
the commander of SO12 and other agencies ranging from the Royal Ulster
Constabularly and the Garda to the Security Service and Continental forces such
as the BKA.

Churchill Coleman and his men are well aware of criticism that some successes in
the current bomb campaign have been not of their own making, such as the
accidental discovery of Semtex caches on the Welsh coast. In its defence, it is
pointed out that it takes a lot of careful forensic work and patience to build
up the case, sometimes years after the event.

His task is one which has become increasingly delicate in the courts as well as
on the ground. The branch is facing difficulties in Dublin over an extradition
case based on forensic evidence relating to 1981 bombings, mainly because of
disquiet over the 14-year-old Maguire case. The 1987 conviction of a man for the
Hyde Park bombing conspiracy will be challenged at appeal on faults connected
with the handling of the prosecution and the judge's summing up.

Then there is the Guildford Four inquiry, which, although concerning the Bomb
Squad of 14 years ago, will examine the actions of an officer now the
Commissioner of the Yard, Sir Peter Imbert. All this will continue to focus
attention on the question of whether Irish people get a fair trial in mainland
Britain. While Churchill-Coleman cannot answer for provincial forces, in this
climate he knows it is essential that everything the branch does is above
reproach and that no mistake will rebound on his successors.

The media attention has not been easy for a reserved man; he makes the
appearances because he has to, unlike the slightly flamboyant William Hucklesby,
the commander in the early 1980s, who appeared quite at home during his moments
among the glass splinters.

Churchill-Coleman's early public appearances were awkward. Face slightly florid,
hands clasped behind his stiff back, or thrust into side pockets, the
rapid-fire, slightly plummy delivery often came too fast and too disjointed to
make much sense.

This changed following a few informal words from those close to him. He looks
more relaxed; the message is slower and clearer, the sound bites improving with
every appearance. The terrorists are ''bent on destruction and death'' and
''desperate people do desperate things''; after the Stock Exchange, a call to
the public to be ''my eyes and ears''.

Despite the unpredictability of the job, he makes sure of regular meals and
sleep. At the Yard, he lunches in the spartan senior ranks' mess. ''He always
comes in for lunch when he can and relaxes. It is part of his personal
discipline to make sure he is fuelled for the job. It makes perfect sense,
working under that kind of pressure, or you go to pieces. But his bleep does go
off rather more than anybody else's.''

His particular role at the head of the branch makes his position in the rank of
commander uniquely powerful. He is one of 38 commanders at the Yard; the rank is
equivalent to that of an Assistant Chief Constable. He gets the basic salary of
about pounds 37,000, plus car and driver for an average 12- to 15-hour day.

He is said to be unlikely to seek further promotion and will remain in the job
as long as necessary. Does he enjoy it? ''He does it because it needs to be
done. And I don't think,'' said a close friend carefully, ''that it is a job
where the word 'enjoy' is quite applicable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 5, 1990, Sunday

Deadly advances in technology and tactics

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT, ROBIN WILSON and RACHEL BORRILL

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 569 words


THE CAR parked outside Scotland Yard quickly attracted attention. Close
inspection confirmed that the number plates were false. The bomb inside was
defused.

Despite a desperate search of London and a 24-hour warning from informants that
an IRA bombing campaign was imminent, the police failed to discover three other
car bombs. When they exploded, one man died and 244 tourists were injured.

Even as the bombs took their toll, in March 1972, detectives were questioning
the IRA team responsible. Three were seized from a Dublin-bound aircraft waiting
to take off at Heathrow as the bombs exploded. Last Monday, police did not have
the advantage of such good intelligence. There were no warnings as a bomb went
off under the Montego car of the Tory MP Ian Gow.

The terrorists who planted the device put more time and distance between
themselves and the bomb than their predecessors. The advent of mercury tilt or
ultra-sensitive trembler detonators and light, compact high explosive in the
terrorist armoury combined, with well-rehearsed experience of planting such
murderous devices, have given them an edge.

In the 18 years between the arrest of the three at Heathrow and the bomb that
killed Ian Gow, the IRA has responded to occasional setbacks by returning to the
classroom to learn fresh lessons on beating the police.

In the 1970s the Balcombe Street gang - named after the west London road where
they were finally captured - laid the ground rules that subsequent ''active
service units'' were to follow. They avoided the ''away-day'' bombing methods -
making day trips from Ireland to plant bombs - which went before. Using recruits
from the republic, they arrived in London and settled into local communities,
avoiding the haunts of London's substantial Irish population, which had been
penetrated by Scotland Yard. They embarked on a rapid succession of hit-and-run
bombings, choosing targets ranging from soldiers' pubs to establishment clubs
around the country, then going to ground. The pattern was soon recognised by
police, who flooded London's streets with officers at the times they were likely
to strike, and eventually caught them.

Technology changed the terrorist techniques at the start of the Eighties. In
July 1982 a bomb triggered by a radio signal allowed them to surprise a
detachment of the Household Cavalry as it rode in Hyde Park. The same month
another bomb in Regent's Park killed band members of the Royal Green Jackets. In
December 1983 a bomb killed six and injured scores more outside Harrods.
Detectives finally caught the bombers after a terrorist arms dump was found by
accident in Berkshire.

The bomb attack on the Grand Hotel in Brighton a year later revealed the IRA had
more than one team active in Britain. Patrick Magee checked into the hotel a
month before the Conservative Party conference using a false name and planted a
bomb set to explode 24 days later.

Detectives believe that the people behind the spate of attacks since 1988 have
heeded the lessons learnt from the Balcombe Street gang and the bombs at Hyde
Park, Regent's Park and Brighton.

They have varied the type and location of their attacks. Police have already
discovered many arms caches suggesting they are well supplied and self
supporting.

While the hunt for Ian Gow's killers goes on, the IRA is looking to future
targets. Margaret Thatcher is still at the top of the

hit-list.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             August 6, 1990, Monday

Police withdraw MP's guards

BYLINE: By Richard Ford, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 211 words


SPECIAL Branch bodyguards were withdrawn from protecting a leading politician
two days after an IRA car bomb killed Ian Gow, the Conservative MP and close
colleague of the prime minister.

The politician was told before Mr Gow's killing that a driver and an armed
officer who accompanied him on visits from his home to Parliament and on trips
outside London would be removed at the beginning of August. In spite of the IRA
attack on Mr Gow at his East Sussex home, the decision was implemented and the
politician, who has strong links with Northern Ireland and is an outspoken
critic of the IRA, is now unprotected. Before the guards were removed he was
given security advice and told that if he or his family felt anxious about
personal protection, they should contact Scotland Yard.

After the review, the politician, who did not plead for the retention of his
bodyguards, wanted it on the record that he had discussed the proposal to remove
them with David Waddington, the home secretary, and with Margaret Thatcher. At
the time the IRA's campaign in Europe and in Britain was under way.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said police never discussed security policy and a Home
Office spokesman said decisions about security were operational matters for the
police.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 9, 1990, Thursday

Terrorism: learning from Europe; Britain should step up the fight against the
IRA by emulating Continental intelligence-gathering skills and procedures,
argues Paul Wilkinson

BYLINE: By PAUL WILKINSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 23

LENGTH: 1248 words


THE IRA is far and away the most dangerous terrorist movement in Europe. In the
past 20 years, more than 2,800 people have been killed through the conflict in
Northern Ireland. The IRA is responsible for roughly 60 per cent of these
deaths, two-thirds of them civilians. Its bombings and shootings in mainland
Britain - there have been 13 attacks this year, seven since the beginning of
June - have spilled on to the Continent. The level of IRA activity outside
Northern Ireland is higher than at any time since the mid-Seventies. The only
other European organisation in the same league is the Basque extremist movement,
ETA, which has killed more than 500 people in Spain over the same period, half
of them civilians.

True, the security forces in Northern Ireland have had more success in thwarting
attacks over the past two years. A better flow of intelligence and security
technology has enabled them to prevent many explosions and the rate of arrests
in the province has gone up dramatically. But on mainland Britain police are
facing intensified IRA violence with an enormous handicap: they lack hard
intelligence on IRA operations in Britain - the leaders and cells involved and
their logistic support network - which is vital if they are to capture the cells
and prevent further attacks.

Why has IRA terrorism proved so intractable? And what lessons could be learnt
from the success of other European Community countries in tackling internal
terrorism?

One reason for the stubborn survival of the IRA is that it draws on the general
support or sympathy of roughly 10 per cent of the population in the Province,
providing a constant supply of terrorist recruits and collaborators. By
terrorist standards, the IRA has a strong financial infrastructure, using
racketeering, extortion, smuggling and legitimate business to raise funds. Above
all, it has three great assets for mounting terrorist operations.

First, in the Republic, it enjoys logistic support and relative safety from
Northern Irish and British justice. Second, from Colonel Gaddafi it has obtained
Semtex and other weapons. Third, 20 years of operations against the combined
expertise of the Army and the RUC have made the IRA one of the most technically
sophisticated terrorist groups in the world.

It is expert not only in bomb-making and operational planning, but in propaganda
warfare, especially its defamation campaign against the Northern Ireland
judicial and penal systems. Its members have also proved themselves capable of
adapting their mode of operations on mainland Britain and the Continent to make
it far harder for the police to find them. They keep their distance from the
Irish community, maintain secure links with the godfathers and show great
versatility in striking a wide range of soft military and civilian targets. It
is worrying that there have been only six arrests in connection with IRA
terrorism in mainland Britain in the past two years.

By contrast, the threat from domestic terrorist groups in Continental Europe has
declined sharply since the mid-Eighties. The main internal threat in Italy, West
Germany, mainland France and Belgium came from extreme-left, Red Army-style
gangs, generally tiny in terms of hardcore membership see graphic . These groups
have been far less lethal than the IRA. The Red Brigades, one of the more
dangerous extreme-left groups, has killed about 150 people since its inception.
Nevertheless, at the peak of its strength, in the late Seventies, the group
mounted a direct challenge to the Italian Republic, culminating in the kidnap
and murder - on 9 May 1978 - of Aldo Moro, a former prime minister.

In West Germany, the Red Army Faction has killed 37 people since its formation.
It is true that tiny residues of the Red Army-style groups are still at large
and there has been a small number of assassinations and attempted killings.
After the West German group's abortive attempt on Hans Neusel - the West German
state secretary in charge of security at the Interior Ministry, last week - the
terrorists issued a declaration of war against a greater German/West European
superpower.

These grandiose threats are oddly reminiscent of the 1985 claim by the Red Army
Faction, France's Action Directe (AD) and Belgium's Communist Combatant Cells
that they were forming a ''united guerrilla front'' against Nato, an effort that
soon fizzled out. The truth is that Red Army terrorism is a busted flush on the
Continent: the AD has been inactive since its leaders were captured by the
police; the Red Army Faction has lost its bolt-hole in East Germany, while the
younger generation of German radicals views it as irrelevant to the concerns of
the Nineties; and Italian police now see the Mafia as their main organised crime
problem.

A common factor in the Continent's success in suppressing Red Army terrorism is
that they all developed strong national anti-terrorist co-ordination. After
Moro's murder the Italians appointed General Dalla Chiesa to co-ordinate
anti-terrorist operations. He set up his own task force to infiltrate the
terrorist cells and helped devise the Pentiti law, which gave generous remission
to captured terrorists who provided evidence leading to the capture of their
associates. This law led hundreds to collaborate and helped crack open the Red
Brigades' cells and columns.

In West Germany, the BKA (the Federal Criminal Office) was the leading agency,
with powers to co-ordinate anti-terrorism throughout the country. Horst Herold,
head of the BKA until 1980, pioneered the use of sophisticated computerised
anti-terrorist intelligence data, which he described as ''the material which
gives us superiority over the terrorists''. West Germany's assets in
computerised intelligence have greater practical value than ever following the
introduction of machine-readable identity cards and passports, which make it far
easier for police to trace suspects.

Given the severity of IRA terrorism, and the implications of dismantling the
EC's internal borders in 1992, Dublin and London should study the advantages of
the co-ordination and computerisation of intelligence and Continental ID card
and passport systems.

We could also learn from the experience of improved cross- border co-operation
between France and Spain over ETA terrorism. Since 1987 there has been a radical
improvement, particularly on intelligence-sharing and extradition, with more
than 150 suspected Basque terrorists being expelled from France in 1987. The
French and Spanish have also set up a joint police liaison office to strengthen
co-operation further.

We desperately need more substantial anti-terrorist co-operation with the
Republic. Dublin must abide by its new commitment to extradite those wanted on
terrorist charges. We must help Dublin improve its intelligence-gathering and
policing to enable it to deal with the threat, perhaps through the creation of
an EC fund to enhance anti-terrorist resources.

In our increasingly integrated Community we must learn that no member state is
an island, particularly in the modern world of terrorism and drug-trafficking.
We need to create the understanding that one democracy's terrorist is another
democracy's terrorist and devise a Europe-wide criminal justice system
appropriate to a Europe without internal frontiers.

The author is Professor of International Relations and Director of the Research
Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism.

(Photograph and Graphic omitted)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 18, 1990, Saturday

The Channel Tunnel: Big airlines may welcome competition

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 813 words


AIRLINES and ferry companies appear to welcome, rather than fear, the prospect
of competition from the Channel tunnel on travel to the Continent.

Such is the predicted expansion in traffic between Britain and the rest of
Europe once the single European market comes into force in 1992, that many are
welcoming the tunnel, which they hope will ease air congestion.

The ferry companies are heralding a new age in luxury travel, introducing new
ships, designs and services. They have one reservation; they want to compete
with the tunnel on an equal footing.

The exception on the sea crossing is Hoverspeed. It plans to replace its
hovercraft with the SeaCat, a new design of catamaran. It made its first
commercial crossing, from Portsmouth to Cherbourg, this week. When introduced on
the Dover-Boulogne route, a SeaCat will - at least - match the projected
35-minute crossing time for Channel tunnel shuttle trains.

The airlines hope that the tunnel will take the strain off them. This view is
outlined in a Civil Aviation Authority study on the long-term strategic options
for the use of airspace and airports in the South-east into the next century.
This predicts serious congestion, without any real prospect of relief despite
the updating of London's air traffic control system. It says: ''The cost to
passengers in both monetary and other terms are likely to be substantial.''

By 2005, it is estimated, 13 million passengers a year wishing to fly from the
South-east ''will be forced to either use distant airports or not fly at all''.

The airlines and Eurotunnel are more optimistic. Andre Bernard, French chairman
of Eurotunnel, said: ''Even if larger aircraft are used, it is doubtful if there
is sufficient airport infrastructure to handle the increase. I think that the
convenience of the train between Britain and the Continent will attract a great
many people - even on a day trip basis.''

The big European airlines have their eyes more on European airline deregulation,
and on the international link-ups, such as British Airways' attempts to buy into
the Belgian airline, Sabena, than on the tunnel. But there have been discussions
in most large airlines, including BA, about running their own trains through the
tunnel if the skies over Europe become too congested.

The biggest blow to the ferry companies' plans for competing with the tunnel
came in December 1989 when the Monopolies and Mergers Commission ruled that the
main operators on the Dover to Calais route, P & O and Sealink, could not merge
their Channel services. Accepting the ruling, the Department of Trade and
Industry said a joint ferry service would mean less choice, higher fares and a
poorer service.

The two operators argued that the effect of their merger would have the opposite
effect; but the DTI has allowed them to approach the Office of Fair Trading with
joint scheduling proposals to avoid competing with each other.

Both companies are still bullish about taking on the tunnel and are planning
jointly to provide five or six big ships, offering an hourly, and possibly a
half-hourly, service.

But to compete successfully, they want a road network serving Dover that is as
good as the one serving the tunnel entrance at Cheriton. They are particularly
concerned at the lack of dual carriageway on the last seven miles of the A2/M2
into Dover, which they argue is Britain's most important road for trade.

They also want Customs procedures - which can cause hours of delays when a big
ferry docks - to be as efficient as those serving Channel tunnel traffic. Ferry
company officials are also calling for price regulation to prevent the tunnel
operators forcing the ferries out of business. They say the tunnel operators
could hold the country to ransom, or, as the result of an accident or terrorist
attack, Britain could be cut off from the Continent.

Sealink says the ferries will become less crowded as many people travelling to
Continent without their car switch to the direct London to Paris trains. That
switch means ferries must concentrate on selling comfort and service to the car
driver. Sealink said: ''The train will take just 40 to 50 minutes to go through,
but by boat it will be 90 to 100 minutes.

''If you have driven from Birmingham with two fighting kids in the back,
negotiated the M25, and then have a choice - the ferry and relaxing over a meal,
or the the train, still sitting in your car, and the kids still fighting in the
back - what do you choose?''

The pounds 10m SeaCat, 243ft long, is not as roomy as a ferry but even so, can
carry almost 400 passengers and 80 cars. Three on order will be larger craft
capable of carrying 150 cars at more competitive fares. At present it costs
pounds 65 to take a car and four adults to France. The three daily crossings
will be increased to five with the arrival of the second SeaCat next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 19, 1990, Sunday

Crisis in the Gulf: US navy opens fire as Iraq threatens hostage babies; Saddam
moves 'human shield' Britons as warships fire warning shots at Gulf tankers

BYLINE: By JOHN BULLOCH and ALEXANDER MAXEY in London and JOHN LICHFIELD in
Washington

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 918 words


US WARSHIPS last night fired across the bows of two Iraqi oil tankers trying to
run the Gulf blockade, hours after Saddam Hussein's regime issued a brutal
threat to make the babies of its Western hostages suffer. And Saddam began
carrying out a plan to place the 4,700 British hostages as ''human shields'' at
military targets facing US attack.

The first shots fired by the Americans since the crisis began followed attempts
by the US navy to stop and search two Iraqi tankers, one in the Gulf of Oman and
one in the Gulf proper. In each case, said a US source, ''warning shots were
fired after bridge-to- bridge communications''. The US forces went briefly to
battle stations. Iraq's Oil Minister, Issam Chalabi, threatened ''grave
consequences'' if it happened again.

Iraq effectively took all 10,500 Westerners in Iraq and Kuwait hostage late on
Friday night by announcing it would play ''host'' to them as long as a threat
remained of military action by Western forces massing in Saudi Arabia and the
Gulf. They would be moved to strategic sites to discourage Western attacks.

Yesterday Baghdad, pointing to the West's embargo on all supplies including
food, said that the many hundreds of young children who are among the hostages
would suffer or starve along with everyone else. ''Because the children of the
world are beloved of God and of Saddam Hussein and in compliance with our
humanitarian principles . . . we have decided to place the children of foreign
families which Iraq has decided to host in equality with the children of Iraq
and . . . what affects the children of Iraq will equally effect them,'' the
Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs said. ''Their share of the food will be
affected by the fact that our supplies of food are reduced.''

Then, last night, Iraq's ambassador in Paris, Abdel Razzak Al- Hashimi,
announced that some of the Britons had already been moved to military sites in
Iraq. He told the BBC: ''I know for sure that some of your British foreign
nationals have already been distributed on the strategic sites and industrial
sites in Iraq.''

The Foreign Office confirmed that 40 Britons, five Americans, four Germans and
one Frenchman had been taken from their Kuwait hotels to unknown destinations.
Iraq had promised them ''VIP treatment''. ''We will be speaking to Iraqi
authorities as a matter of urgency in the morning,'' a spokesman said.

President Bush said from Kennebunkport, Maine, that using Westerners as
''pawns'' was ''totally unacceptable'' and he was consulting US allies on
''additional measures'' to pressure Baghdad into letting them go.

Early today, the UN Security Council was in emergency session after gathering at
11pm at Britain's urgent request. At the same time, the UN Secretary-General,
Javier Perez de Cuellar, ordered two emissaries to Baghdad. They are due to
arrive tomorrow.

Iraq's Foreign Minister, Tariq Aziz, warned earlier of retaliation - in the Red
Sea, the Suez Canal or the Gulf - against countries that stopped its ships.
Since Iraq has no naval strength, this suggested terrorist attacks. Britain's
junior defence minister, Alan Clark, nonetheless announced that UK warships had
been authorised to use force.

Iraq's mass hostage-taking was announced by the parliament speaker, Saadi Mehdi
Saleh, who said: ''The people of Iraq have decided to play host to the citizens
of these aggressive nations as long as Iraq remains threatened with an
aggressive war. This measure will remain in force until such time when
sufficient guarantees are presented to the people of Iraq that the danger of
oppressive aggression has been eliminated.''

He said Westerners would be given ''accommodation . . . throughout the
country''. It means they will be split into small groups and sent to potential
targets from the Turkish border and the Kuwait oil refinery.

At Kennebunkport, the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said Mr Bush was
''deeply concerned'' by the apparent threat to deny Westerners adequate food and
medicine.

''The use of innocent civilians as pawns to promote what Iraq sees to be its
self-interest is contrary to international law and indeed to all acceptable
norms of international conduct,'' Mr Fitzwater said. ''The United States intends
to consult with other governments, with citizens being held in Iraq and Kuwait,
to determine what additional measures ought to be taken.''

In London, the Iraqi ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Office even before
the latest threats. The Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, expressed ''deep
concern'' and said: ''We shall go on working in every possible way for their
safe return.'' The shadow foreign secretary, Gerald Kaufman, condemned Iraq's
''criminal act''; the former defence secretary Michael Heseltine called it
''horrendous''. Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Liberal Democrats, expressed
''blazing anger'' over Saddam's British ''bargaining chips''.

The Iraqis were the ones heightening the tension yesterday in a series of
calculated statements which began with the Ministry of Defence newspaper, Al-
Qadisiyaha, warning that Iraq would use ''weapons of mass destruction and
strategic deterrence'' to repulse any attack by the United States and its
allies.

''We warn the forces of aggression of an incinerator that no one can get out of
if they launch aggression,'' it said. ''The weapons of mass destruction and
strategic deterrence possessed by Iraq will be awaiting anyone contemplating
aggression to leave him in scattered fragments.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 21, 1990, Tuesday

BRITISH FORCES ON ALERT FOR PLO TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE:  Ian Bruce, Glasgow Herald Defence Correspondent, in a pooled despatch
from

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 352 words


Dhahran, Saudi Arabia Britain's sole front-line fighter squadron at Dhahran in
north-eastern Saudi Arabia was today on alert for a possible Palestinian
terrorist attack.  The warning was given after the touchdown at King Abdul Aziz
airbase of an RAF VC10 transport aircraft loaded with spare parts for the 12
Tornado F3 interceptors and also chemical warfare suits for the ground support
crews.  Many thousands of Palestinian workers live within Saudi Arabia and some
are believed to belong to potential pro-Iraqi terrorist organisations.  It is
felt that a major chemical or conventional assault by Iraq is now unlikely
because of the rapid build-up of US and Allied forces over the last ten days.
America now has 60,000 ground troops and up to 500 aircraft in the area. More
aircraft, tanks and armoured personnel carriers are due to arrive by sea over
the next week.  The UK has about 1700 airmen and engineers as its land
contribution to the growing Allied force in the area. This includes the
Tornadoes at Dhahran and a Jaguar ground attack squadron in nearby Oman.
Squadron Leader Ted Threapleton, 38, a navigator with the Tornado group, said
morale was high and his men were ready for anything. But he added that scare
stories about Iraq's chemical warfare threat were causing needless worry for the
families of servicemen in the Gulf.  He said: "It's a real problem and it causes
unnecessary anxiety to our loved ones. It is not made any easier by the fact
that we can't tell them much for obvious security reasons. "It would help if
they could get the message that we have good kit, we are confident, and ready
for anything. We are doing the job for which we have trained, and humour and
morale is high." S/Ldr Threapleton, who is from Yorkshire and married with two
sons, is part of a composite squadron of Tornadoes drawn from three operational
units based in the UK.  The standard of accommodation for the UK forces is
comparitively high. They are Portakabin-style buildings with air conditioning
and some UK television channels are available.  The Americans, however, are
living in tents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 1, 1990

Iraq issues new threat to male hostages

BYLINE: By MARTIN WOOLLACOTT in Baghdad and GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 580 words


IRAQ said last night that more male Western hostages would be moved to potential
military targets, as confusion deepened over the fate of British women and
children waiting to be airlifted home.

The announcement appeared to contradict a statement repeated yesterday by Iraq's
Foreign Minister, Tariq Aziz, that all male 'guests' could be released if a
guarantee was given that there would be no American attack.


Mr Aziz gave an assurance that an airlift of women and children could start
today, but Foreign Office officials said they had no indication of a departure
date.

Some reports yesterday said that foreigners, including Britons, had begun to
leave, but these could not be confirmed. The Foreign Office said it did not
expect any hostages to be moved before today.

The Iraqi Information Minister, Naji al-Hadithi, seemed yesterday to impose new
conditions for the release of Western women and children, demanding that this be
tied to the return of Iraqis stranded abroad by the 'brutal American sanctions'.

Mr al-Hadithi said 237 hostages were waiting to be flown to London and Paris on
Iraqi Airways. He said a 'humanitarian solution' would be for Iraqi Airlines to
transport Britons to London and then pick up Iraqis who wanted to go home. Iraqi
Airlines has no landing rights in Britain.

Later, Mr al-Hadithi seemed to back down and say that although Baghdad was
seeking the return of Iraqis, this was not a condition for the release of
Westerners.

Iraq has campaigned to tie the release of Westerners to concessions by the US
and European countries, thus linking them to some of the substantive issues in
the conflict over Kuwait. The US and Britain have repudiated this tactic, but it
may be difficult to avoid responding on the limited level the Iraqis are now
proposing.

Foreign men still held in Iraq were at potential military targets all over the
country, said Mr al-Hadithi. 'Every place, every town that has a vital
installation will host our guests.'

The Kurdistan Democratic Front, which is fighting for autonomy for the Kurds of
northern Iraq, said its members had seen the transfer of hostages, including
women and children, to three dams and an airbase on August 24.

Later, Mr al-Hadithi said no Western women and children were still at military
and economic targets. But he did not know if they had yet returned to Baghdad to
get exit visas.

Some 139 British women and children waiting to be airlifted home are expected to
come on an Iraqi Airways flight. The number expected on this flight has risen by
seven from an unconfirmed figure of 132 given on Thursday night.

A Virgin Airways Boeing 747 is also on stand-by at Gatwick ready to fetch
Western hostages. Richard Branson, Virgin's chairman, said the airline cancelled
a planned flight yesterday, after receiving permission to land in Baghdad,
because delays over exit visas meant 'there would not be anyone' to put on
board.

A Foreign Office spokesman said it knew the names of all the people waiting to
be airlifted out and had informed relatives. 'The situation in Baghdad remains
confused, with embassy officials trying to sort out the problems,' he said.

The Italian Foreign Ministry said yesterday that 19 Italian women and children
had arrived in Jordan from Iraq.

The Transport Secretary, Cecil Parkinson, said last night that British airlines
would be put on full security alert against a terrorist attack during the Gulf
crisis.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 15, 1990

Spy book sends Mossad reeling

BYLINE: By IAN BLACK in Jerusalem

LENGTH: 441 words


ISRAELI intelligence officials were reeling yesterday over damaging revelations
about Mossad contained in a book finally released for distribution in the US on
Thursday.

The 361-page book, By Way Of Deception: The Making And Unmaking Of A Mossad
Officer, went on sale in New York after a court lifted an injunction obtained by
the Israeli government, which apparently failed to learn from Britain's
Spycatcher case.


Allegations by the book's author, Victor Ostrovsky, a Canadian-born former
Mossad officer, were splashed on the front pages of Israeli newspapers in the
most dramatic exposure ever made of the spy agency.

Mr Ostrovsky, who served as a junior Mossad operative for two years in the
mid-1980s, names agents and station chiefs, gives codenames of units and
locations of premises, and describes operational methods including
assassinations and sexual blackmail.

The agency's liquidation unit is identified as Kidon Hebrew for 'bayonet'. Its
internal security section, divided into three sub-sections of nine people each,
is identified as Yarid ('fair').

Intelligence officials yesterday described the book as 'a mixture of a few facts
and a lot of imagination' but it appears to contain highly classified inside
information.

By Way Of Deception, which has already sold 50,000 copies, describes a
super-secret 27-member Mossad unit codenamed Al used for espionage operations in
the United States, Israel's closest ally.

It says Israel disguised a Boeing 707 aerial fuel tanker as an Aer Lingus jet
during the 1981 bombing attack on Baghdad's nuclear reactor, and describes the
assassination of an Egyptian scientist working on the Iraqi project.

One of the book's most damaging claims is that Mossad had been forewarned of the
Shi'ite bomb attack on US marines Beirut headquarters in 1983 an attack in which
more than 240 US servicemen died but had failed to notify Washington. According
to Mr Ostrovsky, Israel had hoped the attack would ruin US-Arab relations.

Mr Ostrovsky says Mossad had specific information that the Hizbollah
organisation was preparing a Mercedes lorry packed with explosives for the
attack. The then head of Mossad, Nahum Admoni, allegedly decided not to pass
this intelligence on, and told his men: 'We are not here to defend the
Americans. They're a big country. Just send them the normal information.'

The book also says that non-Israeli Jews throughout the world, especially in the
US and Britain, are used in Mossad activities without regard for the safety of
Jewish communities abroad. There are said to be 2,000 such helpers, mostly
businessmen, in London alone.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 16, 1990, Sunday

FROM THE FIRST EDITIONS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 338 words


Observer: Picture of Red Arrows in Battle of Britain fly-past. France sends in
troops after Iraqi raid. South African police crack down. Customs to question
Microwave Modules company of Aintree, Liverpool, over sales of surveillance
equipment and remote-controlled aircraft to Iraq in 1988. Belfast welcome for
Brian Keenan.  Mail On Sunday: Government probe Rochdale "Satan" children case.
Gulf set to force Mrs Thatcher's first tax-raising Budget, with a penny on
income tax. Battle of Britain celebrations.  Sunday Mirror: Two housewives in Dr
Stupple case are "outcasts in their home town". Rochdale "Satan" children being
kept from their parents - "because experts fear they could be made to keep
quiet". Dr Stupple: Husband of "Mrs A" brands her "a slut". Desert Rats.
People: Dr Stupple: "Mrs B's" father speaks of family's shame. Jockeys offered
sex bribes by bookies - High Court due to hear claims that bookmakers tried to
get "inside information". Government "forced to sue" British Aerospace for
return of £44.4 million in "sweeteners" paid during takeover of Rover.  Sunday
Express: Wartime allies Britain, France and US poised to confront Saddam. Secret
tests of security at airports MI6 believes may be targets for Iraqi terrorist
attacks.  Sunday Times: How Israel stopped Iraq from getting a nuclear bomb.
Thatcher urged to dismantle Welfare State. Tottenham Hotspur borrowed £1.1
million from Robert Maxwell to pay for Gary Lineker. Picture of fly-past over St
Paul's.  Scotland On Sunday: Lead on Thatcher, "I'm Ready to Serve Until 2000".
French put squeeze on Iraq. Scottish members of British Lions rugby squad who
toured South Africa last year refusing up to £35,000 to play two tests against
Springboks and three club games.  Independent On Sunday: France sends troops to
Saudi after Iraqi raid on ambassador's residence. Leaders of British Moslems
told to toe Saudi line or risk losing cash support. Ministers planning core
curriculum for Scouts, Guides and other voluntary youth organisations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 17, 1990, Monday

RISING TOLL OF TERRORIST ATTACKS ON 'SOFT' TARGETS

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words


Today's shooting follows a series of terrorist attacks on or around Army careers
offices on mainland Britain this year which have claimed the life of a
recruiting sergeant and injured three soldiers.  The offices present ideal
"soft" targets for the terrorists as the need for them to be accessible to the
public leaves them vulnerable to attack.  But the use of guns signals a switch
of tactics. It is the first time in the current campaign against careers offices
that terrorists have not resorted to bombs.  Just a week ago, a bomb exploded on
the roof of an Army and Royal Navy careers office in Derby city centre. It was
believed to be the work of the IRA.  Seven servicemen, shoppers and office
workers had a "miraculous escape" when 5lbs of high explosive blew a hole in the
concrete roof of the two-storey building, said police.  Pedestrians ran for
cover as the blast showered glass and debris over a 2,000 yard area, but no-one
was injured.  On July 6, a small bomb exploded without injury in a litter bin in
The Strand in central London. Detectives believe it was intended for the nearby
Army careers information office but would not fit through the letterbox.  On May
16, a recruiting sergeant was killed and his colleague seriously injured when a
car bomb exploded under his van parked at the back of the careers office in
Wembley, north-west London.  After that attack, armed forces minister Archie
Hamilton ruled out the use of military guards at the 195 Army careers offices
and other "soft" targets in civilian areas, but stressed the need for increased
vigilance by both the public and the armed forces. Two days earlier, the
terrorists had switched tactics, burying a time bomb in a flower garden outside
the Army education unit in Eltham, south east London. The subsequent explosion
injured seven civilians.  On February 24, a parcel bomb shoved through the
letter box of an Army careers office in Halifax exploded without injury.  Four
days earlier, two Army sergeants were injured when a car bomb ripped through
their military van near the recruiting office in Leicester.

On January 16, parcel bombs were sent to an Army base in Aldershot, but no-one
was injured.  Today's suspected IRA shooting is only the second in the present
terror campaign on mainland Britain.  The group's activities this year have been
dominated by the planting of car and parcel bombs.  They have been directed at
service careers offices, prominent figures such as murdered MP Ian Gow, key Tory
establishments like the Carlton Club or ex-services chiefs like General Sir
Anthony Farrar-Hockley.  The only other shooting, for which the IRA admitted
responsibility, was in June at Lichfield Station in Staffordshire. One soldier
was killed and two others were injured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 18, 1990, Tuesday

PRIME MINISTER SPEAKS TO TERROR SHOOTING SERGEANT

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 743 words


Mrs Thatcher tonight took time off from her visit to Hungary to speak to the
Army sergeant gunned down by the IRA outside the London careers office where he
worked.  The Prime Minister, who had just arrived in Budapest on new leg of her
East European tour, found Sgt Bernard Cox in "very good spirits and good heart",
an official said.  He said Sgt Cox, 44, who was shot in Mrs Thatcher's Finchley
constituency, "left her with the impression that it takes more than that to get
a Greenjacket down".  Sgt Cox, 44, was "improving" at Barnet General Hospital
after being critically injured in the attack on Monday.  Police set up a mobile
office outside the Army careers office in High Road, north Finchley, and hope to
find witnesses who may have seen the gunman and his accomplice, both of whom
fled on a motorbike after the shooting.  Police toured the north London area
distributing a leaflet asking for help in the inquiry.  It read: "Terrorism -
were you around here between 4.45 and 5.15 on Monday 17 September? Don't
hesitate, please ring Anti Terrorist branch Hotline 0800 789321. Your call will
be strictly confidential." Earlier today the IRA claimed one of its terrorists
carried out the attack and also said it was behind a series of other recent
terrorist attacks in Britain, including:
    Last week's bombing of an Army office in Derby;
    The placing of explosive devices at the homes of General Sir Anthony
Farrar-Hockley, one-time Land Forces Commander in Northern Ireland, and former
Cabinet Secretary and Civil Service head Lord Armstrong. The statement,
telephoned to a news agency in Dublin, declared: "An active service unit of the
IRA carried out the attack which left a British Army sergeant critically injured
in Margaret Thatcher's constituency at Finchley on Monday evening.  "We take
this opportunity to remind the Thatcher regime that they have it in their power
to grant peace to Ireland and to end their futile conflict with our people."

Later police toured the north London area where Sgt Bernard Cox was gunned down,
distributing leaflets asking for help in the inquiry.  At 5 pm - 24 hours after
the attempted assassination took place - they were handed out to passers by and
to the owners of local shops for display in their windows.  It read: "Terrorism
- were you around here between 4.45 and 5.15 on Monday 17 September? Don't
hesitate, please ring Anti Terrorist branch Hotline 0800 789321. Your call will
be strictly confidential." The Careers Office itself was closed, with
bloodstains still visible on the front doorstep.


    The Prime Minister telephoned Sgt Cox soon after her arrival in Budapest
tonight.  She found him in "very good spirits and good heart", a British
official said afterwards.  He added: "He left her with the impression that it
takes more than that to get a Greenjacket down".

A hospital spokeswoman later said consultants were "satisfied" with Sgt Cox's
progress so far.  There were still two bullets lodged in his body, in his right
shoulder and near his diaphragm, but there were no plans to remove them. His
condition was "serious but stable".  The sergeant, who has been conscious since
being brought to the hospital, was being guarded by police. His parents and
fiancee were understood to have visited him early today.

Home Secretary David Waddington condemned the "bestial attack" on the army
sergeant and warned people to be on constant alert against a terrorist team
constantly changing tactics.  "I'm horrified. It was a bestial attack," he said
after visiting the International Police Exhibition and Conference at the
Barbican in London.  It would be impossible to have armed guards on every
premises and for people at risk to turn their homes into fortresses.  "It is the
nature of terrorism that a very small number of people can do damage. You don't
need to have enormous support to run a terrorist campaign, and to that extent
the terrorist always has the initiative.  "It is not really a question of funds.
It is a question of people being alert. People mustn't assume attacks are always
going to be bombs."

Hospital spokeswoman Lisa-Marie Statton said Sgt Cox's condition was unchanged.
"He has been sleeping most of the day. He is under close surveillance and his
condition is being reviewed at regular intervals." His fiancee had been with him
most of the night and left early today.  Another bulletin is expected at about
6pm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 19, 1990

Inside track on terrorist plot: The key role of the former Governor of
Gibraltar, victim of last night's attack

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 715 words


SIR Peter Terry's last appointment as governor of Gibraltar involved more than
just the ceremonial duties attached to one of Britain's last, incongruous
colonial outposts.

Although ceremony played an important part in his weekly routine with the
Tuesday morning changing of the guard outside the 16th century Convent where he
lived, Gibraltar was a key military posting and Sir Peter's service record
reflected its importance.


Besides being an important garrison town, it was also a vital staging post for
British naval forces in the Mediterranean, including the nuclear submarine
fleet.

Inside the huge Rock was a model village, a replica of what troops might find in
Northern Ireland.

Here, regiments on what was partly considered a rest and recreation period, used
to train for close quarter battle before their next tour of duty in the
province.

Sir Peter became Governor of Gibraltar in 1985 after three years as Deputy
Supreme Allied Commander in Europe. On the Rock he was the Queen's
representative and commander in chief of all the military forces.

When the IRA was found to be plotting a bomb attack there in November 1987, he
would have been the first to know.

As M15 monitored the movements of the terrorists and Downing Street decided to
send in the SAS, Sir Peter would have been kept fully informed.

The IRA's target was the band of the Royal Anglian Regiment, a regular visitor
to Northern Ireland, as they mustered to march past the Convent, a former
Franciscan monastery and the governor's residence since the early 18th century.

Sir Peter, in his air chief marshall's uniform and with his wife, Betty, would
stand on the balcony overlooking the tiny square crowded with tourists and
guarded by soldiers with fixed bayonets.

The killing of Sean Savage, Danny McCann and Mairead Farrell by the SAS in March
1988 provoked one of the most hotly debated controversies in the war between the
IRA and the British armed forces.

Although it was clear that the intended car bomb would have wreaked havoc on the
colony, the shootings were interpreted by some as part of an alleged British
shoot-to-kill policy.

Unusually the SAS men appeared at the inquest later in the year, although
unidentified and behind a heavy curtain. Their evidence, and that on the senior
M15 official who masterminded the operation, did little to allay public
concerns.

It emerged that Mr Savage was killed by between 16 and 18 bullets in what one
pathologist called a 'frenzied' attack. The other two died in a hail of bullets
with the soldiers unsure about whether they managed to shout any warning.

In the event all three were unarmed. The car they had left behind had no
explosives. These were found a few days later in Spain, but the SAS had gone
into action, briefed by M15, that the team were armed and dangerous and might at
any moment explode their bomb with a radio device.

The verdict on the three was unlawful killing. The coroner had disuaded the jury
from an open verdict.

Sir Peter's role in all of this did not emerge at the inquest, although it is
likely that he was at the final briefing for the SAS at midnight before the
Sunday shootings.

The actual decision to transfer authority to the military was formally taken by
the Gibraltar police commissioner.

Sir Peter stayed on in the colony for another year until he was 63. His career
started in the RAF in 1945 at the age of 19 but he spent many years as a pilot
before moving up the hierarchy.

He won his first commanding post in charge of 51 squadron in 1966. At the age of
44 he moved from operational duties into the Ministry of Defence as director of
Air Staff Briefing and quickly moved on to take charge of the RAF's directorate
of forward policy.

In 1975 he joined Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe, and in 1979, the
year after his knighthood, he was appointed as commander in chief of the RAF in
Germany and commander of the Second Allied Tactical air force.

Sir Peter would undoubtedly have been a potential IRA target. All the stranger
then that his address was listed in the 1990 edition of Who's Who.

The IRA, like the British forces which pursue them, have long memories and a
capacity for vengeance that the years cannot diminish.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 19, 1990

IRA admits it shot army sergeant

BYLINE: By PAUL MYERS

LENGTH: 424 words


LAST NIGHT'S shooting of Sir Peter Terry came just one day after an army
sergeant, Bernard Cox, was shot by the IRA outside an army recruiting office in
the prime minister's constituency in Finchley, north London.

The IRA yesterday admitted shooting Sergeant Cox, aged 44. Last night he was
said by the hospital to be 'improving'.


In a statement telephoned to a Dublin news agency, the IRA also claimed
responsibility for a series of other recent attacks in Britain, including the
placing of bombs at the homes of General Sir Anthony Farrar-Hockley, one-time
Land Forces Commander in Northern Ireland, and the former Cabinet secretary,
Lord Armstrong.

The statement said: 'Thatcher should heed her own recent advice, and extend her
principled opposition against the occupation of territory by force in Ireland.
Until she does so, attacks such as that at Finchley will continue.'

Last night's shooting was the sixteenth incident since February in a campaign
that has been dominated by bombings including the explosion in July that killed
MP Ian Gow. However, Monday's attack was only the second shooting of a soft
military target.

On September 11 office workers and shoppers were blown off their feet by a bomb
on the roof of an army careers information office in Derby.

Last month, Callum Farrar-Hockley, aged 5, escaped serious injury after he
picked up a bomb intended for his grandfather, Sir Anthony, an outspoken critic
of terrorism. The bomb was spotted in Sir Anthony's Oxfordshire garden by a
member of staff who took it from the boy.

The attempt at the former home of Lord Armstrong was a bomb fixed to a car
outside. It fell off without detonating.

The two failed attacks followed the IRA's most successful and high profile
attack, on Conservative MP Ian Gow. The IRA said it had singled out the MP
because of his pro-Unionist views and opposition to terrorism. In the same month
a bomb exploded in the Stock Exchange minutes after police cleared the building.

In June, an off-duty soldier was killed and two others gunned down on Lichfield
station in Staffordshire.

On February 20 two army sergeants and a civilian were injured by a car bomb near
a recruiting office in Leicester. Four days later a bomb went off at a careers
office in Halifax.

Seven civilians were injured in May by a bomb outside the army's education unit
in Eltham, south London. Two days later a car bomb outside an army recruitment
centre in Wembley, London, killed Sergeant Charles Chapman and injured a
colleague.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 19, 1990, Wednesday

Former Gibraltar governor shot; Revenge for killing by SAS IRA members suspected

BYLINE: By ADAM LEBOR and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 625 words


A GUNMAN armed with an automatic weapon shot and wounded a former Governor of
Gibraltar through a window of his home in Milford, near Stafford, last night.

Air Chief Marshal Sir Peter Terry, 63, whose address is in Who's Who, was
Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Gibraltar when SAS soldiers shot and killed
three IRA terrorists, Mairead Farrell, Danny McCann and Sean Savage, in March
1988.

Detective Chief Superintendent Malcolm Bevington, head of Staffordshire CID,
said Sir Peter was hit at about 9pm by a burst of automatic fire while reading
papers in a back downstairs room which had curtains half open. There were fields
at the back of the house from where the attacker approached before shooting.
Lady Terry, who was in another room, was hit by a shot which penetrated an
inside wall.

Sir Peter, Lady Terry and their daughter Liz were taken to Stafford General
Hospital. Sir Peter, who suffered gunshot wounds to his face, a leg, an arm and
his abdomen, was described as seriously injured. He underwent lengthy emergency
surgery last night. His wife, who suffered an eye injury, was not said to be
seriously hurt. His daughter was treated for shock.

The Assistant Chief Constable of Staffordshire police, Graham Goulding, said
last night that it was too early to tell whether the attack was the work of the
IRA, ''but of course it has the obvious connotation. But no one has claimed
responsibility at this stage.''

Sir Peter was given life-saving treatment at the scene by a consultant
anaesthetist who lives near by. Nick Burbridge, who helps to train Staffordshire
ambulancemen, was collected by an ambulance as it raced to the house and he
injected vital blood plasma.

Mr Bevington, who is also leading the hunt for the killers of a soldier in
Lichfield, said: ''We have sealed off the whole area and the helicopter is up
looking for the attackers. We are also liaising with anti-terrorist squads in
nearby forces to try to catch the gunman.''

Police said a man was seen running from the house after the shooting, but it was
possible he had an accomplice.

Last night's shooting will strengthen suggestions that there are two separate
IRA units in operation in Britain, one based in the Midlands and one in the
South-east. The IRA's latest mainland campaign has been marked by
unpredictability of methods and targets.

The attack came on the day the IRA admitted responsibility for shooting an Army
sergeant outside a recruitment office in north London on Monday and three recent
bombings in Britain.

The immediate assumption will be that Sir Peter, governor from 1985 until his
retirement last year, and his family were the latest victims of the IRA campaign
which has claimed many casualties in Britain over the past two years.

As governor of Gibraltar at the time of the shootings of the three IRA members,
Sir Peter represents an obvious high-prestige target for the IRA. As such,
questions will be raised about the level of security afforded to him.

The couple's detached house stands alongside the pavement of Milford Road with
no front garden. It is about a hundred yards from Milford Common, a popular
picnic spot, so strangers would attract little attention.

The attack will be seen as an act of revenge by the IRA for the loss of its
volunteers who have entered republican mythology. Farrell, Savage and McCann -
all from Belfast - were shot in disputed circumstances. There were many
allegations that they could have been arrested. The government has resisted
calls for an inquiry.

Sir Peter and Lady Terry were expected to visit Gibraltar next week with other
former governors as guests at a military tattoo to mark the departure of the
British Army in the near future.

Target for the IRA, page 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 19, 1990, Wednesday

THATCHER CONDEMNS 'THUGS WAGING WAR ON BRITAIN'

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, John Crossland, Grania Langdon-Down and Mervyn
Tunbridge,

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2067 words


Press Association Mrs Thatcher today issued one of her strongest condemnations
yet of the IRA in the wake of its assassination attempt on former Gibraltar
governor Sir Peter Terry.  She described the terrorists as "cowardly thugs" and
pledged firmer security measures to protect vulnerable people.  Speaking in
Budapest during her six-day European tour, the Prime Minister said the IRA was
engaged in "guerrilla warfare" against Britain.  "They are at war with us. We
can only fight them with the civil law. They are acting under what they regard
as the rules of war and we are acting under the general law of the land," she
said.  Although the IRA has always claimed it is fighting a war with Britain,
the Government rarely uses such language, preferring to describe the group's
atrocities as crimes or acts of terror.  The Prime Minister launched her attack
as it was disclosed just how close the gunman came to murdering Air Vice Marshal
Sir Peter, 63, the governor of Gibraltar from 1985 until he retired last year.
The attacker approached the Terrys' detached home in Milford, Staffordshire,
from the rear on Tuesday night as Sir Peter sat reading with the curtains half
open.  Then, using what is to thought to have been a 9mm automatic machine
pistol, he opened fire, spraying the house with bullets.  Nine of the bullets
crashed into Sir Peter's body, causing serious wounds to his head, jaw, right
wrist, right knee, right thigh and abdomen. Another passed through an internal
wall, causing a slight injury to Sir Peter's wife, Betty.  Two bullets were
removed from Sir Peter's skull after entering behind the left eye. They were
just 2mm from piercing his brain.  Consultant general surgeon at Stafford
district general hospital, John Lotz, said Sir Peter was "lucky to be alive".
"If the bullets had been aimed a bit better he wouldn't be here today." Another
factor in Sir Peter's survival came before he was rushed to hospital for five
and a half hours of surgery.  Consultant anaesthetist Nick Burbridge, who lives
near the Terrys, was able to inject vital blood plasma into the badly injured
man as he lay bleeding profusely.  Today, as the IRA admitted it was behind the
attack, one anti-terrorist source admitted the killers had "learnt from their
mistakes and from police successes".  "Put those together and it makes it easier
for them and much more difficult for us." But the source promised police "will
get them", either by good detective work, a slip-up by the gang or from
information from the public.

Detectives are now almost certain there are two terrorist cells operating on the
British mainland, one in London and the second using a base in the Black
Country.  There have been five attacks in the Midlands in less than two years,
and the IRA has claimed it was behind all of them.  The other attacks involved
bombings or shootings at Tern Hill barracks, Shropshire, in Leicester and
Lichfield - which is about 10 miles from Sir Terry's home - and in Derby just
last week.  In the past two years, there have been a total of 22 attacks on the
mainland in a campaign marked only by its unpredictability.  But as well as
being unpredictable, the terrorists are - according to one expert - "better
trained and more professional" than the gangs which terrorised London in the
1970s.  Mr Ian Geldard, editor of the newsletter Terror Update, said he believed
the IRA's high command allowed the cells to choose their own targets. This
minimised the risk of security leaks, he said.  In the latest attack, police
suspect Sir Peter was chosen as a target because of his part in the killings of
three IRA members in Gibraltar in 1988.  It was Sir Peter who signed the
document that allowed the SAS to take over the security operation on the Rock
which led to the controversial shootings of Mairead Farrell, Danny McCann and
Sean Savage when it was feared they were about to detonate a car bomb.  The
attack on Sir Peter was the second claimed by the IRA this week. On Monday, Army
Sergeant Bernard Cox, 44, was shot and wounded outside the careers office where
he worked in Mrs Thatcher's Finchley, north London, constituency.  Tonight, as
police forensic experts continued a fingertip search for clues near the Terrys'
home, Mrs Thatcher appealed for witnesses to terrorist operations to come
forward.  And she promised: "A number of things that are happening now make it
important that we look once again to see if there is anything further we can do
to step up our security and defence against this guerilla warfare."
    At 5pm, Sir Peter's condition at Stafford district hospital was described as
stable. He was still on a ventilator to aid his breathing and his limb wounds
were being re-dressed.  Lady Terry was seen by an eye specialist and was
admitted for bed rest. Her condition was comfortable.  The couple's children
Steven and Elizabeth were staying with their mother and father overnight.

He said security advice would have been provided to Sir Peter, an Air Chief
Marshal, by his own organisation, the RAF.  Asked whether Sir Peter could have
expected automatic protection, Mr Goulding said: "I wouldn't say that we were
not aware that he was living there, but he did not fall into the category which
would cause us to take a certain course of action." Sir Peter gave his full
address in Who's Who and his telephone number was in the local telephone
directory.  Mr Goulding said: "Sir Peter has not disguised that that is where he
lived." The attack was "a most horrific crime" said Mr Goulding, who appealed
for anyone with any information to contact the police incident room at Stafford
(0785) 223654 or 223691.  So far police had not been given any description of
suspects or vehicles in the area, he added.  Mr Bevington said Sir Peter had
been shot from just a few feet while he was reading, in an obviously carefully
planned operation.  But he questioned whether Sir Peter would have been regarded
as an automatic target for the IRA.  The Reverend Idris Vaughan, a chaplain at
the hospital, spent most of the night comforting Lady Terry and her family.  He
said they were tremendously shocked, but bearing up "remarkably well" under the
circumstances.  He said: "There are certainly no signs of bitterness there
whatsoever." But he reused to say what the family had told him, except that they
wanted to thank the police, ambulance and hospital staff for the way they had
been treated.  He said the couple's daughter Liz did not live with them and was
only visiting the family home on holiday.

Today Sir Peter was on a ventilator to aid his breathing and was heavily sedated
after surgeons performed a tracheotomy, an operation on his windpipe.  He
underwent several operations at once by different teams. The bullet wounds to
his arm and leg were so powerful that the right limbs were fractured, but these
have now been set.  The Prime Minister, who is visiting Budapest, said: "The IRA
now seem to be going for people who are defenceless at the time when they are
attacked.  "It is thoroughly cowardly. We shall have to consider how we can
strengthen even further our defences.  "It is a wicked and evil thing to do ...
wicked and evil." Later she said of the IRA: "They are at war with us.  "They
are acting under what they regard as the rules of war and we are acting under
the general law of the land." Earlier, she said she was deeply shocked at the
"depravity" of the act and gravely concerned about Sir Peter and Lady Terry.
"The number of things that are happening now makes it important that we look
once again to see if there is anything further we can do to step up our security
and defence against this guerrilla warfare.  "They are at war with us and we can
only fight them with the civil law." Asked whether this meant any changes in the
law, Mrs Thatcher replied: "The question is whether we can do anything for
protection and also assure ourselves that the Republic of Ireland is doing all
it can to track down terrorists and their stores of weapons." It was while Sir
Peter was in charge in Gibraltar in 1988 that he signed the document allowing
the military to take over the security operation, which led to the controversial
killings of IRA terrorists Mairead Farrell, Danny McCann and Sean Savage.  Sir
Peter retired last year and returned to the Stafford area.

Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said in a statement that he was appalled to hear
of the attack on Sir Peter - a "first class governor of Gibraltar" - and Lady
Terry, and wished them a complete and speedy recovery.

Sir Peter's condition was described as "stable and satisfactory" early this
afternoon.  Consultant general surgeon John Lotz said he might need further
surgery, but added: "His situation has stabilised well and looks as though it is
going to be maintained. There is no cause for concern at the moment." He said
Sir Peter would probably have to stay in hospital for at least two to three
weeks.  His wife, daughter and son were still at the hospital today and were
expected to remain for several days.  Mr Lotz said the Air Chief Marshal was hit
by at least seven bullets, two of which lodged behind his left eye only 2mm from
his brain.  Four bullets had been removed and "countless" fragments from other
bullets would remain in his body.

But Mr Lotz said they could not say with certainty how many bullets hit Sir
Peter.  Consultant anaesthetist Dr Nick Burbridge told how he was called from
his home only a quarter of a mile from Sir Peter's house in Milford about 10
minutes after the shooting.  He arrived to find Sir Peter already in the
ambulance and set up two drips, one of plasma substitute and another of saline
solution, as they sped to the hospital about 10 minutes away.  Dr Burbridge told
a news conference: "He was obviously shocked but he was conscious and in a lot
of pain. There were severe facial injuries but his breathing was quite
satisfactory.  "I asked him on the journey if he was in pain and where the pain
was. He couldn't speak because of his facial injuries but he indicated by moving
his hand.  "His mouth was obviously very severely injured and covered in blood."
Dr Burbridge said he knew Sir Peter lived in the village but all he was told by
the policeman who called was that there had been a shooting. It did not cross
his mind it could have been a terrorist attack.

"I was faced with a badly injured person and my whole attention was towards
looking after him," he said.  But to say he had saved his life would be a "great
overstatement", he insisted.  Mr Lotz told how a team of six surgeons operated
for five hours on Sir Peter.  Facial surgeon Peter Leopard used six stainless
steel plates to rebuild Sir Peter's right jaw, shattered by a bullet that
fragmented.  He said two bullets were also removed from the skull after entering
behind the left eye.  "They were perhaps 2mm from entering the brain, although
that would not necessarily have been fatal," said Mr Leopard.  He said there was
an "enormous amount" of secondary damage caused by the bullet that smashed Sir
Peter's jaw, shattering teeth. Although the jaw had been reconstituted, using
the plates that were screwed into place, there would be a need for secondary
surgery, "in the weeks and months to come".  But it was difficult to say how Sir
Peter would be affected in terms of deformity and disability. Mr Leopard thought
it would be about 10 days before he could speak.  "But prior to surgery he was
able to indicate to us that he could understand messages," he said.  Sir Peter
was conscious, but part of the surgery consisted of a tracheotomy so he would
not be able to talk.  Other injuries were to the right wrist and right knee,
both fractured by bullets, to his right thigh, from which a bullet was
recovered, and to his abdomen, which was grazed by a bullet, later recovered
from his hip.  Mr Lotz said: "He is very lucky to be alive. He has had a nasty
injury anyway and if the bullets had been aimed a bit better he wouldn't be here
today."

Mr Lotz said Sir Peter had received at least nine bullet wounds.  As well as the
huge injury to his right jaw and the two bullets lodged in his skull, there were
bullet injuries to the right wrist and right knee, both of which were fractured,
his left thigh, his hip, injured by a bullet that grazed his abdomen, his lower
left leg and his right upper arm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 19, 1990, Wednesday

IRA ATTACK SERGEANT 'IMPROVING'

BYLINE:  Paul Fuller, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Army colour sergeant Bernard Fox who was gunned down by the IRA outside the
London army careers office where he worked, was able to sit up in his hospital
bed today.  Sgt Cox, 44, critically injured in Monday's attack at Finchley,
north London, is to undergo an operation at some stage.  But surgeons say they
want to build up his strength first because his injuries have left him weak.
Today, Sgt Cox was said to be "stable and much improved" at Barnet General
Hospital, north London, where he is still in intensive care.

Detectives have been able to speak briefly to him to try to build up a
description of the two-man IRA gang who carried out the attack.  A Scotland Yard
spokesman said today: "He is sitting up in bed and talking to visitors.  "We
have not been able to gain a statement from him yet but we have spoken to him
informally." From information provided by other witnesses, anti-terrorist squad
officers have a description of the attackers, who fled on a motorcycle.  The man
who pumped three shots into Sgt Cox was riding pillion and wore a red crash
helmet with a white ring around the crown and was dressed in dark clothes.  The
rider also wore dark clothes and had a dark crash helmet, possibly black.  Both
are thought to have been wearing bomber jackets.  A mobile office has been set
up outside the recruiting office, with police hoping to find witnesses who may
have seen the gunman and his accomplice.  Mrs Thatcher took time off from her
visit to Hungary yesterday to telephone Sgt Cox, who was shot in her
constituency.  An official said: "He left her with the impression that it takes
more than that to get a Greenjacket down".  Earlier the IRA said it carried out
the shooting, adding that it was behind a series of other recent terrorist
attacks in Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 20, 1990

Two terrorist units 'active in Britain'

BYLINE: By PAUL HOYLAND, OWEN BOWCOTT and IAN TRAYNOR in Budapest

LENGTH: 695 words


TWO Provisional IRA active service units are thought to be operating in Britain,
one based in the Midlands, Staffordshire police said yesterday after the
shooting of Sir Peter Terry, the retired Governor of Gibraltar.

The Prime Minister, on a visit to Budapest, called for a review of security
precautions as the IRA claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday night at
Milford, Staffordshire.


Surgeons at Stafford District General Hospital revealed that two bullets had
lodged within millimetres of Sir Peter's brain. A team of 15 theatre staff spent
more than five hours re-building Sir Peter's shattered jaw and performing
plastic surgery, after he was hit by a burst of automatic gunfire. His condition
was described as stable.

The shooting was the fifth terrorist incident in the Midlands in less than two
years.

In February last year, 50 soldiers narrowly escaped being killed when their
barrack block at the Parachute Regiment headquarters in Tern Hill, Shropshire,
was blown up.

This year, two army sergeants and a civilian were injured by a bomb in
Leicester; an off-duty soldier was killed and two companions injured by gunmen
at Lichfield station, Staffordshire; and in Derby last week, a bomb exploded
above an army recruitment office.

Asked if an IRA cell was operating in the Midlands, Detective Chief
Superintendent Malcolm Bevington, head of Staffordshire CID, said: 'I attended a
meeting (of police) in Derby yesterday and this is the sort of thing we were
examining.'

Reacting to the news, Mrs Thatcher said: 'We shall have to consider how we can
strengthen even further our defences. The number of things that are happening
now makes it important that we look once again to see if there is anything
further we can do to step up our security and defence against this guerrilla
warfare.'

Unusually, she referred to the IRA's campaign as a 'war' a term normally
employed only by republicans. 'They are acting under what they regard as the
rules of war and we are acting under the general law of the land,' she said.
'They are at war with us and we can only fight them with the civil law.'

David Waddington, the Home Secretary, on a visit to the Midlands, echoed the
call for a limited security review. 'It's absolutely essential that we should
look at existing precautions to see what can be done,' he said.

The shooting came only six weeks after it was revealed that personal guards were
taken away from some politicians to cut costs.

Staffordshire police did not consider Sir Peter a likely target, it emerged
yesterday. He, in turn, never requested special protection and appears to have
ignored standard Ministry of Defence advice on keeping his address secret. 'I
wouldn't say that we were not aware that he was living there,' said Graham
Goulding, Stafordshire's Assistant Chief Constable, 'but he did not fall into
the category which would cause us to take a certain course of action.'

Sir Peter was Commander-in-Chief of Gibraltar when three IRA suspects were shot
dead by the SAS there in March 1988. He gave his full address in Who's Who and
his number was in the local telephone directory.

Sir Peter is not expected to be able to speak for 10 days and is likely to
undergo further reconstructive surgery. He was on a ventilator in the intensive
care unit last night. His wife, who sustained a slight eye injury, and their two
children were at his bedside during the day.

David Hearst in Belfast adds: Senior security sources in Northern Ireland
believe that only checkpoints permanently manned by the Irish army and police on
the Irish side of the border would secure the three-mile stretch of road on the
main Dublin to Belfast route where a Royal Ulster Constabulary constable was
killed earlier this week.

The IRA said it abducted and then shot Constable Louis Robinson after
interrogation.

Earlier yesterday, a full-time RUC man escaped death on a border road
approaching Castlederg in County Londonderry. Seven IRA gunmen shot out his
front tyres, riddled the car with bullets and injured him in the leg, but he
still drove through the ambush.

Leader comment, page 18

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 20, 1990, Thursday

PM condemns IRA 'war'; Thatcher promises security review to combat 'guerrilla'
attacks after shooting of ex-Governor of Gibraltar

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN, TERRY KIRBY and IAN MACKINNON

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 707 words


A REVIEW of security measures to combat the IRA's ''guerrilla warfare'' was
promised by Margaret Thatcher yesterday after the attempted assassination of Air
Chief Marshal Sir Peter Terry, the former Governor of Gibraltar.

The IRA in Dublin last night said that it was responsible for the shooting that
surgeons said Sir Peter - struck in the head by at least two of the bullets
fired at him - was lucky to survive.

In the 22nd mainland attack since August 1988, the IRA is believed to have
chosen Sir Peter, 63, a former Nato commander, because of his position in
Gibraltar in March 1988 when the SAS killed three IRA members planning a bomb
attack. He did not sign the authorisation papers, but would have had close
knowledge of the operation.

Speaking during her visit to Eastern Europe, Mrs Thatcher described the IRA
attacks as ''guerrilla warfare''. She later denied, however, that she had
conferred military status on the IRA. She said: ''They are thugs - that's all.''

The Prime Minister said: ''The numbers of things that are happening now make it
important we look once again to see if there is anything further we can do to
step up security and our defences against this guerrilla warfare. They are at
war with us and we can only fight them with the civil law. They are acting under
what they regard as the rules of war. We are acting with the general law of the
land.''

Mrs Thatcher also said that she would be seeking reassurances that the Irish
government was doing all it could to track down the terrorists and their weapons
- remarks bound to be resented in Dublin, which has repeatedly insisted that it
is co-operating fully in the campaign against the IRA, an insistence which
Scotland Yard privately endorses.

Both senior police officers and government ministers privately concede that
their best hope of success is for the IRA mainland units to make a slip.

Despite Mrs Thatcher's promises of a review and the continuing debate over
levels of personal protection, police and ministers know there is a limit to
what can be done against an IRA campaign constantly changing tack.

Security around known targets, including some MPs, has already been reviewed and
stepped up. Increasing protection to likely targets or widening the net of those
given personal security would give a significant morale boost to the IRA, which
wants to see in Britain the same levels of security as in Northern Ireland. For
the second successive day, David Waddington, the Home Secretary, yesterday
repeated police calls for the public and potential targets to increase their
vigilance.

Mrs Thatcher's remarks about a ''war'' - underlining her frustration at the
continued attacks, including the IRA shooting of a soldier in her constituency
on Monday - are certain to be used by the IRA.

The shooting will add to the debate about the level of protection of likely
targets. Although in the IRA's terms an obvious target, Sir Peter was not on the
hit-list discovered at a Clapham ''bomb factory'' in 1989.

He had not advised police of his new address in the small village of Milford,
near Stafford, although they had become aware of it. He was not given any
special protection by Staffordshire police.

He was shot while sitting in the lounge of his home with the curtains half open.
The attacker is believed to have used a self-loading pistol, possibly a
Browning, and fired at least six bullets at Sir Peter, one of which passed
completely through the house.

The attacker entered the garden by a rear fence or side passage. Staffordshire
police do not appear to have any witness accounts of the shooting, which took
place at a time when few people would have been around. No one was able to say
whether the attacker had an accomplice or how he left the scene, although last
night police took a plaster cast of the impression of a tyre near the scene.

The shooting reinforced the police view that there are two IRA units operating
on the mainland - one in the South-east and the other in the Midlands.

Ministers are likely to advise Mrs Thatcher against taking radical measures,
such as the reintroduction of internment. One minister said: ''She will wring
her hands with anguish. But there is not much more we can do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 20, 1990, Thursday

Semtex stocks used to wage war on three fronts

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 643 words


THE IRA appears to have the long-term aim of bringing Northern Ireland terrorist
conditions to Britain, and is placing more and more importance on staging
attacks in Britain and continental Europe, writes David McKittrick.

Over a two-year period the campaign has diversified from bomb attacks on
military bases into shootings, and from military targets to political figures
and institutions. There have been more incidents in Britain this year than in
any since 1974.

The IRA has been influenced by the fact that acts of violence outside Northern
Ireland create much more impact than shootings and bombings on its home ground.
It has also become much more difficult in recent years for it to inflict
casualties on regular soldiers in Northern Ireland.

It is now clear that a decision was taken some years ago to expand on three
fronts - within Ireland, in Britain and on the Continent. This was made easier
by the large stocks of Semtex,

the powerful plastic explosive,

obtained in the mid-1980s. The difference between the current series of
incidents and previous IRA activity is that the ambition is not to stage one-off
attacks but to build a permanent structure capable of producing acts of violence
for an indefinite period.

To this end, the British operation appears to have priority and to have first
call on IRA personnel, money and equipment. Since this phase opened in August
1988 large amounts of Semtex and a number of weapons have been recovered, but
the terrorists appear to have no shortage of replacement material.

The IRA probably regards its current British campaign as a real success. Its
members have had large slices of luck: the bombs intended to kill the former
Cabinet Secretary, Lord Armstrong, and General Sir Anthony Farrar- Hockley
failed to explode. Had they done so they would have killed an American woman and
the general's grandson instead of their intended targets.

The violence has generated much publicity. Only a handful of IRA members have
been caught: their arrests have not led to other republicans being apprehended,
nor have they checked the campaign's momentum.

The terrorists' failure rate seems, in fact, to be much less than that in
Northern Ireland itself, where the security forces have this year had more
success. A number of arrests and arms finds have been made, and there is
speculation that some parts of the IRA are penetrated by informers. No such
penetration is evident in Britain, where arrests appear to have come by chance.
The security forces in Northern Ireland and the Republic presumably have lists
of IRA suspects who are absent from their homes, but the police in Britain have
clearly not managed to catch IRA members on their way in.

Once inside, the organisation seems to have devised a system which has allowed
it to establish itself within the community while remaining invisible to the
security forces.

Criticism of the authorities is mounting. Yesterday Barry Sheerman, Labour
spokesman on policing, said in a BBC interview: ''I believe the Government must
wake up to the fact that we have this very intense IRA campaign on the mainland,
and they should respond to it much more deeply and with more alacrity than they
have up to now.

''The incidents are becoming more and more regular with no sign of arrests, no
sign of breaking through. I really want to know what the security services are
doing. It does seem to me that not enough it being done either to catch them or
to protect public figures from them.''

The IRA will doubtless take such comments as evidence that its actions are
hitting home. Its leaders will also note yesterday's use by Margaret Thatcher of
the term ''war'' to describe their activities, and may take it as a sign that
their own terminology is now being accepted in British circles. In their own
terms, they are planning for a long war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 20, 1990, Thursday

Lack of pattern in IRA attacks hinders police ; The shooting of Sir Peter Terry
is further indication of a switch to a long-term terrorist offensive in Britain

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 831 words


THE IRA campaign on the mainland has shifted its ground so many times since
August 1988 that it has become almost impossible for the police and security
forces to predict where and how the next attack might occur.

Bombs have been delivered by letter, planted on roofs, buried in gardens and
stuck under cars; some in the Midlands and some in the South-east. The targets
have ranged from such bastions of the establishment as the Stock Exchange and
the Carlton Club to Army recruitment offices, retired generals and, once, an MP.

New imponderables have been thrown up with every incident. Why was a warning
given for the Stock Exchange bombing and not for the bombing of the Honourable
Artillery Company Territorial Army base in City Road, London, although in both
cases the public were at risk?

Again, why is the IRA's intelligence so bad that it planted a bomb under the car
of the new tenant of a house vacated several years ago by Lord Armstrong, the
former Cabinet Secretary, but good enough to let it place one in the garden of a
retired Army officer, General Sir Anthony Farrar- Hockley, who was known to have
taken strong security precautions?

Then there is the sequence of Monday attacks which continued this week with the
shooting of the Army sergeant in Finchley. This could be pure coincidence, but
may also provide a clue as to when the terrorists are able to strike, perhaps
indicating something about the cover jobs they may have. Equally, it could be a
deliberately contrived tactic: the timings were not dictated by the nature of
the targets.

All this is deeply frustrating for the Anti-Terrorist Branch, headed by
Commander George Churchill-Coleman, now responsible for supervising
investigations nation-wide. While the IRA appears able to move the goalposts at
will, the police will be kept guessing and appear to some to be powerless.

Mr Churchill-Coleman has emphasised many times the constant variability of the
campaign and the need for all likely targets to be vigilant. There is concern as
to how much more police can do to drive home the warnings to the public and
people such as Sir Peter Terry. A Scotland Yard source said: ''After the attack
on Sir Peter, everyone else who is a possible target will draw their curtains
tonight, but just how many will also remember to look underneath their cars in
the morning?''

The spread of methods and targets - and the underlying problem of the lack of
hard intelligence on the IRA outside Northern Ireland - means police have to
rely upon the terrorists to make a mistake or be discovered by accident.

This happened when the Clapham bomb factory was discovered in December 1988,
giving an indication - by the amount of explosive, bomb-making equipment and
weaponry it contained - of the kind of campaign being planned. It was also where
the hit list of 100 prominent people was found.

It is difficult to say what might be done next to stop the terrorists. Although
the police do now have a large body of evidence, including bomb fragments and
ballistics information, which helps build a case if someone is arrested, that
means little if no one is captured.

Both sides have learnt lessons from the past. The campaign is now approaching
the level of intensity of the 1974-75 campaign. Then, the regular bombings and
shootings were confined to a small area of central London, so Scotland Yard was
able to swamp the area, in Operation Combo, in the expectation that police would
be on hand when the terrorists revealed themselves again. A few days later they
shot at Scotts Restuarant in Mayfair, were seen and chased. Captured after the
Balcombe Street siege, the men were given long prison sentences.

Anti-Terrorist Squad officers know that because of that success, the IRA has
made a determined effort to avoid a deliberate pattern this time around. For
similar reasons, it has apparently avoided traditional sympathisers in the Irish
communities, knowing that is the first place the Special Branch will look. Thus,
two possible lines of attack for police are ruled out.

In spite of this, the shooting of Sir Peter makes it clear that two cells are
operating: it is unlikely the same man who shot the sergeant in Finchley on
Monday travelled to Staffordshire the next morning to try to kill Sir Peter. A
Midlands unit, possibly to the north of the area and certainly within easy reach
of the motorway network, could be responsible for the Tern Hill, Derby,
Leicester and Staffordshire attacks. Another unit probably carried out the
attacks in London and the Home Counties.

Somewhere, there may also be the guiding hand, some officers believe, of Patrick
Sheehy, the terrorist who escaped from Clapham.

While this has considerable intelligence value, the second conclusion, that both
units contain people prepared to assassinate in broad daylight, using automatic
weapons, as well as making and placing a variety of bombs, is deeply
uncomfortable.

Leading article, page 26

(Graphic Omitted)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 21, 1990, Friday

Intelligence war against IRA pays off

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 236 words


Intelligence about the IRA cells in mainland Britain is seen by ministers as a
priority in combating the ''guerrilla war'', writes Colin Brown. One minister
said: ''We have got close to those involved in Belfast. Intelligence is pretty
good. But we have not got those contacts here.''

Ways of improving the gathering of intelligence will be high on the agenda for
the review ordered by the Prime Minister, who returns from her tour of Eastern
Europe next week.

The intelligence war against the IRA in Ulster has paid life-saving dividends
for the security services on the mainland, giving tip-offs about the identity of
terrorists and advance warning of attacks.

There have been breakthroughs on the mainland, such as the discovery of IRA
equipment and a hit list at a flat in Clapham, south London, when a car thief
was shot by an IRA man sleeping in the car.

But the collection of intelligence against the IRA has been concentrated on
Belfast. It involves the security services and the RUC paying informants for
information at pre-arranged meetings, sometimes using the confidential telephone
lines.

Ministers believe that level of penetration is needed on the mainland. But
gaining information from IRA sympathisers in Britain is not easy. The IRA cells
are difficult to penetrate, and ministers have been advised that members are
probably kept unaware of the identities of those in other cells.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 21, 1990, Friday

IRA BOOSTED BY 'SIGN OF WEAKNESS'

BYLINE:  Trevor Mason, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 144 words


The IRA has switched the focus of its terrorist campaign from Northern Ireland
to mainland Britain and Europe, Ulster Unionist MP John Taylor said today.  Mr
Taylor, MP for Strangford, said the signing of the Anglo-Irish Agreement four
years ago had given the IRA a "signal" that the Government would give in to
pressure. "The IRA took that as a sign of weakness and regrettably we are
reaping the rewards now," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.  Mr Taylor said
the IRA's campaign had been in decline before the Agreement was signed with the
Irish Republic.  Since people in Northern Ireland had stood resilient against
terrorist attacks, the IRA had directed its campaign against "softer targets" in
Britain and among British forces in Europe, he said.  "It's time the London
Government understood the thinking of the IRA and took action," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 22, 1990

Baghdad replies with tit for tat expulsions

BYLINE: By MARTIN WALKER in Washington, JULIE WOLF in Brussels and MICHAEL
SIMMONS

LENGTH: 720 words


IRAQ yesterday ordered the expulsion of military attaches and other staff from
all the European Community embassies in Baghdad. Egypt's defence attache and two
other senior diplomats were also ordered out, as the US expelled three Iraqi
diplomats from Washington.

The Iraqi orders were in direct response to this week's expulsion of its
military diplomats by EC countries, which followed the storming last weekend of
the French, Canadian, Dutch, and Belgian embassies in Kuwait by Iraqi troops.


The European diplomats have been told to leave Baghdad within seven days, in
what a French spokesman described as 'a new escalation' of the crisis. Already
there are signs of a new round of expulsions, with Spain and Egypt among those
openly considering fresh moves against Iraqi diplomats.

The US decision to expel Iraq's miltary attache and two other diplomats in
Washington 'comes as a result of the Iraqi government's expulsion of our
embassy's defence attache and two other diplomatic officers', the State
Department's spokeswoman, Margaret Tutwiler, said.

Yemen's President, Ali Abdullah Saleh, said yesterday that an air embargo
against Iraq would be an act of piracy, and his country would do its best to
make it fail.

President Bush said yesterday there was new evidence of Iraqi links to terrorist
groups, and warned Iraq that any support for terrorist actions 'would have
serious consequences'.

In a statement to congressional leaders, Mr Bush said he was concerned
specifically about three of the best known terrorist groups, the Abu Nidal
Organisation, the May 15 organisation, and the Palestine Liberation Front headed
by Abu Abbas, all of which are now based in Baghdad.

The US fears these groups are being held as a kind of reserve army by President
Saddam Hussein and, like the stockpiles of chemical weapons, could be deployed
in a crisis at Baghdad's will.

A White House spokesman later emphasised that there was no immediate information
about any specific terrorist threat, but 'there is a heightened level of
concern'.

After unscheduled talks in the Oval Office yesterday with the British Defence
Secretary, Tom King, Mr Bush spent an hour with congressional leaders, to issue
the warning on terrorism and ask for support for his Gulf policies.

In London, the Home Office announced new immigration rules which will bar new
Iraqi students from entering Britain. Existing students could continue to come
'for the time being', the Home Office said, though the total is expected to be
far fewer than the 340 Iraqis allowed to study in Britain last year.

In a separate announcement from Baghdad, the Iraqi authorities gave permission
for Indian air force planes to start direct flights between Basra in southern
Iraq and India to take home those of its nationals who have been trapped.
Another contingent of Britons who have been trapped in Iraq and Kuwait are
expected to fly into Gatwick during the weekend on an American-chartered
aircraft capable of carrying 400 passengers.

The EC Commission yesterday announced Pounds 5.5 million in emergency food aid
to Egypt to help it feed nationals returning from Kuwait.

It also issued proposals to strengthen the EC embargo on Iraq, on the grounds
that the existing rules, which were adopted soon after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait
in early August, needed to be toughened and made more complete in line with UN
decisions.

Under the proposals from Brussels, the embargo would be extended to cover all
non-financial services, such as transport, construction, engineering and
consulting, even if these are not linked to commercial transactions. Finally,
permitted pharmaceutical exports should exclude products which could be used
other than for purely medicinal purposes, and a surveillance system should be
put into place to monitor food and drugs sent to Iraq as humanitarian aid. The
commission's proposals are expected to be endorsed by EC members soon.

The first diplomats to be ordered out of Baghdad yesterday were from Britain,
France and Italy. Eleven French diplomats are being expelled and three Britons.
Britain still has 14 diplomats and eight support staff in Baghdad.

As part of the same package, Iraq has announced new restrictions on the
movements of all West European diplomats in Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 26, 1990, Wednesday

HELP BEAT THE TERRORISTS, TRAVELLERS URGED

BYLINE:  Trevor Mason, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 390 words


A campaign to tighten security at Britain's ports and airports was launched
today by Transport Secretary Cecil Parkinson.  He appealed for more public
vigilance to prevent terrorist attacks and said the Government was determined
that eventually all aircraft hold baggage would be searched.  A chief inspector
of transport security is to be appointed to oversee maritime and aviation
security arrangements.  Posters and stickers will appear at major UK airports
reminding passengers of security precautions which they can take before and
after checking in.  These include declaring electrical items, not checking in
bags for anyone else and never leaving cabin luggage unattended.  Provisions in
the Aviation And Maritime Security Act, which come into force today, make it an
offence to give false information about baggage contents.  Mr Parkinson said the
Government was determined to have a 100% search of aircraft hold baggage, but
there were still logistical problems to be overcome.

The new initiatives are the latest in a long series of security improvements
after the Lockerbie air disaster.  Mr Parkinson told a news conference in
London: "Governments are working together to do all they can to minimise the
threat of terrorisim at airports but there is much the travelling public can do
themselves to help thwart the terrorists and assist security staff in their
vital job.  "One obvious area is care over baggage, where a few simple
precautions will minimise delays and could save lives." He said he expected to
appoint a chief inspector of transport security shortly. The Department of
Transport would be developing security arrangements with the shipping companies
to mirror those already applying to airports and airlines.  Labour transport
spokesman John Prescott dismissed the changes as "a load of rhetoric and not
much substance." He said that to stop terrorists from placing bombs "requires
you to inspect every piece of luggage and to make sure the money is there
through a levy system to pay for that.  "The Government has set its face against
these two central requirements and, therefore, this is all about rhetoric and
not about substance." Mr Prescott said that only some 10% of luggage was
searched before being loaded onto British airliners, compared to much higher
figures of up to 100% on US aircraft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 27, 1990, Thursday

Parkinson in public appeal as air security is tightened

BYLINE: By Michael Horsnell

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 612 words


STEPS to tighten security at Britain's airports were taken yesterday as Scotland
prepared for the fatal accident enquiry into the Lockerbie air disaster.

Cecil Parkinson, the transport secretary, launched an awareness campaign to
coincide with the enforcement of new offences under the 1990 Aviation and
Maritime Security Act, which received royal assent in July. It is now a criminal
offence for passengers to give false information about baggage contents, with a
maximum fine of Pounds 2,000. A person who says that he packed his own suitcases
knowing that someone else had packed them could be prosecuted.

Mr Parkinson said that the government was also analysing proposals from airports
and airlines to introduce as soon as possible a comprehensive, fail-safe search
of aircraft-hold baggage, although he admitted that there were logistical
difficulties. He appealed for public vigilance to prevent terrorist attacks and
disclosed that a chief inspector of transport security was to be appointed to
oversee aviation, maritime, and Channel tunnel arrangements.

Vivid yellow posters and stickers appeared yesterday at UK airports reminding
passengers of precautions they should take. Those include declaring electrical
items, not checking-in bags for anyone else and never leaving cabin luggage
unattended.

The new security steps are the latest in a series of improvements since
Lockerbie. A fatal accident enquiry into the disaster, which is expected to
continue into next year, will begin at Dumfries on Monday.

Mr Parkinson said: ''Governments are working together to do all they can to
minimise the threat of terrorism at airports but there is much the travelling
public can do themselves to help thwart the terrorists and assist security staff
in their vital job.''

He said that he expected to appoint a chief inspector of transport security
shortly. The transport department would be developing security arrangements with
the shipping companies to mirror those already applying to airports and
airlines.

The Lockerbie disaster has already led to increased security for flights to the
United States, stricter control of access to airport staff, and improved baggage
security. ''Passenger profiling'' has been used to select for searches the
baggage of passengers with certain passports.

John Prescott, the Labour transport spokesman, dismissed the new measures. He
said that stopping terrorists from placing bombs required an inspection of every
piece of luggage, and a levy system should be introduced to pay for such
security.

''The government has set its face against these two central requirements and,
therefore, this is all about rhetoric and not about substance.'' Mr Prescott
said that only 10 per cent of luggage was searched before being loaded onto
British airliners, compared with much higher figures of up to 100 per cent for
US aircraft.

Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, the Lord Advocate, Scotland's senior law officer, said
yesterday that the Crown would not offer evidence concerning criminal
responsibility for the Lockerbie air disaster when the fatal accident enquiry
opens on Monday (Kerry Gill writes).

The Crown will, however, lead evidence in seven broad areas, including passenger
and baggage handling at Heathrow before the Pan Am Jumbo took off and relevant
security arrangements in force at the airport.

Other areas in which evidence will be heard are the airworthiness of the
aircraft, air traffic control, the response by police and emergency services and
the recovery of bodies and their identification and examination before release
to relatives. The enquiry is expected to be the most lengthy fatal accident
hearing held.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 1990, Saturday

IRA Attacks: Withdrawal may be dangerous step into unknown

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 665 words


THE SECOND part of the interview concentrated on the IRA's scenario for a
British withdrawal. This subject is necessarily highly conjectural since, to
begin with, there is no consensus on why Britain remains in Ireland.

Various factors have been suggested, including, in no particular order: a belief
in the union; sheer imperialism; loyalty to the people of Northern Ireland, in
particular the Unionist population; an unwillingness to confront the possibility
of a loyalist backlash; a desire not to give in to terrorism; a belief that
Northern Ireland has an internationally strategic significance; a desire to keep
the island of Ireland under British economic dominance; and a fear that
withdrawal would lead to a bloodbath.

It may be assumed that the last- mentioned is one of the main considerations. A
departure which led to a civil war would mean international condemnation of
Britain and an uncertain outcome.

A British government considering withdrawal would, therefore, wish to leave a
stable administration behind so that its departure would not lead to a
conflagration.

The key question - which is probably unanswerable - is how the Unionist
population would react. As a community it has little tradition of negotiation
and a long history of placing faith in military methods. Unionists make up most
of the 20,000 members of the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Ulster Defence
Regiment, the 38,000 former UDR members and the approximately 12,000 others in
security-related jobs. They control most of Northern Ireland's 126,000 legally
held firearms.

The IRA proposal is for Britain to disarm the RUC and UDR before leaving. They
say that in the circumstances, Unionists would conclude resistance to Irish
unity was pointless, and for the first time would feel they had no option but to
negotiate with nationalists.

This analysis is rejected by leaders of constitutional Irish nationalism. But it
is accepted, in detail or in principle, by thousands of IRA members and
supporters and is thus important in sustaining the organisation in its violence.

The opposite view was put by John Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and
Labour Party, in an exchange of views with Sinn Fein two years ago. He said:
''Each section of the community would seize its own territory and we would have
a Cyprus/Lebanon style formula for permanent division and bloodshed.

''Is it not likely and natural, in the emotionally charged atmosphere that would
obtain and in the absence of any acknowledged authority, that the 20,000 armed
members of the RUC and UDR would simply identify with the community from which
most of them come and become its military defenders? Is the risk involved in
such a military policy not an awesome one and likely to ensure that the peace
and unity of Ireland will never come?''

Mr Hume's view has been echoed from the Republic by Dr Garret FitzGerald, the
former Taoiseach. He wrote of the prospects of such a breakdown of order
following a withdrawal: ''No one can say with certainty that this is what would
happen, but the danger is seen by most of us as sufficiently grave - the loss of
life that might take place could be on a far greater scale than anything that
has happened hitherto, or is likely to happen for many years ahead and the
situation left by a re-partition would be far worse and less capable of ultimate
resolution than the present situation - to preclude taking this risk.''

The IRA argues that Ireland with British presence will always suffer from
violence. Most people will accept that, for the foreseeable future, the IRA will
have the capacity to fulfil that prophecy. The counter-argument is that Northern
Ireland would dissolve into something like Beirut, without a central authority.
The IRA can argue that this would not happen, but it cannot guarantee it.

Britain is faced with a balance of instabilities. The price of staying may carry
the penalty of violence, but the cost of going may in the end be much higher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 1990, Saturday

IRA Attacks: Security forces take threats of more violence seriously

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 652 words


SECURITY SOURCES are in no doubt that the IRA's threats to step up its campaign
of violence

in Britain are more than empty rhetoric.

Intelligence assessments that the organisation now represents a greater menace
than at any time in the past two decades have been borne out a by a string of
attacks such as those on Ian Gow, Sir Peter Terry and, this week, the conference
in London on international terrorism.

The Army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary believe the IRA when they say they
have the means to continue their campaign of violence both in Northern Ireland,
Great Britain and continental Europe. Like the terrorists, the security forces
are committing themselves for a long haul.

The Libyan regime of Colonel Gaddafi is thought to have stopped supplying the
IRA. But the shipments in the mid-1980s have given the organisation a huge stock
of weaponry and explosives, including some very heavy guns and an excess of
automatic rifles. The IRA has enough guns to sustain it for a decade or more.
There is also no real sign of any shortage of recruits, nor of any lack of
volunteers willing to operate in England and risk very long jail sentences in
the most hostile of prison conditions. Government attempts to squeeze its
finances have so far met with, at best, partial success.

In other words the terrorists have, over two grim decades, managed to construct
a self-perpetuating and ruthlessly efficient killing machine.

At the moment the IRA must consider that its shift in emphasis away from
Northern Ireland towards Britain and Europe has paid dividends in terms of
securing the attention of British politicians and public. The fact that the
Ministry of Defence is spending an extra pounds 126m on protecting military
bases in Britain and West Germany is a telling indicator of the level of
official concern.

The security forces have yet to penetrate the structure of those carrying out
attacks in England, though it must be assumed that more and more resources will
be put into doing so. No one is in any doubt that the IRA will try to step up
the present level of attacks.

The picture is very different in Northern Ireland, where the security forces
have had a number of striking successes this year, particularly in Belfast.

The IRA spokesman's blunt dismissal of any possibility of a ceasefire will come
as no surprise to the security forces, who have been aware for some time that
such a move was not in prospect. The impression remains that republicans went
through a period of introspection following the 20th anniversary of the
beginning of the troubles, but there is no real indication that any of the
internal IRA-Sinn Fein debates ever focused on the possibility of an end to the
violence.

For the IRA, the choice is stark. Continuing the campaign keeps alive, in the
minds of its leaders, the possibility that Britain will one day give up,
prompted perhaps by some change of political circumstance or by an IRA action of
particular enormity. Stopping the violence, to their minds, would be an abject
surrender, throwing away any gains made over the years and condemning a future
generation of Irish republicans to start their fight all over again.

Furthermore, the existence of the Libyan-supplied armoury has its own
imperative: to give up now, while so well-equipped, would earn them a place of
infamy in the republican annals. In the meantime, in their carefully constructed
theory, their supporters need not feel discouraged by the absence of any
indicators of impending British withdrawal. They affect indifference to the lack
of such signs, citing the analogies of Vietnam and Afghanistan. They believe
they will one day hit the jackpot: that the fruit machine will, after many
unsuccessful tries, suddenly and without warning disgorge its prize. The
argument also absolves the IRA from having to provide its supporters with
evidence that it is making headway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 1990, Saturday

The men of war promise third violent decade; Recent terrorist attacks in Britain
have shown the IRA's ability to strike at the heart of the British
Establishment. A leading IRA military strategist delivers a chilling critique of
their tactics. David McKittrick reports

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 2138 words


THE QUESTION about the murder of Ian Gow and the attempted killing of Sir Peter
Terry drew a barely perceptible shrug from the representative of the IRA's
''general headquarters staff''. He replied: ''The grief of Mrs Gow is no
different from the grief of families of IRA volunteers who are killed.

''The suffering of the Terry family is no different from the suffering of the
McCann or Savage or Farrell families IRA members killed by the SAS in Gibraltar
. But it is wrong to personalise this conflict. We are at war with a coalition
of interests. Ian Gow was an integral part of that coalition.

''I'm not going to get into a discussion of the specific criteria for targets.
To do so would only aid the British to develop counter- measures. We want to
stretch the enemy, both materially and in terms of their nerves.''

The main points he wanted to project in the lengthy interview were clearly that
the IRA had both the means and the stamina to continue its violence into a third
decade. The impression came across that the organisation was pleased with the
campaign in Britain. ''The war which Britain wages in Ireland has inflicted a
very heavy price on all sections of our people,'' he said. ''The IRA have quite
forcibly told the British, the British Establishment, those who legislate for
the war in Ireland, that they too will have to pay a price.

''It's our intention, and we have the means, to continue to exact that price
from the British Establishment. We will increasingly bring the war to the
attention of the British public, and to the doorsteps of those who sustain the
conflict. And their lifestyles will not stand the strain that our lifestyles do,
for we have nothing.

''When one hears Tory MPs having to repeat 17 times that the IRA are not going
to rattle them, it's easy to see that they are hollow words. They are rattled,
and so long as they persist with their illogical and illegal claim to Ireland,
we will not only continue to rattle them but will rattle them harder.''

The words of menace were delivered in a flat, near-monotone, the words of
someone for whom death has become a way of life as he calmly described the
thinking behind the IRA's killing patterns. ''The strategy of waging war is also
directly linked to the British desire to Ulsterise the conflict.

''We are quite aware that the perception in England, when an RUC man is killed,
is: 'There are the Paddies fighting each other again'. The RUC and UDR are
important parts of the war machine and we must, therefore, wage war against
those forces. But it has been our aim for a number of years, whilst not limiting
the scope of our operations, to concentrate our efforts on British military
personnel.''

For more than a year some newspapers have been speculating about the possibility
of an IRA ceasefire, and the IRA spokesman clearly wished to make a definitive
statement on the issue. ''It's a tired old subject and it's one that comes up
with predictable regularity. But the only debate within the IRA is on how best
to prosecute the war against the British.

''We can state absolutely, on the record, that there will be no ceasefire, no
truce, no cessation of violence short of a British withdrawal. That, as blunt as
that, is our position. Having said that, should the British Government at any
stage genuinely seek dialogue, then we are more than willing to engage in
dialogue with them.

''The principal aim of the armed struggle is to sap the will of the British
Government to remain in Ireland - to impress upon them that, sooner or later,
they will come to accept the futility of their armed campaign, and will grant
the internationally recognised right of self-determination to the Irish
people.''

But where, after two decades of terrorism and death, was the evidence that
Britain had been brought any closer to withdrawal? ''There is no specific
evidence to demonstrate that the campaign, in Britain or elsewhere, has brought
tangible evidence of withdrawal. But there is the irrefutable case that, 21
years into this conflict, the British are fast running out of solutions. There
is only one solution that they haven't tried, and that's disengagement. When
things begin to move, they move fairly rapidly. What evidence was there in
Afghanistan, even a few months before Mikhail Gorbachev took the troops out,
that it was going to happen - the Russians were increasing the tank and
helicopter patrols around Kabul just a short time before.

''There was a similar situation in Vietnam with the Americans. I think a
reassessment under Margaret Thatcher would have been fairly unlikely; but then
anyone can be brought fairly quickly to deal with political realities, just as
FW de Klerk was.

''A few years ago she was condemning the ANC and Umkhonto we Sizwe its military
wing in the most strident terms. But then there was the spectacle of her almost
falling over herself to meet Mandela. That showed very clearly that there is no
such thing as an absolute in politics. You should never take at face value what
British politicians say. History has taught that.

''In personal terms she has obviously suffered quite a lot since 1984, and I
don't think she's all that rational in dealing with IRA operations. She was
almost killed, and I think that our words after Brighton still haunt her -
'Today we were unlucky. But remember, we only have to be lucky once. You will
have to be lucky always'.

''At her age you should be looking forward to retirement, sitting back on her
laurels. It'll be very hard to enjoy your retirement with a permanent
bodyguard.''

Was the IRA looking forward to the election of a Labour government with a policy
of aiming for Irish unity by consent? Another shrug: ''I think Gerald Kaufman,
throughout the present American and British intervention in the Middle East, has
shown he's every bit as much on the military bandwagon as any Tory.

''As far as Ireland goes, bipartisanship is still the order of the day: the
policies of the parliamentary Labour Party are a fudge. I don't see that either
a Labour or Tory party in power makes any difference to the British
determination to remain in Ireland. I think that determination is only as strong
as the politicians' ability to repress the demand for withdrawal in England, and
to keep a lid on their war in Ireland through censorship, media manipulation and
naked propaganda.

''There isn't a very strong consensus on remaining in Ireland. It's a fairly
fragile one, and it exercises the minds of the British Establishment to keep
that consensus intact. Every time an IRA bomb explodes in Hampshire, or any time
the IRA comes within a hair's breadth of wiping out the British Cabinet, the
cracks in that consensus appear.

''We immediately have Robert Maxwell weighing in with an editorial calling for
withdrawal; Peregrine Worsthorne saying we should be put outside the pale;
Churchill-Coleman Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist
Squad calling for another security review, and howls from the backbenchers for
more direct action against the IRA. They show the level of desperation that is
there.''

And what of the efforts of Peter Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, to open a new round of political talks? ''I think what he is about
there is attempting to give a positive side to British strategy. The most
hopeful scenario for Peter Brooke is that he involves the SDLP in a public
endorsement of British military policy. I believe he is engaged in illusions, in
selling the idea that Britain has a solution. All he's doing is perpetuating the
agony. There is no incentive for Unionists to shift their position while Britain
remains.

''After partition in 1921 , the British simply failed to take any meaningful
interest in Ireland. And when the cesspit erupted in 1969 it was almost
inevitable that they would be sucked into the conflict, that they would have to
prop up the Orange state.

''The argument could be made that there has never been a cohesive British policy
in Ireland in 20 years. They have stumbled from crisis to crisis: they have
never had the political will to face the problem. There is a very clear military
policy - for repression and for smashing the resistance of the Irish to British
rule. But they haven't thought beyond that. The only political policy they have
pursued consistently is stabilisation and containment.''

But if Britain's concern is with stability, how could it contemplate the
potentially totally unstable situation which withdrawal might create? Many
analysts, after all, have argued that a pull-out would, or could, lead to a
breakdown of order and new conflict on an unprecedented scale. ''I can accept
what you're saying. The dilemma which faces the British is a very real one. I
can accept that. But what they have to realise is that if they don't disengage,
then their aim of stability is also defeated. They need to realise that the
quest for stability in the six counties of Northern Ireland is futile. Their
presence is the catalyst for instability.''

And what of the possibility that the Unionist community, or a large part of it,
would opt to fight rather than negotiate their way into a united Ireland?

''What are the Unionists going to fight for? Are they going to fight to bring
the British back? The dynamic for violence within the Unionist community stems
directly from the British presence. The British must work hard to convince the
Unionists: they must have the will to lance the Orange boil. The Unionists
cannot exercise a veto over democracy in Ireland.''

So, the IRA hoped Unionists would one day realise they were Irish. How did he
feel, in the meantime, about the organisation killing so many Unionists who were
members of the UDR and RUC? ''Those people who join a part of the British war
machine, be it RUC or UDR, are an integral part of the British war machine. I
don't think people in Britain during the Second World War would have had any
qualms about killing English people who went to fight for the Waffen-SS.

''I understand that the awfulness of this conflict means that for generations to
come there will be bitterness. The Unionists, too, are victims of partition.
There are Protestant families in Tyrone who have had six in one family killed. I
understand that they will remain bitter for a long time: they will probably
never fully integrate into a unitary Irish state.

''But I think Protestants will gain because they will cease to be victims of the
British presence. They wouldn't be shackled and tied any more. I can't see that
as losing. I see that as liberation. An irrevocable declaration of intent to
withdraw, within a fixed timetable, would inject a dose of reality into the
situation. In one fell swoop it would remove the biggest problem in Ireland,
which is the British presence. The removal of the British presence would force
the Unionist people to enter into meaningful negotiations.''

But Britain, he said, would be expected not just to desert but to disarm the
Unionists. ''Part and parcel of the demand for withdrawal is the disbandment and
disarming of the British forces in Ireland, which includes the UDR and RUC.
These partisan militias are unacceptable.''

But would not the departure of the Army and the disbandment of the UDR and RUC
mean that the two armed groups left would be the IRA and any privately-armed
loyalists? A pause, and then: ''Because the principal responsibility for the
conflict lies with Britain, they must take steps to begin a process of
convincing the Unionists that they're going. How they do that, that ball lies in
their court. The dilemma facing them is huge, but it isn't insurmountable.''

But how would the average Protestant UDR man feel and react, having been
abandoned by the British Army, disarmed, and left at the mercy of those who have
killed so many of his colleagues and co-religionists?

''The UDR man's feelings don't come into it. If the British have the will to
break the loyalist veto, then they take the practical steps necessary. Once the
UDR is disbanded, the UDR man becomes simply another member of the community.
His interests in the island of Ireland will be represented by the person for
whom he votes.

''It's for an all-Ireland conference to give guarantees to convince Unionists .
. .to accept the political reality that Britain has gone. Unionists have to come
to realise that they share this island with the rest of us, and it is in their
interests to work out structures which guarantee the rights of all the children
of the nation.

''There is no community which seeks conflict when negotiation is possible: I
think that holds true generally, and it holds true for the Unionist community.
We are offering to Unionists and Protestants the first chance, in Ireland's long
tortured history, of genuine and lasting peace.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 1, 1990, Monday

Police chief warns against bomb panic

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 253 words


(First Edition)

THE IRA's bombing campaign in Britain will be beaten by painstaking police work,
with help from the public, the head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad,
Commander George Churchill-Coleman said yesterday.

Each IRA attack was providing more forensic evidence and he was confident
straightforward police work would lead to arrests.

Mr Churchill-Coleman was speaking after police efforts were criticised in the
light of the IRA attempt to bomb a conference on terrorism in London.

''We must keep things on an even keel. The IRA may like people to believe they
can strike at will, but that is not true,'' he said.

Those who demanded instant results against the IRA ''risked leading the country
towards draconian, police state measures'', and that such pressure could result
in miscarriages of justice.

The discovery of the bomb at the Royal Overseas League building last week had
been seen as a humiliating bungle, he said. But it ought to be regarded as a
success. It was a member of the conference security staff who identified the
device, and a further sweep of the building was due to take place.

He said: ''The IRA want us to over-react and to panic. But with professional
policing and the help of the public, this campaign will be defeated. We
understand there is a lot of frustration and that people are asking what the
police are doing. But we've got to keep a measured view.

''It's all very well to adopt draconian measures, but what do we move to, some
sort of police state?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 3, 1990, Wednesday

Gow murder case police question two Irishmen

BYLINE: By NICK COHEN, TERRY KIRBY and IAN MACKINNON

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 492 words


TWO IRISHMEN were being questioned last night under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act by detectives investigating the murder of Ian Gow. They were seized by armed
police at Stonehenge yesterday afternoon.

Three others, two men and a woman, were interviewed after officers with
revolvers, backed by detectives in a helicopter, moved into the car park across
the road from the Wiltshire monument. Detectives may have eliminated the three
from their inquiries by this morning.

The two Irishmen were in a blue Ford Sierra. Detectives have been hunting for a
car of that model and colour after Mr Gow, Conservative MP for Eastbourne, was
killed in an explosion on 30 July. There has been a nationwide police alert for
two weeks, from the Anti-Terrorist Branch, asking officers to find the car.

They believe a blue Sierra may have been connected with an IRA cell in the South
of England which is involved in the British bombing campaign. Last night
officers were unable to say whether the Wiltshire car was that vehicle.

Wiltshire police said two officers on patrol became suspicious when they saw a
car with two men inside at Stonehenge at 2.30pm yesterday. An armed operation
was triggered, which included the rounding up and busing out of tourists in the
car park. The area around the stones was sealed off at about 5pm.

The suspects were separated and taken to police stations in Devizes, Salisbury
and Amesbury. Last night the two Irishmen were moved to Paddington Green high-
security police station in London. They gave their names, but no other
information.

The cars were being examined by forensic scientists, but an initial search
uncovered no firearms or explosives.

Senior police sources said that a number of recent IRA incidents, including the
Gow murder, the attack on former Northern Ireland Commander Sir Anthony
Farrar-Hockley, and the bomb last week at the Royal Over-Seas League, have been
thought to be the work of one IRA unit.

Wiltshire police officers said privately that the operation involved about 20
police cars and vans, some unmarked. The officers said that they had been
looking for a blue Sierra for two weeks and it had been sighted several times.
They had been warned not to approach its occupants. Yesterday's operation was
supported by Hampshire and Thames Valley police.

Salisbury Plain is one of the main military exercise areas in Britain and
contains many potential targets. There are army and RAF bases at Bulford,
Larkhill Tidworth and Boscombe Down. The Porton Down research establishment,
which examines chemical and biological weapons, is seven miles from Stonehenge.

Police have been seeking a breakthrough since the IRA began its latest bombing
campaign in Britain in August 1988. In 23 attacks, the terrorists targeted soft
military bases, the Royal Marine band barracks at Deal, where 11 men were
killed, establishment symbols such as the Stock Exchange, and politicians and
civil servants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           October 3, 1990, Wednesday

Five arrested in Gow murder enquiry swoop

BYLINE: By Quentin Cowdry and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 615 words


ARMED police arrested five people in Wiltshire yesterday in the hunt for the IRA
terrorists that have been operating in mainland Britain for the past two years.

Last night two Irishmen were being held at the top security Paddington Green
police station, west London, under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. The other
three, two men and a woman, were questioned but not expected to be detained. It
is understood the two being held in London were being questioned about a series
of recent IRA attacks, including the one that killed Ian Gow, the Tory MP, in
July.

The arrests, the culmination of a police operation organised by Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, came after armed police surrounded three vehicles in a
car park at Stonehenge, Wiltshire. One of the cars, containing two Irishmen, was
a blue Ford Sierra. A similar car was seen near Mr Gow's Sussex home on the day
he died in a car bombing and its description had been circulated to all police
forces by the anti-terrorist squad.

No weapons or explosives were found. The Irishmen are said to have given police
their identities but revealed nothing futher.

The arrests could be a breakthrough for the police in their efforts to curtail
an IRA campaign on the mainland which has been running for 26 months, involved
more than 20 attacks and caused the death of more than a dozen people. The
Stonehenge operation came on the day when a committee of chief constables and
senior commanders met in Lancashire to debate police strategy against the
terrorists.

Yesterday's operation, code-named ''Trojan'', involved officers from Wiltshire,
Hampshire and Thames Valley police. The main A303 Exeter-London road which
skirts Stonehenge was closed for some time as police moved in on the cars while
a helicopter hovered overhead.

Wiltshire police, the main force involved, said little about the incident other
than that a number of arrests had been made and those in custody had initially
been held at police stations in the county. Inspector Graham Chivers, Wiltshire
police press officer, would not confirm that a surveillance operation had been
mounted. He said: ''There are a number of security operations in the county and
there are always a number of armed police officers in Wiltshire.''

There is a heavy concentration of military bases in the area, including
Larkhill, Bulford and Tidworth. The headquarters of UK Land Forces is located
seven miles away at Wilton near Salisbury.

Police were to begin a meticulous search of the area surrounding the monument
early today and English Heritage, which manages Stonehenge, said the site could
remain closed for the whole day.

IRA attacks this year have included:

September 17: Royal Green Jackets Sergeant Bernard Cox shot three times with
handgun in his car outside army careers office in

the heart of Mrs Thatcher's Finchley constituency by IRA assassin who escaped on
a motorbike.

September 10: Bomb exploded on roof of army and navy recruiting office in centre
of Derby; no casualties.

August 6: Bungled assassination attempt on Lord Armstrong, former Cabinet
Secretary. Bomb planted under car at his former home in London.

July 20: Bomb exploded at Stock Exchange in City after eight telephone warnings
by man claiming to be from IRA; no one injured.

June 25: Time-bomb went off inside hallway of Carlton club, St James's, in
London's West End, injuring more than20.

June 21: Bomb hidden in a rucksack exploded at RAF Stanmore Park, northwest
London; no one hurt.

June 1: IRA killers shot dead an unarmed soldier and wounded two others at
Lichfield station, Staffordshire.

May 16: Car bomb killed Army recruiting sergeant in Wembley, northwest London.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 9, 1990

Lockerbie bodies not identified

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 443 words


TWO of the bodies recovered after the Lockerbie air disaster were never formally
identified, an inquiry heard yesterday. They were interred with other victims at
a Church of Scotland service near the village.

Two hundred and seventy people died when a terrorist bomb exploded aboard Pan Am
Flight 103 in December 1988.


Seventeen bodies were never recovered. These included passengers and 11
villagers vaporised by a fireball of aviation fuel when the wings of the jumbo
jet, fully laden with fuel for the transatlantic flight, crashed on Lockerbie. A
symbolic service was later held for them at the church in Dryfesdale.

The magnitude of the disaster was detailed by John Boyd, HM Inspector of
Constabulary for Scotland, who was Chief Constable of Dumfriesshire and Galloway
when the bombing happened on December 21, 1988.

'No exercise devised by any planning team . . . could have envisaged the scale
and complexities of the events surrounding the Lockerbie air disaster in terms
of the trauma experienced by the relatives of the victims, the carnage which
faced the professional and voluntary services . . . and the wide scale
destruction to parts of the town of Lockerbie,' he told the fatal accident
inquiry in Dumfries.

His police force, the smallest in Britain, was suddenly confronted with 'the
largest multi-murder inquiry in the United Kingdom'.

Debris from Pan Am's Maid of the Seas was to be recovered over 845 square miles.
Much of it was carried by strong winds when the bomb exploded at 31,000 feet.

Mr Boyd called military and police assistance from other areas. 'We were working
in darkness, and on the longest night of the year,' he said, recalling the start
of the search operation for bodies and debris over a vast area including
farmland, moors, and forests which crossed into Cumbria and Northumberland.

People of 21 nationalities were aboard Flight 103, and as the news of the
disaster broke 2,500 telephone calls overwhelmed the Lockerbie exchange.

At first the damage to houses at Lockerbie made it impossible to assess how many
people had died there. More than 2,000 police, RAF and army personnel, American
investigators, and members of volunteer organisations took part in a search for
clues to the bombing.

Mr Boyd was questioned by the Lord Advocate, Lord Fraser QC, about the warning
received by the American Embassy in Helsinki on December 5, 1988, of an
impending terrorist attack on an American aircraft. Mr Boyd said he sent
detectives to Finland to investigate.

'It was found that there was no evidence to connect the Helsinki warning to
Lockerbie.'

The inquiry continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 1990

Dead terrorist gunman linked to double shooting in Holland

LENGTH: 567 words


THE fingerprints of IRA gunman Desmond Grew, who was buried yesterday, were
found at a terrorist hideout in the Hague, it was revealed in a Dutch court.

The hideout was used by an IRA team accused of murdering two Australian tourists
in May, Huber Lauman, a public prosecutor, told the court in Roermond.


Mr Lauman was applying successfully for Sean Hick, aged 30, and Gerard Harte,
26, to be held in prison until November 27. He told the remand hearing, held
amid tight security yesterday, that he needed more time to complete the complex
investigation, involving Germany, Britain and Belgium.

He said Grew's fingerprints had been found on furniture, fittings and weapons in
the apartment which, say police, was a base for an IRA cell attacking British
targets in northern Europe.

Mr Lauman also claimed that Grew had helped to find the apartment. He had
introduced Mr Hick to a Dutch woman in whose name Mr Hick rented the apartment.
The woman was not a suspect in the case.

The Australian tourists, Stephen Melrose and Nick Spanos, were shot by the IRA
in Roermond after being mistaken for British soldiers. They were travelling in a
British-registered car. The IRA admitted responsibility for the shootings and
apologised.

Lawyers for Mr Harte and Mr Hick said there was no hard evidence to connect them
to the killings.

Another man, Paul Hughes, aged 26, is on remand after being arrested in
connection with the shootings. The three were arrested in a cross-border manhunt
by Dutch and Belgian police a month after the shootings. They are being charged
with murder and membership of a criminal organisation.

A fourth suspect, Donna Maguire, is being held in a Belgian jail pending a
decision on Dutch and German extradition requests.

Mr Harte's lawyer, Marie-Jean Hagerman, said her client should be released
because his fingerprints had not been found on the weapon used to shoot the two
Australians. But, she added, if he had to be detained in prison, he should be
put under a less severe regime, with contact with other prisoners. He had lost
48lbs in weight.

Mr Harte asked the court to end his solitary confinement and allow him to speak
to other prisoners. Terrorism suspects are routinely held in complete isolation
in Holland. 'I have had contact with other prisoners before and nothing ever
happened to me,' he said.

Mr Lauman said that to grant such a request would cause problems with other
prisoners. He disclosed that Miss Maguire had been injured by other prisoners
because of a less severe prison regime.

Police say Harte's fingerprints were found in a rented car believed to have been
used during preparations for the attack, along with small traces of Semtex, a
Czechoslovakian-made explosive often used by the IRA.

Mr Hick's lawyer, Ruud Bom, also asked the court to free his client for lack of
evidence. He said that if Grew's fingerprints had been found, it was a pity he
was dead because he could have been called as a prosecution witness in the case.

Mr Lauman told the court that the names of Gerard Harte, Paul Hughes, and Donna
Maguire appeared in an Irish Republican magazine listing 'prisoners of war'.

He produced the August issue of a magazine he named as Armed Struggle,
containing a review of IRA operations between October 1988 and June 1990 and an
appeal for sympathisers to write to prisoners of war.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           October 18, 1990, Thursday

SYRIA FAILS TO PRESSURE BRITAIN ON HOSTAGES RELEASE

BYLINE:  James Hardy, Press Association Lobby Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 731 words


Britain reacted coolly tonight to Syrian pressure for a resumption of diplomatic
relations before they can make any "serious" efforts to release hostages in
Beirut.  A Foreign Office spokesman in London said the Government recognised
that Syria had a crucial role to play in negotiating the release of hostages,
but said obstacles still remained to prevent London and Damascus resuming
diplomatic ties.  The British Government has for some time insisted that
President Assad of Syria must renounce international terrorism, a stand which
has become a sticking point between the two countries.  Another major block to
any exchange of ambassadors is the judicial inquiry into the Lockerbie jet
disaster.  The American Embassy in Damascus is believed to have handed over to
the Syrian authorities the conclusion of Lockerbie investigators that a
Syrian-based terrorist group carried out the bomb attack.  Britain cut off ties
with Syria in 1987 after accusing Damascus of involvement in a plot to bomb an
Israeli plane leaving from London.  Pressure for renewed Anglo-Syrian diplomatic
relations therefore dashes hopes of an early release of Terry Waite, John
McCarthy and Jackie Mann - just one week after Syria promised a hostage release
could be imminent.  But Foreign Minister Farouk Al-Sharaa warned: "Those who are
keeping the hostages, even if we exerted a lot of effort, know there is no
diplomatic relations between Syria and Britain.  "That is why they would not
deliver. When they know there are diplomatic relations, they will take more
seriously our efforts." Mr Al-Sharaa told British journalists today: "We are not
putting any conditions because diplomatic relations between any two countries
are good for both. It is not a one-sided interest." He said that if there was
any evidence that those behind terrorist acts, including the Lockerbie bombing,
were living in Syria or using Syrian territory, "then the Syrian authorities are
ready to bring them to justice".  The Foreign Office declined to go into detail
about Mr Al-Sharaa's comments, confining itself to issuing a short statement.
This recognised Syria as a major regional power with an important role to play
in Middle East issues. It is known that Syria has good ties with Iran and played
a key role in the release of several western hostages, including Brian Keenan.
The statement read: "We have welcomed the Syrian contribution to the
international force in the Gulf and we have consistently made it clear our wish
to normalise relations with Syria, but there are unresolved problems.  "Syrian
assistance in the release of United Kingdom hostages in Lebanon would
undoubtedly have a positive effect."

Tom McMullan, Press Association Diplomatic Correspondent, writes from Athens:
Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd told a news conference here tonight: "We would
appreciate anything the Syrians can do to facilitate the release of British
hostages held by the Hizbollah." But he said relations were broken four years
ago over a very serious incident. "There is an obstacle there which is yet to be
removed. It is important that it should be removed."

The Iranian Foreign Minister is due in Damascus for talks in the next few days
and Tehran is seen by western diplomats in Damascus as the "catalyst" for the
hostage release process.  But western diplomatic sources today cautioned that it
would be wrong to assume that the Tehran envoy's forthcoming visit indicated
that an early release was likely.  The Foreign Office in London is unlikely to
be able to offer Damascus an exchange of ambassadors with the judicial inquiry
into the Lockerbie jet disaster under way.  The American Embassy in Damascus is
believed to have handed over to the Syrian authorities the conclusion of
Lockerbie investigators that a Syrian-based terrorist group carried out the
attack.  Mr Al-Sharaa said that if there was any evidence that those behind any
terrorist act, such as the Lockerbie bombing, were living in Syria or using
Syrian territory, "then the Syrian authorities are ready to bring them to
justice".  He disclosed that Syria had made particular efforts to secure the
release of one British hostage, whom he declined to name.  "That is why we
secured the release of Brian Keenan. The kidnappers were under the
misapprehension that he was British, but we were able to point out that he was
an Irish citizen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 28, 1990, Sunday

Name of bombs chief is known

BYLINE: by Liam Clarke, Belfast

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 398 words


SECURITY sources believe that the IRA human bomb attacks which killed seven
people this week were co-ordinated by Sean ''Spike'' Murray, a convicted bomber
from Belfast. They suspect the attacks were sanctioned by Martin McGuinness, the
vice-president of Sinn Fein and a former IRA chief of staff.

McGuinness was convicted of IRA membership in 1973 after he told a Dublin court
that he was proud to have been a commander of the Provisional IRA in Derry for
two years. Murray was given a 12-year sentence in 1982 after being caught
ferrying two beer-keg bombs to Belfast. Both men are leading figures in the
IRA's northern command, the body responsible for controlling the terrorist
campaign in Ulster.

In recent months the northern command has promoted the escalation of violence,
using such tactics as city-centre assassinations, sectarian murders and
incendiary bombs in shops. The decision to force civilians who work for the
security forces to act as suicide bombers ends the debate between those who
advocate a combination of politics and violence, and those who want unrestricted
terrorism.

McGuinness has long been a prominent spokesman for the IRA and Sinn Fein, and
has repeatedly defended terrorist attacks on civilians who provide services for
the security forces. He has argued that people such as cleaners and mechanics at
police and army bases are legitimate targets because they free soldiers for
patrolling and surveillance duties.

Last week, after the human bomb incidents, McGuinness said: ''Republicans want
to see an end to a conflict which has claimed so many lives.'' Yet a statement
issued by the IRA, which he is thought to have approved after the bombings,
stated: ''Until the British government ends its futile war in Ireland, attacks
such as this morning's will continue.''

Security sources are convinced that the severity of last week's attacks
indicates increasing fear on the part of the IRA that, without dramatic action,
its campaign might fail. A Loyalist sectarian murder on Friday night brought the
number of killings in Northern Ireland this year to 63, one more than the total
for 1989. In the past month alone 20 have died.

The objective of the new tactics is to raise the Provisionals' profile
regardless of the cost in terms of votes for Sinn Fein, their political wing,
and to force Britain to enter into negotiations with the IRA.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  IRA human bomb attacks

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 30, 1990

Education: Moves to put safety first - The complex issues of safety and security
have dominated debate about the channel Tunnel since work on it began

LENGTH: 616 words


LAST Wednesday, Dover magistrates committed the five British firms building the
Channel Tunnel - Balfour Beatty Construction Ltd, Costain Civil Engineering Ltd,
Tarmac Construction Ltd, Taylor Woodrow Construction Ltd and Wimpey Major
Projects Ltd - for Crown Court trial. Each is charged with failing to discharge
its duty under the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. The governmental body,
the Health and Safety Executive, is prosecuting the firms following
investigations into the death of construction worker Gary Woodward, 32, a
Sheffield miner killed in the tunnel a year ago.

In July this year Charlie McCourt, an electrician, died while repairing a
high-voltage cable in the Channel Tunnel. He left behind a wife and three
children. Mr McCourt was the seventh worker to be killed on the English side of
the tunnel. These deaths have alarmed safety groups. The Health and Safety
Executive has claimed that there is an 'inadequate safety culture'. The union
that represents building workers, UCATT (Union of Construction, Allied Trades
and Technicians), argues that Britain's laws should be toughened up to bring
them in line with the United States. In the US, companies can be charged with
the manslaughter of their employees or of members of the public


In Britain, the first cases of manslaughter charges to be brought against a
company failed in the Old Bailey two weeks ago. The judge directed the jury to
acquit P&O European Ferries (Dover) on the charges, which related to the
Zeebrugge disaster in 1987, in which 192 people died.

On the French side of the tunnel there have been two deaths. Once the tunnel has
been opened, safety will continue to be a political issue. Some critics claim
there is a threat of major fire or terrorist attacks.

The British Safety Council and the Brigades Union criticise Eurotunnel's
decision to allow passengers to remain with their cars during the 34-minute
journey through the tunnel. Fires could start, they say, if people ignore the
rules and smoke in their cars, or if they run their car engines to keep warm.

Eurotunnel insists that if a fire were to break out, it would be contained
within one carriage of the shuttle. Passengers would then be evacuated into the
central service tunnel.

The Channel Tunnel would make an obvious target for terrorists, because it is so
vulnerable. Eurotunnel's critics fear that terrorists will be able to carry
explosives into the tunnel more easily than on to planes. They say that there
will be such pressure to carry passengers quickly from Paris to London - to
compete with air travel - that there will be little time for thorough security
checks.

Dr John Adams, of University College, London, predicts that it will be difficult
for security officers to check every vehicle. But a spokeswoman for Eurotunnel
says that the company's security plans have been approved by a special panel of
officials from both Britain and France.

The other potential killer which is worrying experts is rabies, a viral
infection which is carried by dogs, cats, foxes, rats and bats. Humans can catch
the disease if they are bitten by an infected animal. Vaccinations are available
to protect against the disease, but if no treatment is taken until symptoms of
rabies appear, death is inevitable.

Since 1902 rabies has been eradicated from the British Isles. To prevent it
re-entering the country, Eurotunnel will isolate domestic animals in quarantine
for six months to check that they are not carriers.

Stray and wild animals will be kept out of the tunnel with animal-proof fences,
wire meshes, and even electrified mats which will shock animals which try to
walk over them.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 30, 1990

Education: Tunnel vision

LENGTH: 339 words


WITHIN the next week, Britain will be physically reunited with the European
continent for the first time since sea levels rose and cut off the British Isles
almost 8,000 years ago. A metal rod will drill a 5cm hole to link the two sides
of the Channel Tunnel. British construction workers, who will be standing about
23km out to sea and nearly 50m under the ocean bed, will be able to catch their
first breath of French air.

The tunnel is due to be opened to the public in June 1993. It will be in three
parts: two 'running' tunnels, which will carry trains between England and
France, and a third 'service' tunnel, which will be used for maintenance and
emergency work.


The Channel Tunnel project has been troubled by financial problems since it was
given approval four years ago. The British Government has insisted that the work
is paid for entirely with private money. This has forced Eurotunnel, the company
in charge of the project, to rely on banks and private investors to raise the
Pounds 7.6 billion needed to complete it. As late as last week, Eurotunnel
officials were signing agreements with banks to borrow the final Pounds 1.8
billion.

The tunnel, the largest construction project in Europe, employs thousands of
workers. Some of the work is dangerous. Seven men have been killed on the
British side and two on the French side. The group of companies building the
tunnel, TransManche-Link, has been fined for breaking safety rules.

Questions have also been raised about the safety of the completed tunnel. Some
politicians and safety experts have warned that passengers in the tunnel could
be put at risk from fire or terrorist attack. Others fear that rabies,
eradicated from Britain in 1902, could return through the tunnel.

British companies are looking to the Channel Tunnel to bring economic benefits,
but many people fear that these will be confined to the south-east of England.

On the next two pages eG looks at the economic impact of the tunnel and examines
the issue of safety.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 31, 1990, Wednesday

Crisis in the Gulf: Britons in Sudan to be advised to leave

BYLINE: By ROBERT BLOCK

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 303 words


BRITAIN'S embassy in Khartoum will recommend today or tomorrow that British
nationals in Sudan prepare their families to leave the country, a Foreign Office
spokesman said. No specific reason for the move was given but it is thought to
be linked to a threat by a Palestinian guerrilla group, writes Robert Block.

''The ambassador is shortly going to issue a letter to British nationals in
Sudan . . . advising them that this is the moment to consider arranging for the
members of their families to depart the country,'' the spokesman said.

He said while there was no specific threat to the estimated 800 Britons living
in Sudan, there are food shortages because of a severe drought and ''civil
disorders are possible''. However, other government sources said Sudan, which
has close ties with Iraq, was a ''soft target'' for attacks by terrorists such
as the Abu Nidal group.

On Friday the US warned of the increased likelihood of terrorist acts in the
Middle East and Europe because of the Gulf crisis and a threat by Abu Nidal to
attack US interests over Washington's plans to extradite a Palestinian American
wanted in Israel on charges of killing a bus driver.

In May 1988, five members of Abu Nidal's group attacked the Acropole Hotel in
Khartoum and the former British club next door, killing five Britons and two
Sudanese. The attack was reportedly in retaliation for the assassination in
Tunis the month before of Khalil al-Wazir, also known as Abu Jihad, a top PLO
official. He was killed by an Israeli hit-team.

A State Department spokeswoman yesterday said the US had no immediate plans to
recall its citizens from the Middle East and that Washington had not been
informed of Britain's plans in Sudan. But she said she thought they ''probably''
had something to do with the Palestinian threat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 9, 1990

Dublin Supreme Court considers extradition of hunger striker on bombing charges

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 254 words


THE final legal challenge against the extradition of Desmond Ellis, wanted in
Britain on bombing charges, opened in Dublin yesterday.

Mr Ellis, aged 38, of Dublin, was on the 30th day of a hunger strike in protest
at the extradition proceedings, and has been transferred from the top security
Portlaoise jail to the Curragh military hospital on the advice of doctors. He
did not attend yesterday's hearing in the Supreme Court.


Mr Ellis is wanted in Britain for allegedly possessing explosives and conspiring
to cause explosions in Britain between January 1981 and October 1983. At an
earlier hearing a detective sergeant from Scotland Yard said his fingerprints
had been found in an IRA arms cache at Pangbourne, Berkshire. Items in the cache
were subsequently linked to five IRA bomb attacks in London in 1981.

Mr Ellis's counsel, Patrick McIntee, did not, as expected, lodge a claim that Mr
Ellis's alleged offences were political, but challenged the extradition order on
the grounds that there were no offences in Irish law corresponding to those
alleged on the British warrant.

He also argued that eight years' delay in seeking extradition made any
proceedings unfair, improper, and constitutionally wrong. Mr McEntee told the
court: 'There are substantial risks that if he was sent to England to stand
trial he would not get a trial which conformed with the requirements of our
constitution.'

The five judges reserved judgment, while 200 anti-extradition protesters
demonstrated outside.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 15, 1990

Bomb suspect extradited under new law

BYLINE: By JOE JOYCE in Dublin

LENGTH: 442 words


THE FIRST Irishman to be sent to Britain under the Irish Republic's latest
extradition law was put on an RAF jet outside Dublin within two hours of losing
his last court appeal yesterday. Later, Desmond Ellis, aged 38, a television
repairman, was remanded in custody at Bow street magistrates' court, London, for
eight days. He has been wanted in connection with bombings in London between
January 1981 and October 1983 including Chelsea barracks and the Wimpy bar in
Oxford street. Mr Ellis had been on hunger strike for 36 days in protest at his
impending extradition. He had been in prison in the Republic since 1983 and had
challenged his extradition on three grounds.

The five-man Supreme Court unanimously rejected them. They decided there was no
evidence to show that he would not receive a fair trial in Britain or that he
had been prejudiced by the delay in serving extradition warrants on him. They
ruled out the third argument, that there was no corresponding offence of
conspiracy in Irish law. The 1987 Extradition Act prevents suspects from
claiming that some terrorist-type offences are politically motivated and,
therefore, excluded from extradition.


Earlier this year, the Irish High Court rejected Mr Ellis's claim that the
alleged offences were political.

Mr Ellis had appealed to the Irish government to use its powers under the law to
prevent his extradition but Ray Burke, the Justice Minister, ruled that out.
Charles Haughey, the Prime Minister, recently urged Mr Ellis's parents to
persuade him to abandon his hunger strike. A request by Mr Ellis's lawyers that
the order be postponed until after an appeal to the government and a final
appeal to the European Court of Human Rights was rejected by the Supreme Court
on the grounds that it would be inconsistent with the separation of powers and
the independence of the judiciary.

Mr Ellis had been examined by two doctors in the Curragh military hospital where
he was moved from prison last week. He was described as being fairly weak,
suffering sore eyes but able to walk. The doctors certified him as fit to travel
and he was taken by helicopter on the 20-mile journey from the hospital to the
Irish Air Corps base at Baldonnel, about seven miles west of Dublin.

Shortly beforehand, an RAF aircraft had arrived at the base with a medical team
as well as policemen on board. Mr Ellis was escorted on foot from the helicopter
to the aircraft.

Twelve people poeple will appear in court today following disturbances at a
rally in Dublin against the extradition in which some fans who had been to the
Ireland-England football match became involved.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 17, 1990

Secret Italian unit 'trained in Britain'

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR and DAVID GOW in Bonn

LENGTH: 398 words


BRITAIN hosted a unit responsible for organising Operation Gladio, the name
given to the Italian section of a secret West European underground network set
up to combat communism, it was disclosed yesterday.

Their counterparts in Britain, where the plan was given the name Operation Stay
Behind, visited Italy soon afterwards, in 1974, according to a senior Italian
military intelligence official.


General Gerardo Serravalle, who said the Italians trained at a military base in
Britain, was giving evidence yesterday in Rome to a parliamentary committee of
inquiry into allegations that Gladio was linked to a series of rightwing
terrorist attacks in Italy between 1969 and the early 1980s.

Documents shown to the committee revealed that in the 1970s British and French
officials involved in the network visited a training base in Germany built with
US money.

A number of West European governments have acknowledged the existence of the
network over the past few days and in some countries national sections are still
in place. However, the British government has repeatedly refused to comment. 'It
is a security matter. We are not speaking about,' a Ministry of Defence
spokesman said last night.

However, General Sir John Hackett, a former commander-in-chief of the British
Army on the Rhine, said yesterday that a contingency plan involving 'stay behind
and resistance in depth' was drawn up after the second world war.

Earlier this week, Sir Anthony Farrar-Hockley, a former Nato commander in
northern Europe, told the Guardian that a secret arms network was established in
Britain after the war but he would not say whether it still existed.

The German government is to disband its part of Gladio, the secret resistance
network, Bonn officials said yesterday.

According to a German television report, the section consisted of former SS and
Waffen-SS officers as well as members of an extreme rightwing group, the
Federation of German Youth, and drew up plans to assassinate leading figures of
the opposition Social Democratic Party in the event of a Soviet-led invasion.

The Defence Secretary, Tom King, said yesterday that he had never heard of
Gladio. 'I'm not sure what particular hot potato you're chasing after. It sounds
wonderfully exciting, but I'm afraid I'm quite ignorant about it. I'm better
informed about the Gulf,' Mr King said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 25, 1990, Sunday

How a bread man made his dough; Garry Weston, the Canadian recluse who runs
Associated British Foods, Britain's biggest maker of sliced, wrapped bread, has
developed a taste for sugar - British Sugar. His cash-soaked empire is favourite
to win control of Berisford's prize possession

BYLINE: By PETER KOENIG

SECTION: BUSINESS ON SUNDAY COMMENT PAGE; Page 12

LENGTH: 2889 words


THE Knightsbridge stop on the Piccadilly line is a two-minute walk from
Associated British Foods' headquarters, so Garry Weston, who is ABF's chairman
and, consequently, a billionaire, uses the Tube to get around London.

This is one of the first things you hear about him; his friends and
acquaintances regale each other with such tales. ''When I was working for him,''
said a former employee, ''he cut his children's hair.''

Newspaper pictures of Mr Weston show an eccentric-looking figure with a poorly
trimmed moustache and circles under his eyes. He wears rumpled suits and puts
biros in his breast pocket. The Vesteys, the meat billionaires, look like horse
trainers; the Sainsburys, the grocery kings, look like parsons. Mr Weston looks
like a bull walrus.

In person, in contrast, Mr Weston is touchingly vulnerable. Despite his wealth
and power, he acts as though he is on the defensive. Emotional pain of some sort
seems to lurk just beneath the surface. He gives the impression of someone whose
childhood lacked warmth. ''It's efficient to go from my office to the City by
Tube,'' he says, ''so I go by Tube. This is not an apology. It's a statement of
fact.''

Mr Weston is hard to get to see. There are good reasons for this. In August
1983, the IRA tried to kidnap his younger brother, Galen, in the Wicklow Hills
south of Dublin. The IRA failed; Galen wasn't there. He was staying at the
Weston house known as Fort Belvedere, in Windsor Great Park, once the retreat of
Edward VIII. While the IRA got caught in a shootout with the Garda, Galen was
playing polo with the Prince of Wales.

Three months later, IRA gunmen posing as police officers kidnapped a top
executive of Quinnsworth, ABF's Irish supermarket chain, and demanded pounds 5m
in ransom from ABF. Irish security forces flushed the kidnap gang out of hiding
and freed the hostage.

But it was not the IRA that forced Mr Weston to prefer privacy. He has always
been in retreat. He took over the chairmanship of ABF from his father, Willard
Garfield Weston, in 1967. Since then he has cultivated a low profile. ''I spent
my youth in Australia, where having a high profile - airs and graces - was
unacceptable,'' he says.

Now, however, Mr Weston may be forced into the limelight. ABF has made virtually
no acquisitions under his chairmanship. But he is currently stalking British
Sugar, the sole refiner of the sugar beet grown by 12,000 British farmers.
British Sugar is owned by Berisford. Under its controversial former chairman,
Ephraim Margulies, Berisford was almost constantly in play in the 1980s. Last
spring, Mr Weston and others forced Mr Margulies off Berisford's board. The
company is now under caretaker management. This management has invited bids for
the company and begun an auction for the star subsidiary, British Sugar.

Berisford and/or British Sugar will almost certainly be in new hands by the
summer, when the company's pounds 1.2bn line of bank credit expires, if not
sooner.

To win British Sugar, ABF must outmanoeuvre a growing list of suitors including,
potentially, Tate & Lyle, Hanson, Ferruzzi of Italy, Generale Sucriere, the
giant French food group, and Cargill, the secretive US grain traders. Even
though ABF lacks experience in the takeover game, the City has made the company
the odds-on favourite to pluck the prize. Mr Weston owns 23 per cent of
Berisford from a bid for the company he made in 1987, but then aborted after the
October 1987 stock market crash.

Flushed into the open, Mr Weston may surprise people. He is known to have strong
views on business conduct. He went out of his way at ABF's annual general
meeting last spring to put on record his disgust at the way Mr Margulies had
starved British Sugar of investment.

''We have spent millions building factories and machinery,'' he says. ''But
investment isn't glamorous. It makes no headlines.''

If ABF does win British Sugar, Mr Weston and his style could put a stamp on
British business. A cyclical recession, the chance of war in the Gulf, high oil
prices, a huge debt overhang from the Eighties, a global banking crisis, the
economic burden of failed communism, the possibility of a breakdown in the
free-trade system, rising environmental costs, and a faltering global
agricultural system all make easy profits increasingly scarce.

There may be no choice in the Nineties but to pursue profits Mr Weston's way -
by taking a long view and investing heavily to stay ahead of the trends. It is
conceivable that Mr Weston could even become a capitalist role model in the
decade. With pounds 1.1bn in reserves, ABF is cash-rich. Mr Weston is thus
unperturbed by the fact that, with banks in trouble and stock markets depressed,
capital is scarce. Because his empire is family controlled, Mr Weston is free
from shareholder pressure to pursue a long-term strategy.

''We have just lived through a period of easy credit,'' he says. ''This
encouraged people to think it was easier to buy assets than to build them. This
is going to change.''

In Britain, Mr Weston is vaguely known as ABF's chief executive. Outside
Britain, he is better-known as the heir of a global food business, built on
bread the way the Rockefeller family business is built on oil.

Forbes and Fortune say the Westons are the fifth richest family in Britain after
the Queen, the Duke of Westminster, the Rausigs (a Swedish family in food
packaging), and the Sainsburys. The Weston fortune is estimated at pounds 1.5bn
to pounds 2bn. Mr Weston says his family is worth much less. But he is not
specific.

At the pinnacle of the Weston empire sit Mr Weston, his brother Galen, one other
brother, Grainger, now a Texas rancher, and six daughters. The ultimate
beneficiaries of the business are charitable foundations in Britain and Canada.
Last year, the family's UK charity earned and distributed pounds 8m. Over the
past two years it has donated pounds 4m to the Great Ormond Street Children's
Hospital.

Mr Weston is vague about how family members who do not work for the business
benefit financially from it. ''All are professional people or are married to
professional people earning money in their own right,'' he says.

The Westons' two charitable foundations are funded through dividends from
Wittington Investments, the family holding companies in Britain and Canada. The
two holding companies are funded through dividends from George Weston Holdings
in Britain and George Weston Ltd in Canada.

Garry, who at 63 is the second eldest of the nine children, and Galen, who at 50
is the youngest, divide the management of the family business between them.
Garry runs Britain, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand. Galen runs Canada and
the US.

ABF is the operating arm of Mr Weston's British-based half of the empire. It is
a milling and baking company whose products find their way into a majority of
homes under such brand names as Sunblest, Allinsons, Mighty White, Ryvita and
Burtons, without consumers knowing much about where they come from.

The ninth largest company in Europe's $ 550bn food industry - after Nestle,
Unilever, BSN, Eridania, Hillsdown, General Foods-Europe, Jacobs Suchard and
Dalgety - ABF leads its arch-rival in Britain, Ranks Hovis McDougall,
manufacturer of Mother's Pride bread, in the fight for the sliced, wrapped bread
market. It controls 30 per cent of this market.

For all the strength of the family's empire, the City has mixed feelings about
its UK operational arm. Sixty-two per cent of ABF remains in family hands. The
balance is owned by the public. ''We have kept the family's holding under 65 per
cent for tax reasons,'' says Mr Weston. ''Companies owning more than 65 per cent
pay higher capital gains taxes.''

Public shareholders of ABF have not done particularly well out of their
investment. They have no representatives on the ABF board. All ABF directors,
except Galen, are ABF executives.

Nor did ABF's shareholders cash in on the run-up in food company share prices in
the Eighties. These share prices skyrocketed because the market believed food
brand names were worth a lot. But not ABF's, because it showed little interest
in capitalising on its brand names.

''Garry is suspicious of brand names,'' says James Gulliver, the former Argyll
Foods chief executive, who worked for Mr Weston's father in the 1960s. ''Garry
thinks the development of a brand franchise is an expensive and wasteful
process. He's essentially a commodities man. This is what excites him about
British Sugar.''

The Eighties market view that food brand names are worth a bundle has lapsed.
But ABF's shares are still low compared with those of other food companies.

For the year to 31 March 1990, ABF reported pre-tax profits of pounds 284m, up
20 per cent on a year earlier. For the half-year to 30 September, ABF reported
pre-tax profits of pounds 132m, up 17 per cent. Nevertheless, its shares are
trading at a price-earnings ratio lower than those of many other UK food
companies.

''This is because ABF is in the unglamorous end of the food business,'' says Mr
Weston. ''It's because there is no premium on our shares against the possibility
we'll be taken over.''

He argues that ABF should be judged on its record, not on analysts' views of its
record. He says: ''We're one of the companies that survived. Go back and look at
British food companies operating 20 years ago. You'll see 75 per cent did not
survive.''

Mr Weston describes ABF as a professionally run company with sophisticated
management. He deflects questions about his family's influence on the company.
''There is no distinction between ABF's family shareholders and its public
shareholders,'' he says.

Public shareholders do not entirely accept Mr Weston's portrait of ABF, however.
They are sceptical of his claim that his family's shares are not different from
publicly held shares.

City analysts contend that the poor performance of ABF's shares results from
uncertainty about what the family's control means. The suspicion is that behind
Mr Weston's determination to define himself as a professional manager, a family
melodrama bubbles away that makes Dynasty seem tame stuff.

Born in 1820 in London, William Weston emigrated to Toronto, Canada. His son,
George, born in 1865, went to work as a baker's delivery boy at the age of 10.
According to Charles Davies in Bread Men, George opened his own bakery in
Toronto in 1882 when he was 17, and got rich by mechanising the business and
selling in quantity to Canadian pioneers flocking to Toronto.

Mr Davies describes George Weston as a hard man. ''People will eat horseshit if
it has enough icing on it,'' he quotes him as saying.

George's son Willard Garfield, born in 1898, followed in his father's footsteps,
until the stock market crash of 1929 nearly drove him out of business.

Recovering from the crash, Willard Garfield scraped together what capital he
could, and set out for Britain to start again.

In 1934, Willard Garfield bought the loss- making biscuit division of Mitchell &
Muir in Aberdeen. He closed the factory and began baking biscuits in a more
cost-efficient factory in Edinburgh. But he kept Mitchell & Muir's brand name. A
year later he moved his family, including eight-year-old Garry, to England.
Soon, because of his flamboyance and success, he was a figure in Britain.

In 1939, Willard Garfield was appointed by Chamberlain to be the Tory MP for
Macclesfield. In 1951 he bought Fortnum & Mason, an event similar, in its
Vandals-sack-Rome social overtones, to the purchase of Harrods by the Fayeds in
1985.

Meanwhile, Garry was growing up to be almost the exact opposite of his father.
He was a shy, sensitive, academically gifted child. It was his younger brother,
Galen, who was a chip off the old block.

Garry went to Oxford, then got a degree from Harvard. Galen went to the
University of Western Ontario, which has a reputation for being a school for
playboys, and left one credit shy of a degree.

Despite the difference in his sons' personalities, and the 13-year difference in
their ages, Willard Garfield groomed both to take over the family empire.

After several menial jobs, Garry got his first executive position in ABF in
1950. ''I was walking past my father's office one day and a man came out who had
just been fired,'' he has said. ''My father followed him, saw me there, and gave
me his job. That's how I became managing director of Ryvita at the age of 23.
But he would have given the job to anyone who was passing.''

Next Garry spent 14 years in Australia building the family business there. He
has said he used these years to get out from under his father's shadow. Galen
built up the family business in Ireland.

In 1967 Willard Garfield retired. Garry became chairman of ABF and Galen took
over Canada - the empire divided between them.

On becoming chairman of ABF, Mr Weston said: ''I was put in charge at the age of
39 of a very large fragmented business with a very poor cash flow. My job I
defined as identifying its core areas of activity, its restructuring and its
refining. The previous chairman, my father, had during the previous five years
made numerous acquisitions - as many as 60 separate acquisitions in one
particular year.

''Our discipline has been to expand the business from within; to stop looking
over our shoulder at other people's activities and to become professional at
building our own business.''

To build ABF's profits from pounds 12m in 1967 to pounds 284m in the year ended
31 March, Mr Weston has relentlessly retrenched. Between 1967 and today,
consumption of sliced, wrapped bread has steadily declined.

Last year, the UK bread market was worth pounds 2.69bn, according to the
Federation of Bakers. This made bread the third largest food business in Britain
after meat, and fruit and vegetables. But as the market has shrunk, profit
margins have remained under serious pressure.

There is no company of any size left in the sliced, wrapped bread market except
ABF and Ranks Hovis McDougall. And last Wednesday Ranks, already under takeover
threat from Lord Rothschild and James Goldsmith, reported a decline in its
pre-tax profit from pounds 176.5m to pounds 133.2m.

Mr Weston has avoided such setbacks by investing heavily to remain a low-cost
producer in factory baking. He has also divested a fair percentage of the assets
his father accumulated. In 1983, just before South Africa's stock in the world
fell as apartheid began to unravel, Mr Weston sold ABF's 52 per cent stake in
South Africa's Premier Group for almost half a billion pounds. In 1986, at the
peak of investor interest in food brand names, ABF sold its Fine Fare
supermarket chain to Dee Corporation for pounds 1.4bn.

Mr Weston remains a Canadian citizen. But he has a voice in British corridors of
power because he contributes pounds 100,000 a year to the Conservative party.
Last week, he was one of 15 businessmen to sign a letter to the The Times
supporting Margaret Thatcher in the Tory leadership contest.

Now, however, Mr Weston appears to have reached the end of the line with his
strategy of 23 years. He has pounds 1.1bn in cash. He has kept Twinings Tea and
a few other niche businesses from his father's day. He has a core business in
sliced, wrapped bread. But there is no disguising the fact that sliced bread
must be one of the least exciting businesses in the world.

Mr Weston does not deny that his old strategy for ABF has reached a dead-end. He
is sensitive to charges, however, that he has no new strategy for ABF, and that
he has become a miser sitting on a pile of cash. ''It is only in the last three
years we've had a surplus of cash, and, having earned that cash, I want to make
sure we spend it well,'' he says. ''I could have, to pick a name out of the air,
bought Rowntrees,'' he adds. ''But Rowntrees went for a 40 per cent premium, and
I don't believe I could have managed Rowntrees 40 per cent better than it was
being managed already.''

Mr Weston will not discuss ABF's pursuit of British Sugar. Nevertheless, it is
clear that diversification into the sugar business is crucial to him. He appears
confident that most of the other suitors will not outbid him. ''British Sugar is
worth at least as much to me as it is to them,'' he says.

He appears worried about only one competing bidder - Tate & Lyle. It and British
Sugar are Britain's only two sugar refiners. Consequently, Tate & Lyle's bid for
British Sugar is being reviewed by the Monopolies & Mergers Commission. The MMC
is due to advise the Government on whether this bid should be allowed to proceed
early next year. ''If Tate

& Lyle were to get British Sugar, it would have a monopoly on British sugar,''
Mr Weston says. ''A monopoly is worth a great deal.''

If ABF succeeds in its bid, Mr Weston will have gone a long way toward
vindicating the work of a lifetime. Coupling British Sugar's potential with
ABF's steady earnings growth, its strong balance sheet, and its dominance of the
British bread market, Mr Weston could lay claim to having built a model 1990s
industrial company.

If his bid fails, he can use ABF's cash to buy something else. But he will have
lost prestige. His company will have no obvious means to earn a respectable
return on capital in the future. His murky position inside his mysterious family
could be jeopardised.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 5, 1990

The Gladio file: did fear of communism throw West into the arms of terrorists?:
As scandal unfolds, Whitehall's response is silence

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 973 words


A CHANCE discovery by an assiduous Italian magistrate investigating a
neo-fascist terrorist attack has unearthed a secret paramilitary network run by
units of the armed forces and intelligence services throughout western Europe.

Over the past few weeks, government after government, with the notable exception
of the British, has been forced to admit that the organisation whose original
purpose was to set up resistance groups against occupying Warsaw Pact forces
still exists. It has come be to known as Operation Gladio, after its Italian
branch.


Two threads have emerged. Ministers, let alone parliaments, knew nothing about
the secret units; second, while nominally established as 'stay-behind' sabotage
groups to combat communist forces, in some countries they soon had internal
political targets in their sights.

Representatives from these units have been meeting regularly in Brussels in the
Allied Coordination Committee. This consists of civilian and military personnel,
according to Italian and Belgian sources. Guy Coeme, the Belgian defence
minister, has said it last met in Brussels in late October.

The network was not confined to Nato countries. An inquiry in Switzerland
recently revealed the existence of a secret organisation, P26. It had 400 agents
with access to guns and explosives with a German radio system, Harpoon, set up
in 1985 to contact parallel groups in neighbouring countries.

One early task was to take over plans for a Swiss government-in-exile in
south-west Ireland in the event of invasion. Another was to prepare for action
against 'subversion'.

P26 was backed by P27, a private foreign intelligence agency funded partly by
the government, and by a special unit of Swiss army intelligence which had built
up files on nearly 8,000 'suspect persons' including 'leftists', 'bill
stickers', 'Jehovah's witnesses', people with 'abnormal tendencies' and
anti-nuclear demonstrators.

On November 14, the Swiss government hurriedly dissolved P26 the head of which,
it emerged, had been paid Pounds 100,000 a year.

Although the Ministry of Defence has repeatedly refused to comment on Britain's
involvement, Sir Anthony Farrar-Hockley, a former commander of Nato forces in
northern Europe, has confirmed that a secret network of arms to be handed out to
a civilian guerrilla force in the event of an invasion was set up in Britain
after the war.

The Guardian has learned of a secret attempt to revive elements of a parallel
post-war plan relating to overseas operations. In the early days of Mrs
Thatcher's Conservative leadership, a group of former intelligence officers,
inspired by the wartime Special Operations Executive, attempted to set up a
secret unit as a kind of armed MI6 cell.

Those behind the scheme included Airey Neave, Mrs Thatcher's close adviser who
was killed in a terrorist attack in 1979, and George Kennedy Young, a former
deputy chief of the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6.

Mrs Thatcher is said to have been initially enthusiastic but dropped the idea
after the scandal surrounding the attack by the French secret service on the
Greenpeace ship, Rainbow Warrior, in New Zealand in 1985.

British co-operation with the Gladio network since the 1950s appears to have
concentrated on offering training expertise for continental cells. Werner
Carobbio, a member of the Swiss parliamentary inquiry, referred the Guardian to
Swiss press reports that P26 personnel had received training in Britain.

General Gerardo Serravalle, a retired officer, told the Italian parliamentary
inquiry that a Gladio unit trained in Britain in the early 1970s. General Fausto
Fortunato, head of the Italian Gladio cell until 1964, referred to a 'crucial'
meeting of the network held in Britain, followed by others in France, Belgium
and Luxembourg in the early 1960s.

Revelations about the Gladio network have provoked embarrassed reactions.
Wilfried Martens, Belgium's prime minister almost continuously since 1979, has
said he was never told about its network, now under investigation after
allegations that it was linked to a series of terrorist attacks in the 1980s.

The Dutch prime minister, Ruud Lubbers, told parliament last month that a secret
organisation had been set up inside the defence ministry in the 1950s originally
to provide intelligence to a government in exile. Members of the cell are
believed to have taken part recently in a training exercise in Sicily.

The French defence minister, Jean-Pierre Chevenement, has announced that the
French section, code-named Gallio, had been dissolved by presidential decree.

The German section, set up with the help of second world war army veterans and
the extreme rightwing Federation of German Youth, allegedly drew up plans to
assassinate leading members of the opposition Social Democratic party in the
event of a Warsaw Pact invasion. The German government has promised to consider
winding it up.

In Greece, where it was given the code-name, Sheepskin, a cell was set up by the
CIA in the 1950s but was dismantled in 1988, according to the government.
Officers in the underground unit were involved in the Colonels' coup in 1967.

In Turkey, Bulent Ecevit, prime minister at the time of the invasion of northern
Cyprus in 1974, has said he was informed at the time of a 'special warfare'
department within the headquarters of the general staff. He said he was told it
had been financed until then by the US but needed funds from Ankara.

A former Italian Gladio officer has said Gladio agents were trained by US
instructors at a military base in the Spanish Canary Islands from 1966 to the
mid-1970s. He said France proposed Spain for membership of the network in 1973
but Britain, Germany and the Netherlands blocked the move on the grounds that
Spain was not a democracy.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 9, 1990, Sunday

Army ordered to vet security men

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 430 words


THE Ministry of Defence has issued strict new guidelines to control private
security firms guarding military bases in Britain. The rules advise that all
commercial guards be vetted by MoD security units and kept away from sensitive
areas.

The ministry warns military bases that awarding contracts to firms that pay low
wages could prove a false economy.

The guidelines, which were sent to military bases last month, are a tacit
admission that past procedures have been inadequate. The MoD was criticised for
employing ''incompetent'' security firms after IRA attacks at military bases in
Britain, culminating in the murder of 11 bandsmen at the Royal Marine barracks
in Deal, Kent, in September 1989.

A Commons select committee report said bases were getting an ''unsatisfactory
and potentially dangerous guarding service'' because they used low-paid guards
from cheaper security firms.

The new guidelines warn that security requirements ''too broad or ill-defined
may result in commercial guards, whilst they may meet the needs of the contract,
not in the event providing the service the customer wants.'' Contracts awarded
to guards paid the lowest wages ''are unlikely to provide the highest standards
of service, and 'cheap' can ultimately turn out to be costly.''

In future, the defence contractors' list should include security companies, the
guidelines say. All companies asked to tender for military security work should
be selected from the list. If a company not on the list applies then MoD will
demand to see the firm's latest audited accounts.

The security firms chosen should normally be members of the British Security
Industry Association (BSIA) or the International Professional Security
Assocation. If not, they must meet standards comparable to those set by
professional bodies.

The guidelines state that private security firms should not guard bases where
servicemen, their families or MOD civilians live unless an ''armed response
force'' is in support.

Private firms are also regarded, in the guidelines, as unsuitable for protecting
places where arms, ammunition and explosives are stored except for
specially-constructed armouries, magazines or explosive storage houses.

The inquest into the deaths at the Deal Royal Marines barracks reopens in Dover
tomorrow. Damien McComb and Liam O'Dhuibhir, two men police believe carried out
the bombing, were jailed for 30 years at the Old Bailey last week. They were
convicted of conspiring with others to cause explosions after being caught
digging up an arms cache on the Pembrokeshire coast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 11, 1990, Tuesday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


A terrorist attack similar to the Lockerbie outrage could happen tomorrow
because "enormous" gaps remain in airport security, a counter-terrorism expert
warned today.  Professor Paul Wilkinson said the threat was very real,
particularly given the Gulf crisis and a number of terrorist groups with
expertise in attacking civil aviation being aided by Iraq.  The professor, a
director of the Research Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism, said
he feared that the impact of the Lockerbie disaster was already wearing off.
"It had a greater effect in Britain because it happened in our airspace and we
cannot get it out of our minds. But in America it is not nearly such a vivid
image." He said in the UK there had been "modest" improvements, including new
laws covering aviation security.  "But here and internationally the gaps are
still enormous.  "We still don't have in the airports explosive-detection
systems capable of detecting plastic explosives, yet companies have developed
prototypes proven to work." The professor also called for "a much more
thorough-going system of training and management of staff.  "Security is not the
Cinderella service. It is as essential to safety as having good air traffic
control systems and it should be given that kind of priority." Professor
Wilkinson said an absolutely fundamental step which still had not been taken was
to establish a much more powerful international inspection and standards
authority.  "The obvious body to develop as the new security power is the
International Civil Aviation Organisation. The trouble is, members are not
giving enough beef to it in terms of financial resources." The professor
published a study, The Lessons of Lockerbie, a year after the disaster in
December 1988 in which 270 people died.  He said today international
intelligence suggested the Lockerbie bomb was the work of an "unholy coalition"
between Iran, Syria and Libya.  The information suggested the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine- General Command was involved in the original plot
but the task of carrying out the bombing was delegated to Libyan agents.  The
theory was based on the fact that the type of bomb used was identical to a
Libyan cassette bomb discovered in Senegal.  "These groups are still around and
another Lockerbie could happen tomorrow," warned Professor Wilkinson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 13, 1990, Thursday

Crown 'did not reveal evidence on Guildford 4'

BYLINE: By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES, Legal Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 612 words


BARRISTERS who prosecuted the Guildford Four failed to disclose crucial alibi
statements that could have prevented one of Britain's gravest miscarriages of
justice, according to evidence to be revealed on BBC television today. The
barristers may also have neglected to pass on vital forensic evidence, the
programme says.

The three lawyers concerned, who were led in the prosecution by Michael (now
Lord) Havers, who later became Attorney General and Lord Chancellor, are now
leading barristers in their fields.

Drawing on a report by Roy Habershon, then Scotland Yard's bomb squad commander,
the programme also accuses Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Peter Imbert and
other senior Scotland Yard officers of accepting now discredited confessions at
face value and of failing to probe the absence of links between the four, who
spent 15 years in prison, and an IRA unit police knew was carrying out bombings
that were forensically connected to the Guildford and Woolwich blasts. Scotland
Yard's own fingerprint evidence pointed to the fact that the police had the
wrong people, the programme says.

Defence lawyers were not told of a Royal Armament Research and Development
Establishment (RARDE) statement that a ''common source'' was responsible for a
series of bombings, including and after those at the Guildford and Woolwich pubs
in 1974.

According to the programme, a BBC 1 Panorama special report, the three
prosecutors, Michael Hill, now a QC and a former chairman of the Criminal Bar
Association, Paul Purnell, also a QC, and Philip Havers, now a junior Treasury
Counsel and son of the former Lord Chancellor, ought to have received a copy of
the statement.

In addition, the barristers, who had responsibility for advising the Director of
Public Prosecutions which statements should be notified to the defence, failed
on two occasions to disclose evidence concerning Gerard Conlon's alibi, the
programme claims.

Lord Havers has told Panorama that he does not remember seeing the RARDE and
alibi witness statements and that he left it to the three junior barristers to
take most of the disclosure decisions. Michael Hill told the programme that the
proper forum for comment was Sir John May's inquiry into the handling of the
case.

Mr Havers said he had no comment until he had seen the programme. Mr Purnell
could not be contacted. A RARDE statement pointing to a group other than the
Guildford Four being responsible for the Woolwich bomb was sent to the DPP in
February 1975 for onward transmission to Crown barristers but it was never
disclosed to the defence. At about the same time, RARDE analysed bomb making
equipment found in a flat in Fairholme Road, London, and told police the same
components had been used in bombs that the scientists had connected with
Guildford and Woolwich. A statement of this finding never reached the four's
lawyers.

Scotland Yard had put names to four of eight sets of fingerprints found at
Fairholme Road and on five unexploded bombs. None of the prints were the
Guildford Four's. A witness, Charles Burke, had told police he had seen Mr
Conlon asleep at a north London hostel at the time the bombs were planted.

Several months before the trial, the three Crown barristers signed an alibi note
saying a statement from another witness destroyed Mr Burke's evidence because he
was wrong about the date he had seen Mr Conlon. Mr Burke's name did not appear
on the list of 2,015 witnesses they disclosed to the defence.

Two months later the barristers were given a statement from a third witness,
Sister Power, a nun who helped run the hostel, that corroborated Mr Burke's, but
this was also not disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 24, 1990, Monday

IRA declares Christmas ceasefire

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 347 words


THE IRA yesterday took the surprise step of declaring a three-day Christmas
ceasefire - the first in 15 years.

Members have been instructed ''to suspend all offensive military action in the
British-occupied area'' from midnight last night until midnight on 26 December.
But the IRA says it will take defensive action.

The announcement will be noted carefully by the authorities, who have learnt
from past experience that such IRA statements are to be taken seriously. At the
same time, the army and police will not relax their guard. The statement made no
mention of terrorist activity in Britain or on the Continent, where IRA units
have been active during the year.

The last official ceasefire was in 1975, although the days around Christmas have
generally been reasonably free of trouble.

The security forces had been gearing up for a possible escalation of violence.
This month, 600 extra troops were drafted in for the Christmas period.

Charles Haughey, the Taoiseach, welcomed the ceasefire and hoped it could be
extended indefinitely. He said this would open up great possibilities for
progress.

Peter Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, expressed the hope that
it might be a pointer to achieving a lasting peace in 1991.

''If this ceasefire signals a more prolonged renunciation of violence then the
importance of dialogue as part of the democratic tradition is reinforced.

''It may be that there will be a chance in 1991 to set about resolving what some
have thought to be intractable problems. If this is to be so, it will call for
imagination and perseverance in all the people of these islands,'' he said.

Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, welcomed the move
and hoped the British authorities would respond to allow a peaceful Christmas.

But James Molyneaux, leader of the Offical Unionist Party, said: ''Criminals
deserve no medals for ceasing criminal activity for three days. It will be small
comfort for families of policemen and soldiers to know that their loved ones
will not be murdered until Thursday.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                December 30 1990

Gulf Crisis: The drift to war - The massive build-up of forces continues.
British reservistsare called up. Allied troops are vaccinated against chemical
warfare. There is no sign of peace talks

BYLINE: JULIE FLINT

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2244 words


IN CERTAIN areas of Baghdad last week, President Saddam Hussein ordered the
evacuation of ground-floor dwellings as a precaution against flooding in the
event of American air strikes against hydro-electric plants. At the Rambam
Medical Centre near Haifa, one of Israel's main hospitals for chemical warfare,
rows of temporary showers have been erected in the hospital car park to
decontaminate victims of Iraqi chemical attack before they can be admitted for
treatment.

Britain is quietly expanding its air forces in the Gulf quite considerably and
has called up 400 men and women with medical training in the biggest compulsory
mobilisation of reservists since the Suez crisis almost 35 years ago. The US has
despatched two more aircraft carriers and 16,000 more men to the Gulf. Both
Britain and the US will soon begin vaccinating their troops in the Gulf against
biological warfare. Jordan has ordered defence exercises along its border with
Israel to prepare for a hypothetical strike by Israel in the event of a new
Middle East war.


In the Gulf itself, the likely theatre of a conflict that is expected to be of
greater intensity than any since the Second World War, the mood of the moment
was summed up, with a jocularity no one feels, in the T-shirt worn at a
Christmas party by the US ambassador to Qatar, Mark G Hambley: 'Visit Iraq
before Iraq visits you.' In other words: strike first to strike best.

SIXTEEN DAYS before the deadline set by the UN Security Council for Iraq to pull
its troops out of Kuwait, preparations are being made on all sides for a war
that would, if Israel is included, cover more than half the world's oil
reserves, nearly three million troops and some of the most destructive forms of
military firepower ever invented, including more than 1,000 tactical nuclear
weapons.

The level of casualties anticipated by the allied forces is indicated by the
huge medical and hospital facilities being provided for Britain's forces, which
comprise barely 5 per cent of the total forces: 1,200 personnel already in the
medical command, with more on the way and 1,000 reservists being called up.
After the current expansion, Britain's field hospitals will be able to handle
more than 4,000 casualties a month over and above the extensive provision being
made for treating the severely wounded at NHS hospitals in the UK.

In the last few weeks, the near-doubling of US forces in the Gulf forced by
Iraq's peace treaty with Iran, its ensuing redeployment of more than 200,000
troops and Saddam's leech-like hold on Kuwait has produced an ugly momentum that
is driving President Bush steadily towards war.

Five of six operational Marine Corps brigades, around 100,000 troops in all, are
now either in the Gulf or in transit there. The sixth is on standby in Okinawa,
while a seventh is being patched together from reserve units. As well as nearly
200,000 extra marines and army personnel, the US Navy is sending three more
carrier battle groups with 240 aircraft and the Air Force is deploying 27 more
squadrons that add 300 fighters, strike aircraft and transport planes to the
1,000 already deployed.

The build-up will be completed shortly after the Security Council's 15 January
deadline, allowing the US forces six weeks at most before weather conditions
begin to deteriorate with rains in March and soon afterwards the onset of summer
temperatures that will make combat increasingly difficult especially for men and
women who are not accustomed to the desert.

Also increasing the pressure for military action, regardless of the progress of
any diplomacy that may be concealed under the posturing, the psychological
warfare and the poker-playing, is the fact that Washington's forces can only be
sustained in the Gulf for two or three more months in their present form. Unless
the US announces a rotation of its troops and there are not enough Marines, for
example, to rotate it will have to withdraw or go to war within a maximum nine
months of its first deployments last August in order to maintain the necessary
level of alert.

'If a full-scale rotation is not announced by the end of January, then the US
has little option but to go to war by mid-March at the latest,' says Paul
Rogers, the British defence analyst. 'This fact, taken together with the
climatic considerations, hugely constrains Bush's options for a diplomatic
settlement.'

On the diplomatic front, as the days tick away, there is no sign of a revival of
the direct talks between Washington and Baghdad that were scuppered earlier this
month when Bush and Saddam failed to agree on dates. Saddam continues to insist
both publicly and privately that he will not withdraw from Kuwait. Bush
continues to insist that the Security Council's resolutions must be implemented
in full and on schedule, with no linkage to any other problem of Middle East
policy.

'We can discuss everything except Kuwait,' Iraqi sources quote Saddam as telling
the Arab world's most indefatigable negotiator, Algerian President Chadli
Benjedid, in Baghdad this month. In Washington, an Administration official told
the New York Times last week: 'Why give Hussein more time? To do what? What's he
going to do in another month that he doesn't know now? How many more Kuwaitis
are going to be strung up?'

DESPITE THE dogged efforts of Arab and Western diplomats, it is difficult to see
where the middle ground for compromise could lie, given Saddam's apparent
determination to stay in Kuwait and Bush's apparent determination to allow
Saddam nothing he could portray as a victory for Iraq most especially a Middle
East peace conference through which the Iraqi leader could bolster his
undisputed popularity among ordinary Arabs by claiming to have put Palestine
back on the map.

If Bush allows linkage between the Kuwaiti and Palestinian questions, or accepts
anything short of the full implementation of the Security Council's resolutions,
not only will American credibility in the Middle East be fatally wounded but
Israel, in the opinion of some observers, might be moved to force the
confrontation it knows is inevitable sooner or later, given Iraq's rapidly
developing nuclear and chemical capability. (In this context, according to
Kurdish sources, Iraq has stepped up work at a presumed new nuclear site at Gara
in northern Iraq in the wake of published evidence that uranium is being mined
there. Saddam is also reported to have replaced the regular troops guarding Gara
with units of the Republican Guard, the crack troops that spearheaded the
invasion of Kuwait on 2 August, and to have strengthened the area's
anti-aircraft defences. 'Our people in the area have come to the conclusion that
this is a nuclear operation 100 per cent,' the Kurds say.)

While the US as a nation is less sanguine about the prospect of war than
Britain, and a significant anti-war movement reaches even towards the higher
echelons of the Administration itself, a White House insider says he has never
seen Bush look so worried, worn out and 'uptight' mainly, he says, because the
President has genuinely made up his mind to join battle if Iraq has not complied
with the UN resolutions by mid-January. Senator Richard Lugar, an influential
Republican, is of the same mind. 'Clearly,' he says, 'the President has turned
the corner and is now comfortable with the option (of using force).'

Despite the stunning array of forces ranged against him, Saddam shows no sign of
planning even a partial withdrawal from Kuwait before 15 January. Iraqis
familiar with his thinking believe that rather than bow to the UN deadline, he
will now broaden his attack. 'When he gets involved in a confrontation,' says a
seasoned Saddam-watcher, 'his only course is to escalate it by all means.'

In this context, Arab diplomats fear that Saddam will open a new front by
launching terror attacks against the Arab countries ranged behind the US both to
weaken the alliance against him and to warn the West of the wider perils of a
war in the Gulf. Fearing just such an eventuality, the State Department last
week asked all non-essential personnel and government dependents to leave Jordan
and Sudan before 15 January.

OUTSIDE THE Gulf, Western analysts would be surprised if terror units were not
already in place, armed both with conventional explosives and possibly with
chemical weapons, such as nerve agents.

'Likely targets will be those which cause panic and economic disruption
simultaneously, targets like international airports and major railway
terminals,' says Paul Rogers. 'No sponsoring state has yet armed terrorist
groups with nerve agents, but no state has yet been in Iraq's position of facing
massive military defeat. In such circumstances, normal behaviour does not apply.
Iraq was prepared to kill thousands of Kurdish civilians in Halabja with
chemical weapons three years ago; similar action against its current enemies
should not cause surprise.'

Although senior officials in Washington, London and Tel Aviv persist in
believing Saddam is not convinced of the seriousness of America's intent,
informed Iraqis believe the opposite is true. Reliable Iraqi sources say the
ambassador in Washington, Dr Mohammed al-Mashat, has gone as far as to tell
Saddam that even withdrawing from Kuwait is no longer an option: Bush wants his
head.

Many Iraqis believe that Saddam now considers war his best line of defence. Arab
diplomats say he told Moroccan visitors to Baghdad late last month that the Arab
regimes supporting the US would be confronted with popular uprisings the moment
war broke out in the Gulf.

'When this happens,' Saddam is reported to have said, 'these regimes will
collapse and we will be able to talk to the forces opposing us.'

There is even evidence that Jordan, Saddam's early ally in his confrontation
with the West, may also see attack as the best defence. When King Hussein sent
troops to the Israeli border last week, he sent them to the central sector of
the Jordanian valley not to the southern sector through which Israeli troops
would advance on Iraq in the event of war.

'The king and his brother are now resigned to war,' says a long-time
acquaintance. 'They believe their best chance is to take a bold stand, to
threaten an incursion of their own into the West Bank if Israel attacks Iraq.'

The betting in the Arab world today is that Saddam will take his confrontation
with the West to the brink of war to see if Bush does, in extremis, blink. If
Bush stands firm, Saddam is expected to play it by ear, involving Israel in any
conflict and hoping that his heavily defended troops 304,000 in and to the west
of Kuwait and 219,000 more in the Basra area backed up by more than 2,000
artillery pieces will be able to rob Bush of quick victory.

The betting in Israel is that although Saddam may eventually dangle the carrot
of a partial withdrawal, the 'nightmare scenario' of a full withdrawal is not
realistic. 'Saddam knows that he would be destroyed if he pulled out
completely,' is the thinking at Army headquarters in Tel Aviv. 'Even a partial
pull-out would severely undermine his position unless matched by compensating
concessions linked to a peace conference.'

Senior Israeli officers do not believe either that the Iraqi army will break
through aerial bombardment alone or that morale, however low, will collapse
except under sustained attack. 'Iraq's whole strategy will be to drag the war on
for as long as possible, to try to make it a war of attrition with the use of
chemical and biological weapons,' said one military source. 'They would also
fire chemical warheads mounted on Scud missiles at rear-based allied troops' a
likely explanation of Iraq's recent test firings of surface-to-surface missiles.

'Saddam's view is that America doesn't have the stomach for a long shoot-out in
the desert,' says an academic at Israel's Arab-Jewish centre.

IF FOUGHT according to plan, a Gulf war is likely to start with heavy air
attacks on Iraq at least 6,000 sorties for up to five days. This would be
followed by ground attacks into southern Iraq and Kuwait.

New evidence emerges every day of the horrors such a conflict would hold.

Tel Aviv's Jaffee Centre for Strategic Studies estimated last month that Iraq
has some 50 launchers for its Hussein and Abbas missiles, with respective ranges
of 650 and 900 kilometres. It is estimated to possess hundreds of missiles and
to manufacture 1,000 tonnes of chemical agents a year.

Defence sources in Washington say Iraq has not only acquired biological weapons
but has recently developed a new strain of pulmonary anthrax, by far the most
dangerous biological weapon currently available. On the nuclear front, even if
tactical nuclear weapons are not sucked into the fight, there is a real danger
of radioactive hazards although not of radioactive explosion if any ship
carrying nuclear weapons is hit and catches fire.

However horrifying a war would be, Iraq knows that although Washington may be
able to escape a conflagration, Baghdad ultimately cannot. 'If the United States
does not attack us, sooner or later Israel will,' Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq
Aziz told a Spanish newspaper last week. Divided in everything else, Washington
and Baghdad may well have decided that, give or take a week or two, there is no
time like the present.

Additional reporting by Andrew Stephen in Washington and Eric Silver in
Jerusalem.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 31, 1990

Review of 1990: Small justice amid the shame and squalor - Scandals

BYLINE: By DAVID UTTING

LENGTH: 1100 words


As the prisons erupted, the Birmingham Six languished in jail, the poll tax
brought thousands on to the streets and some of the biggest guns in business
were caught with their hands in the till

DURING 12 scandal-packed months, one glaring injustice raised its bruised head
again and again. The anomalies, already common knowledge, were revealed to be
even more worrying than previously supposed. Yet, as the year ended, the case
remained frustratingly unresolved and the Birmingham Six Hugh Callaghan, Patrick
Hill, Gerry Hunter, Richard McIlkenny, Billy Power and Johnny Walker spent their
17th successive Christmas in prison.


New evidence collected by defence lawyers sparked an investigation that cast
deeper doubt over the confessions and forensic tests by which the Six were
jailed for the bombing of a pub in which 21 people died. David Waddington, the
Home Secretary, referred the case back to the Appeal Court for a third time in
August. Yet the insistence of Allan Green, Director of Public Prosecutions, on
having the final police report has left the Six waiting until the New Year for a
full hearing.

They were not the only number-nicknamed prisoners whose convictions were doubted
during 1990 although Lord Denning, former Master of the Rolls, might not agree.
He was forced to apologise for insisting, in a Spectator interview, that if the
Guildford Four had been sentenced to death 'they'd probably have hanged the
right men.'

The case of Enghin Raghip, one of the Tottenham Three convicted of murdering PC
Keith Blakelock, was referred back to the Appeal Court. The Winchester Three,
deported to Ireland once appeal judges agreed their trial for conspiracy to
murder Tom King, were compromised by interviews in which the former Northern
Ireland Secretary had criticised the right to silence. The Maguire Seven, jailed
for up to 14 years as IRA bomb makers, could not be freed: one had died in jail
and the others finished their sentences before the DPP agreed their convictions
were 'unsafe'.

Riots in London welcomed the April Fools Day introduction of the poll tax in
England and Wales, leaving 417 injured and 340 protestors under arrest. The
average community charge set by councils was Pounds 363, 30 per cent more than
the Government had predicted.

John Major turned out not to share Mrs Thatcher's faith in the tax as a
vote-winner and by December Michael Heseltine, the new Environment Secretary,
had embarked on a fundamental review. Too late, however, to stop the levels of
non-payment from threatening to shoot this year's typical charge past Pounds 400
per head. Or to help unemployed bricklayer Bryan Wright, who became the first
man to be jailed for refusing to pay.

Bill Goodwin, the trainee journalist at the Engineer who declined to reveal his
sources, was fined Pounds 5,000 for contempt but avoided prison. Not so Asil
Nadir, founder of the collapsing Polly Peck empire, who took time to raise
Pounds 3.5 million bail while facing fraud charges. The gates also clanged shut
behind Ernest Saunders, Gerald Ronson and Larry Parnes, guilty of illegal
operations to bolster the Guinness share price during its Distillers bid.

Her Majesty's Prisons received overdue recognition as a disgrace in their own
right. Riots of unprecedented savagery at Manchester's Strangeways Prison in
April left one inmate dead and sparked a chain of violent disturbances
elsewhere.

Reformers hoped Lord Justice Woolf's inquiry would shame the Government into
ending the overcrowding and squalor that left prisoners locked up for 23 hours a
day with buckets for toilets. Damning reports from Judge Stephen Tumim, the
Chief Inspector of Prisons, meanwhile condemned the rising suicide rate in
prisons. Appalling remand conditions were highlighted but so was the widespread
use of custody as a dumping ground for the mentally ill.

The impression of a disintegrating criminal justice system was reinforced by the
record crime levels reported by police. Relations between the force and
government were at an all-time low, with ministers accusing the once-favoured
bobbies of poor value for money. The Police Federation's spring conference,
furious at curbs on their housing allowances, listened to Mr Waddington in stony
silence. Lawyers proved tenacious defendants of their own interests as Lord
Mackay, the Lord Chancellor, led a legislative sortie against restrictive
practices.

The Courts and Legal Services Act nodded towards ending the Bar's monopoly of
advocacy in the higher courts, but left a veto in the hands of senior judges.

Continuing a vintage season in the libel courts, Andrew 'it's a model decision'
Neil, editor of the Sunday Times, was awarded Pounds 1,000 damages against
former Sunday Telegraph editor Peregrine 'it's as good as a victory' Worsthorne,
over observations about his affair with former Commons researcher Pamella
Bordes.

The waters around some scandals remained murky: Dr Raymond Crockett, the Harley
Street specialist involved in the sale of human kidneys, was struck off. Colin
Wallace, a former government information officer who claimed he was sacked for
revealing an MI5 dirty tricks campaign in Northern Ireland, was awarded Pounds
30,000 compensation by the Ministry of Defence. Derek Hatton, Liverpool's
Marxist ex-deputy leader was arrested over land deals and Roger Levitt, once
reckoned the cleverest insurance salesman in Britain, was accused of stealing
clients' money.

A clutch of causes celebres ended in anti-climax. Arthur Scargill tangled with
his union's executive over Pounds 1.4 million strike relief from the Soviet
Union diverted into his International Miners' Organisation the Serious Fraud
Office decided not to pursue the case. The Fayed brothers, allegedly mendacious
buyers of Harrods, escaped prosecution as did British companies making pipes
that turned out to be parts for an Iraqi 'supergun'.

P&O European Ferries, owner of the Herald of Free Enterprise, was cleared of
corporate manslaughter. Sir Jeffery Sterling, the P&O chairman, received a
peerage in Mrs Thatcher's resignation honours list.

The public inquiry into the 1988 Lockerbie disaster brought allegations of lax
airport security and speculation that Libya was behind the bombing. But
terrorist acts that delivered the greatest shocks were home grown: victims of
the IRA included Conservative MP Ian Gow. In Ulster, continuing strife produced
75 more deaths, and a new tactic emerged of using kidnapped drivers as 'human
bombs'.

Scandal, as so often in Northern Ireland, was too gracious a word.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 31, 1990, Monday

'TERROR GROUPS COULD HIT BRITAIN BEFORE GULF WAR'

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 591 words


Maverick Arab terror groups could launch attacks in Britain and Europe before
the United Nations January 15 deadline for Iraq to pull out of Kuwait, a leading
expert on terrorism warned today.  Professor Paul Wilkinson said terrorists
sponsored by Baghdad were unlikely to be unleashed until the outbreak of
hostilities to avoid provoking a full-scale military confrontation with the US
forces and their allies.  "But there is a very real danger of a wild card group
impatient to attack launching a New Year campaign.  "Lots of conflicts have
started because some individual or small group has decided to take matters into
their own hands and strike a blow for the cause without waiting for orders from
the high command." The US State Department has already issued warnings to
diplomatic staff and citizens abroad to take precautions, while Middle Eastern
security sources report growing indications of terrorist preparations.
Professor Wilkinson, Director of the Research Institute for the Study of
Conflict and Terrorism, said Britons should also be on red alert.  "I don't
think Saddam wants to provoke a full-scale conflict by a terrorist attack which
could be traced back to Baghdad. But his belligerent, blood-thirsty rhetoric
about the holy war has sown the seeds in maverick groups who could start
something before formal hostilities begin.  "However, once hostilities have
broken out, Saddam will order ruthless attacks on civilian targets, such as
airlines, check-in desks and other public places without any compunction.
"There are justifiable doubts about Iraq's military capabilities but on the
issue of terrorism few Arab states can match its experience or track record."

While smaller maverick groups would call on fiercely pro-Saddam sympathisers
over here for support, more sophisticated state-sponsored terror groups already
have "sleeper" squads, known as "submarines", in position, said Professor
Wilkinson.  They would be armed, with targets chosen, safe houses and transport
secured and lines of communication operating, ready for sabotage, hijacking,
bombings and shootings.  Iraqi plans were set in motion earlier this year, with
notorious terrorist Abu Nidal moving his operational headquarters to Baghdad in
June.  "We do have evidence that the most dangerous groups with real experience
in terrorism have been receiving substantional assistance in terms of training,
money and intelligence from Saddam and are now in place waiting for him to give
the word," said Professor Wilkinson.  "My information is that the Abu Nidal
organisation, which has been responsible for more than 900 casualties,
infiltrated people into Europe between August and October in quite large
numbers. Some came through Yugoslavia where border controls are negligible." He
feared Britain would be a target as one of the leading allies but that European
countries, such as France, with forces in the Gulf as well as the moderate Arab
states could also come under attack.  Airlines, airports, diplomats and key
military and economic centres would be the most likely targets for the
terrorists, who have been able to smuggle weapons and explosives into western
Europe through Iraqi diplomatic channels.  "You can bank on it that the Abu
Nidal group, for instance, would have access to bombs, bomb-making materials,
grenades and machine guns." Professor Wilkinson said it was impossible to
discount the use of chemical weapons but said it was much more likely that
Saddam would order their use in neighbouring moderate Arab states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 2, 1991

IRA strategist dies aged 53

BYLINE: By ANNE MCHARDY

LENGTH: 310 words


DAVID O'CONNELL, one of the leading strategists of the Provisional republican
movement, who is believed to have been Provisional IRA chief of staff in the
early 1970s, died yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 53.

O'Connell, who was one of the founder members of the Provisionals when the IRA
split in 1970, was credited with having invented the car bomb in 1973. A quietly
spoken man who looked older than his years, he was a teacher, who worked briefly
at a vocational handicrafts school in County Donegal.


In 1974, at the height of his power, he gave a television interview in which he
said there would be no end to the campaign of violence until Britain declared
its intention to leave Northern Ireland.

The same year he was one of the Provisional leaders who met Belfast churchmen at
Feackle, County Clare, for talks which led to the 1975 Provisionals' ceasefire.

He resigned from Provisional Sinn Fein four years ago after it dropped its
opposition to fighting elections for parliaments which it did not recognise as
legitimate.

However, he had already been ousted from the inner circle of decision makers
when power effectively passed into the hands of the activists north of the
border, particularly Gerry Adams, 10 years ago.

In 1976 he was imprisoned in Dublin for IRA membership after being arrested on
the day the British ambassador, Christopher Ewart-Biggs, was killed by a
landmine.

In 1977, after his release, he appeared several times at republican rallies in
Northern Ireland. But his activities were peripheral.

O'Connell was born in Cork in 1937, and joined the IRA at the age of 18.

He was wounded in 1956 IRA campaign and interned in the Curragh camp, from which
he escaped in 1958.

He was sentenced in 1960 to eight years in prison for carrying a gun and
ammunition, but served only three.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 3, 1991

The bombers' theoretician: Obituary of Daithi O Conaill

BYLINE: By JOE JOYCE

LENGTH: 476 words


DAITHI O Conaill was one of the founders of the Provisional IRA, a major
influence on its campaign in the early seventies, and among its delegation to
secret talks with the British Government in 1972.

An ascetic-looking school teacher whose public speeches were delivered in an
archaic 'national' style, he joined the IRA in his teens. He took part in the
'Border campaign' of the fifties, including the action in which two IRA members
were killed in a raid on Brookeborough RUC station.


Crossing the border, he was arrested and imprisoned in the Republic for the
first of many times. On his release, he was immediately interned, but escaped a
year later with his life-long political colleague Ruairi O Bradaigh. Back in
action, he was shot six times, and captured by the RUC in County Derry in 1960.

He remained in the IRA leadership after his release in 1963, but was critical of
its more politicised approach when the Northern Ireland civil rights campaign
sparked off the present troubles. He was quartermaster on the Provisional's
first army council, but was never, as reported at the time, the IRA
chief-of-staff. Instead, he was seen as its main theoretician, and is sometimes
credited with having introduced the car bomb to Northern Ireland.

O Conaill was one of a six-man delegation flown to London by the RAF in July
1972 for talks with the then Northern Ireland secretary, William Whitelaw, at
the home of his junior minister, Paul Channon. The talks, which came to nothing,
were set up through a truce previously negotiated by O Conaill and Gerry Adams
with Whitelaw's representatives.

Two years later, the IRA intensified its bombing campaign in Britain. O Conaill
predicted on television that there would be further bombings: within a week 21
people were killed in the Birmingham pub bombings.

He promised an inquiry into why no warnings had been given, though nothing came
of it. However, the bombings did lead indirectly to another ceasefire, helped by
the efforts of a group of Protestant churchmen. It lasted for most of 1975, and
O Conaill was deeply involved, until jailed again in the Republic in July 1975,
in the obscure negotiations which kept it in place.

That ceasefire caused major upheaval within the IRA, however. The
Southern-dominated leadership, including O Conaill, was eventually overthrown by
more militant younger activists from the North.

The split was finally formalised in 1986 when O Bradaigh and O Conaill left Sinn
Fein in protest at its decision to abandon it policy of abstaining from Irish
parliaments.

Also known by the English version of his name, David O'Connell, his wounds from
1960 and a 47-day hunger strike in the Republic in 1977 had damaged his health.
He died suddenly at his home in Dublin.

Daithi O Conaill born Cork 1937; died Dublin, January 1, 1991.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 4, 1991

Deadly IRA terrorist found shot

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 534 words


PATRICK Sheehy, once ranked as one of the IRA's most lethal operators in Britain
and on the Continent, has been found dead of a gunshot wound to the head in a
street of a market town in County Tipperary.

The Garda Siochana last night confirmed from fingerprints that a body found
outside the Post Office at Nenagh just after midnight on Wednesday was Sheehy's.
A Taurus Czech-made automatic pistol, a type not often seen by security forces,
was found under the body.


Sheehy had been using a telephone booth outside the post office and a bullet
hole was found in one of its windows. A pair of silver-framed spectacles were
found in a case in his jacket, part of the disguise he was using while on the
run. Initially security sources both north and south of the border said that the
evidence pointed either to suicide or to an accidental discharge of the gun. One
report in Dublin said that Sheehy had told a friend earlier this week he was
going to kill himself.

However the IRA, in a statement last night, said it was investigating the
circumstances of his death. It confirmed that he was a member.

Neither Garda Siochana nor the Royal Ulster Constabulary could confirm a report
that both had received anonymous tip-offs alerting them to the body in the
telephone booth. A post-mortem was being carried out yesterday.

Sheehy, aged 29, a plasterer and builder from Ballysteen in County Limerick, was
believed to have been carrying out bank robberies in the south-west of Ireland
since his return from a 2 1/2-year bombing and shooting campaign in Britain and
on the Continent. He was wanted by Scotland Yard in connection with an alleged
surveillance operation on the Wiltshire home of Tom King, the Defence Secretary,
who at the time was Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

His fingerprints were found on an IRA 'hit list' of 100 military and political
targets headed by Mrs Thatcher, in a flat in Clapham in December, 1988. More
than 100lbs of Semtex high explosive, a collection of assault rifles and machine
guns and other bomb making equipment were also found.

The bomb factory was discovered by accident when a joyrider trying to break into
a car was shot in the stomach. A man now thought to be Sheehy was seen fleeing
the scene.

Despite his photograph being published in the British and Irish press, Sheehy,
who was adept at disguise, attacked Mill Hill barracks in North london, the
first successful bomb attack in mainland Britain for four years, killing a
soldier and injuring nine others.

A few days later he was believed to have murdered a soldier in Ostend who was
driving home from West Germany.

Sheehy was regarded by the IRA as one of its most effective operators in a
campaign of bombing and political assassination designed to wreak havoc in
Britain on the 20th anniversay of the deployment of troops in Ulster. He was
sent over with a relatively clean record and no sign of any previous involvement
with the IRA.

Although the net had been closing in around him since his return to Ireland in
summer last year, he was linked to a possible attempt to kidnap Tony Ryan, the
chairman of Guinness Peat Aviation.

IRA 'fourth man'. Page 3

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 4, 1991, Friday

Hunted IRA man in suicide mystery

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 490 words


THE APPARENT suicide of Patrick Sheehy, one of the key figures in the IRA
campaign of violence in Britain for the past three years, was last night under
investigation by Gardai in the Irish Republic.

The body of Sheehy, 30, from Co Limerick, was found outside a post office in the
Co Tipperary town of Nenagh early on Wednesday morning. He had been shot once in
the head, and a gun was found under his body, which lay beside a telephone
kiosk.

Sheehy was one of two IRA men who escaped after a bomb factory was uncovered in
a flat in Clapham, south London, just over two years ago. Police believe that he
played a part in a number of IRA attacks in Britain, including the bombing of
army barracks in London and Shropshire.

His photograph has been regularly printed in newspapers and shown on television
as a top IRA suspect. He has been on the run, both in Ireland and the United
Kingdom, since the Clapham incident, presumably disguising his identity.

Irish police took some time to discover that the body was that of Sheehy.

The identification has, however, excited speculation about what happened.
Anonymous calls are said to have been made to Gardai and to the RUC in Belfast,
saying that he was dead.

Rumours abound over his death. According to one unconfirmed version, Sheehy had
become an embarrassment to the IRA, was in disagreement with it over money
matters and felt increasingly isolated.

An IRA statement carried no suggestion that he had been at odds with the
organisation, confirming only that he was a member and expressing deep regret at
his death. It added: ''There are no further details available at the moment. The
circumstances of his death are still being investigated.''

Sheehy may well have felt under increasing pressure, in that Irish police appear
to have been making greater efforts recently to track him down.

He was suspected of taking part in bank robberies and other activities in recent
months, and Gardai are said to have been mounting road checkpoints and carrying
out house searches in an effort to find him.

He would probably have been charged with terrorist offences in the republic, but
would also have faced extradition to Britain.

Irish police, who had said that there were no suspicious circumstances
surrounding the death, will study the report of a post- mortem examination which
was carried out last night.

The suspicion is that Sheehy was active in Britain during 1987 and 1988 but
returned to the republic the next year. He may, however, have gone back to
Britain last summer to help to organise the escalation in IRA violence which
took place at that time.

Lord Fitt, formerly leader of the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour
Party, said: ''It sounds very strange to me. I am very surprised at the manner
of his death and I think we will hear a lot more about this as the days go by.
There may be more to it than meets the eye.''

Bombings and bank raids, page 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 4, 1991, Friday

Crisis in the Gulf: Britain expels 75 after terrorism threats

BYLINE: By HEATHER MILLS and HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 475 words


BRITAIN yesterday expelled 75 Iraqis, including seven diplomats, citing
Baghdad's threats of terrorist actions against the West in the event of war
breaking out in the Gulf.

The Foreign Office said: ''The Iraqis have made a number of public threats. It
is clearly prudent to take all precautions.''

The seven diplomats and one security guard at the embassy were given 24 hours to
leave after the Foreign Office announced that their presence in Britain was
''not conducive to the public good''. The 67 others, mainly students and ''a
handful of businessmen'' were ordered to leave by Kenneth Baker, the Home
Secretary, for ''reasons of national

security''.

The Government's action is expected to trigger tit-for-tat expulsions from the
British Embassy in Baghdad, perhaps of all six remaining staff. The Foreign
Office decided on Tuesday to cut staff in Baghdad from 16 to six.

Saddam Hussein made his first veiled threat of possible terrorist action even
before the invasion of Kuwait, when he told the US Ambassador, April Glaspie,
that, in the event of a war with the West in the Gulf, ''individual Arabs''
would be able to reach the US to carry out revenge attacks. Similar threats from
Baghdad have been made since the 2 August invasion. Western intelligence
agencies have been alert to the possibility of Gulf-related terrorism since the
crisis erupted and there have been reports of an increased traffic across Europe
of known Middle Eastern suspects.

The Iraqi diplomats expelled yesterday were Nattiq Bakir, assistant press
counsellor, Naiel Hassan, press counsellor, Hussein Muhammed Jadoue, third
secretary, Luai Sadik Mahdi, attache, Mudhaffar Mahmoud, assistant cultural
adviser, Salih Faraj Mohammad, first secretary, and Kamel Khurshid Murad,
assistant press counsellor.

Iraq's military intelligence service, the Estikhbarat, has been accused of
involvement in terrorist activities in Britain in the past, but until 2 August
an unwritten agreement was believed to exist between Baghdad and London that no
further operations would be mounted on British soil.

The 1980 London Iranian Embassy siege by Arab gunmen was known to be an
Iraqi-inspired operation. Two years later the Iraqis used the Abu Nidal
terrorist group for an attempted assasination of the Israeli Ambassador.

This is the second wave of expulsions since the invasion of Kuwait. On 17
September the Iraqi military attache, nine staff at the embassy and 23 students
were expelled. Two months later a second secretary was expelled. After
yesterday's expulsions there will be 15 diplomats and 17 non-diplomatic staff
left at the embassy.

There are about 1,000 Iraqi students in Britain. Some are believed to have
enrolled on science courses to provide information and prepare for work on
President Saddam's chemical, biological and nuclear programmes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 4, 1991, Friday

EXPELLED IRAQI DIPLOMAT WARNS ON ARAB TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words


One of the Iraqi diplomats expelled from Britain because of Baghdad's threats of
terrorism left London today - and issued a warning that Western countries risked
attack by Arabs.  Naiel Hassan, a press counsellor at the Iraqi Embassy, said as
he left Heathrow Airport: "I am sure that if there is any attack on Iraq, a lot
of targets in countries in the west will be demolished." Mr Hassan, 43, a
journalist at the embassy and one of eight Iraqis yesterday ordered to leave
Britain within 24 hours, said: "The Foreign Office knows very well that we are
not such dangerous people.  "It seems the Foreign Office does not believe in a
free press and this is one of the reasons why I think I have been expelled.  "I
abide by the law. I haven't done anything against that.  "It is part of the
psychological warfare against Iraq.  "How am I a danger? I don't understand.
These allegations are baseless." Asked if there were Iraqis prepared to carry
out attacks on Western targets, Mr Hassan said: "Every Arab person living abroad
will do that. It is not a matter of Iraq pushing them, it is a matter of belief.
"I don't think seven diplomats will do all these things. You know how the
British deal with diplomats - they know exactly where they go, who they talk
with.  "I am sure the danger will come from within." Asked if Britain would face
such attacks, Mr Hassan said: "You would have to talk to all the Arabs in
Britain to see what their reaction would be towards that. "I don't know a
specific person or a specific name that would do that. It is a matter of belief.
"I think Arabs and Moslems will take action if a war is launched against Iraq.
"When it comes to a matter of war, everybody has a right to defend his belief
and defend his country. It is not a matter of trying to carry on the war in that
area only.  "If Iraq is going to be attacked, all Western countries will have
targets to be hit - and Britain has allied itself with the Americans in this
warfare.  "What kind of targets, I don't know. I know nothing concerning that.
"But we do believe that Arabs here and in all Western countries will launch
something against so many targets if a war is launched against Iraq."

Iraqi officials at Heathrow confirmed that seven diplomats and a security guard
from the embassy had left on a Royal Jordanian Airlines flight to Amman.  First
Secretary Salih Faraj Mohammad, who flew out with his wife Nasir and four young
children, said: "I am not a violent person. I am a family man. This action by
Britain is wrong. This is a very sad day." Third Secretary Hussein Muhammed
Jadoue left with his wife and two young children.  The diplomats were named as
Nattiq Bakir, an assistant press counsellor; Naiel Hassan, press counsellor;
Hussein Muhammed Jadoue, Third Secretary; Luai Sadik Mahdi, an attache;
Mudhaffar Mahmoud, assistant cultural advisor; Salih Faraj Mohammad, First
Secretary; and Kamel Khurshid Murad, an assistant press counsellor.  Officials
refused to name the guard.  The Iraqi Ambassador to London, Dr Azmi Shafiq
Al-Salihi, saw the group off at the airport.  Dr Al-Salihfi was called to the
Foreign Office to be told that eight of his staff had been declared persona non
grata.  The Foreign Office said when announcing the expulsions: "The Iraqis have
made a number of public threats. It is clearly prudent to take all precautions."
The Iraqi embassy is now left with 15 diplomats and 17 other staff, compared
with the six staff remaining in the British Embassy in Baghdad.  Due to follow
the diplomats back to Baghdad are 67 other Iraqis, mainly students, who were
issued with deportation orders yesterday.  The Home Office gave them a week to
leave and said they were being deported "for reasons of national security".
Last September Britain expelled 10 Iraqis, including the military attache, and
in November another diplomat was ordered to leave the country. On both occasions
Iraq responded with tit-for-tat expulsions.

A Foreign Office spokesman said after being told of Mr Hassan's comments: "That
serves to justify the decision that has been taken." Tory MP Anthony
Beaumont-Dark (Birmingham Selly Oak) called for all Iraqis in Britain who were
not political refugees to be repatriated.  "Only those who are political
refugees from that tyrant Saddam Hussein should be allowed to stay here. We will
have enough problems if war breaks out, without the police having to watch 5,000
Iraqis." He said Britain should use Iraq's frozen assets to repatriate the
Iraqis.

As the expelled Iraqis left there was confusion about exactly how many embassy
staff were on the flight.  Iraqi officials at the airport said seven diplomats
and a security guard were on the jet.  But a spokesman at the Iraqi Embassy in
London said only six diplomats and some family members left today.  In total
eight embassy staff were ordered to leave by 9am today. The spokesman said two
members of staff had left three months ago and were in Baghdad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 5, 1991

Full IRA send-off for dead fugitive: Masked gunmen fire three volleys in salute
of Sheehy

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 499 words


THE IRA yesterday accorded Patrick Sheehy a full paramilitary send off, in an
attempt to discount theories that he had fallen out with the organisation over
money or policy.

Before invited journalists, masked gunmen in paramilitary uniform fired three
volleys at a remote churchyard in County Limerick, five miles from Mr Sheehy's
home village of Ballysteen. The IRA said the salute was to avoid confrontation
with the police at his funeral today.


It now appears that both the IRA and the Gardai accept that Mr Sheehy killed
himself with his own gun after making a number of calls from a telephone kiosk
outside the post office at Nenagh, Co Tipperary in the early hours of Wednesday.

Republican sources in Limerick and Belfast discounted suggestions that Mr Sheehy
had killed himself because of missing funds or a policy difference, although it
is known that he called an IRA leader in the days before his death. One
Republican source was quoted as saying yesterday: 'Sheehy was a committed
volunteer. There was no question that he was in conflict with the organisation.'

He said that had there been any question of embezzlement, Mr Sheehy would have
been court-martialled and 'dealt with accordingly'.

A more likely theory is that Mr Sheehy, who was known to suffer from fits of
depression, felt increasingly isolated after three years on the run. He had to
move frequently from one IRA safehouse to another in the west of Ireland. As
armed undercover detectives were moving in on him, his eventual capture or a
shoot-out with the Gardai was inevitable.

His use to the IRA was diminishing all the time. Sheehy had committed himself
full-time to the organisation, but was too well known to be of much use. He was
already being sought in connection with the discovery of a bomb factory in
Clapham, south London, in December 1988, and the attack on the Parachute
Regiment in Ternhill, Shropshire, in March 1989, and a string of other attacks,
including the shooting of a British serviceman in Belgium.

One theory is that he may have been turned down for further gun and bomb attacks
in Britain by the IRA's general headquarters staff, who run operations outside
Ireland, because he was too well known and might compromise the rest of the
team.

The results of the post mortem examination being carried out yesterday by Dr
John Harbison, the state pathologist, should be known to police on Monday.

A Spanish-made Taurus 9mm semi-automatic pistol was found under his body. The
Gardai were yesterday linking the pistol to a consignment of Libyan weapons
shipped into the country in 1985 and 1986.

A similar weapon was found in the Clapham flat, where police discovered Mr
Sheehy's passport with a signature matching the handwriting on a hit list of
more than 100 British military and political figures.

Mr Sheehy will be buried at Beigh cemetery, near his home. His mother, Marita,
said: 'This house is full of sadness. We just want to be left alone.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 5, 1991, Saturday

Crisis in the Gulf: Terror threat by expelled envoys

BYLINE: By ANNIKA SAVILL

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 415 words


IRAQI diplomats expelled from Britain warned before leaving London yesterday
that all Western countries would become targets of attack if a Gulf war broke
out.

''If Iraq is going to be attacked, all Western countries will have targets to be
hit and Britain has allied itself with the Americans in this warfare,'' Naiel
Hassan, the Iraqi press counsellor, said before leaving Heathrow airport. He
added that ''every Arab person living abroad'' would be prepared to carry out
the attacks. ''It is not a matter of Iraq pushing them, it is a matter of
belief.''

Britain had been aware since the beginning of the Gulf crisis that there was a
risk of such an Iraqi campaign, but had no firm evidence to act on. The turning
point, Iraqi opposition sources said yesterday, came with intelligence reports
of a meeting of the Iraqi Baath party and Revolutionary Command Council in
Baghdad on 24 December; after that meeting, orders went out to Baath cadres in
the West to select hard- core members considered capable of sabotage and
terrorism, including suicide attacks, were a war to take place. The British
learnt of the plan following an intelligence operation closely co-ordinated with
the CIA.

The report was what Britain had been looking for since the invasion of Kuwait.
Before 2 August, British officials had been concentrating on the risk of a
Palestinian terror campaign following the Palestinian raid on an Israeli beach
last summer. But after the Iraqi invasion, they had to readjust their
operations. As part of the liaison between US and British agencies, suspects
were identified and followed, but not until the 24 December report did British
authorities have sufficient basis for a round of expulsions.

In an unusual sequence of events, Britain this week started reducing its embassy
staff in Baghdad, prior to expelling the Iraqis. The staff has been cut from 16
to six; to show it means business as the crisis deepens, Britain would ideally
wish to get all its diplomats out. But bearing in mind the lingering domestic
criticism over the withdrawal of British embassy staff in Kabul in 1989, which
was seen as an act of hysteria depriving Britain of the chance to play a
diplomatic role, the Government would be reluctant overtly to pull all its staff
out of Baghdad.

An Iraqi tit-for-tat expulsion would neatly resolve that problem; to retaliate
fully for the deportation of their seven, the Iraqis would have to throw out all
six remaining British embassy staff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 8, 1991, Tuesday

Khartoum releases Britons' killers

BYLINE: From ALFRED TABANOF, Reuters

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 389 words


KHARTOUM - Sudan yesterday freed five Palestinians sentenced to death for
killing seven people, including five Britons, in gun and bomb attacks here. The
decision brought a sharp protest from Britain's Foreign Office and the family of
four of the victims.

Sudanese Radio quoted the chief judge of the Khartoum court, Ahmed al-Bashir, as
ordering the immediate release of the five after he said they had been pardoned
by the families of the Britons killed in the May 1988 attacks on a hotel and the
British Club.

The families of two Sudanese victims had accepted thousands of dollars in blood
money, the radio said. Payment of blood money to the relatives of the dead is a
traditional way of settling feuds under Islamic sharia law and also under
Sudanese tribal practices.

The dead Britons were Sally Rockett, a 32-year-old teacher, and a family of four
- Christopher Rolfe, 35, an aid worker; his wife, Clare, 37, and their two
children, aged three and one.

During their trial the Palestinians, widely suspected of belonging to Abu
Nidal's Fatah Revolutionary Council (FRC), said the hotel and the club were spy
nests and thus legitimate targets.

In September 1988, the Sudanese Supreme Court linked the final decision on the
fate of the five, who were already sentenced to death, to a section of the penal
code under which victims' relatives can insist that killers be executed,
pardoned or made to give blood money.

In London, a Foreign Office official, Douglas Hogg, yesterday summoned the
Sudanese ambassador, Sayed El Rasheed Abushama, and ''expressed the Government's
dismay that convicted terrorists had been freed and that this might encourage
others to commit similar offences, particularly at this time'', a Foreign Office
spokesman said.

The judge's decision was criticised by Paul Martin, the brother of Clare Rolfe.
''When terrorists murder someone it's murder,'' he said. ''The fact that it's
done for political motives is irrelevant.''

BEIRUT - The FRC said yesterday it had released four Belgian hostages in
response to efforts by Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, Reuter reports.

The organisation did not say where or when it had released them. The four
hostages are members of a family of eight seized from the yacht Silco in the
eastern Mediterranean in 1987. Four have already been released.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 11, 1991

The Gulf Crisis: Anti-Saddam coalition steeled for international retaliation -
Even a diplomatic settlement could trigger spate of attacks by maverick groups /
Airports, planes and embassies could be among targets

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 674 words


GOVERNMENTS in the coalition against Iraq are bracing themselves for the
possibility of a series of terrorist attacks on soft targets in the event of war
against Saddam Hussein's armed forces.

A spate of attacks by maverick terrorist groups in the Middle East could even be
triggered by a unilateral Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait and a diplomatic
settlement, it is felt.


Attacks by groups sponsored by Baghdad or by Iraqi agents could range from
scuttling ships in the Suez Canal where Egypt has stepped up security to
throwing a small amount of poisonous chemical into a crowded airport lounge,
underground station, or hotel lobby.

Threats by Saddam Hussein were echoed last week by Naiel Hassan, the Iraqi press
counsellor who was one of seven diplomats and a further 67 Iraqis, mainly
students, who were ordered out of Britain. 'If Iraq is going to be attacked,' Mr
Hassan said, 'all Western countries will have targets to be hit and Britain has
allied itself with the Americans in this warfare.'

This may be rhetoric and bluster. But independent analysts yesterday pointed to
the track record of Saddam's regime as well as a potential new terrorist weapon
Iraq's stock of chemical and biological weapons.

Thousands of Kurdish civilians were killed by gas at Halabja in 1988; the
Estikhbarat, Iraq's military intelligence, has been implicated in a number of
assassinations, including the killing of Abdul Razzaq al-Nayef, a former Iraqi
prime minister, in 1980. It is also believed to have been involved in the attack
on Shlomo Argov, the Israeli ambassador, in London three years later.

Baghdad is host to Abu Nidal's group, sometimes referred to as the
Fatah-Revolutionary Council and Black September, Abu Ibrahim's May 15
Organisation, and Abul Abbas's Palestine Liberation Front, which was responsible
for the Achille Lauro hijack in 1985.

Paul Wilkinson, professor of international relations at St Andrew's University,
believes that Saddam would very likely unleash terrorist attacks after an
outbreak of hostilities in the Gulf as an auxiliary weapon to disrupt and
demoralise the coalition partners, particularly Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the Gulf
emirates.

He said yesterday that other targets could include British and US airliners,
airports and embassies and diplomats. This view was supported by Dr Paul Rogers,
of Bradford University, who also referred to the possibility of terrorist
attacks on US bases around the world.

There are about 5,000 Iraqi nationals in Britain. Many are middle-class
professionals, including doctors and businessmen, and many are opponents of
Saddam Hussein's regime. The Home Office, MI5, and MI6 have details at least on
those who came to Britain relatively recently. Surveillance and checks on those
led to the expulsion of the Iraqi nationals from Britain last week.

In the United States, the FBI is interviewing Arab-American business and
community leadersin an attempt to gather information about the possibility of
terrorist activity, the Washington Post reported this week.

But US intelligence reports suggest that terrorist attacks would be likely to
occur outside the country.

Extra security precautions have been taken to protect American facilities in
Germany, where US schoolchildren have been given 'bomb briefings' on how to
react in a terrorist attack. In the part of Bonn where many American diplomats
live, post boxes have been sealed and guards are electronically searching cars.

At least eight airlines have cancelled flights to the Middle East. Lufthansa,
the German national carrier, announced on Tuesday it intended to send a jet to
Tel Aviv to pick up Germans vacationing or living there. The Bonn governmentlast
weekend urged all Germans to leave Israel before January 15.

But while Europe and US bases could be subjected to a series of sporadic,
uncoordinated, terrorist attacks, in both the short and long term, Saudi Arabia
and the Gulf states and, in particular, large oil terminals are the most
vulnerable targets.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 11, 1991, Friday

Crisis in the Gulf: Cabinet told of moves against Iraqi terrorism

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN and HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 698 words


IN A CABINET meeting dominated by preparations for possible war in the Gulf, the
Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker, yesterday informed ministers of contingency plans
to combat Iraqi-inspired terrorist attacks in Britain.

His briefing to the Cabinet, described as ''sombre'' by one minister, came after
threats of terrorism by President Saddam Hussein, who has called on his
supporters to ''reach out to harm aggressors in the whole world''.

Mr Baker made it clear that he was ready to take action to combat terrorism. In
September, Britain expelled 23 Iraqi students regarded by the security
authorities as terrorist suspects.

It was announced last week that a further 67 would be deported, but internment
for the 5,000 Iraqis still in Britain - most of them dissidents against the
Saddam regime - has been ruled out for the time being.

The Government will use an emergency debate in the Commons, to be opened by the
Prime Minister, to demonstrate a united front in support of military action. But
some Tory MPs, led by Sir Ian Gilmour, a former Foreign Office minister,
expressed concern yesterday at the failure to provide ''a diplomatic fig-leaf''
for President Saddam to withdraw.

Downing Street said the Cabinet was united in its support for military action,
if the Iraqis refused to withdraw from Kuwait. Douglas Hurd, the Foreign
Secretary, told the Cabinet that sanctions alone would not force the Iraqis to
withdraw. In an interview to be broadcast today on the BBC World Service, Mr
Hurd added that sanctions could be continued against Iraq after a withdrawal
from Kuwait in order to force Iraq to dismantle its chemical, biological and
potential nuclear

weapons.

John Major, the Prime Minister, briefed colleagues on the high state of morale
among the troops he visited this week in the Gulf. William Waldegrave, the
Secretary of State for Health, briefed his Cabinet colleagues on the readiness
of the NHS to cope with casualties and Malcolm Rifkind, the Secretary of State
for Transport, reported on the hazards facing commercial shipping and airlines
in the area in the event of war.

The mood in Whitehall last night was that Saddam Hussein appeared bent on war
after the failure of Wednesday's talks between the US Secretary of State and the
Iraqi Foreign Minister. The prevailing view was that President Saddam had
convinced himself that he should risk a conflict which either he could withstand
or which could be brought to a halt under circumstances in which he might be
able to keep some of his gains.

The Iraqi Ambassador, Azmi Salihi, was summoned to the Foreign Office yesterday
to be told of Britain's recall of all but one of its remaining six staff at the
Baghdad embassy. The British Ambassador, Harold Walker, accompanied by two other
diplomats and two embassy guards, arrived by car in the Jordanian capital,
Amman, last night.

Sweden has agreed to represent British interests in Iraq during what was
described as a ''temporary'' recall.

Following last week's expulsions, Iraq still has 15 diplomats accredited to its
London embassy. It is expected that the Foreign Office will call soon for a
reduction in that number.

Five hundred cruise missiles - armed with conventional warheads - could be fired
in the first 24 hours of conflict in the Gulf, Tom King, the Secretary of State
for Defence, appeared to confirm last night.

When the figures were put to Mr King in an HTV interview, he said: ''It will be
very substantial. There is the greatest concentration of firepower that has been
gathered in a theatre of war since the Second World War. These figures are
figures to impress on the Iraqis the absolute futility of Iraq going to war.''

Conventionally armed cruise missiles are deployed on the two US battleships in
the region, and there are also air-launched missiles from B-52 bombers based in
Diego Garcia.

Forty-nine per cent of British people want military action against Iraq
immediately or within weeks if it has not left Kuwait by 15 January, according
to a Gallup poll in today's Daily Telegraph. Some 43 per cent said sanctions
should have more time, though 60 per cent thought force should in any event be
used by mid-March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 12, 1991

Airlines prime terrorist targets, warns Rifkind

BYLINE: By PATRICK DONOVAN, Transport Editor

LENGTH: 480 words


THE Transport Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, yesterday warned that the risk of air
terrorism will increase substantially if war breaks out in the Gulf.

Passengers should weigh up their need to travel, since the Government 'cannot
guarantee security' against the threat of terrorist action, he said.


Underlining how seriously the Government is taking Iraqi threats to mount a
bombing campaign in mainland Europe, the minister said that civil aviation was
likely to be a prime target.

Urging passengers to co-operate with 'inconvenient' security measures, Mr
Rifkind urged them to keep luggage to a minimum and to avoid carrying 'all but
the smallest electrical items.' He added: 'Despite the intensified security
measures, the risk, although it cannot be quantified will increase substantially
in the event of hostilities. No government can guarantee security. Members of
the public should be aware of this when deciding whether to travel by air.

'In the past, civil aviation has attracted attacks. Terrorist groups have the
capability to operate from countries outside the Middle East, including Europe.
Governments, including the United Kingdom's, have required airports and airlines
to take additional security measures to protect their operations. Throughout the
world, aviation security is at an unprecedentedly high level.'

Labour's shadow transport secretary, John Prescott, last night said that
Britain's airport security would be much tighter if ministers had funded better
inspection equipment. 'The Secretary of State has to admit he can't give
passengers security cover. Hundreds of millions of pounds is being spent in the
Gulf, but they are not prepared to find enough money to finance full inspection
of luggage.'

British Airways was yesterday planning to post its security experts to oversee
airline operations in a range of foreign airports as part of a 40-point Gulf war
contingency plan. All information on terrorist action from intelligence sources
would be assessed carefully, the company said.

BA last night refused to give details of the contingency plan. But it said this
would include additional overseas security personal, passenger and baggage
reconciliation, protection of checked bags and screening of transfer luggage. A
spokesman added: 'The root of all safety is good threat assessment, which is
applied in conjunction with intelligence forces worldwide and the Department of
Transport where relevant.'

The International Air Transport Association (Iata) yesterday said in Montreal
that it was passing on warnings about risks arising from the crisis to member
airlines but not to the public directly.

A spokesman said: 'We don't want to alarm people unnecessarily.' He added: 'As
we get closer to a conflict, our members could be put into a more serious
situation, where aircraft and passengers could be at risk.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 13, 1991, Sunday

Crisis in the Gulf: Red alert for terrorism at airports

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 698 words


ANTI-TERRORIST measures on a scale not seen before in Britain have been drawn up
to prevent Iraqi-sponsored attacks on civilian targets. Plans include refusing
to accept mail and cargo sent from some European airports, closing UK airports
to non- passengers, and rounding up Iraqis who are considered security risks and
detaining them in camps before they are expelled.

A risk assessment by the security services has concluded that if war breaks out
in the Gulf, the terrorist threat from Iraq and its Palestinian allies will be
high.

Scotland Yard and the airport authorities have responded by stepping up security
and by planning a series of extraordinary measures in the event of terrorist
attacks. Senior officials from the Home Office and police met yesterday to
discuss anti-terrorist measures, including a round-up of recently-arrived
Iraqis.

In one of the most drastic moves, the Government is prepared to ban the
non-travelling public from Heathrow and other large airports. Only passengers
with valid tickets would be allowed to enter terminals.

British airlines may be told to stop flying from some overseas airports because
of the ease with which terrorists could get bombs past local security. Athens is
one airport considered risky.

Government aviation security experts have already tested security at foreign
airports. The Department of Transport has plans to order airlines not to pick up
cargo or mail at blacklisted airports, although this would severely disrupt
trade.

The leading airlines of Britain and the United States are key targets in the
event of war. Security has already been tightened at Heathrow, with an increase
in armed patrols and the X-raying of luggage.

Terrorist experts have warned the Government that Iraqi-sponsored terrorists,
probably Palestinians, have already been placed in position in the West. The
threat assessment, which has been in preparation since the invasion of Kuwait on
2 August, said the danger of attacks against Britain was high, although the
first attacks were expected in other European countries.

If war in the Gulf escalates, people considered by the Government to pose a
threat to national security - likely to be a small minority of the Iraqis living
in Britain - will be arrested under immigration laws and sent to detention
centres manned by Royal Military Police. A number of these centres are being
readied by the Ministry of Defence. It is understood they are on Salisbury
Plain.

According to immigration sources, hundreds of Iraqis have been allowed into the
country since the start of the crisis as refugees seeking asylum. They were
given temporary visas after the Heathrow Immigration Centre assessed their
cases. A final decision on whether to allow them to stay will be taken soon.

Many of the Iraqis are being put in bed-and-breakfast accommodation, because the
immigration centres are overcrowded. Police sources said it was difficult to
maintain checks on them and many had already left their temporary accommodation
without leaving forwarding addresses.

There are fears that the Mukhabarat, the Iraqi secret service, may have slipped
in some of its agents among those seeking asylum, and police will find it
difficult to check them out.

Fears of terrorist attacks and of civilians being caught up in a war led to
other steps yesterday. The Foreign Office is advising British tourists to
postpone non- essential visits to Israel and the occupied territories, as well
as Algeria, Jordan and Yemen.

''British citizens without essential reasons for staying in Israel and the
occupied territories should consider leaving,'' a Foreign Office spokeswoman
said. Iraqi officials have frequently warned that they would attack Israel in
the event of war in the Gulf.

Since the Kuwait invasion, similar Foreign Office warnings have been issued for
Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Bahrain, Qatar and eastern Saudi Arabia.

In Lagos, Nigeria, armed police were on duty yesterday near the British High
Commission and the Iraqi, Saudi Arabian and US embassies, as well as the US
Information Service office. The government also deployed armoured vehicles and
police near a US diplomatic mission in Kaduna.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 13, 1991, Sunday

Crisis in the Gulf: The threat on the home front

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT and JULIAN NUNDY, additional reporting by DEAN NELSON

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 1198 words


THE threat of terrorist attacks against Britain during a Gulf war is high,
according to a secret assessment carried out by the security services. Airports,
railway stations, and tourist attractions could all be targeted.

The assessment, which formed the basis of Home Secretary Kenneth Baker's
presentation to the Cabinet last week, says terrorists may have already
infiltrated Britain.

But the first attacks are expected in continental Europe. Americans and Britons
in Athens are likely targets, it says, because terrorists find it easier to
operate in Greece. Athens' airport could also be used to place bombs on
aircraft.

The Government has already acted to reduce the threat by expelling 75 Iraqis
suspected of terrorist activity. One security source described them as the
''hard core''. But hundreds of Iraqis have been given temporary asylum in
Britain since the invasion of Kuwait and the security services and Scotland Yard
are worried that the Mukhabarat, the Iraqi intelligence agency, may have agents
among them. Attacks could also be carried out by proxy groups of Palestinians,
according to the assessment.

Airports and aircraft, especially British and American, could be in the firing
line if terrorist groups heed Saddam Hussein's pleas to attack the Allies. At
Heathrow, armed police patrols have been stepped up. Security limiting access to
the airport has increased and ticket and identification checks are being carried
out to the point ''where it is almost a nuisance'', said one source.

There are also plans to restrict public access in certain areas, including
cordoning off balconies which overlook check-in desks. Luggage checks, both
X-ray and hand search, are being stepped up in Terminal Three, where most
international flights arrive. Airport authorities are warning passengers,
especially those on American flights, to expect delays because of the extra
security.

Fifteen British-based Iraqi dissidents, who have been targeted by Baghdad-backed
hit squads, have received fresh warnings from Special Branch officers to be on
their guard against possible attack. The dissidents, members of Muslim, Kurdish
and democratic opposition groups, were named on a hit list discovered by Special
Branch detectives in 1988.

Scotland Yard detectives have visited several opposition groups to warn them
that they are at risk from Iraqi-sponsored assassins. ''They warned us that
Ba'athist agents were in the country, and that we should be very careful,'' said
Radhi Al-Hassan, spokesman for the Organisation of Islamic Action. They were
warned again last week when they picketed the Iraqi embassy to protest against
the occupation of Kuwait.

The risk assessment also looks at the threat of attacks on Americans in Britain.
US officials and tourists throughout the world have been warned by the State
Department in Washington to take care. According to the State Department, there
have been repeated examples of renewed terrorist activity including surveillance
of potential American targets since August.

US diplomats abroad have reported suspicious people hanging around their
apartments, studying their homes, and cars with occupants using videotape
cameras repeatedly driving past their embassies. Security officials said they
were trying to determine the routines of officials, their routes to work, the
cars used and precautions taken. Military installations have also been reported
to be under surveillance.

In the United States, the FBI has stepped up its monitoring of Iraqi diplomats
and has begun to interview members of the Arab business and political community.
US Immigration estimates 8,500 Iraqis, including students and businessmen, are
registered in America.

President George Bush has intervened personally to try and head off the
terrorist threat. During his talks with President Assad of Syria in Geneva last
November, he asked Assad to help persuade Palestinian terrorist groups not to
attack Western targets in the event of war.

Much of the speculation over who would carry out terrorist attacks on Iraq's
behalf has concentrated on Palestinian groups. Despite protestations by PLO
officials that the Palestine Liberation Organisation has not taken a firm stance
in favour of Iraq, Yasser Arafat, the PLO chairman, said last week that he would
stand by Iraq if it becomes embroiled in war.

His opponents will interpret this as, at the very least, an authorisation to his
followers that they can fight on Iraq's behalf.

But the Palestinian group most likely to carry out operations on Iraq's behalf
is firmly outside the PLO and opposed to Mr Arafat. Abu Nidal's
Fatah-Revolutionary Council is credited with some of the worst terrorist
violence.

In December 1985, his men launched attacks on civilians at Rome and Vienna
airports, killing 14 people. Abu Nidal, whose real name is Sabri el-Banna, has
moved headquarters and loyalties in the past between Libya, Syria and Iraq. He
is currently believed to be based in Iraq.

Of other Palestinian groups which come under the PLO umbrella and are expected
to support Saddam Hussein, the best known is the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine, headed by George Habash.

It is credited with some of the most sophisticated guerrilla training in the
Middle East and Dr Habash has repeatedly stated his willingness to attack
Western targets on Iraq's behalf since last August.

Another group is the Palestine Liberation Front of Mahmoud Abbas Zaidan, or Abul
Abbas, whose guerrillas hijacked the Italian cruise liner the Achille Lauro in
1985, killing a crippled American passenger, Leon Klinghoffer. He has promised
to attack targets in Europe and the Middle East if war breaks out in the Gulf.

Ironically, the Popular Front- General Command of Ahmed Jibril, one of the most
radical Palestinian groups, could well abstain from any terrorist campaign
because of Mr Jibril's allegiance to Syria, in whose army he was once an
officer. Syria is part of the coalition against Iraq and has troops in Saudi
Arabia.

Terror, however, does not always come from known sources. One of the most
effective terrorist groups in recent years was the Lebanese Armed Revolutionary
Faction which was responsible for attacks on US and Israeli diplomats in Europe
in the first half of the 1980s. The group was led by Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, a
Lebanese Christian, who was sentenced to life imprisonment by a Paris court in
1987.

Such was the success of this group that the US State Department's
counter-terrorism agency devoted a special study to it and concluded that it
consisted of probably no more than 20 members, all relatives and friends of
Ibrahim Abdallah from north Lebanon.

The group, protected from outside infiltration by its small, cell-like nature,
was a good example of how a modern, freelance terrorist group should operate.

Ibrahim Abdallah himself had been trained by Dr Habash's organisation in the
1970s and, while Ibrahim Abdallah was credited with organising attacks, he was
never known to pull a trigger.

The frightening significance of his operation was that it showed how relative
unknowns could organise themselves into an effective terrorist unit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 13, 1991, Sunday

Iraq relies on bomb and bullet squads

BYLINE: by James Adams, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 771 words


IT IS a sign of troubled times: nobody can rent or buy an armour-plated car in
Britain for love nor money. So serious is the threat of terrorism as the Gulf
moves towards war, that security and protection firms are thriving and
businessmen are preparing for the worst.

The alarm has been prompted as much by bloodthirsty calls from Baghdad as by
government warnings. A worldwide terror alert was issued last week by Whitehall
to military bases, embassies and businesses that are likely targets if war
breaks out.

On Friday, the United States State Department issued a warning that Iraqi-backed
terrorists were planning to launch attacks throughout the world; British
intelligence believes targets in this country are high on the list. Ministers
have been told that the main targets are airlines, oil depots, North Sea oil
platforms, trains and railway stations, embassies and military bases.

For the first time, the intelligence units fear that terrorists could use
biological weapons, perhaps even poisoning a city's water supply. But while
Western intelligence takes the danger seriously, it believes biological weapons
would be difficult to transport and dangerous to use. As a result, intelligence
officers predict that the greatest threat will still come from bombs and
bullets.

Ministries have drawn up contingency plans, including heightened security and
more patrols at military bases. Prominent British companies have been warned
that they could be targets. British Airways has prepared a 40-point action plan
to increase security, and Virgin Atlantic is planning similar measures. On
Friday, Malcolm Rifkind, the transport secretary, warned travellers to be on the
alert.

Security has been heightened at North Sea oil platforms and at the port of
Rotterdam, which has the world's largest oil-refining complex. Media
organisations such as the BBC have also been told that they could be a target.

The precautions have been taken in response to Saddam Hussein's threat to
''extend Iraq's battle to the whole world''.

While the security forces have no specific intelligence about attacks, the
threat is clearly serious. The Home Office has already expelled eight Iraqi
diplomats and 67 other Iraqis living in Britain. According to a senior Home
Office official, this was a precaution and was not based on evidence that
attacks were being planned.

There are about 6,000 Iraqis living in Britain but there are currently no plans
to introduce internment if a war starts. The government believes the vast
majority are hostile to Saddam and are likely to support his overthrow.

Those that do support the Iraqi president are largely known and some are under
surveillance. However, the Home Office admits it has no full list of Iraqis
resident here.

Another threat could come from terrorists who have entered Britain in the past
few months, possibly posing as Kuwaiti refugees after Iraq seized thousands of
Kuwaiti passports.

Even before the invasion of Kuwait last August, Saddam had gathered the world's
most feared terrorist leaders in Baghdad. The capital is the headquarters of Abu
Nidal, leader of the Fatah Revolutionary Council. His group is responsible for
the attempted assassination of the Israeli ambassador in London in 1982 and the
1985 attacks in Rome and Vienna airports.

Abul Abbas, head of the Palestine Liberation Front, is also in Baghdad. In all,
as many as 1,400 terrorists have gathered in the Iraqi capital.

There is little doubt they intend to strike at British and American targets, but
the intelligence services hope to thwart most attacks and regard some threats as
bluster. For five months the intelligence agencies have been on alert for
suspicious activity, with satellites listening to conversations and computers
analysing unusual traffic. Little of value has emerged and there have been few
signs that dozens of terrorists have infiltrated Europe and the United States.

None the less the Americans have concluded they are ''incredibly vulnerable''
and are tightening up security on incoming flights. The administration is even
considering opening the National Command Centre outside Washington, designed for
use in a nuclear war.

One other possibility is that the Iraqi-backed groups could get support from
European terrorist groups. British security is aware of the role of the IRA, and
the Germans are suspicious of what remains of the Red Army Faction. But raids in
Germany last week on homes of known Arab radicals produced no new information.
For the moment the intelligence agencies and terrorists are watching and
waiting.

Additional reporting by Rebecca Fowler

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gulf Crisis

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 14, 1991, Monday

Crisis in the Gulf: Britain braces for terrorism with new levels of security

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 402 words


UNPRECEDENTED levels of security are being introduced at airports, government
buildings and military establishments this week against the heightened threat of
an Iraqi-inspired terrorist attack in the United Kingdom.

Extra armed police officers have already been drafted into Heathrow airport to
provide increased protection both inside terminals and around the airport
perimeter. ''Security is at its highest ever; it will be increased even further
if war breaks out,'' a Heathrow spokeswoman said.

Tighter airport security is only one of a series of measures being taken by the
Government, and it will be intensified if fighting begins. The public may find
themselves more aware of the terrorist threat than at the height of recent IRA
campaigns, and appeals for vigilance have already been made.

Government employees and those working for companies with United States, defence
or oil industry links will face stiffer identity and baggage checks; more police
are likely to be on duty, although not always visibly, at public buildings and
major bus and railway stations; and police and army patrols around military
bases and sites such as Aldermaston are being stepped up. Special Branch and
Diplomatic Protection Branch security around public figures and embassies has
also been intensified.

The Heathrow spokeswoman said the banning from terminals of non-passengers and
greater restrictions on movement inside were being considered. British Airways
has prepared a 40-point plan which includes stricter baggage handling rules,
restrictions on late check-in and transit passengers and more security around
catering and cargo. Although British Airways and Heathrow are not advising
passengers to check in any earlier than normal, the intensive passenger checks
operated by some airlines, such as El Al, are likely to produce delays.

The Department of Transport confirmed yesterday that under last year's Aviation
and Maritime Security Act it has powers to ban airlines from flying to airports
considered insecure. A number in parts of Europe and the Middle East are likely
to have been already identified.

Since last August police and intelligence services have been monitoring Iraqis
and their sympathisers in Britain.

Security sources believe the main terrorist threat is not from the Iraqis, many
of whom are exiled dissidents, but from Palestinian groups allied to President
Saddam Hussein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           January 15, 1991, Tuesday

IRAQIS IN BRITAIN 'RESPECT THE LAW'

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 290 words


Iraqis remaining in Britain are "good citizens" and will respect the law, a
senior diplomat said today as 28 embassy staff were expelled from London.  Mr
Zuhair Ibrahim rejected fears of terrorist attacks and said the Foreign Office
action against his colleagues was unjustified. More than a dozen armed police
together with Special Branch men and airport security staff were on duty as the
embassy officials and 47 of their dependents flew out of Heathrow on a flight to
Amman, Jordan.  They staged a small impromptu demonstration at the departure
gates, shouting Arabic slogans supporting Saddam Hussein.  But in sharp contrast
to a similar explusion move earlier this month when one of the departing
diplomats warned of terrorist activity, Mr Ibrahim was at pains to play down the
threat.  The diplomat in charge of plenipotentiary matters and effectively the
deputy ambassador was at the airport to bid them farewell and said they were not
worried about returning to Iraq.  "They were happy and laughing and they do not
care about returning to Baghdad. It is their country and they have to return one
day or another.  "But they haven't done anything wrong and that is why they are
sorry to be leaving." Asked whether fears of terrorism were justified he
declared: "Our diplomats are disciplined and do not indulge in the kind of
activities mentioned in your media. We have informed the Foreign Office in a
note that we deny and reject these allegations.  "The rest of the Iraqi
community have been living here for many years and are good citizens and have
not done anything wrong.  "They are staying in this country and will respect
your laws and I do not think that they will behave in a way that you consider
wrong," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          January 16, 1991, Wednesday

SECURITY RISK IRAQIS DETAINED

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


Twenty-eight Iraqis threatened with deportation from Britain were detained today
within hours of the UN deadline expiring because they posed a risk to national
security, it disclosed tonight.  The move reflects mounting concern that
President Saddam will order terrorist attacks in Britain and round the world if
war breaks out.  The Iraqis - among the 67, mostly students, issued with notices
of intention to deport earlier this month - were taken into custody around the
country in joint immigration and police operations.  Seven others who have still
to leave Britain must report daily to the police and live at a specified
address.  The Home Office has issued deportation notices to 95 businessmen and
students since September on the grounds that their presence was "not conducive
to the public good for reasons of national security".  The Foreign Office has
also expelled 36 diplomats and embassy staff so far this year.  A Home Office
spokesman said: "The immigration service and the police at the request of the
Home Office have today detained 28 Iraqi nationals who had been served with
notices of intention to deport.  "They were detained under Immigration Act 1971
powers after full consideration of all their circumstances and an assessment of
the risk they pose to national security."

Sixty of the 95 ordered deportees have so far left Britain.  The Home Office
said about 25 of the Iraqis facing deportation and still in the UK had appealed
against the orders, while a small number had applied for political asylum.
Those issued with notices of intention to deport have seven days to lodge
representations with an independent appeals panel, which then advises Home
Secretary Kenneth Baker before he makes his final decision.  Those being
detained, including three Iraqi men taken into custody in Glasgow, are being
held at immigration detention centres or prisons.  The Home Office spokesman
said: "Further detentions will be considered as necessary. The situation is
being kept under constant review." Those deported can elect to go to any country
that will accept them, the spokesman said.  It is likely that the Home Office
will order more expulsions over the next few days. Mass expulsions are not
expected, however.  Ministers are relying on the judgment of Special Branch and
MI5 officers, the security service responsible for countering domestic terrorist
threats, who have been screening the 5,000-6,000 Iraqis said to be living in
Britain since the crisis began last summer.  Across the country there has been
an unprecedented intensification of security to prevent possible Iraqi-inspired
attacks. Protection of the Royal Family, ambassadors and prominent figures has
been stepped up, as well as at Government buildings, military installations and
airports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 17, 1991

War in the Gulf: Tanks and troops patrol Heathrow amid tightening security at
likely targets

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER and RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 533 words


TANKS, troops, and police armed with machine guns began patrolling Heathrow
airport yesterday in a high-profile security exercise aimed at reassuring the
public about the threat of Iraqi terrorist attacks.

Warnings about unattended baggage were repeatedly broadcast over the airport's
public address systems.


However, security sources said the presence of tanks and armed uniformed troops
and police were unlikely to deter terrorists.

Security at government and military premises in London was increased, with the
police enforcing no parking regulations around Whitehall and the Ministry of
Defence.

London Transport is introducing new security measures, with more police on the
Undergound, luggage restriction on buses, staff training in emergency
procedures, and posters urging vigilance.

The security sources warned that terrorists might launch attacks in response to
Iraqi civilians being bombed by coalition forces in the Gulf.

Since the invasion of Kuwait, the Baghdad media has warned that Iraq can
mobilise 'thousands of volunteer commanders' and shift the war 'into the cities
and capitals of the aggressors.'

Airlines are already losing customers concerned about retaliatory attacks by
pro-Iraqi groups. International airports are obvious targets.

Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, visited the troops from the Royal Horse
Guards and the Blues and Royals at Heathrow's Terminal One yesterday, and
stressed the need for vigilance.

'This is the busiest airport in the world, and they (the troops) are here to
protect the 58,000 workers, the 100,000 people who will pass through it every
day, and the installations,' he said at an impromtu press conference against the
backdrop of a Fox armoured car and Spartan armoured personnel carrier.

Police armed with Heckler and Koch machine guns patrolled all the terminals and
the feeder roads.

A spokeswoman for the British Airports Authority, which runs eight airports
said: 'Detailed contingency plans have been drawn up in conjunction with the
Department of Transport.'

Larry Elliott in Washington adds: The British embassy has warned members of the
permanent British business community of the risks of a terrorist attack.

A comprehensive list of security precautions against possible bomb,
assassination, and kidnapping attempts have been drawn up by officials who say
the dangers are not negligible.

The measures include closing curtains after dark, taking care over answering the
door, and varying the time and route of journeys to work.

British nationals have been warned to beware of being followed when driving, and
told to steer clear of accidents 'which might not be what they appear'.

British banks and companies in New York were tightening security before the
embassy's warning.

More than 20 years of dealing with the threat from the IRA has left British
firms much more aware of the dangers than US institutions, which have been
virtually immune from the growth in international terrorism.

It is assumed that terrorists would prefer to hit a US target but Britain's role
as President Bush's staunchest ally in the Gulf crisis makes it an attractive
alternative.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 18, 1991

War in the Gulf: Jail prepared for terror suspects

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL

LENGTH: 458 words


THE HOME Office was understood last night to be preparing to turn part of a
prison near York into a detention camp for Iraqi terrorist suspects, as chief
constables warned the public that the war might not be confined to the Gulf.

Officials refused to confirm their contingency planning, but sources at Full
Sutton prison said it had been placed on high alert and extra security staff
brought in to receive detainees.


A further 37 Iraqis were arrested yesterday on suspicion of potential terrorist
activity, bringing the total placed in prison custody since Wednesday to 65.

Senior police officers have also prepared contingencies for guarding Iraqi
prisoners-of-war who might be brought back for medical treatment in Britain.

Full Sutton is a maximum security dispersal prison housing long-sentence inmates
for assessment after conviction. Two wings were being refurbished for prisoners
needing segregation, but it is understood that yesterday the prison was told to
make them available for Iraqi detainees. They have room for up to 100 inmates.

Sources suggested the Iraqis would be committed as civilian prisoners with extra
benefits, including the right to wear their own clothes and have extra visits,
but categorised as Category A high-risk. It is possible that two disused army
camps could be opened up for lower-security detainees. A Home Office spokeswoman
said she could not confirm the report. 'We are making contingency arrangements
for the detainees, but they are simply contingencies and we don't know if they
will be used.'

The Iraqis are being held pending deportation to countries of their choice that
agree to take them. Some are appealing to an immigration tribunal, protesting
their innocence of terrorist intent.

The 37 new detainees joined 28 picked up on Wednesday on the eve of the outbreak
of hostilities. Most were thought to be students on Iraqi government
scholarships. Some have families in the UK who will not be detained, but will be
required to leave the UK.

Since September 60 Iraqis have been deported. Several others are living under
restriction orders. There are about 5,000 Iraqis in Britain.

Chief constables met in London yesterday to review preparations against
terrorism. David Owen, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers,
said later that the public 'should be vigilant . . . They should not be
complacent that the war will be confined to the Gulf. It could come to this
country. I put it no higher than that.'

Derek Brown adds from New Delhi: A bomb exploded here last night in an Indian
owned-travel company which acts as agent for American Airlines, in what could be
the first terrorist attempt to strike back at US interests. No one was hurt.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 18, 1991, Friday

BAKER SHUTS BRITAIN'S BORDERS TO IRAQIS

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down and Peter Archer, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 602 words


Iraqis will be banned from entering Britain from midnight under a tightening of
immigration controls announced today by Home Secretary Kenneth Baker.  The moves
have been made "in view of the situation in the Gulf", according to a Home
Office statement.  All applications for visas by Iraqi nationals will be
refused, whether or not they have previously been issued.  Those in the UK who
have visas for a limited period will not be allowed to extend them.  Under the
procedures laid before Parliament, exceptions on compassionate grounds will be
considered, such as family or other close ties with this country, "subject to
the overriding needs of national security", said a Home Office spokesman.

Mr Baker has also ordered all Iraqi nationals in the UK on limited visas to
register with the police.  All foreign nationals admitted for more than six
months are required to register - but that now applies to Iraqis even if their
visas are only for a few days.  Advertisements are being placed in appropriate
UK newspapers and magazines to alert the Iraqi community to the new requirement.
A Home Office spokesman said: "These measures will not affect Iraqi nationals
who possess British citizenship or who are nationals of European Community
member states exercising treaty rights in the United Kingdom." The new controls
follow the detention over the past three days of 65 Iraqis threatened with
deportation.  A total of 130, mostly students, have been ordered to leave
Britain since the start of the Gulf crisis.  The orders are made on the basis of
intelligence material, including reports from Special Branch officers and MI5,
that they pose a threat to national security.  The Home Secretary today also
withdrew the concession under which Iraqi nationals could pass through the UK as
airside transit passengers without visas.  Sri Lanka is the only other country
whose transit visa waiver has been withdrawn.

Iraqis leaving Britain will not be allowed to return as re-entry visas are also
being banned.  The Home Office spokesman said: "It is a security measure and the
aim is to stop Iraqis coming into this country while we are at war.  "But no
Iraqi claiming asylum will be removed from the UK until his or her claim has
been fully considered." The rule changes do not affect Britain's continuing
obligations under the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees, the spokesman said.
However, asylum can only be sought once the person is on UK soil. Numbers of
asylum seekers have dropped since airlines were made financially liable for
carrying passengers without the correct documents.  The Home Office estimates
there are between 5,000-6,000 Iraqi nationals living in the UK, including about
1,000 students.  The issue of visas to Iraqis has been restricted since the
invasion of Kuwait last August.

The new measures will affect all Iraqi nationals, many of whom are here
sheltering from the Saddam regime.  The Home Office said the decision not to
extend limited visas, usually for six months, would affect 500 Iraqis. Before
last year's clampdown, there would normally be up to 6,000 Iraqis a year
visiting the UK on short-term visas.  Most of the Iraqis here have permission to
settle in the UK. But if they leave the country, they will not be allowed to
return.  The moves come amid heightened tension over Saddam's threat, backed by
Palestinian fanatics, to unleash terrorist attacks on British interests
worldwide.  Security sources indicated one reason for the deportations - mostly
of students on Iraqi government scholarships - was concern over the intimidation
of anti-Saddam Iraqis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 19, 1991

War in the Gulf: Baker curbs immigration

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, Home Affairs Editor

LENGTH: 672 words


KENNETH Baker, the Home Secretary, yesterday tightened immigration controls
against Iraqis but assured Muslims in Britain that they would not be persecuted
for differences of view about the war.

As counter-terrorism precautions intensified, paratroops moved into Gatwick
airport before dawn for a 24-hour trial of procedures for a top-security alert.


Mr Baker's assurance to Muslims followed an arson attack on a mosque in Batley,
West Yorkshire.

'I was particularly shocked at the thought that this mindless attack might
perhaps have been made by people who believe, wrongly, that all Muslims in this
country are active supporters of the aggressor, Saddam Hussein,' he said.

Such actions against law-abiding citizens would not be tolerated.

'The Muslim community in Britain will have different views on how the situation
in the Gulf should be resolved. The right to hold different views is a
fundamental freedom which all of us in Britain enjoy.

'But the different perceptions of what is happening in the Gulf held by some
parts of the British Muslim community should not be seen as calling into
question their loyalty to their adopted country.'

Mr Baker's statement followed his cancellation of a visit today to Glasgow
central mosque because pressure of events required his presence in London.

Seven Palestinians were detained on deportation orders as potential terrorist
suspects. The Home Office said their arrests were linked to the war but would
give no further details.

No further detentions of Iraqis were reported. About 30 of the 65 picked up
since Wednesday were understood to be in Pentonville prison, north London, but
there were no indications that the Government had implemented contingency plans
for a maximum-security detention camp at Full Sutton prison, near York.

Mr Baker signed an order obliging all Iraqi nationals on short-stay permits to
register with the police. Similar requirements already apply to foreign
nationals admitted for more than six months. The new order should help police to
locate about 500 of the 5,000 Iraqis in Britain.

Entry visas and applications for extended stay will be refused to Iraqis, except
on compassionate grounds if Mr Baker is satisfied there is no threat to national
security.

Iraqi nationals will need a visa to pass through UK airports as transit
passengers.

Douglas Hogg, the Foreign Office minister, yesterday had 'a full exchange of
views' with leading British Muslims after reports that some Muslims in Bradford
said they supported Saddam Hussein. A spokesman was not prepared to say there
was a meeting of minds.

At the private meeting were Sher Azam of the Bradford Council of Mosques, Iqbal
Sakrani of the British Action Committee for Islamic Affairs, Sayd Aziz Pasha of
the Union of Muslim Organisations, and Yusuf Islam, a prominent Muslim.

The security exercise at Gatwick began at 6am yesterday when 120 paratroopers
equipped with SA-18 rifles moved in to back up armed police.

They were supported by soldiers from the Blues and Royals, who toured the
airport perimeter and surrounding roads in Fox armoured cars and Land Rovers.

The troops were brought in for a 24-hour test of contingency plans for a more
permanant presence if the war escalates. Security has been under constant review
at the airport since the fighting started.

Extra patrols of police armed with Heckler and Koch machine guns and wearing
bullet-proof vests have been mounted, and staff warned to be extra vigilant.
Plane spotters have been ordered away from vantage points in multi-storey car
parks, and the spectator gallery has been closed.

Chief Superintendent Dick Custance, commander of police at the airport, said:
'We're presenting a high presence to deter a terrorist attack and reassure the
public, who have reacted positively to the measures.

'Our colleagues in the Metropolitan Police have sought military support on a
more permanant basis at Heathrow, and we are keeping in close contact with
them.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 19, 1991, Saturday

Crisis in the Gulf: UK expels relative of Abu Nidal

BYLINE: By HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 368 words


A RELATIVE of the radical Iraqi-backed guerrilla leader Abu Nidal was among
seven Palestinians detained under Home Office deportation orders yesterday,
informed sources said.

The Home Office said the detentions, carried out amid a heightened alert
following the outbreak of war in the Gulf, were made ''in recognition of the
threats made by Saddam about terrorist action which have been supported by
others, including Palestinian groups''.

The seven, including at least one woman, were understood to carry either
Jordanian or Lebanese passports.

They were the first Palestinians to be issued with deportation orders in the
current alert. Sixty-five Iraqis were detained under similar orders earlier this
week.

Informed sources said the seven were not believed to be part of an organised
cell, but all had connections with known organisations and individuals in the
Middle East which would might make them vulnerable to pressure to take part in
action against Western targets. This was the motive in the case of the detention
of the individual related to Abu Nidal - his real name is Sabri al-Banna - a
renegade guerrilla leader who regards the leadership of the PLO as traitors to
the Palestinian cause.

Yasser Arafat's mainstream Fatah movement accused Abu Nidal's group of the
assassination in Tunis on Monday of the Fatah number two, Abu Iyad, and two of
his aides. The theory was that Abu Iyad had been lukewarm about the PLO's
support for Saddam Hussein and that Abu Nidal had had him killed on behalf of
Iraq. Abu Nidal has been based in a number of radical Arab states and moved to
Baghdad after being expelled from Libya last year.

The security alerts in Britain and other Western capitals were prompted by
general threats of revenge attacks in the event of war in the Gulf by President
Saddam and other Iraqi and Palestinian leaders.

Specific plans for terror attacks wrre uncovered when an Arab cell was broken up
in Germany last week and arrests have been made in a number of world capitals
where Iraqi agents were found to have been trying to set up terrorist cells.

Security measures have been increased at British airports and at many public
buildings since the war began.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 19, 1991, Saturday

The Week in Review: Home News

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEAPMAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 12

LENGTH: 423 words


TANKS moved into Heathrow Airport and Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, looked
even more worried than usual when he advised us to be vigilant for terrorist
attacks as the Gulf war began.

In London, bomb warning notices went up in the Underground and police guards
were strengthened around Whitehall and the embassy district. There was no
specific instruction to stay indoors but many did so anyway, on account of the
seasonably inclement weather and television's compulsive live coverage of the
war.

Newspapers were at a disadvantage in being unable to provide live commentaries
of bombs falling, complete with real sound effects, or action film of bombing
raids and Scud missiles being blown up in mid- flight, but made up for this with
the exhaustive volume of its coverage and commentary, and, in some cases, its
patriotic fervour. It was a vintage week for Henry V quotations.

Opinion polls showed that most people in Britain supported the war, and
Parliament approved it overwhelmingly. There were some passionate dissenters,
who mounted all- night vigils and set up a peace camp in Whitehall.

The Government said that the National Health Service would be reimbursed fully
for treating troops injured in the conflict, while the Queen responded to the
crisis by cutting short her new-year holiday at Sandringham. John Major gravely
addressed the nation in the week when his honeymoon period came to an end:
opinion polls indicate that Labour has caught up again with the Tories.

The Government's annual survey, Social Trends, revealed that 27 per cent of
children are now born out of wedlock, compared with only 11 per cent in 1979.
The most surprising finding was that British men work longer hours than any in
Europe. But fewer are doing so: the unemployment figures increased for the ninth
successive month, to 1,844,000.

Norman Tebbit, the former minister who advocated cycling as a remedy for
joblessness, said that he would not contest his Parliamentary seat again - but
neither will he be unemployed, for he holds a number of directorships and
appears on British Sky Broadcasting.

Michael Heseltine, Secretary of State for the Environment, said the Government
would give councils an extra pounds 1bn, which should keep the average poll tax
bill down to about pounds 300.

Romantics were delighted by the engagement of Sir Peregrine Worsthorne, 67, the
sprightly and flamboyant editor of the Sunday Telegraph's four centre pages, to
the author and television presenter, Lady Lucinda Lambton, a youthful 48.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 20, 1991, Sunday

Crisis in the Gulf: 'Terrorist cells' rounded up after Berlin arrests

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT and STEPHEN CASTLE in London and TERRY MCCARTHY in
Bangkok

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 837 words


POLICE in Europe believe they have smashed a Palestinian terrorist network
planning attacks on US and British targets in revenge for the assault on Iraq.

Detailed plans were discovered last week by German police when they arrested
four men in raids on dozens of houses in Berlin. Seized documents described
plans to carry out the attacks on allied targets demanded by Saddam Hussein. At
least a dozen members of the group in other European countries were identified,
and it is understood the German discovery led to the arrest of seven
Palestinians, including one woman, in London on Friday.

All those arrested in Britain are said to have links with Middle Eastern groups.
One is related to Abu Nidal, one of the most notorious terrorist leaders. The
Palestinians are being held in prison while details of their deportations are
worked out.

Intelligence sources said the Iraqis were attempting to activate terrorist
groups all over the world to hit at the allies. Former members of groups such as
Baader Meinhof in Germany have been approached and asked to carry out proxy
attacks. Approaches have also been made to terrorists in countries as diverse as
Japan and Venezuela.

Several Palestinian groups based in Syrian-controlled territory have been
preparing for missions in support of Iraq, according to US intelligence reports.
The most prominent is the Damascus- based Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine (PFLP) led by Mohammed Abbas, which threatened before the war began to
attack US targets around the world if Iraq was attacked.

In what appeared to be the beginning of the threatened world- wide campaign, a
man in the Philippines carrying an Iraqi passport detonated a bomb in Manila,
injuring himself and killing one bystander.In Bangkok, the US embassy said that
it had received intelligence reports of a 'credible threat' against US, Israeli,
British and Australian installations in the Thai capital within the next 48
hours.

Security experts believe an attack on a civil aircraft in Europe is top of the
terrorists' list. In London, the Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker, is worried that
countries such as Greece and Italy might find difficulty in screening out
potential terrorists. However, Greek police said yesterday they had arrested 20
suspected Iraqi-sponsored terrorists, who they were deporting.

The Home Office is continuing its review of immigration procedures with further
restrictions on visas from Arab countries possible. On Friday they again
tightened restrictions on Iraqis entering the country.

So far 72 people have been detained after being served with a notice of intent
to deport, a process under which they have seven days to appeal to a panel of
three advisers: Lord Justice Lloyd; David Neve, a former chairman of Immigration
Appeals Tribunal; and Sir Rober Andrew, a former Home Office offical. Since last
September the Home Office has taken steps against 130 Iraqis, many of whom left
Britain voluntarily. At the same time Mr Baker said the Government will not
tolerate attacks on law-abiding British Muslims who might support Saddam
Hussein. The Home Secretary, who cancelled a visit to Glasgow Central Mosque
yesterday, said he was ''deeply concerned'' about an arson attack on a mosque in
Batley, West Yorkshire, last week.

Security has been stepped up at potential American and British targets all over
the world.Young people in international schools across Europe are being told
there are no out-of-hours activities while the crisis lasts.

Brownie meetings and a pantomime have all fallen victim to the need for
hightened security. Even a scheduled meeting of a local Gilbert and Sullivan
society in Germany was cancelled.

Dutch police in Rotterdam reported calls from people worried that the world's
largest port and oil refinery complex could be the target of a terrorist attack.
Many wanted to know where to buy gas masks and how to protect themselves.

In Italy, seven Iraqis were expelled last week for ''irregular activities'' and
the government said it planned further deportations. It also ''interned'' 200
Iraqi naval personnel on board their warships in La Spezia.

In the US, William Sessions, Director of the FBI, said known terrorists had
entered the country as security in Washington DC was tightened to unprecedented
levels. Mr Sessions said terrorists had entered the US but there was ''no way''
to determine their ''intent or activity.''

At the State Department, all streets have been blocked off by black security
vans. Security has been increased at airports around the country, causing delays
of up to two hours. The Federal Aviation Administration said security had been
raised to ''the highest possible level.''

The war has also spurred an increase in orders for a bomb detection machine that
can sniff out minute traces of explosives in seconds. Gerry Stork, spokesman for
Scintrex Ltd of Concord, Ontario, said his company has received six orders for
the $ 39,000 machines in the last week from European government agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 20, 1991, Sunday

Britain put on chemical bomb alert

BYLINE: by David Leppard and Richard Palmer

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 933 words


BRITISH hospitals have been told to draw up plans to deal with casualties from
chemical-weapon attacks by Iraqi-sponsored terrorists in London and other
cities.

The Ministry of Defence has told regional health authorities to set up
decontamination units capable of treating hundreds of civilian victims of bombs
containing mustard or nerve gas. The advice has come amid fears that Iraqi
agents may attempt a terrorist attack in Britain after the outbreak of war in
the Gulf.

The first fatal terrorist attack outside the Middle East left an Iraqi man dead
and another wounded yesterday when a powerful bomb apparently exploded
prematurely while they were trying to plant it at American offices in Manila in
the Philippines.

Earlier Abul Abbas, a leading Palestinian terrorist, called for attacks on
American and allied targets around the world. The American State Department also
warned of a ''credible'' terrorist threat to British and other Western
installations in Bangkok, Thailand, over the weekend.

The warning followed intelligence reports that the Japanese Red Army Faction,
which has links with radical Arab groups, was planning an attack in Thailand. In
Britain it was reported that a relative of Abu Nidal, the Iraqi-supported
terrorist, was among seven Palestinians arrested.

Security sources in London said that although there was no specific threat,
contingency plans to treat civilian victims of chemical attacks were required.
Senior army medical staff and government scientists at the chemical defence
establishment at Porton Down, Wiltshire, have briefed doctors on plans to cope
with civilian casualties in a series of confidential meetings.

Doctors are concerned that Britain has no existing facilities to deal with a
chemical attack affecting hundreds of civilians. Regional health authorities,
which are already preparing to treat up to 7,500 military casualties, are now
setting aside extra space for hosing down civilian victims.

In London, staff at St Bartholomew's hospital are discussing erecting temporary
buildings and standpipes in the car park after a briefing last Wednesday from
Colonel Professor Jim Ryan and Colonel Professor George Cowan of the Royal Army
Medical College at Millbank, London.

The outbreak of war has brought the biggest security crackdown since the IRA's
mainland bombing campaign in the 1970s. Police have increased surveillance at
dozens of possible targets including nuclear power stations, royal residences,
railways, airports and government buildings.

Similar measures have been taken at Jewish schools and synagogues and
American-owned multinational companies.

Last Tuesday Britain's 19 nuclear power stations, including the nuclear weapons
plant at Chapelcross, near Dumfries, received an intelligence warning to review
security. This will include dealing with an assault by terrorists trying to
storm the reactor control rooms.

A 70-strong squadron of the Special Air Service is now on standby, ready to fly
by helicopter from its headquarters in Hereford to the scene of any terrorist
attack. Some SAS reservists have also been put on standby.

Security has been stepped up at buildings used by the royal family and was also
tightened last week at Heathrow and Gatwick airports, but police fear the
terrorist threat could simply be displaced to ''soft targets'' such as public
transport.

British Transport police, responsible for British Rail and London Underground,
have increased security at mainline stations in London, Birmingham, Liverpool
and Glasgow. ''We are doing high-profile policing and appealing to passengers to
maintain common sense and vigilance,'' said Simon Lubin, a spokesman.

The biggest threat is thought to be from Iraqi-sponsored Palestinian terrorist
groups. An officer from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad warned that some
terrorists, such as the hard-line Abu Nidal group, might recruit Iraqi students
to carry out bombings or assassinations against British targets.

The detective said that agents of Saddam Hussein's brutal intelligence service,
the Mukhabarat, were posing as students at provincial universities. MI5, the
British security service, and Special Branch have increased surveillance on
members of the National Union of Iraqi Students and the General Union of Arab
Students.

Both unions are funded by the Iraqi government and, it is claimed, controlled by
intelligence officers at the Iraqi embassy in London.

Sami Abdullah, a former president of the dissident Iraqi Student Society, said
that Iraqi intelligence officers posing as students had until now restricted
their activities to spying on dissident students. ''They will now concentrate
all their efforts on intelligence gathering, on military strength and how badly
morale in Britain has been affected by the war.''

Intelligence sources said they did not believe that Iraqi agents were
sufficiently organised to carry out a sustained terrorist campaign. But MI5 is
concerned about the danger of an opportunist attack.

''The general consensus within the security community is that we have a fairly
firm grasp of the situation,'' said one senior Home Office counter-terrorism
adviser. ''While we are taking action in relation to certain areas, we feel we
can carry the burden quite comfortably.''

The Home Office has a contingency plan to round up most of the estimated 6,000
Iraqis in Britain, but police do not expect to have to intern them. Last week 65
Iraqis and seven Palestinians were imprisoned while arrangements were made for
them to to be deported. Dozens more deportations are expected this week.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gulf conflict

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 20, 1991, Sunday

Britain at war

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1030 words


''THIS country is experiencing the greatest wave of jingoism that I have seen in
my life,'' said Tony Benn in the House of Commons on Tuesday. As usual, Mr Benn
was talking tosh; he cannot live in the same country as the rest of us. Britain
has gone to war the way a mature democracy should when it has to fight. No
gung-ho jingoism. No histrionic gestures or speeches. No euphoria about easy
victory. No war fever, despite the overwhelming support for waging war.

The British are unequivocal about the need to fight and quietly resolute in
their determination to win. They are also enormously proud of the skill and
courage of their armed forces. But the pride and the patriotism are tempered by
a clear-headed appreciation of the magnitude of the task ahead; resolve is mixed
with apprehension. Those who would repeat the flag-waving of the Falklands and
wrap themselves in the comic-book rhetoric of ''our boys'' misjudge the mood of
the nation as much as Mr Benn.

The sober realism of the British people will serve the country well in the weeks
of fighting ahead. The first three days of the war have gone satisfactorily for
the allies; it should be put no higher than that. Early expectations that aerial
bombardment alone was going to deliver quick and easy victory are giving way
this weekend to the grimmer realisation that we are in for a long, hard slog.
President Bush and the prime minister, John Major, both emerging as consummate
war leaders, have gone out of their way to puncture the absurd euphoria that
characterised some of the first media reports.

It is now apparent that the allied bombing of Iraq and its forces in Kuwait will
have to continue for some time yet. Even after a prolonged pounding, it is
likely that much of Saddam Hussein's war machine will survive intact, and will
have to be engaged on the ground. ''That large (Iraqi) army is still sitting
there and it will have to be rooted out,'' said General Tom Kelly at a Pentagon
briefing on Friday afternoon. A senior naval officer added that Saddam was still
in control of that army. Victory for the allies is not in doubt, but there is a
long and bloody way to go yet.

The agreed allied aim is the liberation of Kuwait, but it must be pursued in a
manner that also ensures the end of Saddam and the destruction of his war
machine. The United Nations resolutions authorising the allied use of force to
free Kuwait also call for ''peace and security in the area''. That cannot be
achieved as long as Saddam survives to terrorise the region.

He has already launched unprovoked attacks on three nations (Iran, Kuwait and
Israel). Any victory which leaves him with the capability to do so again will
not be a victory worth having. There were absurd suggestions, only a few hours
into the fighting, that there should be an early pause to allow Saddam to
reconsider his position. Fortunately, they were dismissed by the allied leaders.
But the greatest danger facing the allies, which could thwart everything they
have set out to achieve in this war, is that Saddam will call for a halt to
hostilities soon and sue for peace without surrender.

Do not for a moment assume that such a move would mean peace in our time.
Saddam's hero, President Nasser of Egypt, went from strength to strength on the
basis of military defeats. The Anglo-French force sent to retake the Suez canal
in 1956 routed Nasser's army. But the Americans made it withdraw and Nasser
emerged as the hero of the Arabs, strong enough to lead a united Arab world
against Israel in 1967. Nasser lost that war too, but he survived until his
death three years later. Saddam could easily follow a similar career path. His
gruelling, bloody struggle with Iran ended in stalemate, and even the few bits
of land Iraq took have been handed back. But Iraqi propaganda painted it a
glorious victory for Saddam, and his hold on the country became stronger than
ever. Within two years he was raping and looting Kuwait. The war in the Gulf
must not end the same way. The only worthwhile victory will be one in which
Saddam surrenders.

That need not mean allied tanks and troops going all the way to Baghdad, though
if Saddam is determined to fight this war like his other hero, Adolf Hitler, it
could come to that.

But it means the liberation of Kuwait must be accompanied by steps which ensure
the destruction of Iraq's chemical and nuclear facilities (and bombing alone
might not do that), the substantial scaling-down of Iraq's military capability
and the securing of Iraqi war reparations for the rebuilding of Kuwait. If
Saddam has not been killed in the fighting, then the terms of his surrender must
be severe enough to ensure his overthrow by his own people. The problems of the
Middle East will not suddenly disappear with the Iraqi dictator's demise. But
they are insoluble as long as he survives.

The British probably understand how dictators have to be dealt with better than
most. British resolve has been greater to get on with the conflict because the
historical shame of the 1930s, when dictators were allowed to spread their evil
across Europe unchecked, still hangs over us. The Americans, for their part,
have been more reluctant to countenance hostilities because they see all
potential conflicts through the funnel of Vietnam. The lesson the British have
learned is not to appease dictators because they cannot be assuaged. The lesson
America took from Vietnam was to avoid foreign military ventures altogether.

It is to President Bush's great credit that he has overcome this historical
legacy and committed American forces to their current task. It is also to
Britain's great credit that it is standing shoulder-to-shoulder alongside the
United States in this necessary venture, for it means that at least one European
country is prepared to back the Americans when they are acting in the interests
of the whole of the West. Without Britain's participation, the European
contribution would be derisory, and America's long-term commitment to the
security of Europe seriously undermined. As it is, the old wartime coalition has
been revived and it represents the world's best hope for the defeat of Saddam.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Leading Article

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 21, 1991, Monday

Crisis in the Gulf: World-wide terrorist campaign still small

BYLINE: By RAYMOND WHITAKER in London and TERRY MCCARTHY in Bangkok

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 350 words


ALTHOUGH security against possible terrorist attacks has been tightened around
the world following Iraq's call to Arabs and Muslims to strike at the West, the
number of incidents so far has been small. The worst was in the Philippines,
where a bomb exploded near a US library in Manila at the weekend, killing an
Iraqi, who was apparently carrying the device, and injuring another.

In Pakistan, where tensions over the Gulf war are high, a bomb killed five
people and injured 50 in a cinema in Rawalpindi, but police refused to speculate
on the motive.

Yesterday an explosion damaged the British Bank of the Middle East in Beirut.
Lebanese police said the attack was apparent retaliation for Britain's role in
the war.

Hundreds of Thai troops were deployed inside the US, British, Israeli and
Australian embassies in Bangkok after an urgent anti- terrorist alert was issued
by the Americans. Intelligence reports said weapons and ammunition were moved
out recently from the embassy of ''an Arab country involved in the Persian Gulf
war'', according to Thai security officials. They would not say whether the
country involved was Iraq, but some Middle Eastern nationals in Bangkok have
been put under surveillance.

Expatriates from the four countries have been taking the threat seriously.
Christian church services were cancelled, and supermarkets, clubs and
restaurants frequented by foreigners were abnormally quiet yesterday.

The clearest evidence of Baghdad's involvement was in Manila, where an Iraqi
passport was found at the scene of the explosion. Security sources said the
injured Iraqi, a student named Abdul- Sattar Hisham, gave police a telephone
number during his interrogation. It turned out to be that of the Iraqi embassy.
The blast was so powerful that parts of the dead man's remains were found on the
roof of a nearby house.

Yesterday the US closed three libraries in the Philippines, and advised
Americans not to travel to the country. British citizens have been advised not
to visit the Philippines and 22 other countries in the Middle East, Africa and
Asia.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 21, 1991, Monday

Leading Article: A style that promotes unity

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 547 words


JOHN MAJOR has passed summa cum laude the severe test of his leadership posed by
the first days of the Gulf war. In his statements and comments, including his
televised address, the Prime Minister has struck just the right notes:
regretting that a diplomatic solution had not been possible; proud of the
performance of allied, including British, forces; warning against initial
euphoria and of the scale of the tasks ahead; emphasising that there was no
quarrel with the Iraqi people, only with their leader, and that allied war aims
were those laid down in the United Nations' resolutions.

His quiet yet confident approach has yielded many benefits. Both Neil Kinnock
and Paddy Ashdown have given the Government their full support, in an impressive
style which has helped their own reputations and raised the tone of politics.
Jingoism has been discouraged, and with it the danger of animosity towards
Muslim Britons who may support Saddam Hussein. The anti-war lobby has had no
target around which to rally, and the arguments of the likes of Edward Heath and
Denis Healey have quietly been made to look - so far - unwarrantably alarmist.

At the same time, British support for both the UN and for President George Bush
has remained unwavering, and differences with European allies before the war
began have been discreetly minimised. Transatlantic cooperation would
undoubtedly have been no less strong if Margaret Thatcher had still been Prime
Minister. But much else would have been different. The performance of our
European partners would have been excoriated. Any disagreement with government
policy from the opposition benches would have been castigated as unpatriotic; as
would all anti-war demonstrations - greatly to their own benefit, since such
attacks would have become badges of honour. President Saddam would have been
demonised, and there might have been more talk, going well beyond the UN
mandate, of eliminating him or submitting him to trial for war crimes should he
survive. The BBC's war coverage, which Mr Major praised in the Commons, would
have been criticised. That special emergency-ward voice, which Mrs Thatcher
reserved for visits to victims of disasters or terrorist attacks, would have
been heard when the first opportunity arose.

At the time of the Falklands war, a myth was created that Mrs Thatcher was
uniquely qualified to lead Britain into war. The courage and resolution she
showed in that conflict is not in doubt. But the manner in which she exercised
her leadership promoted divisions, not unity.

So it would inevitably have been in this war. Mrs Thatcher's style was to be
combative, to push arguments too far, to question the values of those who held a
different view, to oscillate between shrillness and that hushed tone. Mr Major
has no less clear a scale of values, but respect for the views of others is
among them - which is why he gains their respect. He needs neither to shout to
be heard, nor to drop his voice to suggest compassion. When Sir Geoffrey Howe
resigned, the significance of differences of style and substance within the
Conservative Party were much discussed. Mr Major has proved that the two are
largely indivisible: as the Comte de Buffon put it, le style est l'homme meme
(or equally, la femme).


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 21, 1991, Monday

PREPARE FOR GERM WARFARE, DOCTORS TELL HEALTH DEPARTMENT

BYLINE:  Richard Woodman, Press Association Medical Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 823 words


The Department of Health was today urged to draw up plans in case Iraq uses
biological weapons in a terrorist attack in Britain.  Doctors in the Medical
Campaign Against Nuclear Weapons (MCANW) warned: "Iraq may well possess
biological warfare agents and use them in the Gulf or in terrorist attacks in
Britain.  "Anthrax is the most likely agent. Plague, cholera and typhoid are
also possible." South London GP Dr Martin Dace, who has investigated the effects
of chemical and biological warfare, told a Westminster news conference: "We are
not prepared for a possible attack with biological weapons in this country.  "An
attack is possible and given that it is possible we must prepare for that.  "If
we are prepared, we could prevent thousands of deaths. If we are not prepared,
we could have a lot of dead people on our hands." He called on the health
department to issue guidelines so that doctors knew what symptoms to look for.
"If we don't know what to look for it will be too late." The news conference,
organised by MCANW and the Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom, was told
that the truth about the likely number of troop casualties and the NHS's ability
to cover had been systematically covered up.  Dr Lesley Morrison, consultant at
London's Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Hospital and vice-chair of MCANW, said: "Key
information is being suppressed by the Department of Health and NHS public
relations officers are being encouraged to present a misleading picture. "There
are major discrepancies between the 'suggested answers' issued to NHS PROs and
what a previous secret document reveals the Department of Health really expects
to happen."

Dr Morrison said press officers had been told to say it was not sensible to
speculate on the possible number of casualties.  But the leaked document showed
hospitals had been told to prepare to receive up to 7,500 casualties. This was
based on an MoD assumption that fighting would not extend for more than about
five days.  She said today was day five of the conflict. Even before it started,
allied commander General Schwarzkopf had predicted six months of bloody warfare.
Another area of misinformation was chemical warfare. The suggested answer to
media inquiries was: "NHS staff and hospitals have plenty of experience of
dealing with the effects of toxic chemicals." The truth, in the document, was
that "the management of chemical warfare casualties will present new problems
for doctors in the UK".  Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom national
organiser Mick Gosling said information from the Gulf was already tightly
controlled.  "Now it appears that the virus of secrecy and disinformation is
spreading to the Department of Health."

Dr Frank Barnaby, an expert on weapons of mass destruction, said the possibility
of a chemical terrorist attack could not be ignored.  "I think it is reasonable
to worry about such an attack. The threat is rather low purely because it has
not happened before but it is not negligible.  "Its advantage is, the chemicals
could be easily disguised to bring it into the country and a very small amount
can cause extensive casualties. It would only take one milligram of nerve gas to
kill a 100 kilo man." Nerve gas, hidden inside an aerosol can the size of a
hairspray and triggered by a timer or radio signal, could in theory kill a large
number of people if used in an air conditioning plant or underground system, he
said.  The only way to guard against such an attack was good intelligence and
extreme vigilance.  "You cannot protect the whole population of Great Britain
with pills and injections the way the troops are protected or as is done in
Israel. The risk does not justify that," said Dr Barnaby, retired director of
the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute and former nuclear
physicist at Aldermaston.  Public utilities such as water supplies present
security problems with public roads running past reservoirs, such as those north
of Rugeley, Staffs, which supply the West Midlands.  Dr Barnaby said nerve
gases, such as Tabun or Sarin, or mustard gas, would be difficult to get into
water. But cholera was water-borne.  Increased patrols and infra-red cameras
provide a first line of defence, while the Water Services Association said
microbiological and viral testing should detect chemical substances before any
contaminated water could reach consumers.  If intruders attempted to poison
supplies, they would need several trucks or tankers to cause a serious problem,
given the huge volume of water in the reservoirs.  The association doubted
whether the water distribution system would be a likely target but stressed that
if it were, alternative supplies could be diverted very quickly to an affected
area.  An association spokesman said: "Security is a always a priority but there
is a heightened awareness given the present circumstances. Everything possible
is being done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 22, 1991, Tuesday

Crisis in the Gulf: UK evacuates staff at risk of terror attacks

BYLINE: By ANNIKA SAVILL in London and MICHAEL WISE in Vienna

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 524 words


BRITAIN has started evacuating its staff from missions in Asia after
intelligence reports that they are expected to be targets of Iraqi-backed bomb
attacks and other acts of terrorism, British diplomats revealed yesterday.

British intelligence has indicated since the war began that the revenge attacks
threatened by Saddam Hussein world- wide would hit at Britons in ''an unlikely
place''. Those being pulled out as a result are, in the first instance, staff in
Pakistan, Bangladesh and the Philippines, which has a militant Muslim minority.
They include dependants and non-essential staff at embassies, airline offices
and British Council missions. London is also considering an evacuation from
Indonesia, which has some 95 million Muslims, though they are less politically
active than those in the other three countries.

''The spectrum of the threats is very wide, but the risk is higher in those
countries,'' said a senior British official. ''All we can do to protect our
nationals while they are abroad is to rely on the co-operation of security
services in the host country.'' Although authorities had been helpful in the
countries selected for evacuation, their large Muslim communities were
impossible to control. All British staff have already been evacuated from the
British embassy in Sudan, whose pro-Saddam government had proven less
co-operative.

The official said the Government hoped attacks in Britain were less likely after
the expulsion of dozens of Iraqis suspected of planning them. Aviation security
had been stepped up world-wide to prevent terrorism on British airlines.

Yesterday the Philippines ordered the expulsion of Iraq's consul-general in
Manila after ''strong evidence'' linked him to Saturday's failed bomb attack
against a US government library. An Iraqi national was killed and his companion
wounded when a powerful bomb, which police said they were trying to plant near
the library, exploded prematurely. In Pakistan, cities have been paralysed by
mass demonstrations against the war.

In Vienna, authorities said yesterday they had detained 11 pro-Iraqi Iranian
activists alleged to be part of a European- wide network preparing attacks. They
were believed to be members of the anti- Tehran People's Mujahedin. At least two
dozen more from the Middle East were said to be under close surveillance in
Austria, the focus of previous terrorist acts and frequently a transit point for
travellers to and from the Gulf region.

Iranian sources said ''hundreds'' of Iranian Mujahedin had been trained in
''urban terrorist operations'' in Iraq. The group has a base in France but is
increasingly active in Germany and Austria.

The French have also begun to fear attacks in their former colonies. France's
embassy in Tunis is guarded by tanks and armoured vehicles.

A large bomb blew up a US military customs clearance depot in Istanbul last
night, police said, causing no casualties but striking fear into the heart of an
American community already on high alert for a terrorist strike, reports Hugh
Pope from Istanbul.

The bombing was claimed by Dev-Sol, a banned revolutionary left group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 1991, Thursday

Leading Article: A fair hearing for Iraqi suspects

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 26

LENGTH: 558 words


ONE way for the Government to demonstrate that our quarrel is with Saddam
Hussein, not the Iraqi people, is to treat Iraqis resident in Britain with
scrupulous fairness. The question applied to them, and to other possible
suspects, such as Palestinians, must be whether they support President Saddam,
not what race they belong to. Since there is a serious risk, especially given
the Iraqi dictator's recent exhortations, that terrorist acts will be committed
by his agents or admirers in this country, the authorities will sometimes need
to take precautions based on suspicion rather than proof. There ought, however,
to be a proper system of appeal for individuals who think they are being
unjustly detained or deported. Otherwise, enemies of President Saddam may be
mistaken for his friends and delivered into his hands, there to suffer torture
and death.

The present system of appeal cannot, unfortunately, be regarded as adequate, as
yesterday's High Court case involving Abbas Cheblak helps to illustrate. Mr
Cheblak is a Palestinian who has lived here for the past 16 years, has two
children with British citizenship, and in 1987 was given leave to stay here
indefinitely. He belongs to the anti-Saddam Arab Human Rights Committee. Last
Thursday he was imprisoned and yesterday he was denied leave to apply for a
judicial review of his case or a writ of habeas corpus. It appears that the
British courts are determined to wash their hands of people like him.

Instead Mr Cheblak has the right, as does any detainee threatened with
deportation, to appeal to a panel of three eminent men who advise the Home
Secretary on what action to take. These hearings are held in camera. The
suspects are given no indication of the grounds for regarding them as security
risks and are not allowed legal representation. Leaving aside yesterday's case
(which has been taken up by, among others, several Jewish writers and a
Conservative MP), it is possible to imagine horrible mistakes occurring.
Evidence that looks suspicious, but for which some innocent explanation exists,
could go without explanation by a defendant who did not even know of its
existence.

There are at present 87 people in detention, all but nine of them Iraqis: the
problem is nothing like as big as that faced when detention without trial was
introduced during the Second World War. But the earlier episode still serves as
a warning. In May 1940, about 80,000 ''enemy aliens'' were rounded up and either
interned in this country, or deported to Canada or Australia (the comparable
number of Iraqis and Palestinians might be 10,000). ''Collar the lot,''
Churchill commanded; and such was the fear of invasion that his instruction
commanded wide support. Although some of the internees were rightly regarded as
dangerous, most had fled from Austria or Germany and loathed fascism. They
included distinguished scholars, musicians and artists, as well as blameless
Italian restaurateurs. Some were drowned on their way overseas. Others merely
had to endure incarceration on the Isle of Man. We must avoid repeating such
injustices, albeit on a smaller scale. Now is the time, before any growth of
anti-Iraqi feeling that the war may bring, to set up a proper system of appeal,
in which defendants have legal representation and some knowledge of the charges
against them.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 25, 1991, Friday

Crisis in the Gulf: 'Uncomfortable' Iraqi envoy to leave London

BYLINE: By ANNIKA SAVILL in London and JOHN EISENHAMMER in Bonn

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 652 words


IRAQ'S ambassador to London is leaving next week following a mere 18 months in
the job after his stay here was rendered increasingly ''uncomfortable'', British
diplomats revealed yesterday.

Officials also said that 35 out of 91 Iraqis and other Arabs detained under
national security provisions were now in Ministry of Defence custody; the ones
effectively made prisoners of war were students identified as members of the
Iraqi armed forces.

Europe saw yet another round of diplomatic expulsions as Germany ordered out 28
Iraqi embassy staff, leaving only four operating the mission in Bonn.

As the Prime Minister told Parliament the Iraqi ambassador would be leaving
shortly, the official government line was that the envoy was going ''at the end
of his tour''. But diplomatic sources said Azmi al-Salihi's departure, leaving
only three staff, was in keeping with clear signals that the Government wanted
to see the Iraqi embassy ''as small as possible''. But they stressed London
would not like the number of staff whittled down to zero, as it needed to
maintain a link with Baghdad on essential matters such as the treatment of
British PoWs in Iraq.

''Like his colleague in Washington, the ambassador made clear about a month ago
his intention to leave,'' said a British diplomat. The envoy had been frozen out
of diplomatic rounds such as receptions at Buckingham Palace since the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait on 2 August, he revealed. ''Since Iraq decided to recall him,
we were spared having to ask him to leave,'' the diplomat added.

British officials privately expressed satisfaction with the German move; it was
London that initiated the wave of expulsions in early January, followed
throughout Europe, to preclude suspected terror activity as well as to make a
diplomatic statement in keeping with the gravity of the crisis.

However, the expulsions from Bonn did not include the ambassador himself, whom
British officials described as one of Saddam Hussein's most trusted associates.
They said the ambassador, Abdul Jebbar Omar Ghani, had been seconded by Baghdad
during the first two months of the crisis to act as President Saddam's ''high
commissioner'' in Kuwait.

The move came a week after mass arrests thoughout Germany by police and
intelligence services as they reacted to threats of a terrorist campaign. Some
250 Iraqis, Palestinians and other Arabs were arrested, according to
intelligence sources, though the action was hushed up to avoid alarming the
public. A number of those arrested have been ''encouraged'' to leave the
country.

German sources said that among the diplomats being expelled were some ''very
strongly suspected'' of running extremist groups and masterminding terrorist
campaigns.

In Brussels, the Belgian Prime Minister, Wilfried Martens, admitted yesterday
that ''errors of judgement'' had been made in giving a tourist visa to a leading
Palestinian guerrilla who visited Brussels on the eve of the outbreak of the
war. He came under heavy fire from opposition leaders who called for the
government to resign.

Mr Martens said the most important error of judgement was that the Foreign
Minister, Mark Eyskens, had not been informed beforehand that Walid Khaled, a
spokesman for the Fatah Revolutionary Council, had been given a visa. Another
mistake was that the Belgian state security service had not been told about the
visit.

Bangladesh yesterday accused Iraq of encouraging pro-Saddam demonstrators to
attack the embassies of countries belonging to the anti-Iraq coalition.
Bangladesh is one of several Asian countries from which Britain, fearing an
Iraqi-backed terror attack against its nationals, has started withdrawing
embassy staff.

Yesterday protesters carrying portraits of President Saddam and burning effigies
of President Bush attacked the US, Saudi and Egyptian embassies in Dhaka and
ransacked the American Club and a Saudi school.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 26, 1991

Winners and losers on the new home front: Theatres and cinemas are suffering
badly, while church attendances are up and soft porn publishers take on the
Saudi censors

BYLINE: By DAN ATKINSON and JOHN MULLIN

LENGTH: 915 words


THE cardboard ration books and tin-hatted air raid wardens of second world war
Britain have been replaced by plastic entry cards and uniformed security guards
as the home front of 1991 braces itself for a backwash of terrorism.

Saudi censors are also on their guard against enterprising British pornographers
wishing to cater for the inner needs of UK Gulf forces. Back home, the nation is
showing more of a taste for the ecclesiastical: church attendances seem to be on
the increase.


But the British business community is furious with the Americans, who are
staying away in droves from British theatres, cinemas, hotels and tourist
resorts. Music business boss David Mindel said: 'It is the Americans who are in
the Gulf, yet they are running scared. They're just a bunch of spineless wimps.'

The winners and losers at home are beginning to emerge already.

Security firms: Securicor, Britain's biggest security company, has seen requests
for advice and consultancy on building security rise sharply. Spokesman Andrew
Hillier said: 'Firms are tightening up. Our business is increasing as a result
of industry's assessment of the rising possibility of terrorist acts.' Sales of
entry control systems were also going up.

TV and radio: Families clustered around the wireless during the last war; today,
they follow its progress on 24-hour satellite TV.

But radio remains important and BBC Radio is now thinking of making its Gulf war
channel, Radio Four News FM, a permanent feature.

For those denied either radio or TV, the telephone has come into its own as a
news source. The BBC has set up a line carrying war bulletins, changed on the
hour. The free lines set up by the Blood Transfusion Service have been deluged.

British Telecom, meanwhile, is working hour by hour to try to restore telephone
links with Iraq and Kuwait, severed during the early days of the fighting.

Pornography: Britain's top soft porn publishers are frustrated in their efforts
to get through to the allied forces in Saudi Arabia by the tough attitude there
to pictures of scantily dressed women.

Carl Snitcher, chief executive of the Paul Raymond Organisation, publishers of
five titles, said the Saudis were no pushovers when it came to sending thousands
of his magazines out to the Gulf.

As the Saudis play hard to get, Mr Snitcher was reticent about how his
organisation was scoring as well as it does in getting hundreds of magazines,
such as Men Only, Escort and Mayfair, through the censors.

But there are no plans at this stage to increase the print run of any of the
publications.

David Sullivan, publisher of The Sport and Sunday Sport, as well as Parade,
suggested his magazines would be carrying pictures of girls with military
themes. 'We have a few ideas of girls posing with the likes of fatigues and big
cannons lined up for future issues,' said a spokesman.

Religion: On a more wholesome note, Fred Brabyn, communications officer for the
Church of England diocese of Bristol, said: 'Many churches have been running
special prayer services for the Gulf, and what is interesting about these is the
intensity of these meetings as well as the attendances.

'This is not praying to formula as you sometimes get it is really heartfelt. It
may not be a shouting from the rooftops, but there is something very genuine
about these services.'

Entertainment: Theatres, cinemas and the music industry are all suffering during
the Gulf crisis. Michael Cook, a partner in Seatfinders, one of the many London
ticket agencies which flourished in the 1980s, said times are proving
particularly tough.

Nick Allott, executive producer of Cameron Mackintosh, responsible for five of
the top London shows, said: 'The phone has stopped ringing at the box office,
the queues at the doors waiting for returns are down, and there have been loads
of cancellations, no doubt about it.

'London was a graveyard last weekend you could almost see the taxi drivers
fighting over a passenger at Piccadilly Circus. But we are fully booked months
ahead, and we are pretty confident we will still be playing to full houses.'

This week's Midem 91 music business tryst at Cannes became a debacle as hundreds
of the top American industry executives pulled out.

The unfortunate Princess of Wales was disappointed when both Meryl Streep and
Shirley MacLaine failed to show up for the premiere of Postcards From The Edge.

American stars are being refused insurance cover to travel across the Atlantic,
so few of the biggest names in the US are likely to play in Europe this year if
the war continues.

The rest of the royal family are doing a roaring trade because of the Gulf.

A Buckingham Palace spokeswoman said: 'Far from cancelling appointments, they
are actually taking more on, and are particularly interested in seeing more of
the servicemen and their wives.'

Hotels: A snap poll yesterday indicated that hotels in London were prepared to
settle for much less than the published rates.

Paul Slattery, an analyst with Kleinwort Benson, said: 'The recession was
already hitting the hotels and other leisure industries hard, but the Gulf is
killing it off.

'There is what we call a World Cup mentality at play here people are going to
work, then going home and sitting in front of the television watching the news.

'The difference is that they were at least buying cans of beer to drink for the
World Cup, but now they are stone cold sober.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 1991, Saturday

Crisis in the Gulf: High Court upholds expulsion

BYLINE: By NICK COHEN and ANNIKA SAVILL

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 633 words


A PALESTINIAN computer engineer, who has lived in Britain since he was 16, faces
deportation and a threat to his life because his uncle is an ''infamous''
extremist, the High Court heard yesterday.

The 31-year-old engineer from south London was among the Palestinians and Iraqis
rounded up in Britain last week. He was being threatened with deportation to
Jordan because of an ''accident of birth'', defence lawyers said.

But the court ruled that Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, had acted lawfully
in ordering that the Palestinian and his pregnant wife should be detained and
expelled because they were an ''unacceptable security risk''.

It upheld the Home Office's actions despite hearing that the man's uncle's
violent campaigns had led Jordanian security officers to warn his wife in 1985
that he would be killed as an act of vengeance against the family if he ever set
foot in Jordan. An appeal against being deported to Jordan rather than another
country, however, remains possible.

A contempt of court order prevents the uncle, who is the leader of one of the
most extreme Palestinian groups, and his nephew being named.

The engineer, identified as Mr H, said he had barely known his uncle. When he
learnt of what he did he regarded him as a ''gangster''.

His Palestinian wife, who is also threatened with deportation, described him as
quiet family man who devoted all his energies to his home and his work. ''Now my
husband sees the past coming back to haunt him,'' she said. ''He faces the
prospect of being persecuted for the rest of his life because of an accident of
birth.''

Yesterday the Home Office released a Palestinian detainee, Jad Kabhan, a
60-year-old who is believed to have US citizenship, after reviewing his case.

There are currently 53 Iraqis and Palestinians being held by the Home Office,
and a further 35 members of the Iraqi army who were at British universities when
war broke out are being held by the Ministry of Defence. The Home Office is not
expecting many more of the 7,000 Iraqis in Britain to be detained. It believes
that it has rounded up all Saddam Hussein sympathisers in the universities who
might have spied on and threatened their compatriots.

Two wings at the Full Sutton high security jail in Humberside have been cleared
for the detainees held by Home Office. The International Red Cross will visit
the men to ensure that they are treated in accordance with the Geneva
Conventions.

Two more Iraqis left London for Jordan yesterday, bringing to 78 the number
expelled since the beginning of the Gulf crisis. Home Office officials said the
two had expressed willingness to leave after their detention under immigration
laws.

The 35 in Ministry of Defence custody were expected to be transferred to a camp
on Salisbury Plain. Rollestone camp, normally used for training purposes, has
been used as a jail three times in the past decade - once during a prison
officers' dispute and twice following overcrowding in conventional jails.

As terrorist fears persisted throughout Europe, French police said they were
checking 160 bomb alerts daily in the greater Paris region. Many calls were
hoaxes but some were genuine alarms. In Brussels, a third adviser to the Belgian
Foreign Minister, Mark Eyskens, resigned over the visit of an Abu Nidal official
to Belgium. Two others resigned on Monday after Walid Khaled, the Abu Nidal
spokesman, was briefly held in Brussels but subsequently released because he
held a valid tourist visa.

In Italy, the Interior Minister announced 62,000 troops and police had been
deployed throughout the country to guard against possible terrorist attacks.
French authorities have deployed about 200,000 troops and cancelled policemen's
leave in what newspapers called the Gulf war's ''second front''.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 27, 1991, Sunday

Crisis in the Gulf: Terror alert shatters the tourist trade

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 1053 words


CONCORDE, the pride of British Airways, flew from New York to London last
Tuesday with five passengers on board. The same day, a Pan Am jumbo jet from
London to Miami carried 30, and 12 people took British Midland's 737 from
Amsterdam to Heathrow.

For airline executives, it was just one bad day in a war that is rapidly turning
into a nightmare for the travel industry. The empty seats are matched by vacant
hotel rooms, as people cancel their travel plans because of the fear of
Iraqi-sponsored terrorism.

Clint Eastwood and Carrie Fisher - whose Hollywood studios decided they could
not travel to London to appear on Wogan - are only the most notable of millions
of non-fliers.

Saddam has even put the wind up Rambo. Sylvester Stallone, who plays the lone
commando who takes on third world armies, has cancelled a visit to a St Moritz
polo tournament, apparently fearing terrorist attack.

While it is too early to predict the extent of the loss, it is clear that the
industry faces an even worse year than 1986, when Americans stayed away from
Europe after the US raid on Libya and the Chernobyl disaster. The British
tourist industry alone lost an estimated pounds 400m.

Business travel is likely to be the main casualty this time. Many US and
European companies have banned employees from travel by air. IBM, Unilever,
General Electric, the Polaroid Corporation and Matsushita Electric are among
those to have grounded their executives.

Business people say their fears are well-founded. Many corporations,
particularly US and British banks and airlines with overseas offices, have
received bomb threats. Last week two bombs exploded outside American- owned
offices in Istanbul, two more were detonated outside British and French-owned
banks in the Lebanon, while a British-owned bank was attacked by a mob in
Malaysia. US, British and French interests were hit by bomb attacks in Athens on
Friday.

As a result, the airline industry is in deep recession. Air France said business
was down 16 per cent within two days of the outbreak of fighting. BA, KLM,
Iberia, Olympic and Pan Am are all cutting back on operations. Pan Am is
refusing to fly Iraqi passport-holders.

Swissair expects traffic to be down at least 15 per cent for the first quarter
of this year. Scandinavian Airlines System is cutting its workforce by 16 per
cent in response to the crisis. Trans World Airlines has shed 2,500 jobs.

Airports throughout Europe are virtually deserted. The British Airports
Authority said there was a 21 per cent fall in the number of passengers through
Heathrow and a 17 per cent drop at Gatwick in the first four days after allied
forces attacked Iraq on 16 January. There was an 8 per cent fall in the summer
of 1986, after Chernobyl and Libya.

David Whittaker, chairman of the Guild of Business Travel Agents, said: ''It is
definitely a nerve-wracking period. There is no doubt there is a significant
downturn in business travel. We carried out a straw poll among our members, and
we suspect there has been a fall-off of around 20 per cent.''

The decline has come despite a huge increase in security. ''The British and US
airlines have taken excellent security precautions, and it must be very
frustrating for them to see a fall-off in reservations,'' he said.

Business travellers were not the only ones staying away. Thousands of Japanese
cancelled holidays within days of the air attack on Baghdad. Movie stars Meryl
Streep, Shirley MacLaine and Dennis Quaid chose to remain in America rather than
travel to Britain for the charity premiere of their film Postcards from the
Edge. The Soviet pianist Andrei Gavrilov and the German conductor Gunter Wand
cancelled appearances with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.

Even Mozart is among the casualties. of the slump. ''The Gulf war has taken its
toll and visitors from abroad have cancelled visits on quite a large scale,''
said Peter Weiser, co-ordinator of Austria's year-long Mozart bicentennial
festivities. Rows of empty seats for a Mozart opera in Vienna signalled an early
setback.

''The explanation is quite easy. Austria is not a good place to reach by car in
winter, and people are just scared to take planes at the moment.'' A planned
international children's Mozart festival in February is threatened.

Producers of Wogan have resorted to interviews by satellite with Clint Eastwood
and Carrie Fisher, and replacement interviewees for absentees such as the US rap
musician MC Hammer.

The Victoria & Albert Museum has postponed an exhibition called ''The Art of
Death'', which took three years to organise. The museum said the exhibition, to
have opened in March, would have illustrated attitudes to death in
post-Reformation England. ''It would have been insensitive for us to proceed in
view of the potential loss of life in the Gulf,'' said Elizabeth Esteve-Coll,
the V & A's director.

An international flight safety and security show at London's Olympia has also
been postponed.

The fear of a prolonged war has alarmed tourist industry chiefs in Spain, Italy
and Greece, who had already been expecting a mediocre year.

Outside Europe, popular holiday destinations such as Thailand, which normally
has more than 5 million foreign tourists a year, are also reporting problems. In
Japan, the Hotel Okura, one of central Tokyo's most luxurious hotels, had more
than 1,300 cancellations immediately after war broke out, mainly from US
business travellers.

Hong Kong's tourist industry, only just recovered from the trauma of Tiananmen
Square, is headed for a new slump, with the number of visitors from the US and
Europe expected to dwindle. Many visitors are cutting short their stays. The
main cancellations worldwide have come from groups of Americans.

- Bombs exploded yesterday outside the US consulate and the Turkish- American
Cultural Association in Adana, Turkey. No injuries were reported.

In Uganda, a hand grenade exploded on a tennis court in the capital, Kampala,
minutes after the US ambassador finished playing there. No one was injured.
Australia ordered an Iraqi diplomat to leave within 72 hours. In Sydney, a
Lebanese was charged with threatening to endanger the safety of an aircraft in
an alleged plot to hijack a plane to Kuwait, which was foiled by police.

Super Bowl under guard, page 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 27, 1991, Sunday

Let slip the dolls of war

BYLINE: Geordie Greig

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 585 words


A LITTLE Saddam Hussein rubber doll caused great excitement at the Imperial War
Museum last week. Curators were thrilled with the latest acquisition for
Britain's national collection of historic weaponry and war memorabilia.

The 3in effigy of the Iraqi president is an ''anger doll'', designed to draw
hatred out of its owners as they bash Saddam out of shape. It is one of the
first junk war toys to be flown in from the Far East, and such tat is avidly
sought by museums.

David Penn, the keeper of exhibits and firearms at the Imperial War Museum, says
the Pounds 4.99 doll is in a century-old tradition of war caricatures. ''We are
actively collecting things that will tell future generations about how this war
and the people involved were perceived and represented. It may seem strange but
it is part of tomorrow's history,'' he says.

The doll will join mugs, plates and puppets of other war leaders from Galtieri
and Thatcher to Kitchener and Churchill. The second world war even produced
Hitler chamber pots with his face painted in the bottom. Today's equivalent is
equally tasteless: rolls of lavatory paper sold for Pounds 3.99, each sheet
carrying a photograph of Saddam in his Arab robes and the caption ''Hussein's
Insane''.

Social historians are fascinated by such Saddamerie. All around the country,
museum curators are snapping up posters, pens, T-shirts and other objects
generated by the war.

Items of interest also include peacenik literature and memorable newspaper
cuttings. The Gulf favourite so far is the colour front page of The Sun
dominated by a Union Jack, with a soldier's face in the centre and a caption
asking readers to display it if they support ''our boys''.

Financial appreciation can be rapid. Argentine helmets from the Falklands
conflict now fetch Pounds 40, while the Union Jack which was flown above Port
Stanley was recently sold for more than Pounds 2,000. This means that museums
have to be constantly on the look-out. On Thursday Angela Weight, the keeper of
art at the Imperial War Museum, dispatched staff to a left-wing north London
bookshop to pick up anti-war badges and a Socialist Worker pamphlet entitled No
to War in the Gulf. She also rang The Sunday Times to ask for a copy of the
vast, yellow street posters advertising its war coverage. And Elspeth King,
deputy keeper of social history at the People's Palace in Glasgow, has a file
marked Gulf WarWorld War Three.

Dr John MacKenzie, senior lecturer in history at Lancaster University, considers
such items revealing as well as therapeutic. ''Often caricatures are an effort
to negotiate the demonolgy of the enemy, like people sticking pins into dolls.
They help to assuage fear by having an image that can be controlled and
possessed.''

But 10 days into the war there is a certain nervousness among some retailers
about stocking Gulf souvenirs, for fear of offending the public. The Covent
Garden Traders' Association decided not to stock anything that could offend
Iraqis and put its staff at risk of any terrorist attacks.

However, the academics do not only collect objects. Already the OED has started
a war file. New possible entries might include ''wild weasel'' and ''prowlers''
terms to describe aircraft sent into enemy territory as well as ''Scud''. John
Simpson, co-editor of the OED, recently added Exocet to the English language, as
a result of the Falklands conflict. ''It is pretty likely that 'human shield'
will end up in the dictionary,'' he says.

Any bids on CNN?

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Style File

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 27, 1991, Sunday

Britain faces threats with a stiff upper lip

BYLINE: by John Davison

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 702 words


BRITAIN'S home front was adopting a phlegmatic approach to being at war last
week while the civilian populations of its allies were gripped with jitters and
a fear of terrorism verging on panic.

British shops recorded ''business as usual'' in line with the general economic
slump. But Americans went on buying sprees for gas-masks and chemical warfare
suits, and stockpiled tinned food. The French government had to pass laws to
curb a rush to buy firearms.

Polls show that one in four Americans now feels in danger after Saddam Hussein's
call on all Arabs to attack Western interests. In a country where terrorism is
almost unknown, security is high in all public buildings (there are
sharpshooters protecting the White House), bomb scares are proliferating and
people duck when cars backfire.

In spite of President Bush's statement on Friday that ''we are going about our
business, the world goes on'', unprecedented security precautions are in place
for today's Super Bowl football extravaganza at Tampa, Florida.

In Hollywood, joggers have been banned from running around the suburb's
reservoir, for fear that terrorists could poison the water supply.

A new fear of flying has had a devastating impact on Britain's tourist industry,
where bookings from America are down by 80% on last year. Big companies,
including IBM, Ford, Kellogg and Hertz, have restricted international travel for
their executives. This has hit London hotels: the Dorchester, which reopened
last month after a Pounds 90m refurbishment, had only 40 rooms occupied of 125
available last week. Others reported letting only about half their normal number
of rooms.

British Airways recorded a 13% drop in passenger numbers for the first full week
of the war, and is reducing all services to America. It has cancelled Pounds 4m
in promotion schemes and has invited its 52,000 staff to apply for unpaid leave.

Theatres have been badly hit in the West End, where for the first time in years
every big show except Phantom of the Opera has tickets available. The Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra is suffering a 40% reduction in ticket sales, and has had
to find a replacement for the Russian pianist Andrei Gavrilov, who refused to
fly from Germany because of the war.

British reaction, though, remains muted. Army surplus shops report a brisk but
small trade in gas-masks. Sensitivity to the issue, however, has led the English
National Opera to drop gas-masks from the costumes for its production of
Prokofiev's The Love for Three Oranges.

The British, it seems, are unlikely to be affected by a new American condition
identified as ''CNN syndrome'', named after the 24-hour cable television
network, which has led to people suffering stress from over-exposure to war
coverage.

Professor Sydney Brandon, a psychiatrist and post-graduate dean of Leicester
University, says he has seen no evidence to suggest that the Gulf war has led to
any increase in psychiatric problems in Britain. ''The British do tend to be
rather stiff upper-lip in these kinds of situations,'' he said.

For those in need of spiritual solace, a 24-hour Dial-the-Pope telephone service
began operating last night on which the Pope gives his views on the war. Callers
dialling 0837-777700 will hear messages from the Vatican in English, Italian,
French or Spanish.

In France, fear of terrorism has been fuelled by memories of terrorist attacks
in 1986, causing cinemas and department stores in Paris virtually to empty.
Galeries Lafayette introduced security checks after a neighbouring store,
Printemps, was daubed with the words: ''Your merchandise stinks of death''.
There has been panic buying of guns, particularly in areas with large Arab
communities. A supermarket in St Etienne reported a 500% increase in gun sales
before the government imposed regional restrictions.

At least in Italy public anxiety is good news for the Solferino Institute in
Turin, which is beginning war survival courses this week. For Pounds 470, which
includes a Pounds 170 gas-mask and protective clothing, students can take a
month-long course on how to survive the hazards of war.

Additional reporting; Stuart Wavell, Paris; Sam Kiley, Los Angeles; Geordie
Greig, London

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gulf war

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 27, 1991, Sunday

Terror alliance starts campaign in West

BYLINE: by James Adams, Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 411 words


AMERICAN intelligence fears that the militant Lebanese Hezbollah terrorist group
responsible for the kidnapping of Terry Waite, the British envoy, may have
linked up with Abu Nidal, the world's most dangerous terrorist.

This alliance, which could spearhead attacks against British and American
targets, would mean the two most ruthless terrorist organisations have pooled
their resources. It is particularly worrying because Abu Nidal has a worldwide
network of cash, arms and safe houses that Hezbollah members could use.

Last December, the Bulgarian government arrested five members of Hezbollah who
were thought to be planning the assassination of the American ambassador to
Sofia. Although the Bulgarians later released the suspected terrorists, US
intelligence is convinced the men were using Abu Nidal's cash and arms for the
attack. American agents in Morocco and Pakistan have also spotted known members
of Abu Nidal's organisation carrying out surveillance of the American embassies
in Rabat and Islamabad.

In recent weeks, a senior American counter-terrorist expert has visited London
and Tel Aviv to co-ordinate the hunt for the terrorists. This weekend the State
Department said there was credible information that attacks were being planned
against countries that were involved in the Gulf war against Iraq.

Yesterday, as Saddam Hussein called for worldwide ''commando'' attacks on
America and its allies, it emerged that Pan Am, the American airline, is turning
away all Iraqi passengers for security reasons. The policy is intended to
prevent a repetition of the 1988 Lockerbie disaster when 259 people died after a
bomb exploded on a Pan Am flight.

In Britain, Germany and Italy, police have uncovered further links between
Iraqis and suspected terrorists. Although no target in Britain or America has
been hit by Iraqi-linked terrorists, the wave of attacks predicted before the
conflict has begun.

A bomb exploded yesterday outside the Paris offices of the newspaper Liberation.
Police said it was the first war-related terrorist attack in France. There were
no injuries. A car blew up next to the American consulate in the southern
Turkish town of Adana yesterday, near the Nato airbase of Incirlik, from which
American planes have mounted bombing raids on Iraq.

The Australian government ordered Iraq's charge d'affaires to leave after he
said terrorists might strike Australia if it increased military involvement in
the Gulf.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gulf war

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 29, 1991, Tuesday

Leading Article: Tourism and the fear factor

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 16

LENGTH: 560 words


IT IS not known how high the ruin of the European tourist industry featured on
Saddam Hussein's war aims. Probably he never gave it a thought. So he may be
chuckling in his bunker at the impact of his threats to spread terrorism across
the world. Thousands of Americans and Japanese have cancelled trips to Britain.
Even on this side of the Atlantic, where terrorism is scarcely new, leading
companies have instructed or advised their executives not to travel by air.
''Safe'' cross-Channel ferries are doing good business, but airlines and hotels
are stricken. January is not a brisk month for trade. This year it is
disastrous. London's theatreland has been hit, too. It may soon be possible to
get into Les Miserables or Phantom of the Opera.

Of terrorism that might be attributed to the long arm of President Saddam, there
has so far been little - thanks, perhaps, to measures taken by the security
forces. In Athens there have been bomb attacks on US and British banks and the
home of the French military attache by a Greek guerrilla group claiming
solidarity with the people of Iraq. In Kampala, Uganda, a bomb landed on the
recently vacated tennis court of the American ambassador. In the Philippines, an
Iraqi was killed and another injured when trying to bomb a US government
library.

These attacks, especially those in Athens, are worrying but so far they are
statistically insignificant. Actuarially speaking, almost anywhere outside
Kuwait and Iraq (and, perhaps, much of Africa) remains safer than main US
cities. Yet in the United States the mere threat of terrorism from Saddam
Hussein has been enough to create a psychosis of fear - especially in New York,
which the high Jewish population is thought to make a prime target. Several
hundred bomb threats a day have been reported. Gas masks have been selling well,
thanks to media speculation that Iraqi terrorists might release anthrax spores
into office buildings. If the home scene is hazardous, to travel abroad is even
worse: Clint Eastwood and Sylvester Stallone, bywords for courage and machismo
on screen, are among film stars who have cancelled trips to Europe.

If there is a sense of deja vu in all this, it is because it happened only four
years ago, following President Ronald Reagan's bombing of Libya. It was possible
then to assume that the Americans were not strong on geography. From a quick
look at a map, Libya might seem unnervingly close to Europe; and had not many of
the US bombers taken off from bases in England? In the present conflict, no such
error is possible. Fear is sometimes rational, but more often not. On any
statistical basis, it must be more dangerous to venture on to the M25 in a car
than to travel by air to any country outside the immediate war zone. On the
basis of a few appalling tragedies, planes are associated with terrorism. Yet
such are the security precautions taken nowadays that air travel must be among
the least terrorist-prone forms of transport.

Those who allow their travel plans to be dictated by Saddam Hussein, be they
American, Japanese or European, are giving terrorism a small victory. Anyone
wishing to show support for troops at the front can do so by leading normal
lives with, if possible, some extra patronage of theatres and other haunts of
prosperous tourists - to compensate for those who have stayed away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 30, 1991

Diary

BYLINE: By ANDREW MONCUR

LENGTH: 725 words


THESE are anxious times, when so many British residents of Iraqi origin must
worry about the early morning knock on the door and the one-way trip to an
internment camp. (Have they started using the Isle of Man yet? Or does that come
later?) It's a terrible thought, but imagine the scene. Knock, knock. Tousled
gent in pyjamas: 'Whaaaissit?' Special Branch officer: 'Are you a Mr Charles
Saatchi? Or, possibly, a Mr Maurice Saatchi of that ilk?' Tousled gent: 'Well,
yes and no.' SB officer: 'I'm afraid I'm going to have to take you in. You're
nicked or, pardon me, interned. A matter of national security, you understand.'
Tousled gent: 'But we've done valuable work for the Conservative Party . . .' SB
officer: 'That may be so, sir. But it says here that you were born in Baghdad.
Sons of a Mr Nathan and a Mrs Daisy Sa'atchi.' Tousled gent: 'Hold on. We have a
close relationship with Mrs Margaret Thatcher . . .' SB officer: 'Mrs Margaret
Who?' And so on.

IT IS obviously a difficult time on the Folkestone war front, too. I'm surprised
that nobody's slapped a D Notice on that clearly subversive newspaper, the Hythe
Extra, which spills these beans on measures to put the town on a war footing.
'Folkestone police have stepped up their security precautions in a bid to
forestall possible terrorist attacks by supporters of Saddam Hussein. A cord has
been tied to trees in front of the Shorncliffe Road station and police cones
have been placed there . . .'


TORY MP Terry Dicks, the member for Hayes and Harlington, is said to be
consulting m'learned friends over a leaflet put out around his ample seat by his
Labour opponents. This goes into some detail about his visit to the seat of Mr
Saddam Hussein, a butcher, of Baghdad. For the record, according to what is
possibly the most offensive single item in the allied arsenal, the Sun
newspaper, that should read Mr Hussein, a bastard, of Baghdad. Anyway, in those
days the Iraqi leader seems to have figured somewhat lower on Mr Dicks' list of
hate figures than subsidised opera-lovers (his wife reportedly calls him Phil,
short for Philistine) and certain Scottish football supporters. The leaflet
recalls Mr Dicks' visit to Iraq from September 25 to October 2, 1988. He was
there as a guest of the Iraqi government, the register of MPs' interests
records. By that time it was already widely accepted in the West that Iraq had
used chemical weapons, including mustard gas, against Kurdish villagers. For
instance, the Times reported on September 19, 1988, that the US and Britain both
claimed 'compelling evidence' that Iraqi forces had used the banned weapons. In
any event, Mr Dicks appears to take a pretty dim view of his opponents'
shenanigans.

SPOILS of war section (a new service to readers). Before the outbreak of
hostilities, a 30 second advertising spot on CNN cost Dollars 3,500. Now? Up to
Dollars 20,000.

WHEN George Bush delivered his State of the Union address last night, one member
of his cabinet had to stay away as the 'designated survivor'. Last year it was
Edward Derwinski, ic veterans' affairs, who remained under Secret Service guard
in the basement of a pizza parlour. No, I don't know why they failed to pick
Danforth Quayle as the potential sole survivor.

ASMALL thing, but possibly significant. The DES has been badgered, quite
properly, by two groups concerned about the fine detail of the Tories' wheeze
for schools to opt out of local authority control. Fair enough. They have now
received their replies. One letter went to Andrew Turner, director of Choice In
Education, which you might describe as the propaganda wing of the Grant
Maintained Schools Trust (thinking of opting out? Go for it). The other was
posted to Martin Rogers, coordinator of Local Schools Information, which offers
advice of an alternative nature (opting out? Don't even think about it). The
letter to Mr Turner (pro) was addressed, in a fair hand, to 'Dear Andrew . . .'
The letter to his opposite number (anti) was headed, by typewriter, 'Dear Mr
Rogers . . .'

AND, FINALLY, back to the fundamentalists. According to the Houston Chronicle, a
Carl Buntion, facing trial for murder, asked Judge Bill Harmon to disqualify
himself. Why? Because the judge had been overheard saying that he was 'doing
God's work to see that the defendant is executed'.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          January 30, 1991, Wednesday

Agencies link up to tackle threat

BYLINE: By Harvey Elliott, Air Correspondent, and Robert Morgan

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 658 words


Intelligence Co-ordination - THE world's intelligence agencies are, for the
first time, pooling their resources to combat the threat of terrorist attacks by
supporters of President Saddam Hussein.

Airlines and international companies have long complained that each security
organisation held on to its own information for fear of compromising sources,
with the result that many potential threats were not passed on to those most
likely to be at risk.

Since Saddam called for a worldwide terror campaign, however, every available
agent has been switched from routine internal investigations to
counter-terrorist work and a special information exchange has been created
linking all the countries most likely to be targets for attack. As a result many
innocent, as well as potentially dangerous, Iraqis and Middle East activists
have been arrested around the world raising fears in some quarters of
over-reaction by the security services who are often now acting on information
passed to them from another country.

Intelligence chiefs are committed to co-operation and last night there was a
quiet, but apprehensive, satisfaction that so far the threatened terror campaign
in Britain, the United States, France and other countries that overtly support
the allies in the war, has failed to materialise, possibly because of the
round-the-clock watch being kept on any likely terrorist suspect.

None the less, since the war began on January 17 there have been more than 30
individual acts of terrorism in at least 12 countries around the world.

Israel is now especially braced for a new wave of attacks after the firing of
more than 50 rockets yesterday against settlements in the north of the country
from Lebanon and calls for a new series of attacks by Yassir Arafat, the
Palestine Liberation Organisation leader.

The bulk of attacks by Muslim extremists have, however, been in Turkey and
Greece, although the latest intelligence reports suggest that there could be
further outbreaks in the Far East within the next few days.

Tom King, the defence secretary, yesterday gave a warning to British and
American businessmen and the public against giving in to terrorism.

Referring to reports about empty transatlantic flights and the fall-off in
business, he said: ''We must ensure that, while we back up our forces in the
Gulf and face up to the the military challenge and see this conflict ended at
the earliest possible time, we do not concede victory in another field to allow
terrorism to transcend our lives with commerce, business and normal lives
interrupted.''

Speaking to the United Kingdom branch of the American Chamber of Commerce
luncheon in London, he said that, as Northern Ireland secretary, he had learnt a
little of the way that terrorists operated. They committed one act and hoped
through

propaganda to spread that terror ever more widely so that millions of people
would change their behaviour and concede to the terrorist threat. One of the
wonderful things about Northern Ireland had been the way ordinary people had
carried on living normal lives. It was against that background that he was
worried about the reaction to the threat of world terrorism today.

Since Saddam made his plea for attacks on allied interests, security at
airports, airline offices, banks and international oil firms has been stepped up
with extra police drafted in to patrol embassies and offices linked with the
allies.

The attacks that extremist groups have been able to launch have not been very
successful so far. One Iraqi has been killed in Manila, possibly the bomber
himself, but there are no reports of injuries and only minimal damage to
buildings.

Airlines have stepped up their own security in line with an international
contingency plan, with check-in desks being opened four hours before a flight,
strict searches of both hand and hold luggage, transfer bags X-rayed and every
item of both cargo and catering examined.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            February 1, 1991, Friday

Scots wha high

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 172 words


Unlike Clint Eastwood and Meryl Streep, the Scots have not been dissuaded from
air travel by a little thing like a war. Figures published yesterday by BAA,
formerly the British Airports Authority, show a big drop in the number of
airline passengers all over the rest of Britain. Airports in Europe and the rest
of the world report a similar trend, while transatlantic flights have been
particularly hard hit.

Only the intrepid Scots are not flying less; indeed, they are flying more.
During the first week of hostilities, the number of passengers leaving Edinburgh
and Aberdeen rose by 2.2 per cent and 9.9 per cent respectively.

Scotland the brave or Scotland the foolhardy? Neither, says Charles Kennedy, the
Liberal Democrat MP whose seat of Ross, Cromarty and Skye leaves him little
choice but to commute by air; simply Scotland the sensible. ''My fellow
countrymen realise that the possibility of a terrorist attack on London is
fairly remote,'' he says. ''As for the Americans, they are over-reacting
ridiculously.''

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 1991

Leading Article: A shambles of justice

LENGTH: 571 words


FOR a country fighting to uphold human rights in Kuwait, Britain is setting an
abject example at home. The fact that only a relatively few Iraqis have been
rounded up compared to the 30,000 German, Austrian and Italian nationals in the
second world war should not allow the Home Office to escape censure for the
roughshod way detainees are being treated in Britain. By yesterday, the process
had degenerated into a shambles, with a Lord Justice of Appeal ready to preside
over what could have become a crude conveyor belt of injustice.

There are 10,000 Iraqis, and tens of thousands of others from the Middle East,
resident in the UK. The Home Secretary has every right to point to the small
number who have been detained, deported or excluded a mere 174 in the face of
calls from Saddam for terrorist acts against Western nations. But a democratic
state has to extend human rights to every individual, not just the majority.
Almost half the 174 decided to leave without appeal. Another 35, here as
students but members of the Iraqi armed forces, have been made prisoners of war.
But over 50 have appealed because they wish to stay. That, however, has become a
charade.


The defects of the present procedure were set out in these columns last week: an
appeal process which withholds the grounds on which the deportation is being
ordered, denies detainees the right to legal representation, and allows a
three-member tribunal to make its recommendations (which can be ignored by the
Home Secretary) in secret. How do you defend yourself against an unspecified
charge involving unspecified links with unspecified organisations? In the best
of circumstances, a mockery of justice. Yet compare the treatment of Mark
Hosenball, the American deported in 1977 whose case first exposed the system's
defects, with the proposed process for the Iraqis. Mr Hosenball was allowed six
weeks to prepare a 200-page submission to the panel, given two full days to set
out his arguments, and permitted to call 12 witnesses. Thirty Iraqi detainees
were brought back to London this week, at two days notice. Lord Justice Lloyd,
the chairman of the panel, had proposed hearing the 30 cases over three days.
Absurd. Each would have had less than an hour to set out the case.

In the ensuing fuss, the Home Office announced that detainees who wanted more
time could withdraw from the rushed hearings. Seven out of 10 did so yesterday.
Lord Justice Lloyd's problems, however, are not over. The Appeal Court judge is
obviously worried by the Birmingham Six Appeal, which is due to start and could
keep him busy for weeks. He was rightly criticised in December for saying: 'I
don't think we are going to let this (the Birmingham papers still to be read)
spoil our Christmas.' But there is no reason at all why justice should be denied
to the Iraqis. Requiring them to wait for weeks would be internment by the
backdoor.

If Lord Justice Lloyd in unavailable, then an alternative judge from the Appeal
Court should be. And the Home Secretary should authorise two other concessions:
the right to legal representation, and the right to know the grounds of the
order. His officials will complain that this could expose police sources. But if
the prosecution has to produce evidence in a terrorist trial, the Home Secretary
should do just that for a deportation order. The consequences for the detainee,
remember, can be just as dire.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                February 3 1991

The Gulf War: Patients barred from hospitals as beds are put on war standby

BYLINE: MICHAEL PRESTAGE and ANNABEL FERRIMAN

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words


The number of beds put on standby for war casualties is making it increasingly
difficult for GPs to get their patients into hospital. In one case, identified
by the Medical Campaign Against Nuclear Weapons, a 90-year-old woman from north
London who broke an ankle in a fall was refused admission to St Mary's Hospital,
Paddington, and referred to a hospital in Ascot. She was finally admitted to St
Mary's after her family pressed her case, but was told she must leave in three
days.

A spokesman for the campaign said many doctors were under pressure not to speak
out because it would be seen as 'disloyal' to the nation's war effort.


Dr Tim Reynolds, a GP from Abingdon, Oxfordshire, where the John Radcliffe
Hospital has more than 70 empty beds, said: 'There have already been casualties
of the war not among the soldiers, but among NHS patients. There are people
waiting for serious, though not necessarily life-threatening, treatment whose
waits will be prolonged.'

He said the waiting time for some operations was running into years and he
predicted that patients waiting for hip replacements could face a three-year
wait.

The problem was being exacerbated by nurses having to go on special training
courses to prepare for casualties. 'We are being told that it is our job to keep
patients out of hospital, but I do not see that as my role,' said Dr Reynolds.

Health Secretary William Waldegrave yesterday criticised hospitals that are
keeping beds empty in expectation of war casualties. 'They should not really be
doing that,' he said, speaking after a meeting of the Conservative Medical
Society in London.

'If we have casualties from the Gulf, we will have about three hours' notice.
The chief executive of the NHS, Duncan Nichol, has told health authorities that
they must get ready and gear themselves up,' he added. But that was not the same
as holding beds empty. Psychologists are warning of a marked increase in
post-traumatic stress disorders among civilians worried about the war.

Dr Dorothy Rowe, chair of the psychotherapy section of the British Psychological
Society, said yesterday: 'I am finding I get phone calls and visits from friends
and colleagues whom I regarded as solid, coping characters. At first I couldn't
believe they were so upset about the whole war business.

'They are really frightened and despairing that the war is going to turn into
something quite terrible. I have also started to get calls from ex-clients who
had been functioning quite well for a long time,' she added.

People's worries are centring around fears of terrorist attack, the effect on
the UK economy and even the misguided apprehension that Britain could come under
attack from Scud missiles.

Psychologists are concerned that if the war escalates the Health Service will be
swamped with trauma cases.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            February 3, 1991, Sunday

AIRLINE TERROR BOMB PLOT EXPOSED

BYLINE:  Tim Moynihan, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 330 words


British airports and airlines, plus overseas airlines operating into the UK,
have been warned of a Lockerbie-style terrorist plot to place briefcase bombs on
board aircraft, according to a report today.  Intelligence officials have
disclosed that the terror teams have Palestinian links and are expertly trained
in bombing techniques, says the report in the Sunday Express.  They were ordered
to carry out an outrage as part of Saddam Hussein's call for attacks on Western
targets, it says.  The newspaper says Britain and the US have sent out a
worldwide alert over the briefcase bombs.  The intelligence agencies in London
and Washington uncovered the plot by terrorists operating in pairs to blast an
airliner out of the sky with a bomb said to be "extremely difficult" to detect,
it claims.  A Department of Transport spokesman said last night that the
airports and airlines were told on January 22 of a "potential threat", with
updated information passed on six days later.  The Department informed all the
major airlines about the bombers, said to have perfected bombs that can be
hidden in the lining of Samsonite briefcases.  The bombs could consist of 2kg of
plastic explosive in thin sheets under the case liner, says the newspaper.

AP reported that despite more than 70 attacks on Western targets in the last two
weeks, terrorism experts do not believe Saddam Hussein's professional killers
have struck yet and may be waiting for the United States and its partners to
drop their guard.  "What we've seen so far have been rather amateurish affairs
that were probably the work of local enthusiasts rather than trained
terrorists," said Frank Brenchley, director of London's Research Institute for
the Study of Conflict and Terrorism.  "We're surprised there haven't been any
attacks by Palestinian organisations based in Baghdad.  "It takes four or five
months to set up a professional terrorist attack and they've had the time to do
that," Mr Brenchley said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 3, 1991, Sunday

Terror alert at airports

BYLINE: Maurice Chittenden

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 634 words


BRITISH airlines have been alerted to expect a Lockerbie-style attack on aircaft
by terrorists seeking to bring Saddam Hussein's ''holy war'' home to the allies.

The Department of Transport has issued two separate warnings to airlines which
use British airports to be on guard against a new briefcase bomb that can breach
security measures introduced after the Lockerbie explosion which killed 270
people in December, 1988.

The alert follows information from intelligence agencies in both Britain and the
United States.

A senior member of the war cabinet warned: ''We cannot be certain that there are
not already Iraqi teams operating in London. The terrorist threat is very
real.''

The airlines have been told that terrorists may conceal plastic explosives in
Samsonite briefcases. It is feared that a terrorist could place such a bomb
under his seat and leave a flight at the first stop-over. Alternatively, an
innocent passenger could be persuaded to carry a case containing a bomb on
board.

A DoT spokesman said last night: ''Information has been received from
intelligence agencies of a threat to bomb aircraft. We passed on the warning to
all British airports and foreign airlines operating into the UK.''

The first warning went out on January 22 and was followed on Monday by an
additional alert, containing further information. The airlines were told to be
on the lookout for 2kg of plastic explosive concealed under the liner of a
Samsonite case.

The warning follows Saddam's call for a ''holy war'' against the allies in their
own countries. Ten days ago Allamah Muhammad Husayn Fadlallah, leader of the
pro-Iranian Hezbollah, announced on Voice of Lebanon radio in Beirut that
Muslims all over the world would respond to the call.

American intelligence fears that an extremist Hezbollah faction responsible for
the kidnapping of Terry Waite, the Archbishop of Canterbury's special envoy, may
have linked up with Abu Nidal, the world's most dangerous terrorist.

The DoT said last night that it had warned Heathrow, Gatwick and other airports
of the potential threat. They have been told that the terrorists suspected of
plotting the attack operate in two-man cells. They are believed to have been
recruited from Palestinian supporters of Saddam.

Armed police and troops have been on patrol at the airports since the Gulf war
began. The new alert will mean long delays as security guards scrutinise every
piece of hand luggage. Airlines have ordered security staff to ensure that all
cases are x-rayed for possible explosives. They have been told that detecting a
bomb may be ''extremely difficult''. Cases must be checked for bulges and any
tampering with locks and hinges.

The warning has come at a bad time for airlines, with bookings sharply down on
this time last year, especially on transatlantic flights, because of the fear of
a possible attack.

Last night's public confirmation of the warning to airlines is in contrast to
the secret warnings that intelligence agencies sent to airlines four weeks
before the Lockerbie disaster. The DoT telexed airlines in November, 1988, to be
on their guard against a bomb hidden in a radio cassette player. Seventeen days
later it received a report from the Federal Aviation Administration in the
United States of a specific bomb threat against Pan Am made in Helsinki, but no
special action was taken. Details of the alert were not made public until three
months after the Lockerbie bombing. Paul Channon, the then transport secretary,
claimed that the FAA warning was no more significant than 215 other warnings
received annually.

Peruvian terrorists blew up a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant in Lima last
night, injuring eight people, in a series of attacks intended as a reprisal for
the allied war effort in the Gulf.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gulf war

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            February 4, 1991, Monday

FOUR IN BID TO OVERTURN DEPORTATION ORDERS

BYLINE:  Peter Archer, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 262 words


Another four Iraqi or Palestinian detainees were today attempting to overturn
deportation orders at secret hearings in a London jail.  They hope to convince
an advisory panel to the Home Secretary that they are not a threat to national
security and should be allowed to remain in the UK. They are among 52 making
applications to the panel, known as the "Three Wise Men" and headed by Appeal
Court judge Lord Justice Lloyd.  A further two Iraqis were detained by police
and immigration officials over the weekend and are now among those making
representations.  The panel heard three cases on Friday and later said it would
be giving Home Secretary Kenneth Baker "confidential advice".  After protests
over the speed of the latest hearings, which began on Friday and continue today
and on Tuesday at Pentonville Prison, Lord Justice Lloyd agreed to postponments
for those detainees who wanted more time to prepare their defence.  Critics
claim the secret hearings are unjust and amount to "conveyor-belt" justice.
There is no appeal against the panel's recommendation. If the Home Secretary
decides to expel them, detainees can only appeal against the specified
destination, which is likely to be Jordan.  Currently 47 Iraqi men, four
Palestinian men and one Palestinian woman are in detention. Seven others are
subject to restriction orders requiring them to report daily to a police
station.  Others have already left or have been deported after nationwide
round-ups in the wake of a call by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to launch
terrorist attacks in Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 6, 1991, Wednesday

Crisis in the Gulf: Diplomats angry at detentions

BYLINE: By ANNIKA SAVILL

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 534 words


BRITISH diplomats admitted yesterday that they were furious at the Home Office
round-up and deportation of Arabs, which risked leading to Britain ''losing the
peace'' after the Gulf war.

They said it was possible that Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, would raise
the matter with the Cabinet.

They said the legal row over the expulsions would provoke lingering resentment
throughout the Arab world, and the Foreign Office was virtually powerless in the
matter.

''It is damaging Britain's reputation against the background that we need to win
the peace as well as the war,'' a British diplomat said.

''This country has extensive interests in the Arab world, and has a reputation
as a place where people from the Middle East are welcome. The last thing Britain
needs in this crisis is to be seen as an Arab-hater.''

The Home Office had disregarded the Foreign Office objections, he said,
''because the Foreign Office is always being accused of consisting of a bunch of
Arab-lovers anyway''.

All that the Foreign Office had been able to do so far, he said, was to point
out the risk to London's reputation abroad and to pass on any objections from
individual Arab countries.

But, given the seriousness of the possible long-term effects, it ''could not be
ruled out'' that Mr Hurd would raise the matter at the highest level.

''There are two targets of the round-up - targeting the Iraqis might conceivably
have been understandable, but when they start rounding up any Arab it will have
detrimental effects worldwide,'' he added.

Security sources have admitted that there was no evidence that some of Arabs
detained or deported, without being told of the accusations against them, were
guilty of any acts of terrorism; and that they may be under suspicion because of
a distant relation connected with terrorist activities or past association with
''clubs'' or ''societies'' regarded as suspect.

Iraqi opposition leaders in Britain said the action had provoked a backlash in
favour of Saddam Hussein.

At first, the round-up had seemed to be conducted with some precision, but their
biggest fear was that it would now appear indiscriminate.

''It increases the feeling that Saddam and the Arabs are victims of the allies
together,'' an Iraqi opposition spokesman said. ''It adds to the feeling that
the Arabs already have, that they have been messed about by the West for 50
years.''

He predicted that the resentment would extend to the West and the United Nations
as a whole, which would hamper the chances of successfully developing post-Gulf
war structures.

The key to assuaging the Arab anger lay, as always, in the Arab- Israeli
question. ''If we see an international conference addressing that problem in
earnest, that might water down some of the resentment,'' a Middle Eastern
analyst said.

British analysts were, meanwhile, pointing to the natural conflict of interest
between the Home Office and the Foreign Office. Officials of the former were
pre- empting any accusations of having been remiss should any act of terrorism
take place on British soil, while the Arabists of the Foreign Office were bound
to stress the wider and longer-term international implications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 6, 1991, Wednesday

Ministers target the IRA's organisers

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 604 words


THE ''GODFATHERS'' of the IRA were targeted by the Government yesterday with
changes to the Northern Ireland Emergency Provisions Bill, as part of a new
package of measures to attack terrorist leaders and their racketeering in
Ulster.

In a change to the Bill by the Government, it will be an offence for any person
who directs, at any level, the activities of an organisation which is concerned
in the commission of acts of terrorism. Those found guilty could face life
imprisonment.

Opposition leaders fear the clause could prove counter-productive if it is used
against elected leaders of Sinn Fein, such as Gerry Adams.

Labour and Seamus Mallon, for the SDLP, voted against the clause and threatened
to fight it when the Bill returns to the Commons for the report stage. Kevin
McNamara, the Labour spokesman on Northern Ireland, while supporting other
measures against terrorism, said it was ''a very dangerous clause far too widely
drawn''.

However, Brian Mawhinney, the Minister of State for Northern Ireland, said that
the Government had been concerned that those who were sentenced for terrorist
offences in Northern Ireland were the perpetrators but not those who planned or
directed the terrorist campaigns.

''Those who plan, organise or otherwise arrange particular terrorist acts, even
though they may not take part in them, are already guilty of an offence under
the present law. This clause is not, therefore, aimed directly at those who can
be directly associated with a particular offence.

''It is aimed, instead, at those persons who it can be proved are responsible
for directing the activities of organisations which claim responsibility for
such offences, even though it might not be possible to prove a direct connection
between them and any particular terrorist offence.''

He added: ''Most people feel there is a gap in our legislation that needs to be
filled. I don't

believe it will be easy to obtain the evidence, but I believe it is worth the
time and resources and the

effort if it is possible to put out

of business some of these Godfathers.''

The Government also introduced sweeping changes to the Bill on racketeering
which had cross-party support. Mr Mawhinney told the committee stage of the Bill
in the Commons that the Government had considered emulating American laws which
were used to tackle racketeering by the Mafia. It was found that these could not
be translated into UK law.

Instead, the Government introduced a new schedule and a new clause to the Bill
to create special investigators in Ulster with powers to combat the laundering
of the proceeds from terrorist rackets, including money invested in legitimate
businesses.

The Secretary of State, at the request of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, will be
able to authorise civilians to investigate racketeering. They will be able to
require suspects to attend for interview, to produce documents and to provide an
explanation. Failure to do so, or to destroy or falsify the documents, will be
an offence.

Mr Mallon, while supporting action against racketeering, compared the proposals
to sheriffs swearing-in deputies in wild west films.

But Mr Mawhinney said: ''There is a serious risk that if effective action is not
taken now against the more sophisticated forms of terrorist financing, they will
take root in the province and become a permanent feature of life even after the
threat of terrorism has disappeared. No one would wish to see a Mafia-type
economy establish itself in Northern Ireland.''

The powers will extend to Great Britain, but only where the inquiries are
initiated in Northern Ireland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 7, 1991, Thursday

CROSS-PARTY ADMIRATION FOR COOL MAJOR

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Press Association Political Editor

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 1129 words


An averwhelming wave of unity swept through the House of Commons today as
Britain's political leaders condemned the abortive mortar bomb attempt to
assassinate the Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleagues in 10, Downing Street.
MPs of all parties did not disguise their admiration for John Major's reported
coolness when the mortars exploded only feet from him in the garden outside the
Cabinet room, and the calm but cold fury with which he expressed in the Commons
his contempt for his would-be killers.  Later Home Secretary Kenneth Baker told
a packed and sombre House that security around Westminster and Whitehall, from
where the mortars were fired, would be re-examined.  But he warned, too, that
there had to be a limit to safety measures, because to disrupt the lives of
people as they went about their business would be a "concession to terrorism".
The Prime Minister was cheered in all parts of the House as he entered the
chamber shortly before question time.  He appeared unmoved by his narrow escape
from death.  Mr Major said this was clearly a "deliberate attempt" to kill the
Cabinet. He added: "It's about time they learned that democracies cannot be
intimidated by terrorism and we rightly treat them with contempt."

Earlier, both Mr Kinnock and Paddy Ashdown, the Liberal Democrat leader, had
expressed their anger at the outrage and support for Mr Major's resolve not to
allow the attack to divert government business.  Mr Kinnock was applauded by
Tory and Labour MPs alike when he told the Prime Minister: "The attack in
Whitehall was both vicious and futile since it will not intimidate nor will it
divert anyone in government or opposition in this democracy.  "May I express my
relief that the attack caused so little harm to people, my admiration for
workers in Whitehall who continued with their duties and my admiration for the
emergency services who responded with great speed and great expertise.  "Today's
experience further increases our feeling for the people of Northern Ireland who
have lived with atrocities of this kind for nearly two decades.  "Outrages like
this one today increase the unity and determination we all have to defend
democracy and defeat terrorism, whatever its source." Mr Major replied with deep
feeling: "I am grateful to you. I know you share my contempt for terrorism.  "I
think it is clear from the timing of the attack this morning that does suggest
it was a deliberate attempt to kill the Cabinet and to do damage to our
democratic system of government.  "It failed - nor in any circumstances could it
have succeeded." He went on: "Many people in this country, including those brave
people in Northern Ireland, have been victims of terrorist attacks on many
occasions.  "None of those attacks have succeeded in changing the policy of
successive governments, nor the policy or principles of this House, in any
single iota, nor will they." Mr Ashdown expressed best wishes to those injured
in the attack.  He told the Prime Minister: "The whole House and the whole
nation will back you in your determination to ensure that government continues
as usual, despite this outrage.  "The operation of an open democracy necessarily
carries with it some risks.  "And the proper response to terrorism is to do, as
you have done, to make it clear that we will not be deflected in our policies,
nor will we be weakened in our determination to preserve the open and accessible
character of our democracy." Mr Major said: "I think you speak for the whole
House in what you say."

Later, with the Commons in unison, Mr Baker demonstrated the determination not
to allow such terrorist attacks at the heart of the Government to disrupt "the
democratic process".  Mr Baker went on: "This reckless attack appears to have
been the work of the Provisional IRA." Mortar attacks were sadly well-known in
Northern Ireland, but this was the first time that terrorists had attempted such
an attack on the mainland of Britain.  He stressed: "The terrorists constantly
change their methods of attack in an attempt to catch us off guard.  "We must
all be on guard at all times against attacks from a variety of sources." Mr
Baker said the Government had a range of contingency plans against the terrorist
threat. Counter-measures were kept under constant review.  "We are assessing
urgently the significance of this morning's attack and its implications for
security. We will be looking again at the physical security of the whole
Westminster and Whitehall area.  "It must be made as safe as humanly possible
for all those who live or work in the area as well as the millions who visit or
travel through it." He said all reasonable security measures had to be
continued, and that meant continuing police efforts and public vigilance.  "But
there is a limit to the sort of defensive measures that can be taken.  "In a
democracy, people wish to be free to go about their business. To disrupt their
lives any more than we have to would be a concession to terrorism." He declared:
"The whole House, the whole country, will condemn utterly this deliberate and
ruthless attempt to injure or kill members of the Government, officials and
indeed anyone who might have been in the vicinity of such a reckless and
cowardly attack." He said the House would need no reminding that many visitors,
families and children went to Downing Street and it was only by chance that no
group was there today.  "The House will want to be reassured that the Cabinet
met to conduct business as usual.  "The machinery of government and our
democratic process were not and will not be disrupted by such terrorist attacks.
"Today terrorists have attempted to strike at the heart of our government. They
have failed." Noting that the attack bore all the hallmarks of IRA violence, Mr
Baker added: "We must give thanks that in this instance the terrorists were
unsuccessful.  Shadow home secretary Roy Hattersley told Mr Baker: "I support
your insistence that neither the business of government, nor the processes of
Parliament, can be disrupted by this attack or such attacks.  "We believe an
attack on the democratically-elected Government of this country is an attack on
democracy itself." Labour was determined that all terrorism would be defeated.
"The perpetrators of today's attack can gain nothing and will gain nothing from
what they did.  "We look forward to their speedy capture and the conviction of
all those who were in any way responsible." Mr Baker said the whole House would
be united in believing "attacks of this sort are an attack upon our democratic
process".  He went on: "Terrorists are not interested in democratic processes,
whichever terrorist group they belong in.  "They just want to destroy the
democratic process."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 7, 1991, Thursday

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 285 words


One mortar exploded in garden of 10 Downing Street and other two landed on
Mountbatten Green, behind Foreign Office, said Home Secretary.

Home Secretary said: "This reckless attack appears to have been the work of the
Provisional IRA."

Home Secretary said it was first terrorist mortar attack on mainland Britain and
marked change of IRA tactics. It underlined need to be "on guard at all times
against attacks from a variety of sources".

"The whole house, the whole country, will condemn utterly this deliberate and
ruthless attempt to injure or kill members of the Government, officials and
indeed anyone who might have been in the vicinity of such a reckless and
cowardly attack."

Mr Baker: "The machinery of government and our democratic process were not, and
will not be, disrupted by such terrorist attacks."

Shadow home secretary Roy Hattersley joined in condemnation of "this act of
terrorism" and added: "We believe an attack on the democratically elected
government of this country is an attack on democracy itself."

Referring to possibility of Iraqi involvement, Mr Baker said: "The IRA has in
the past certainly derived a great deal of help from Libya, but I have no
special reason ... to connect this morning's attack with the activities of any
other terrorist group."

Answering a charge from former Ulster Secretary Merlyn Rees that there had been
a "failure of security" Mr Baker said: The incident will be looked into. One
cannot fault the police security."

Mr Baker warned: "Events today do remind everyone in the country, from wherever
they come, they they must be more vigilant." Terrorist attacks could come from
other sources than the IRA, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 8, 1991

Stealing a march in the terror business: Conor Gearty says we get the terrorism
that we deserve

BYLINE: By CONOR GEARTY

LENGTH: 1048 words


FOR the past three weeks London has been on its highest state of alert in
peacetime. No effort in time or manpower has been spared to guard the city
against attack by Iraqi-sponsored groups. But yesterday morning a couple of
terrorists were able to park a van in Whitehall, launch a mortar attack on our
seat of government, and vanish into thin air.

After a defensive and unsuccessful Sinn Fein conference last week, the attack
appears to be a predictable, but nevertheless dramatic attempt to boost
Republican morale. It will go down well in Republican circles in Belfast, and
America. If John Major and his military chiefs cannot be protected even from the
IRA, what hope is there for the rest of us?


As the Gulf war escalates and attacks on Western targets in the Islamic world
increase, it is already apparent that, even without any extreme atrocity, the
fear of political terror has captured our imaginations: the West End is starved
of tourists; empty jets ply once busy transatlantic routes; sleepy security
staff slouch at every shoe shop, waiting to tackle Abu Nidal; resident
foreigners unfortunate enough to be vaguely Middle-eastern are thrown into
Pentonville without explanation or recourse to judicial review.

Nervous commuters report all stray packages in a grim replay of IRA violence
from an earlier age. But President Saddam promises to make the Provisionals look
almost quaint; and we have believed him. Without so much as firing a shot, his
second front has thrived. Its army is our anxiety: its weapons are our nerves.

The warped logic of war makes terrorist violence here more probable, and sooner
rather than later. Saddam has had months to prepare under the shield of
diplomatic protection. If the death of Westerners in the Gulf is thought tragic,
the death of Westerners in the West would be a disaster.

Our society is not unique in confusing self-interest with humanitarianism, and
Saddam knows that proximity always saps the appetite for war. His gamble would
be to kill enough here to debilitate our will without provoking massive
retribution.

Terrorist violence, with its horror and inevitable confusion about culpability,
is his ideal tool. Nor should we expect him to give the ethical dimension a
second thought: there is no evidence that he sees a moral distinction between
thousands of air attacks on Iraq (a 'just war') and a bomb in central London
('international terrorism').

If terrorist violence occurs in Britain, it is likely to be serious. Subversive
violence that causes terror is usually employed by a sub-state group acting
alone in a desperate bid to draw attention to their often ludicrous or
impossible political goals: the Red Brigade, the Red Army Faction, the Puerto
Rican separatists.

Their world is isolated and fraught as they are pursued by massive state power
and despised by the people for whom they pretend to act. But in the words of one
scholar, 'they want people to be watching, they don't want people dead'. Thus
their object to communicate controls and limits their bloodiness.

This does not apply here. The violence will be state-(Iraqi) sponsored, and
history shows that even the puniest nation, much less a heavily armed one, can
do more damage than the strongest rebel gang. The weaponry and infrastructural
support will be much greater than usual. Devastating methods of mass destruction
may be available and, scariest of all, the motive would not be the usual one of
passing on a message: it would be either to wreak revenge for deaths in the
Gulf, or to compel us to come to the peace table on Saddam's terms. Both could
involve killing on a scale with which we in the West are totally unfamiliar.

Defence would be difficult. Targets are everywhere, and impossible to protect.
The badges of a successful liberal democracy wealth, freedom, mobility, and a
dislike of unexpected death can be turned by the clever subversive into a glut
of Achilles' heels. Tanks at Heathrow merely look good.

Maybe, against all expectations, Saddam has decided not to export violence, or
simply never got round to organising it. The best short-term advice is merely to
make things harder and hope. But a surer long-term defence would be to reflect
on the meaning and origin of the terrorism that we daily expect.

It is not a historical, context-less epidemic from the East, thriving in a
vacuum of fanatical Arabism. It is evil, of course, but it reacts to what we do
in the Middle East; and America, Israel, and Europe are all 'we' as far as the
Arab countries are concerned. It is a cancerous consequence of parts of 'our'
foreign policy.

PLO terrorism began after Israel unlawfully occupied the West Bank; Hezbollah
and Islamic jihad were born during an Israeli invasion of Lebanon, which claimed
thousands of lives. The IRA was helped by Libya after the United States bombed
Tripoli in 1986. It is US, British, and French planes that are doing damage to
Iraq the extent of which we can only guess at. But none of what 'we' do or did
in any of these situations was or is 'terrorism'; this label is reserved for our
opponents.

If the West was more sensitive to terrorism across the world and to the
consequence of pursuing its global ambitions, it might have less cause to fear
terrorism at home. For as long as the Gulf conflict lasts, politicians must
ensure that the spirallying brutality of war does not encourage the generals to
cause massive civilian casualities, or to destroy or defile the holy places of
Islam. In the long term, it is essential that the festering sore of Palestinian
dispossession is confronted. Israel's admirable forbearance under provocation
must not win for it a post-war veto over justice.

Early last year the Bush Administration broke off talks with the PLO after the
organisation had recognised Israel and all but halted its military campaign: the
President had decided the group was still 'terrorist'.

If the Palestinians are further humiliated and isolated in the months of allied
victory, the heyday of the terrorist may indeed be yet to come.

Dr Conor Gearty is a senior lecturer in law and director of the civil liberties
research unit, King's College, London. His latest book, Terror, will be
published by Faber on February 18.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 8, 1991

Leading Article: A strike at the heart of Whitehall

LENGTH: 488 words


WHAT HAPPENED in Whitehall yesterday was the most serious assault on the heart
of British government since the bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton in
October 1984. As John Major put it in his calm, undramatic way to the Commons,
this was a deliberate attempt to kill the Cabinet. Several MPs, starting with Mr
Kinnock, rightly remembered to acknowledge, as Westminster has not always done,
that in terms of what Belfast has suffered, the event was almost routine. But
that does not diminish the symbolism: an attack directed in a time of war at the
Prime Minister and his War Cabinet. The force of one explosion rattled and
crazed the reinforced windows of the room in which Mr Major and his colleagues
were meeting.

The assault was claimed last night by the Provisional IRA, to whom it had been
swiftly ascribed by the police because it so closely compared with attacks they
had claimed before. That disposes of the initial suspicion that this might have
been one of the terrorist attacks on Western cities which Iraq was thought to
have ordered in messages intercepted by the BBC monitoring unit. Yet there are
even so inescapable connections with the Gulf. The fact of war may well have
helped inspire the launching of this attack at this particular place and time.
Iraq will find it heartening, and will no doubt hope to advertise it as some
kind of response to Britain's involvement in the war. It will also serve as a
reminder that Saddam Hussein, who seeks to deliver what he threatens, has
promised this kind of action. The bombing may not have been staged on behalf of
Iraq; but the next one could be.


The conclusions to be drawn are so plain as to be banal. First: though security
had been tightened it wasn't tight enough: had it been, the van on the corner
might have been investigated before it began to operate. But security can never
be totally impenetrable unless the Whitehall-Westminster complex is turned into
some kind of highly-armed exclusion zone as it never has been before, even in
time of war, and should not be now. Second: such events ought not to be used as
the basis for party political skirmishes like the one into which Kenneth Baker
let himself be drawn in the House yesterday, almost as if we were still in the
Thatcher era, accepting a back bench invitation to castigate Labour for failing
to support the renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act. Mr Baker knows that
this is a dispute about means not ends, and that Labour's leaders are just as
committed as he is to seeing the use of terror defeated. And third: it really is
true, as the IRA ought to know by now, looking back across the bloody terrain of
20 years, that no conceivable British government is going to be bombed into
buying the IRA's terms for peace on the island. All the lives they have taken
over these years a total mercifully not augmented yesterday in Whitehall have
brought them no advantage.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 8, 1991

Attack on Downing Street: Arrests fail to damage IRA's ability to strike

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 486 words


STRIKING again so close to the heart of the British government, the IRA
yesterday showed it could restart its mainland campaign after a break of six
months.

It will have destroyed security force hopes that arrests last summer had damaged
the Provisionals' ability to launch campaigns in Britain.


Yesterday's attack will also have put paid to any suggestions that the IRA was
contemplating a ceasefire.

If anything, the IRA may feel it needs to step up its actions in order to
convince the government it is not war weary. For many years now it has accepted
that the war will be a long, hard and protracted conflict. The republican
movement is learning to pace itself.

There have been suggestions that the IRA would be asked to carry out attacks on
behalf of Palestinian or Middle Eastern terrorist groups with which it has had
contact.

David Trimble, the Unionist MP for Upper Bann, said several weeks ago that the
IRA would be asked to repay debts to the PLO for the training members had
received over the years. The PLO's Dublin representative denied there had ever
been any contacts.

The often repeated phrase that 'England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity'
might also suggest that an upsurge in IRA violence will occur while fighting
continues in Kuwait.

After a long lull, an incident at a Cannock Chase rifle range two weeks ago when
a man opened fire on a couple in a car, suggested an IRA active service unit
could be operating in Britain again. Staffordshire police said they had an open
mind about whether the shooting, and an explosion on the range, were connected
to the IRA.

The Downing Street attack is another demonstration of the republican movement's
long established, dual track policy of using the 'Armalite and the ballot box'.

While Sinn Fein called for peace at its annual conference in Dublin last
weekend, the IRA continues to put across the message that it will carry on
fighting until it wears down the British into eventual withdrawal from the
North.

Last Saturday, Gerry Adams, Sinn Fein's president, said he had sent a letter to
John Major asking him to consider a fresh approach to Northern Ireland and enter
into talks. Yesterday, the IRA sent a mortar bomb into Mr Major's back garden.
The juxtaposition is likely to stimulate immediate accusations of hyprocrisy.

The IRA hopes instead to force a serious rethinking of Britain's approach to the
North. Last week Jim Gibney, a Sinn Fein executive member, took part in a debate
at Trinity College, Dublin, with a spokesman from New Consensus, the group
opposed to the continuation of the IRA's armed struggle.

'British occupation of the Six Counties distorts the landscape of this country,'
he said. 'It polarises society in the North. It creates a division. It forces
republicans to take up arms and to use those arms in a way which will bring
about an end to that occupation.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 8, 1991, Friday

Downing Street Bombing: Fundraisers fear backlash in US opinion

BYLINE: From LEONARD DOYLE in New York

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 552 words


THE RESPONSE from the United States to yesterday's IRA bombing of 10 Downing
Street was one of deep disapproval, combined with a sense of disgust that the
leadership of its closest ally in the Gulf war should have come under direct
attack in this way.

While the relatively small number of hardcore IRA sympathisers scattered across
the US were gleeful, there were fears that the bombing would cause a backlash
against their efforts to make Ireland an issue for mainstream American voters or
that it would harm their fundraising activities in the lead-up to 17 March - St
Patrick's Day.

In a damage control exercise the IRA's support group Irish Northern Aid (Noraid)
issued a statement which said: ''British propaganda sources have attempted to
link the IRA to the Gulf war. Any suggestion is utterly and unequivocably
false.''

Martin Galvin, Noraid's spokesman, said: ''The American people are sophisticated
enough to distinguish between the Persian Gulf conflict and the IRA's struggle
with Britain. The cause of Irish nationalism cannot be put on hold because of
the Gulf war.''

Britain is engaged in a constant battle to influence public opinion in the US.
From the headquarters at the UK Consulate on Third Avenue, New York, diplomats
work the telephones with opinion formers, ranging from the editorial boards of
news organisations to politicians. The British Information Service also provides
a service in which radio stations can call a freephone number to hear and record
government prepared ''news'' broadcasts, to use as they wish.

After yesterday's bombing there were seven news items containing reaction by
John Major to the IRA bombing and the latest developments in the Gulf war.

There are about 40 million Americans who claim Irish descent, although only a
fraction of that number have any real knowledge of events in Northern Ireland.
They are an increasingly well educated and wealthy sector of American society,
however, and are considered by many political advisers to be a key swing vote in
US presidential elections. Until recently they have shown little interest in
events in Ireland, but that has started to change as human rights issues such as
job discrimination in Northern Ireland and the imprisonment of the Birmingham
Six have caught the American public's attention.

While interested in Irish affairs and frequently critical of Britain, these
Irish Americans and their political leaders, such as Congressman Brian Donnelly
and Congressman Joe Kennedy, do not support the IRA's campaign of violence.
Yesterday's mortar attack on the Cabinet will none the less be deeply
embarrassing to these politicians, as was the IRA's bombing of the Grand Hotel
in Brighton in 1984, during the Conservative Party conference. The IRA's most
recent tactic of using ''human bombs'' has also been repugnant to this group.

The broad American reaction to yesterday's mortar attack will be still harsher.
The IRA's bombing of Harrods at Christmas four years ago, which resulted in the
death of an American tourist, caused outrage in the US and touched off a deluge
of anti-IRA editorials which seared the public's consciousness. The Brighton
bombing had much the same effect and undid many of the propaganda gains made by
the IRA in the US during the hunger strikes of the early 1980s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 8, 1991, Friday

Downing Street Bombing: Targets listed two years ago

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 503 words


SINCE IT last came close to killing the Cabinet at the Grand hotel in Brighton
in 1984, the IRA has repeatedly struck on mainland Britain, switching between
military and political targets.

The Grand Hotel bombing at the Conservative Party conference, which killed five
people, and narrowly missed Margaret Thatcher, then Prime Minister, was followed
by a lull until August 1988, when one person died in an explosion at an Army
barracks in north London.

The IRA's desire to mount a mortar attack on the mainland has been known to
Scotland Yard. The intelligence services discovered plans at an IRA bomb factory
at Clapham, south London, in December 1988.

As well as conventional bombs and explosives, detectives also found written
details of trajectories and targeting possibilities of mortars for an attack on
buildings in London, assumed to include 10 Downing Street and Buckingham Palace.

Since then anti-terrorist branch officers have worked on the basis that such
equipment existed in this country, possibly lying in an IRA cache buried
somewhere after being smuggled ashore along the Welsh coastline.

In 1989, there were attacks on two military targets, bombings at Tern Hill
barracks in Shropshire, and the Royal Marines' depot at Deal, Kent, which killed
11 bandsmen.

The same year two Irishmen were caught at a weapons and explosives cache on the
Welsh coast which had been under police surveillance since its accidental
discovery. The men were each jailed for 30 years for conspiracy to cause
explosions. At a flat in Luton, Bedfordshire, details and lengthy lists of
potential targets, including all members of the Cabinet and senior public and
military figures, were discovered.

Last year a sustained campaign against political and military targets began in
May. There were unsuccessful bombings at military bases, the Stock Exchange, and
the Carlton Club, traditionally used by senior Conservatives. Other terrorist
attacks included the shooting of a young soldier at Lichfield railway station in
June, the car bomb murder of Ian Gow, Tory MP for Eastbourne, in July, and the
attempted assassination of Sir Peter Terry, former governor of Gibraltar, at his
Staffordshire home in September.

A few days later, despite heightened security precautions, the IRA was able to
plant a bomb inside the speaker's lectern at a terrorism conference in central
London due to be addressed by William Waldegrave, then a junior Foreign Office
minister, and Sir Peter Imbert, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner.

The terrorists subsequently went to ground, probably deterred by the increased
security levels which they had provoked. But two weeks ago, in the 23rd incident
since August 1988, the IRA placed a small booby-trap bomb at the gate of an Army
firing range in Staffordshire. A man who fired the shot at a couple in a car he
had attempted to hijack escaped.

That incident reinforced fears that two units have been operating, one in the
north Midlands and one somewhere in south-east England.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 8, 1991, Friday

Downing Street Bombing: IRA bombers attack No 10 War Cabinet; One of three
home-made mortar bombs fired across Whitehall explodes in Downing Street garden

BYLINE: By staff reporters

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 1053 words


THE IRA yesterday breached high war-time security surrounding the core buildings
of British government to fire three home-made mortar bombs across Whitehall in
broad daylight, one exploding only 15 yards from the 10 Downing Street room
where the War Cabinet was sitting.

It is the closest the Provisionals have come to murdering the Prime Minister and
other senior Cabinet members since the Brighton bombing in 1984, when five
people died and 30 were injured.

The speedily executed attack caught police officers patrolling Whitehall by
surprise, and left senior officers stunned. A white Transit van drove to the
junction alongside the seventeenth century Banqueting Hall, by the Ministry of
Defence, and parked at an angle on the corner, its cab facing towards the
Cabinet Office across the street. Beyond lay the sprawl of buildings linked to
No 10.

The van's driver ran clear and jumped on the pillion of a waiting motorcycle,
which sped off. Both bombers escaped, and surveillance cameras sited around the
area failed to record them.

According to Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, barely a minute or two
lapsed before the mortars fired, at 10.09am, lofting bombs through a jagged hole
cut in the van roof and over the Cabinet Office.

Two overshot their target by about 100 yards, falling harmlessly on a patch of
lawn called Mountbatten Green on the other side of the Downing Street garden
wall. They failed to explode.

The third detonated with a rumbling bang inside the garden of No 10 - between 40
and 50 feet from the back of the building. A crater was blown in the ground and
a tree shredded to firewood, as windows in some of the adjacent government
offices shattered.

Four people were slightly hurt, including three Diplomatic Protection Group
police officers.

The War Cabinet, chaired by John Major, had just sat down in the Cabinet Room to
receive a report from David Mellor, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, on
burden-sharing the costs of the Gulf war. John Wakeham, the Secretary of State
for Energy, whose first wife was killed in the Brighton bombing, was present,
along with Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, Tom King, Secretary of State for
Defence, Peter Lilley, Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, Sir Patrick
Mayhew, Attorney General, and Sir David Craig, Chief of the Defence Staff.

None was hurt when windows were blown out because net curtains caught the glass,
but some ministers reportedly ducked their heads under the table at the shock.
Mr Mellor said later: ''There was a great blast of air, and a smell of
cordite.''

As stunned pedestrians on Whitehall turned to see the bomber's van burst into
flames, throwing a pall of smoke into the air, Mr Major remarked to his
colleagues: ''I think we had better start again somewhere else.''

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Branch, subsequently said that he was confident there had been no attack link
between the IRA and Arab terrorists out to strike at domestic targets of the
Gulf war allies - a view confirmed by Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, in his
statement to the Commons yesterday afternoon, and by the IRA's later statement
accepting responsibility.

Police quickly cordoned off the entire Whitehall and Westminster area, and began
their analysis of a notoriously unreliable and inaccurate weapon, which the IRA
yesterday used for the first time in mainland Britain.

Intelligence officers have known since December 1988, when plans were found at a
bomb factory in Clapham, south London, that the IRA wanted to start using its
do-it-yourself mortars on the mainland.

The mortar comprised a rack of metal pipes, each three to four feet long, laid
inside the van at an angle the bombers hoped would fire the bombs at the right
trajectory. The van - registration A862 NAR - was bought in London for cash last
July by three men.

Detectives say the terrorists would have needed a garage or workshop, equipped
with oxyacetylene and welding gear, to build the mortar and convert the van. The
weapon is too crude to target accurately, so any ''success'' is more a matter of
lethal accident than calculated design.

An IRA statement issued in Belfast said that the operation to strike ''at the
heart of the British establishment'' had been planned for months, predating Mr
Major's succession to the premiership and the beginning of the Gulf war. The
Provisionals specifically congratulated themselves on breaching what they called
''greatly enhanced wartime security'', and said the Cabinet would be ''forced to
meet in bunkers''.

But at Question Time in the Commons, Mr Major told MPs that the ''deliberate
attempt to kill the Cabinet and to damage our democratic system of government''
had failed, adding - ''nor in any circumstances could it possibly have
succeeded''. Such attacks in the past had never succeeded in changing the policy
of successive governments, ''nor will they''. A security review was, however,
launched immediately.

Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, condemned the attack as ''criminal, vicious,
and utterly pointless'': it would produce only ''greater unity between all
political parties that terrorism won't succeed''.

Mr Baker told MPs: ''We are assessing urgently the significance of this
morning's attack . . . We will be looking again at the physical security of the
whole Westminster and Whitehall area. It must be made as safe as humanly
possible for all those who live and work in the area.''

But he warned that such an attack was ''very difficult to deal with unless you
cordon off large parts of central London and make them not accessible to
traffic''. To make the whole of central London a cordon sanitaire ''would be a
concession to terrorism''.

It was the 25th terrorist incident on the mainland since August 1988, and comes
two weeks after a booby-trapped device was attached to the gates of an army
firing range in Staffordshire.

That incident was the first since a bomb was defused at a terrorism conference
in central London last September.

It was planted in the lectern on the speaker's rostrum and discovered only a
couple of hours before a conference was due to be addressed by a government
minister and Sir Peter Imbert, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police.

(Photograph, map and graphics omitted)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            February 8, 1991, Friday

DOWNING STREET TERROR TEAM 'READY FOR NEXT TARGET'

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 968 words


The IRA terrorists who launched the audacious mortar attack on Downing Street
will try to strike again, security sources warned tonight.  But they are likely
to change tactics to try to trap potential targets who may have lowered their
guard.  It is believed the two men seen fleeing from Whitehall on a motor cycle
were part of a team who had been in the UK for some time, possibly holding down
jobs as cover.  It is possible they were not involved in the bloody IRA campaign
last year which left three dead and many injured.  Those attacks involved
shootings, car and letter bombs and devices hidden on roofs, in a flower bed and
even attached to a garden hose reel.  The targets included politicians, civil
servants, military personnel and bases, as well as symbolic targets such as the
Stock Exchange.  "The feeling is they were here waiting to slot into place when
needed. They are still here and they will be looking to strike again but they
will change their tactics," said one security source.  An intensive review of
security was started immediately after the attack on Thursday morning, which was
launched in the face of already unprecendented precautions because of the Gulf
war.  Scotland Yard praised the "magnificent" reponse from the public to appeals
for information and asked for co-operation if security measures proved
inconvenient.  More than 150 calls have been logged on Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist confidential hotline with information about the van used in the
attack, which was bought by three men for £750 in south London last July. The
van, adapted for its terror role with a hole cut in the roof, is being examined
by forensic experts at the Royal Armament Research and Development
Establishment.  Police believe they can learn a lot from the van, despite it
being burnt out after the mortars were fired.  The IRA claimed on Thursday night
it had been plotting the operation for months, before John Major became Prime
Minister.  Police were aware they were planning a mortar attack after finding
parts and specifications at a bomb factory in Clapham, south London, in December
1988.  They are appealing for help from anyone who rented accommodation which
included a garage or workshop.  Detectives also want to hear from steel
stockholders who supply heavy gauge sheets, small box sections, angle girders,
steel tubes and discs.  Security sources in Dublin said police there were aiding
a Scotland Yard bid to narrow down the list of suspects, likely to come from
both north and south of the border.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, made it clear the van was abandoned rather than parked and within moments
police were approaching it.  But with the mortars on a very short timing fuse
there was nothing they could do.  Ian Geldard, editor of Terror Update, also
warned against over-reacting which could be seen by terrorist leaders as proof
that their psychological campaign to create fear among the public was
successful.  He said mortar attacks were very difficult to prevent. Closing off
roads or banning parking across large areas would cause massive disruption to
the centre of London.  Security has been at unprecedented levels at Whitehall
and at potential targets, such as airports, to counter Iraqi-inspired attacks.
So far there have not been any terrorist attacks in Britain linked to the Gulf
war.  But Saddam Hussein's lurid calls to arms, with threats against allied
leaders, have prompted about 90 terrorist incidents around the world. In
America, six pipe bombs attached to huge chemical tanks were disarmed near the
country's largest naval base in Norfolk, Virginia.  Security analysts discounted
any links between the IRA and Middle East groups. In the past the IRA has taken
arms and money from Arab countries, such as Libya.  But the experts believe the
IRA's high command would not want to risk its vital source of funding from
American sympathisers by being seen to be linked with Iraq.

Scotland Yard praised the public for responding to appeals for help in trying to
trace the terrorists.  A spokesman said: "There has been a magnificent response
on the anti-terrorist hotline with information on the van and from witnesses to
the attack." He said passers-by were stopped by police in Whitehall today to see
if they had spotted anything unusual before the attack. The IRA claimed to have
planned it months ago, before John Major became Prime Minister, and are likely
to have carried out reconnaissance visits.

It was business as usual today for the Cabinet - except for the weather which
was hampering planned visits outside London, writes Chris Moncrieff, Press
Association Politcal Editor.  John Wakeham, one of the War Cabinet, was back at
work today after surviving unscathed the second murderous attempt on his life by
the IRA.  The Energy Secretary, then chief whip, suffered grievous leg injuries
in the Brighton bomb attack in 1984 in which his first wife Roberta was killed.
He remains the most unflappable, coolest member of the Government. But he has
steadfastly refused to discuss the tragedy of Brighton - and today he has made
plain that that policy will not change.  Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd flew off
for a four-day visit to Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Italy to maintain close contact
with key coalition leaders.

Several national leaders have telephoned Mr Major expressing their horror at
yesterday's attack.  King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, President Francois Mitterrand of
France, Mr Charles Haughey, of Ireland, Mr Turgut Ozal, of Turkey, and Mrs Gro
Harlem Brundtland, of Norway, called.  Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany also
left a message.  Meanwhile the Cabinet Room, where some windows were broken by
the attack, should be available for use again soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 9, 1991

The Patriot Game: We can hear the war drums roll, but who is beating them? The
popular press, for sure, many distinguished columnists in the quality papers,
and a great majority in the Palace of Westminster. When it comes to fighting we
seem to be ready to take on all-comers. But how bellicose are we Brits really?

BYLINE: By DAVE HILL

LENGTH: 3729 words


WINSTON CHURCHILL didn't think the Great British public had the bottle to
outlast the Blitz. The threat of protracted bombardment from above was a new and
terrifying one and increasingly seen as proof that Hell's fury would henceforth
be unleashed from above.

In the mid-Thirties, with Europe's fascists tooling up for mayhem, the first
Mass Observation studies of the British at large revealed a nation with no taste
for a war. And in the House of Commons Churchill predicted that if London was
bombed, three or four million civilians would flee in panic, that the masses
would cower in uncomprehending fear, supine before the slaughter. Back then, the
rank and file of what a present government minister can now glibly describe as
'a warlike people', were pacific to the point of apathy.


How wrong Churchill was. And how kind history - a particular version of it, at
least - has been to the old soak since. Come the crunch, most (not all) people
rallied to him, much as Iraqi's are now doing to Saddam, but the affection was
not always reciprocal. In June 1940, in the aftermath of Dunkirk, the then new
Prime Minister made his legendary promise to 'fight on the beaches' but his
oratory was only ever heard by his fellow MPs. Churchill refused to repeat the
speech on the radio so the BBC employed the actor Norman Shelley, best known for
his portrayal of Larry the Lamb on Children's Hour, to impersonate the PM.

It wasn't until May 1941, a few weeks after the last of Goering's squadrons had
flown away for good, that Churchill allowed a lengthy memo from former Chief of
Air Staff, Lord Trenchard to be circulated and bathed in the reflected glory of
the commoners he had previously despised. 'History has proved that we have
always been able to stand our casualties better than other nations', the memo
declared, and glowingly contrasted 'the ingrained morale of the British nation',
with that of the brittle Hun: 'all the evidence' suggested that 'the German
nation is especially susceptible to air bombing'.

In those few words, the extraordinary resilience of ordinary Britons was
appropriated to help justify the annihilation of ordinary Germans, and the
process furthered by which national collectivism was deployed in the service of
national militarism. The rest is history and devastation. Fritz wanted a fight
and, boy, did we give him one: Bomber Harris's men killed more people in one
raid on Dresden in 1945 than the Luftwaffe had managed in all the years of the
Blitz. By the end, the characteristics once held by our leaders to be their
innate province were routinely proclaimed and, yes, widely accepted to be the
instinctive stuff of all True Brits, kings, cockneys and all. When it came to
warfare, the Brits were the business. And that was official.

Half a century later, as British service personnel in a very different kind of
conflict daily face up to the desperate dictum of 'kill or be killed', the
self-appointed keepers of the Home Front fires are working hard to get them
burning bright again. Titled gents, a lot of them the sort who would have agreed
with the pre-war Churchill that the lower orders' upper lips were permanently
slack, now insist they speak for everyman as well as all their jolly chums from
the exclusive hostelries of Whitehall.

Nothing, according to this blabbering clique, stirs our bulldog spirit - that is
to say, their vindictive definiton of it - better than a tin hat, a tank and a
yellow-bellied foreigner to fire it on, never mind the context or the cause.

Lord Woodrow Wyatt of Weeford, for example, has declared from the august pages
of the News Of The World that 'the CND wierdies' are 'the heirs of the appeasers
of Hitler' but that, don't worry, 'they're not the heart of Britain, which still
beats strong'; Lord William 'Dear Bill' Deedes has intoned in the Daily
Telegraph that 'for every Guardian reader who can write a well-turned letter
giving four good reasons why war in the Gulf .. would be a denial of all that we
hold dear, a score will find their pulses quicken when, as Kipling put it in his
poem, 'the drums begin to roll'; Sir Peregrine Worsthorne (eyes, still moist
from receiving a knighthood) has reflected in the Sunday Telegraph on 'How to do
justice to the enobling stirrings that lead a man to tear another man's guts out
with a clear conscience? To die for one's country can be a sweet thing to do and
becoming.'

Such a thirst for noble combat! Such an elemental urge to disembowel the alien
foe! Onlookers from foreign lands - unfortunates cursed with not being Brits
like us - might be forgiven for thinking the Gulf War has seen the streets of
This Great Nation suddenly paved with Union Jacks and church halls turned over
to a thousand Dad's Armies. But in 1991 such a metaphor has, at best, a dubious
basis in fact.

Of course, there are the usual victims of super-patriots' disease, loopy with
blood-lust, bloated with the video nasties that pass for coalition PR, or just
smugly satisfied, in the old, colonial way, that a blast from a swooping Tornado
is an essentially civilising experience. And yet the 86 per cent who, we learn
from the Sunday Times, are 'in favour of Britain's military involvement in the
Gulf' seem conspicuously reticent in expressing their convictions in pubs, on
the steets and in queues for the post office.

During the last three weeks I have been out and about in Southport, Liverpool
and Manchester, in Hackney, Brixton and Bethnal Green. Scarcely a Sun Tommy
Atkins poster celebrating 'Our Heroes' have I seen blu-tacked to a window or
wall. On Question Time last week, a scornful Edward Heath slugged it out with
ultra-loyalist Max Hastings and the only voices unequivocably raised against
Angry Ted's ceasefire plea were those of two young Jewish men speaking up for
Israel. Could it be that the true mood of the people is not to Go Get 'Em, Boys
but to ask instead: what are we doing there? When will it stop? What good is
going to come of it?

PERHAPS the most revealing front line story I've yet heard came from a man in a
waterfront bar whose son-in-law is in Saudi Arabia, a flier with the RAF. A
reactionary and cynical soul, he thought the Guildford Four must have done
something to deserve their time in prison. But the Gulf War? That was something
else: 'They interviewed our lad for the telly out there. He said that it were
all for a bit of oil and it wasn't really right. They spoke to his mate after
that, and his mate was a bit more proper, like. He said they were there to do a
job of work and would get on with it as best they could. It was his mate they
eventually broadcast .. We're worried sick. We've just got to hope for the
best.'

So what lies behind the overwhelming declarations of statistical 'support'? What
makes so many of us so complicit in the moral platitudes of politicians and the
cheap chauvinism of poodle pressmen despite a scepticism that hits you in the
face the moment you are willing to recognise the possibility of its existence?
Perhaps the answer is that the story of this paradox goes to the heart of a
bigger story still: the story of post-imperial Britain itself.

The thing about British life and modern warfare is that they are virtually
symbiotic and the sheer regularity with which we are called to arms can only
bolster the idea that the 'national character' is hewn exclusively from the
white cliffs of Dover. Materially and spiritually, us and it have become
mutually dependent.

Since 1939 (we won't go back any further, or you, me and Queen Victoria will be
here all night) there has hardly been a moment for the military machine to catch
its breath between bouts of bloodshed: Greece, Malaya, Korea, Kenya, Cyprus,
Borneo, Aden, these are the ones we might be beginning to forget; Suez, Northern
Ireland, these are the ones we would like to; the Third Reich and the Falklands,
these are the ones about which we beat our increasingly mangey leonine breasts.

More mixed feelings, then, and they point up a crucial difference between
nationalism and militarism: 'we' don't actually go looking for war, we tell
ourselves every time, but if some rum foreign Johnny starts one, 'we' will see
it through; anything else just wouldn't be British, after all.

This enduring self-image plays a role in perpetuating a closed and isolating
circle of ideology and economics: long prompted and justified in turn by a vast
burden of overseas 'interests' to protect, what is left of our industrial base
is today disproportionately geared to a shrinking defence market.

Given such a legacy, set about as it is with tall tales of unimpeachable moral
rectitude, earthy practicality and steadfastness under fire, what are Joe and
Joanna Public supposed to think when a pig dictator like Saddam Hussein
instigates the rape of Kuwait and when Margaret Thatcher, after ritually bending
the knee towards the White House, commences to hosanna 'Rule Britannia' from
inside her padded bunker?

In the light of all this, what is remarkable is the extent to which the public
have declined to swallow the propagandists' portrayal of the Allies as the
unassailably pious policemen of the New World Order. An earlier Sunday Times
poll showed 22 per cent believed the war was primarily to ensure the supply of
oil. Another five per cent considered it to be either about reinforcing
America's position as a global power or protecting Israel. Only 43 per cent
echoed the official UN line that the 'main reason for the war' was to achieve
the liberation of Kuwait, and the remaining 31 per cent believed the central
motive was to destroy Saddam.

Confused? I think we probably are, but 86 per cent are 'in favour' just the
same. So far as they tell us anything, the figures suggest an unnaturally
limited range of responses to the crisis, one that does not reflect the spread
of explanations we have for why the war began. What does it all mean? Perhaps
that we realise patriotism is expected, but discover there is no patriotic
language that does not equate virtue with conquest. So habitual is our
endorsement of the military response to whatever assails us and the place of
decency in the world, we have almost lost the ability to react differently.
Whatever our suspicions of the motives involved, any response that does not
involve a fight to the death automatically feels like treason. Is that what the
pollster wants to hear?

FOR Norman Stone, the sturdily conservative Professor of History at Oxford
University, there is no real difficulty with this: 'Been pretty sound, I think,
the country, except for the intellectual classes as usual. I would say that our
sense of where we belong hasn't taken the sort of knock that some of the
continental countries have had. There is a pretty broad feeling that we are the
good guys and other people are bad guys and I think they're pretty much bang
on.' Among the British at large there isn't anything like the 'doubt
Britishness' which affects a large part of the educated class.'

Yet Professor Stone's observation, like the more florid assertions of the Fleet
Steet toffs, surely begs enormous questions of definition which impact directly
upon British perceptions of the Gulf War and our role in it. Who do these people
really mean when they presume to pronounce for 'the British'? What do they know
about what we are feeling? Just who do they think 'we' are?

One answer, almost certainly, is that they do not mean the Welsh or the Scots
for a start: they mean the English and, more particularly, white, English men
primarily from the South-East. Stuart Hall, Professor of Sociology at the Open
University, suggests all these and other, subtler caveats: 'There are so many
different positive images of war. There is the definition of 'having a good war'
among the upper-middle classes, often people who have always had some relatives
in the officer class, served overseas, and so on. But there's a very different
image in the more popular classes.

'The last war especially has generated many, which is probably why it has such a
powerful hold on the popular imagination. You know, the involvement of the Home
Front and civilian

mobilisation and mucking in; the partial suspension of class distinctions and so
on during the Blitz. I think it is those kinds of patriotic feelings around
which Britain's war efforts are mobilised rather than a lust for war in itself.
'I think there are hard statistics and soft ones. This 86 per cent, I think, is
pretty soft, not least because it's always much easier to fight somebody else's
war far away than one in which you are more directly involved. I think the
testing time is still to come: war on the ground, in the desert, bogged down
with a lot of casualties coming back. But that's not to say the polls will
suddenly turn. It could easily bring out the Dunkirk Spirit. The British are
extremely good at converting defeats into victories.'

SELF-DELUSION might be another way of putting it. And what finer example of that
most endemic British (English?) trait than the Dunkirk Spirit itself? In his
exemplary book, Dunkirk: The Necessary Myth, Nicholas Harman unpicked the
reality from the romance of those pivotal events of 1940. In his Preface (to the
recently republished Coronet paperback edition) he writes: 'The story of Dunkirk
was instantly, and without dictation from any effective national propaganda
organisation, forged in to the main armament of Britain's moral warfare. It was
embellished, simplified, made glorious. It told of how a gallant band of
soldiers, betrayed by their allies, fought their way to home and safety, being
conveyed across that last few crucial miles of water by an armada of small boats
manned by volunteer civilians.'

In fact, as Harman went on to show, there was no spontaneous mass turnout of
'little ships' at all. He revealed, too, that, far from being let down by greasy
Frenchmen and spineless Belgians 'the British political and military authorities
practised upon (them) a methodical deception which enabled the British to get
away with their rear defended.'

Harman feels able to justify the initial fabrication of the Dunkirk myth, in
part because there was indeed great valour shown by ordinary British soldiers in
the wake of a crushing defeat, and also because it was largely created by
ordinary British civilians to help sustain them in the face of a truly repugnant
foe. But as to the Dunkirk Spirit's place in the British psyche today, his view
is rather different: 'Basically a policy based on lies cannot be a healthy thing
in the long term. And the world's moved on. Economies are much more
interdependent than they ever were before. Politically you've got to have
interdependence, structures which are larger than the nation state. I think the
kind of chauvinism you got at Dunkirk was nation state chauvinism. You see, we
rather liked being on our own and not having to worry about the French. That's
dangerous because it is an illusion and I think we should grow out of it.'

'Those kinds of questions are at the dead centre of political life now,' insists
Stuart Hall, 'with regard to Europe and just about everything: that is what is
being argued out in the soul. Are we Europeans? Are we multi-cultural? Are we
English? Who are we really? I think it's what is underlying the debates on the
national curriculum: who can write an English sentence and who know the lists of
the kings and queens? That stuff about Moslem kids in schools: 'I don't go to
church but our kids need to be brought up in the Christian tradition,' you know!
They don't mean Christianity, they mean a culture, they mean 'if we lose the
culture what the hell do we stand for'?'

But for Norman Stone, again, the Great British identity crisis does not really
exist: 'The other European powers all have terrible skeletons in their cupboards
from the 20th century, so national pride may well not be a thing for, say, the
French and the Germans in the way it is an almost unthinking thing for us. How
that affects public opinion is quite an interesting question. I think it means,
for example, that the Italians are frightfully good Europeans because they
basically don't believe in Italy. And actually, neither do I'

It is a perspective for which Professor Stone could call the Falklands War in
evidence: a bizarre adventure in the eyes of most of our allies, but to many of
the British, a thrilling revival of past glories in the midst of a wretched
recession and proof of a sense of loyalty that puts the rest to shame. Once
again, come the hour, come the Brits armed to the teeth. But the Gulf War was
never going to be another Falklands: too complex to be hijacked by some
hectoring tribune from Little England, and already too hard to win without some
very serious grief.

As its hideous events unfold, so - as with the Falklands and all our wars before
- notions about Britain's essential character and role in a changing world will
evolve in their shadow. The Gulf war has already been used as yet another stick
with which to beat up on 'feeble' European partners, but when it's all over,
will the island people still harbour the fantasy that Britain Stands Alone? Will
we luxuriate in our latest war wounds or, at long last, have second thoughts
about echoing every 'amen' Billy Graham whispers into George Bush's ear?

WILL we continue to sulk about the Germans not wanting to dust off their
jackboots after all or reaffirm, as we did at the last European elections, that
we might be ready to try out a Diet of Brussels? If so, will it mark the rise of
other indexes of self-esteem where national pride is not defined by exclusivity,
and triumph is less readily measured in numbers of foreigners dead?

Governments aside, there is reason for optimism. Britain's many and varied
previous war experiences suggest that the impact of combat in our name can sow
the seeds of popular change. At the Imperial War Museum in Lambeth, there is a
gallery of works by official artists from World War II. A friend urged me to
look at the ones of women at work on the Home Front: 'There's a certain amount
of nationalist mysticism,' he warned, 'but also a real feeling of people working
together to build a better world.'

In Dame Laura Knight's painting Ruby Loftus Screwing A Breech Ring that is
precisely the combination we see. It anticipates, too, two sides of the war's
aftermath: on the one hand, the foolish refusal to recognise the end of
Britain's independence in the world; on the other, the post-war settlement that
ushered in the welfare state and all the boons of reconstruction. The difference
between them is the difference between the immense human resources the masses
discovered in and for themselves while under fire, and the manipulation of those
resources in the name of Jingo, a process which reached its ultimate hypocrisy
under Thatcher when the institutions of the post-war consensus were assaulted in
the name of a tawdry patriotism based on lies. Behind them lurks the outline of
an alternative national truth: that though we still change into uniform too
quickly, we might now be persuaded that the best place for khaki is in
mothballs.

A separate chamber in the IWM currently contains Stanley Spencer's epic war work
Shipbuilding On The Clyde, another celebration of togetherness thriving against
the odds. In 1982, an extract from it was reproduced as the cover of a record,
Shipbuilding by Robert Wyatt, written by Clive Langer and Elvis Costello in
response to the Falklands War. A plaintive exploration of a working man's moral
dilemmas as the war economy rescued him from unemployment, its key lines are
worth reflection on as the long scream of Baghdad gets louder by the hour: 'Is
it worth it? Diving for dear life, when we should be diving for pearls?'

The Hard Sell

NOT ONLY armaments manufacturers profit from war. Sales of less obvious products
are flourishing:

PLACEBOS: People are insulating themselves by buying soothing products and
relaxants. Marigold Health Food reports a sharp increase in sales of calming,
milky Yogi Tea

VIDEOS: Rentals have risen in every category, but most notably in family
entertainment. 'Escapism is just walking off the shelves,' according to London's
Video Palace.

MODEL AIRCRAFT: 'The news is the best advertising we've ever had,' says John
Embleton, Commercial Manager of Revell, a manufacturer of model aircraft kits.
Sales of F-14 Tomcats, B-52s, MiG-29s (only in Soviet markings), and Stealth
F-117s have climbed.

6, tabloid

Journeys Adjourned

DONNY OSMOND is so frightened by the threat of terrorist attacks that he has
refused to fly across the Atlantic to promote his latest single

SELF-STYLED ass-kickin' macho hard men from the ghetto, rap stars MC Hammer and
LL Cool J have both proved to be similarly yellow-bellied. Even old-timers like
Dionne Warwick have got the willies.

BOTH Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine were conspicuously absent from the
premiere of Postcards From the Edge.

KEVIN COSTNER (who will sooon be the new Robin Hood) has not arrived for
interviews to publicise his directorial debut, Dances with Wolves. Just like Sly
when he stayed Stateside for the Rocky 5 premiere after the Libya bombings.

The camera can record the physical deed in all its disgusting horror. But how to
do justice to the courage, to the feelings of duty and self-sacrifice, and to
the love of country that inspired the action, to all the ennobling stirrings
that can lead a man to steel his will to the point where he can tear another
man's guts out with a clear conscience? In this respect making war has something
in common with making love. Neither action looks as good as it feels

Peregrine Worsthorne, writing in the Sunday Telegraph on January 13.

For every Guardian reader who can write a well-turned letter giving four good
reasons why war in the Gulf - or anywhere else - would be a denial of all that
we hold dear, a score will find their pulses quicken when, as Kipling put it in
his poem, 'the drums begin to roll'. Guardian reader, incidentally, will be the
first to suggest that any rise in recruiting figures is attributable not to the
Gulf but to rising unemplyment. Guardian reader is probably wrong.

Bill Deedes, writing in the Daily Telegraph on January 15. G

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                February 10 1991

Gulf War (After the Conflict): New Gulf order out of the chaos of war? - Julie
Flint chronicles a week in which the Allies staked claims for a permanent role

BYLINE: JULIE FLINT

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1691 words


Bush's dream of a new world order hangs on the edge of a volcano, with burning
lava already rumbling below. Nothing will be as it was: not the Middle East,
North Africa, East or West; not Christianity or Islam, the United States or the
rest of the world.' 'Ma'ariv'

IN THE fourth week of the war against Iraq, as the Allies debated whether to
risk high casualties in a full-scale land battle for Kuwait, blueprints for the
'new world order' rained down like Scud missiles old prototypes updated. The US,
Britain and the European Community all made a pitch, staking their claim to a
place in the Gulf sun and perhaps attempting to justify, through expressions of
political concern, the military hurricane they warned would soon hit Kuwait and
Iraq.


None appeared to share the concern of Israel's Ma'ariv newspaper: that the
foundations of the Gulf would be fatally cracked by the hurricane. But the fear
was widespread in the Middle East and not only in Iraq, where the Armed Forces
Command warned that 'the new world is being born within a dark and collapsing
world'.

First into the ring was British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd, who proposed a
Gulf 'security structure' that could extend to Egypt and Syria, with Western air
and naval support, regional arms control and a redistribution of wealth. In
Cairo at the end of the week, Hurd strengthened the Arabs' impression of plain
interference in Gulf affairs when he said: 'The forces now fighting the Iraqis
will be the forces mainly responsible for maintaining constant security in the
area during the post-war phase.'

US Secretary of State James Baker promised a leading role to the Gulf
Co-operation Council whose authoritarian ways many Arabs fear will blossom in
the unlikely advent of Pax Americana.

Baker said the US would lead the rebuilding of Iraq, but warned, with
transparently clear intent, that this would be difficult if Saddam Hussein
remained in power. Luxembourg, current president of the EC, proposed a Middle
Eastern 'Marshall Plan' to rebuild, it said ominously, 'a devastated Middle
East'.

There were few immediate even within allied ranks. French President Franois
Mitterrand said the United Nations, and no one else, should organise the
post-war period. Arab commentators warned of a new era of colonisation of the
Arab world, its oil and resources. Britain and France had attempted as much at
the start of the century; the US, a relative newcomer to a region it saw only
through Israeli eyes, was poised to make even bigger and costlier mistakes.

Scorn was heaped upon suggestions that the sheikhdoms of the Gulf could anchor a
new order. They had, in the past, achieved a certain stability by distributing,
albeit imperfectly, their oil wealth; but they were now financing the
destruction of an Arab country in an operation planned and implemented by
foreigners and would not survive the coming upheaval.

The early winner in the political scramble was Tehran, focus of the only
peacemaking activity witnessed in the first month of the war. Soviet Foreign
Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh held talks in Tehran; Mitterrand telephoned his
Iranian counterpart, President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, following his offer
to mediate a peaceful settlement to the war (and, by implication, to end the
freeze with Washington); President Bush stopped short of turning the offer into
dialogue, but praised Iran for behaving 'in a very, very credible way throughout
this crisis so far'.

Sandwiched between pro-Nato Turkey and pro-Western Pakistan, Iran's reaction to
Baker's proposals reflected the same fear of American encirclement that has led
it to improve its relations with Gulf States.

The Tehran Times said the Swiss embassy in Tehran had transmitted American
assurances that US troops would leave the Gulf 'as soon as the crisis is over',
but Iran could not trust these assurances: the West was already attempting to
limit Iranian influence in a Gulf settlement by involving powers outside the
Gulf. The newspaper teased Washington with a Soviet threat: 'Iran, the Soviet
Union and France share many identical views .. a basis for diplomatic efforts to
end the war.'

Conspicuously absent from the race for the peace prize was the Arab world, as it
was in 1982 when Israel invaded Lebanon. 'Where are the Arabs?' cried Lebanon's
Ghassan Tueni, a former UN ambassador. 'Will Saddam Hussein and the Americans
succeed in luring them into collective suicide?' The Hayat newspaper accused
Arab regimes of being 'reduced to dumb impotence' and said: 'The Arab world is
trying its best to fall asleep so as not to witness the terrible climax of this
clean war.'

As allied aircraft exceeded 25,000 combat missions, the US-led coalition
attempted to ensure that the onslaught looked as 'clean' as possible. There were
maps, charts, razzle-dazzle footage (and footwork from General Norman
Schwarzkopf), but no pictures of corpses or the effect of the Multi-Launch
Rocket System 12 missiles with cluster warheads capable of devastating 60 acres
in one salvo. Former US Attorney General Ramsay Clark confirmed refugee reports
of dreadful civilian casualties, but Iraq said it had fewer than 500 dead and
700 wounded.

It was, a prominent Iraqi exile said bitterly, 'a conspiracy of silence' by the
Allies and Saddam.

In Baghdad, where temperatures now drop below freezing at night, all fuel oil
was reserved for the military. Refugees reported seeing streams of cars and
taxis with coffins on the roofs some wrapped in Iraqi flags, others in white
sheets.

On the war front, the Allies made final preparations for a ground war, weighing
its still-considerable dangers against the rising temperature of Arab and
Islamic opinion and the need to get the worst of it over before temperatures
rocket in April.

Scaling down early optimism, Washington and London began stressing the
difficulty of the task ahead, suggesting an orchestrated campaign to prepare
public opinion for high casualties. Baker warned that 'the military actions now
under way necessarily involve many casualties, great hardships and growing fears
for the future'. A senior US Air Force official, Brigadier General Buster C.
Glosson, told the New York Times that the allied air war was a week behind
schedule up to day 15 of planning on day 23 of fighting.

Major General Robert Johnston, chief of staff at US headquarters in the Gulf,
said only one-eighth of Iraq's tanks and artillery had been destroyed in the
first 22 days of war; UK Defence Secretary Tom King said 50 per cent was a
prerequisite for the land war. US Defence Secretary Dick Cheney, on a three-day
Gulf inspection tour with Gen Colin Powell, suggested the 'land war' might be
scaled back to a series of raids to smoke out Saddam's ground forces.

As an amphibious landing shaped up off Kuwait, the battleships Wisconsin and
Missouri, in action for the first time since the Korean war, began pounding the
coastline. US Marines made a first, tentative probe into Kuwait, seizing the
initiative for the first time. Allied bombers dropped 14 million leaflets urging
surrender and concentrated their attacks on the Iraqis' supply lines.

But a senior Pentagon official warned that aerial bombardment had diminishing
returns: 'You get to the point where you're rearranging the rubble. Iraq
signalled its refusal to turn back by breaking diplomatic relations with the
Allies and broadcasting coded messages that appeared to give the green light to
pre-arranged terrorist attacks.

Kuwait's Foreign Minister, Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, said the
exiled government was ready to get the country back on its feet. Stocks of food,
drinking water and natural gas had been moved close to the Kuwait border.
Medical teams were ready to cross in.

But the key question in the event of a land war the morale of Saddam's elite
Republican Guards remained unanswered. Kurdish sources claimed 80,000 soldiers
had deserted and an Egyptian officer who accepted the surrender of a group of
conscripts said they were 'poor people, in Kuwait by force .. some of them in
the army for eight years without ever having been demobbed'. But allied
officials warned that the Republican Guards were made of sterner stuff.

Malcolm Dando, a defence analyst examining the effect of bombardment on hardened
defences, told The Observer all available evidence suggests that carpet-bombing
has 'practically no effect at all' on the morale of well-prepared troops.

'If the Iraqis are well dug in, and if they're as good combat engineers as the
US War College says they are, they're going to be very difficult to remove. A
man who took 100,000 dead against Iran, by the very lowest estimate, will
consider what has happened to date as nothing.' Dando cited research by the
British Army after World War II: 'No projectile which cannot pierce the
protection has any noticeable morale effect'.

the weekend, Iraq marked the arrival of Cheney and Powell by firing another Scud
missile at Israel, the first in six days and a clear message of continuing
determination. The government played down the impact of the Scuds, but a poll
showed that 44 per cent of Tel Aviv's inhabitants still leave the city every
night.

On the ground in Saudi Arabia, maintenance crews warned that powdery sand could
seriously impair the Allies' military machine if the war dragged on.

Medics warned that the time-consuming process of decontaminating men and
equipment would delay the treatment of battlefield injuries. 'It is,' said the
doctor in charge of an evacuation centre in the Saudi desert, 'a real scary
situation.'

On Saturday, a Syrian newspaper urged Iraqis to kill Saddam. But Iraqi exiles
said this was a forlorn hope. 'All generals are disarmed when they see him,'
said Kurdish spokesman Hoshyar Zebari. 'If he goes to a unit, all ammunition is
taken away.'

As both sides waited for what a British commander, Sir Peter de la Billiere,
optimistically called the 'final' phase of Operation Desert Storm, Zebari
predicted that Saddam would make the next move to disrupt, yet again, the
Allies' plans.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           February 10, 1991, Sunday

The day John Major missed his lunch

BYLINE: Maurice Chittenden, David Leppard and Tim Rayment report

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 3417 words


John Major's day had been turned upside-down more than anyone realised. That
morning's brush with death had not only disrupted the war cabinet, delayed the
full cabinet, caused a lot of telephone calls, dominated his question time in
the Commons and kept him on the front bench to hear the home secretary's account
of the outrage: as if that were not enough, he had also missed his lunch.

So it was a hungry prime minister who made his way to the Commons tea room on
Thursday evening with Graham Bright, his parliamentary private secretary. Such a
visit from the occupant of 10 Downing Street in Margaret Thatcher's day would
have been staged with care. Tory MPs would have been put on alert, a table
selected and a seat reserved.

Not with this prime minister: he entered unannounced. Nobody said so, when he
sat down to chat to other Tory MPs, but he was lucky to be alive.

''I didn't manage to get any lunch,'' he told a waitress disarmingly. ''Do you
think I could have some cold meat and sausages?'' He could, and also a dollop of
his favourite pickle.

The prime minister's ability to snatch banality from the jaws of death matched
the mood of the country: thousands were struggling to get home from work in the
worst blizzard eastern England had seen for four years. Their minds were far
from Westminster.

But back in 10 Downing Street, the splintered cherry tree, the crater in the
lawn and the fractured window-frames of the cabinet room testified to a dreadful
assault on the heart of government. Swarms of police combed through the snow in
Whitehall hunting for clues to the attackers. Despite bland official statements
that bordered dangerously on the complacent (''A well-planned flop'' was the
verdict of ''a senior security source'' discussing the IRA attack with political
journalists), Britain's security services were deeply embarrassed.

Thursday's mortar attack in an area surveyed by security cameras, soldiers,
police officers and even rooftop snipers had laid bare their inability to
guarantee the protection of the flesh and blood of British democracy from
audacious terrorists.

THE white Ford Transit looked like a builder's van as it approached the junction
of Horseguards Avenue and Whitehall. Close by, a motorcyclist dawdled, his
engine revving. Light snow was falling after the coldest night in four years. On
the other side of the street two Life Guards on ''tourist duty'' shivered on
their horses, sabres drawn, as the van stopped at an angle, its nose pointing
across Whitehall towards the Scottish office.

Unseen from the van, but exactly 200 yards away on the far side of the Scottish
office, John Major was chairing a meeting of his ministers in the cabinet room
overlooking the garden of 10 Downing Street. David Mellor, chief secretary to
the Treasury, was relating his efforts to raise money from other countries
towards British war costs in the Gulf. Trays of coffee and biscuits were about
to be brought in.

The van driver had only seconds to do his work. Behind him reared a home-made
mortar launcher of three pipes, welded together and pointing skywards. At 10.07
he set a timing device, got out, locked the door, ran to the motorcycle and
mounted the pillion as the rider accelerated towards the Embankment.

Perhaps a minute later, as a police officer approached the van to deal with what
he thought was an obstruction, the history of terrorism in mainland Britain took
a new turn: the mortars fired. The first broke through a white polythene sheet
disguising a hole in the roof. Two others followed.

Roy Hedley, a roadsweeper gritting Whitehall, heard the bang. ''I saw a mortar
bomb go over my head,'' he said. ''It looked like a black stick of dynamite,
about 18 inches long. After a few seconds it was followed by a second one. They
went over the walls on Whitehall, towards the Scottish office, I think. My first
thought was that I would not be getting home to see my wife again.''

To Peter Thomson, driving a taxi 15 feet away, it seemed the Transit's roof had
exploded: ''It was like someone had slid a sun roof back on the van. I stopped
in the middle of the road and looked around and saw the roof suddenly come off
and the second missile come out. The van just burst into flames.''

At the cabinet table, where Mellor was in full flow, the prime minister was
facing the window in the line of flight of the incoming mortars. The first hit a
tree in the garden in a huge explosion, shaking the building and sending a blast
of cold air into the cabinet room. Bits of window-frame blew into the room and
one of the French windows burst open. Shrapnel hit the shatter-proof glass
fitted last year: it cracked, but held. Two ''whumps'' followed as mortars two
and three overshot and landed behind the Downing Street complex.

Major and some of his colleagues remembered their training and dropped their
heads in case of further bombs or bullets. Other ministers stayed as they were.
Police were running on the stairs shouting, ''It's a car bomb.'' Tom King, the
defence secretary and former Northern Ireland secretary, knew better: he told
his colleagues it was a mortar attack.

Sir Charles Powell, the prime ministerial foreign affairs adviser, seized Major
by the elbows, saying: ''Let's get you out of here.''

The prime minister paused. ''Gentlemen,'' he said, in a phlegmatic Majorism that
later delighted worldwide television audiences, ''we had better start again
somewhere else.''

The group left the room. After a few moments they wanted to go back in. Police
refused to allow them. So they went to a conference room in the Cabinet Office.
Nobody remembered to take them the tea trolley.

Mellor had peeped outside and saw a crater 30 feet from his place at the cabinet
table. He said soon afterwards: ''One could see a great blackened mark on the
wall of the garden and also what looked like a tree where the tree didn't used
to be and so one knew it was a bomb.''

The blast from the missile had also scorched the outer walls of 10 Downing
Street and shattered the glass of windows on the first floor and at number 12,
the chief whip's office. If its trajectory had been a degree or two to the left
if the van had pointed inches further down Whitehall the mortar would have hit
the wall of the cabinet room directly opposite the spot where Major was sitting.

Flying glass hurt a cabinet official, and two diplomatic protection group police
officers outside No10 were injured. Blast-proof net curtains saved others.
''There was this gust in the air with the windows coming out, and I felt a bit
of a push,'' said Katherine Coombs, a political lobbyist who was in an upper
room overlooking No10's garden. ''The window broke which I think happened in
other rooms, too, but nobody was hurt because the special curtains worked and
caught all the glass.''

Round the corner in Whitehall, David Hunt, the Welsh secretary, was working at
the desk in his first-floor office. ''You could actually see the walls moving by
the tremendous force of the explosions. We looked out of the window and saw
black smoke pouring from the van. We were shaken but not stirred.''

Amid the swirling snow, a British phlegm enveloped the scene. Seconds after the
mortars landed Lord Waddington, Leader of the Lords, strolled from Whitehall
into Downing Street to discover what was going on. (''I wanted to see if there
was anything that needed to be done,'' he said. ''Everybody was in good order,
acting calmly and sensibly, so I went back to my office.'') Alan Clark, the
defence minister, was seen ambling along the Embankment. Douglas Hurd, the
foreign secretary, later left the Foreign Office, passed the spot where two
mortars landed and wandered across a snowy St James's Park for lunch. With him
were two big men carrying telephones; his only other protection was his green
loden coat.

THE outrage on No10 may mark the resumption of a full-scale IRA terror campaign
on the British mainland, Scotland Yard security sources believe. But to listen
to cabinet ministers and police chiefs last week, sang-froid is the only
possible response to the Downing Street attack.

Every precaution had been taken; nothing more could have been done. After the
Brighton bombing had failed to kill Margaret Thatcher seven years ago, they
pointed out, the IRA had warned that it only had to be lucky once: well, luck
was still on the side of the angels.

''One cannot fault police security,'' said Kenneth Baker, the home secretary.
''Incidents of this sort are very, very difficult to deflect or stop (with) a
van stopping casually for a few minutes. This is something that hasn't happened
on our island before.''

''If you want total security,'' said a senior anti-terrorist source, speaking at
a government-arranged briefing for Sunday newspapers, ''you shut down London and
the IRA scores a great propaganda victory.''

As police officers scraped the snow for clues, others began to ask questions.
Why had the van not aroused suspicion? If, as is usually the case, the IRA had
planned the attack for months, if not years, why was there no intelligence
warning? Why was there no video recording from surveillance cameras in
Whitehall? Why had snipers, seen on the roofs of Whitehall since the start of
the Gulf crisis, not noticed what was happening? How could it be stopped from
happening again?

In fact, all foot patrol officers in London are trained to look out for
suspicious vehicles and are specifically briefed to consider the possibility
they may be used as an improvised mortar launch pad.

Posters warning of IRA mortar bomb attacks from modified vehicles have hung in
military buildings throughout Britain for several years. But security experts
argue that little could have been done to protect an area such as Whitehall.

Senior Home Office counter-terrorism advisers argue that there is little more
police can do. ''If a van pulls up and is there for a minute, and that's the
realistics of it all, then what on earth can you do about it?'' asked one
anti-terrorist branch detective.

''The big problem is that we do not have enough good, high-grade intelligence on
the mainland. It's nowhere like the quality in Northern Ireland,'' said
Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Research Institute for the Study of
Conflict and Terrorism.

Intelligence, not technical or physical counter-terrorist measures, was the way
to curb the IRA's new freedom to strike at will: ''Even if you introduced
parking restrictions, cordoned off large areas of central London around
parliament and public buildings, you could not say you had 100% safety against a
mortar attack. We have to build up subtle, multi-faceted intelligence efforts,
bringing together all the agencies.''

Privately, some security officials acknowledge that intelligence could be better
co-ordinated.

The level of government security alert in Whitehall currently ''black alpha'' or
level two is decided by the Ministry of Defence in consultation with the
Metropolitan police, Special Branch, MI5, MI6 and other organisations. But
rivalry between Special Branch and MI5 can disrupt the sharing of information,
and street security is handled by the local police at Cannon Row.

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has separate police to guard its buildings and a
great array of security cameras. But there have been some classic clangers. Last
December a car was parked illegally in Richmond Terrace, near the defence
ministry. Rather than telephone the police, the MoD wrote a letter to Cannon Row
police station which is only yards away and posted it second-class.

Police had hoped that at least one of the many security cameras which monitor
government buildings in Whitehall might have caught the two IRA men as they made
their escape by motorcycle. But it has emerged that most cameras were trained
only on the immediate vicinity of buildings and had failed to capture the mortar
attack on film.

DEFENCE against an attack of this type, say security analysts, lies not in
cordoning off Downing Street or mounting machineguns in Whitehall but in being
''pro-active'' in other words, finding out what the IRA is up to.

Scotland Yard security sources fear the IRA has at least two ''active service''
units operating on the mainland. The IRA's mainland campaign began in August
1988 with the attack on the Mill Hill army barracks in north London. After the
arrest of a suspected IRA unit in a car park in Stonehenge last October, there
was a lull. But last month a suspected IRA terrorist was seen trying to
booby-trap a disused firing range at Cannock Chase, Staffordshire, and police
believed a mainland bombing campaign was being resumed.

It is thought this may indicate two teams operating independently: the one that
carried out Thursday's mortar attack and a Midlands team.

Police say that the case of a kitchen porter who is believed to have planted an
IRA bomb at the Royal Overseas League, in central London, typifies the IRA
''sleepers'' who are living here employed in the catering or building trade or
as students.

''These people may have been here for some time,'' a police source said of the
mortar gang. ''And they're the next team.''

Police found the first concrete evidence of plans to carry out a mortar attack
two years ago, when they stumbled across an IRA ''safe house'' in Clapham, south
London. Among Semtex explosives, wiring and fuses, they discovered a type of
rubber ring used in the firing of mortars from a vehicle.

A search of the flat also uncovered coded paper work written by Nicholas Mullen,
an IRA ''fixer'' who was jailed for 30 years at the Old Bailey last year. His
notes comprised a weapons list including mortars and firing calculations.
Detectives eventually uncovered what would have been a factory for making
mortars.

Senior intelligence officials at the Home Office believe a mortar attack was
approved by the IRA's army council early last year. The IRA itself says the
planning began while Thatcher was still in power. Its timing was left to a
ground unit of no more than four people including, according to security
sources, one woman.

The operation took planning and skill. From detailed survey work and large-scale
maps, the terrorists would have needed to make geometric calculations with
ranging tables and sighting mechanisms. Somewhere they practised, too: the
200-yard range was almost right.

A reconnaissance team would have monitored police movements and the changes of
guards in Whitehall, pacing out distances and searching for a feature on the
facade of the Scottish office in direct line between the corner of Horse Guards
Avenue and the hidden bulk of 10 Downing Street, so that the van driver could
carefully line up his vehicle in the right direction.

Perhaps six months ago, an armourer specified the mortar needs, an escape route
was mapped and a safe house set up.

The Transit van was converted into a mobile launcher in a lock-up garage or
workshop. A steel platform was welded to the vehicle's floor to take the recoil
of the blasts; a panel was cut from the roof. Three steel pipes were welded
together to fire the bombs. The missiles were probably empty gas cylinders, each
filled with 10lb or 12lb of Semtex. Sighting aids fixed on the Scottish office
facade may have been etched on to the windscreen during dry runs.

According to forensic scientists at the Metropolitan police laboratory in
Lambeth, south London, the roof was covered with polythene, taped on and painted
white.

In the last few weeks, police believe, the van travelled around Whitehall for
the last, painstaking practice. The woman's role was almost certainly to carry
out surveillance and to act as cover, reducing suspicion of the men.

The date of the attack would have been chosen several days in advance: the
unusual bad weather of Thursday morning was simply a bonus. A security sources
said: ''On a normal morning, when you didn't have a blizzard, there would have
been far more traffic. Had he stopped the van there and got out and locked it,
there would have been someone behind who would have tooted. The fact is, there
was nobody behind him.''

DOWNING STREET may have been the IRA's first mainland target of for a mortar
attack, but it has been developing these skills for years. Since 1974 there have
been 67 attacks on Ulster police stations alone, in which 350 bombs were fired,
12 people were killed and 163 wounded. The worst was when a mortar hit a police
canteen in Newry, Co Down, in 1985. Nine died.

So familiar are the people of Northern Ireland with this sort of attack that
Desmond McArtan, the Belfast Telegraph lobby correspondent whose Commons office
overlooks Parliament Square, immediately recognised the sound of a mortar on
Thursday morning and telephoned his news desk without waiting for confirmation.
(Belfast wondered what all the fuss was about.)

The late Lieutenant Colonel Derrick Patrick, former head of bomb disposal in
Northern Ireland, believed a home-made IRA device was as good as a standard
British army mortar.

The terrorists began with simple devices launched with shotgun cartridges. Later
they used a mixture of fertiliser and sugar as a propellant, before adopting
Semtex as the launching agent. Their missiles now have a gyroscopic tip to try
to ensure that the detonator in the nose of the shell explodes on impact.

The type of mortar used in the attack is a home-made variation on the Mark 10.
It has a six-inch bore and the tube is made from cutting off the bottom of a
Guinness gas cylinder. The shell is made from standard metal tubing that will
just slide inside the barrel sleeve. The explosive used was about 20lb of Semtex
(''a very powerful charge''). The propellant was good quality gunpowder.

A security source explained: ''If you imagine the cylinder inverted with the
open cut portion at the top and the hole where the gas tap goes at the bottom.
The tap is removed and a wire inserted in its place. The propellent charge is
placed at the bottom of the tube with an ordinary camera flashbulb inserted
within it. A wire leads out of the tube to the sequential timer which fires the
mortars.''

A rubber seal in the tube ensures the explosive gas is contained at the bottom
and gives the proper push to the shell. The fuse is an inertia type and is
embedded in the nose of the shell to explode on impact.

The mortar rounds tend to be inaccurate: because they have no fins and in this
attack because the explosive power of the first launch skewed the van and
changed the launching angle for the second and third rounds.

In this attack, there was also a self-destruct device to blow up the van and
make life difficult for the forensic people.

AS A wide-ranging security review gets under way, one of the options under
consideration is permanent anti-mortar patrols in the roads around Downing
Street. Similar patrols are used by the City of London police. Before the Queen
visits the City, for example, police calculate possible mortar launch sites,
based on the range and trajectory of known IRA devices. Traffic is excluded from
some sites, while the remainder is put under discreet surveillance in the hours
before and during the visit.

''We have been guarding against it for four years,'' said one senior officer.

What makes the attacks so difficult to prevent is their range. The City police
calculate a 300-yard radius, which they regard as the reliable accuracy range of
an IRA mortar. Security forces calculate a radius of 800 yards. But
Semtex-propelled missiles can reach 1,300 yards.

The Metropolitan police say that anyway such patrols are impracticable for
Downing Street. Stretching the radius to 800 yards would take the security zone
south of the Thames and make it unworkable.

What, then, can be done? According to Scotland Yard, almost nothing. ''Total
security in a democratic society can never be guaranteed,'' said a statement on
Friday. ''But with the public's help the risks can be lessened.'' A review, now
under way, is almost certain to bring a period with more uniformed police near
government buildings, challenges to any vehicle that stops, and the removal of
street furniture such as litter bins. But, as one senior officer said, ''unless
we drape Whitehall in anti-mortar netting, there is little we can do to stop
this sort of attack''.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch hotline: 0800 789 321.

Additional reporting: James Adams, Ian Birrell, Grace Bradbury, Liam Clarke, Si
on Denison, David Hughes, Sean Ryan, Edward Welsh.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  IRA Downing Street mortar attack; Focus

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 11, 1991, Monday

A success haunted by yesterday's failures

BYLINE: By WILLIAM REES-MOGG

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 1225 words


AN UNUSUAL conflict is now emerging between John Major, the Prime Minister, and
the legacy of John Major, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That conflict will
decide the next general election.

John Major, the Prime Minister, is doing extraordinarily well. His style has
proved to be exactly right for the Gulf war and the present mood of the nation.
He is friendly, matter-of-fact, resilient. He obviously has a good nerve, and
seemed little troubled by the IRA attack on Downing Street, which did, in fact,
come quite close to killing him and several members of his Cabinet.

This plain style is probably the one that the British like best. It was
certainly not the style of two great twentieth-century war leaders, Lloyd George
and Winston Churchill, both great orators who luxuriated in the romantic use of
language. It was, however, the style of Clement Attlee, the greatest leader the
Labour Party has had and the most universally trusted prime minister of this
century.

It was also the style which Stanley Baldwin assumed, although in his case there
was a difference. With John Major and Attlee, the style has been the man; Attlee
was not acting Attlee and John Major is not acting John Major. With Baldwin, the
style was an assumed role. In reality, he was an intuitive and nervous Celt who
thought it right to appear as a phlegmatic Englishman. There is always more
strain in playing such a role than in being oneself.

John Major has not had to take particularly difficult decisions over the Gulf
war. The decision to launch the air attack was taken by President Bush, and he
will also take the decision to start the ground attack. The Prime Minister is
only required to concur. So far as the Gulf war is concerned, the style,
therefore, has been the substance of his prime ministership.

However, he has also made real progress in other areas of policy. He has changed
Britain's policy on Europe more rapidly and more radically than most people
thought was possible. He has taken no notice of Germany's notably inadequate
response to the Gulf war, and has sought a new and better relationship with that
country. He is close to Chancellor Kohl, and the Conservative Party has itself
moved closer to the German Christian Democrats. In his Scarborough speech at the
weekend, he emphasised Britain's leading role in Europe in a way that must have
worried some of the people in his own party.

He has also begun to consolidate his own leadership. After his first Cabinet,
ministers were delighted at the more informal and collegial atmosphere. Mr Major
delegates more than Mrs Thatcher did and, by all accounts, trusts both his
ministers and, beyond them, the civil service more than she did. But now one is
hearing that Cabinet meetings are again becoming a little less informal, that he
is running a very businesslike administration, although still a pleasant
government for ministers to belong to.

At the time of Mr Major's election as leader of the Conservative Party, I
thought he would prove the most left wing on social issues of the three
candidates. That seems to be proving correct. I could not detect any difference
in his Scarborough speech from the social policy priorities of Chris Patten, who
has always been left of centre in the party. Mr Major's emphasis on raising
standards of education in the public sector will be particularly welcome to
those Conservatives who have a strong social commitment.

At Scarborough, Mr Major outlined what are likely to be the themes of the next
Conservative Party general election manifesto. He emphasised the need for
quality in all the public services, including housing, hospitals and transport.
These popular themes reflect his own lifelong reliance on public health and
education.

The Prime Minister has, therefore, begun in a very positive way. The transition
from Mrs Thatcher's way of government has been made rapidly and effectively, but
without any repudiation of her contribution as leader. Mr Major's personal
popularity is exceptionally high: he is even well liked in Scotland where the
Conservatives did so badly in the Thatcher years. Whenever he does go to the
country, his personal standing is likely to be an asset to his party.

However there is no more than an even chance that he will win the next election,
and for a reason for which he has to bear personal responsibility. Last
September the British economy was already moving rapidly towards recession. Just
before the Conservative Party conference, Mr Major as Chancellor announced that
Britain was joining the exchange rate mechanism at a middle rate of DM2.95, and
there was a simultaneous reduction of base rate to 14 per cent. After an initial
flurry, the pound fell below the DM2.95 level, since when the Germans raised
their interest rates and we have not been able to reduce ours.

The result has been that exceptionally high interest rates are still putting a
downward pressure on the economy during a period of deepening recession. The
recession itself was already driving inflation down. During the past three
months, both the inflation rate and the rate of monetary growth have slowed very
sharply. In economic terms, there is no conceivable justification for the
present level of base rate. In terms of our commitment to the ERM, they are
unavoidable.

Everyone knows that the consequences have been severe on business, on future
industrial development and on individuals. From large-scale bankruptcies to
individual houses being repossessed, great damage has been caused. The recession
will be deeper and investment will be lower because of the destabilising effects
of entering the ERM at the wrong rate, and at the wrong phase of the British -
and, indeed, of the German - trade cycle. It would be still more destabilising
to devalue after only five months in the ERM, so we are now stuck with the
consequences of that decision.

My own view is that Mr Major is - and why should he not be? - a much better
politician than he is an economist. I suspect that he relied on Treasury advice
and this advice, as so often in recent years, was wrong. Yet the result is that
monetary policy is still making the recession worse and is pushing up
unemployment at a time when lower interest rates ought to be starting the
process of recovery. We are locked into a policy that, apart from its economic
and social consequences, will make the next election very hard to win.

Of course, this period of intense pain will accelerate the reduction of the
inflation rate; indeed it is already doing so. When the Gulf war is over, we
shall see a sharp fall in oil prices, probably to around $ 12 a barrel that
Sheikh Yamani predicts. British inflation may by the end of the year have fallen
to 5 per cent or even below. But unemployment lags behind the movement of other
econonic indicators and will be rising for the rest of 1991 and probably well
into 1992.

If Mr Major does what many Conservatives want and goes for a May election, I
think the recession will defeat him, even if the war is over and interest rates
are somewhat lower by then. If he fights an election in May or June 1992, he
should be able to do so on low inflation, lower interest rates, but still very
high unemployment. That must be the better chance, yet much of the agony was
avoidable, and some of it will have done lasting damage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 11, 1991, Monday

BA CUTS THOUSANDS OF JOBS

BYLINE:  Teilo Colley, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 879 words


British Airways is cutting 4,600 jobs and another 2,000 staff are to be "stood
down" on half pay as war fears and the recession stop people flying.  BA chiefs
want 2,500 jobs axed by the end of next month - and the rest gone as soon as
possible after that.  All but 300 of the losses will be in staff in Britain. BA
employs 48,500 staff here and a further 3,500 worldwide.  Orders for six new
Boeing jets have also been put on hold.  The cuts package was announced to trade
union officials today, hours after the airline slashed fares betwen the US and
Britain by up to a third in a bid to win back passengers.  Several other
international airlines at once followed suit, threatening a new air fares war.
Tomorrow, BA publishes its third quarter financial results, expected to show a
small profit.  But the figures mask a plunge in the number of people wanting to
fly in the wake of the worldwide recession and fears of Gulf War terrorist
attacks which have led to thousand of ticket cancellations.  BA chief executive
and deputy chairman Sir Colin Marshall said: "With aircraft currently flying
some routes half empty, we cannot afford to carry on as we are.  "We must reduce
our cost base to reflect the smaller number of passengers we are carrying now
and for the the foreseeable future."

Unions today backed the airline's plan and its call for the cuts to be achieved
by voluntary early retirement and voluntary severance. More than 4,000 staff are
aged over 55 and another 4,500 are over 50.  Roy Grantham, general secretary of
the white collar union Apex and chairman of the BA staff unions committee, spoke
of helping the company "back on the growth road." He added: "We accept that the
airline is in a very difficult financial situation and that they expect the
support of the unions and staff. We intend to give them that support in order
that the airline can be efficient and expand when the Gulf War is over." Mark
Young, secretary of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said: "We are quite
happy with the analysis the company has made. They have not gone for any
cutbacks which are not justified by the facts.  "When you consider there has
been a 20% drop in traffic in one month and a 45% drop in loads on Concorde in
first class and club class, that is a massive drop in the revenue of the
company. Something had to be done." Manpower savings - and rapid ones - will be
made in all areas, with a higher proportion of jobs being lost among management
ranks. Heathrow is expected to be worst hit as it the airline's main base.  Tory
MP David Wilshire, whose Spelthorne constituency includes part of Heathrow
Airport, said tonight: "I applaud the courage of BA to act quickly and the
courage of the unions to support them in taking that action." The 2,000 staff
"stood down" under the company's rescue plan will get half their basic pay and
will be recalled when passenger levels climb back to more normal levels.  The
idea is to keep skilled workers on BA's books rather than lose them to
competitor airlines.  As staff began to absorb the news, a new transatlantic air
fares war erupted with several carriers following BA's lead in slashing ticket
prices from London to New York.  German airline Lufthansa promptly said it was
offering special reduced fares on its North Atlantic routes and Pan Am World
Airways said it would match British Airways' cuts.  Trans World Airlines, which
along with Pan Am is also suffering from a fall in passenger numbers, said it
would probably equal or better the BA cuts.  In Amsterdam, KLM Royal Dutch
Airlines said it was close to a decision on possible fare cuts.

The problems faced by airlines during the war were raised in the Commons by
Labour MP Tam Dalyell.  He asked: "Given the many empty seats as a result of the
Gulf war and given the instructions by some famous companies in this country
that their executives are not to travel by air, is the Government going to pass
by on the other side of the road the first time that a major carrier comes into
financial difficulties, and just say, 'Hard luck, it's the Gulf war'?" Junior
transport minister Patrick McLoughlin said the question was hypothetical.  "We
have had no such requests. If such a request was made to us, obviously we would
listen and talk to the company involved."

As BA management and unions met tonight, the Transport and General Workers'
Union claimed that up to 4,600 BA jobs were to go.  If the figure is accurate it
is considerably less than estimates of up to 7,000 job cuts which have been
reported in the past few days.  The union's national secretary for aviation, Mr
George Ryde, blamed the redundancies on the Government's handling of the
economy.  And Labour trade and industry spokesman Gordon Brown said the expected
announcement of huge job losses at BA, on top of the gloomy CBI survey about
prospects for small busineses, showed the country was now dropping into even
deeper recession.  "Investment is now falling faster than in any other Western
European country and I fear the permanent loss of capacity in manufacturing
industry as a result of this recession," he said.  He called for interest rate
cuts, investment incentives for industry and a new industrial policy to invest
in skills and technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 13, 1991, Wednesday

Leading Article: Alien to British justice

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 558 words


THE injustice and incompetence with which the authorities sometimes treat
foreigners living here have been made unusually conspicuous by the Gulf war. The
present state of affairs is a moral and administrative scandal. It also
diminishes the force of any complaints the British government may make about
miscarriages of justice abroad.

Our courts have refused to intervene on behalf of the aliens who have been
detained or deported during the war. Mention the words ''national security'' to
British judges and they shiver under their wigs. Their attitude was summed up in
1976 when an American journalist, Mark Hosenball, appealed against deportation.
The Court of Appeal agreed the deportation was manifestly unjust, but Lord
Denning said the rules of natural justice had to be modified in the case of
''foreigners who prove themselves unwelcome and ought to be deported''.

How did the Iraqis and Palestinians against whom the British authorities have
recently taken action ''prove themselves unwelcome''? The authorities reasonably
contend that evidence cannot always be made public without compromising the work
of the security services. Moreover, some of the present 80 or so detainees would
themselves prefer their cases to be held in secret, since, for example, part of
their defence may be that they detest Saddam Hussein - which, if publicised,
would endanger relatives in Iraq.

But when the evidence is heard in secret, it becomes all the more important that
it be tested by due process of law. Defendants ought to be allowed legal
representation and details of the charges against them. Instead, they appear
before a panel of three eminent men, who in turn advise the Home Secretary,
without knowing what charges they face and without legal help. The preparation
of a proper defence is rendered impossible.

It has, however, become obvious that some people have been detained on the
flimsiest grounds. As this newspaper reports today, a list was drawn up from
outdated MI5 files. If the authorities really thought the suspects were planning
acts of terrorism at President Saddam's behest, thorough interrogations and
searches would presumably have occurred. There has been little sign of either.
Instead, one Iraqi was interned for three weeks because he had the same surname
as the man being sought, while another recounts: ''They thought I was working
for the Saudi Embassy. I left that job two years ago. They also did not know
that we had two British-born children. When they saw them, they decided not to
arrest my wife.''

So the lack of a due process by which evidence against aliens can be evaluated
promotes gross incompetence as well as injustice. This country is less secure
against acts of terrorism committed by aliens than it would be if we had a fair
and rigorous system for distinguishing between serious and frivolous cases.
Because the security services are not held to account for the quality of their
work, they sometimes produce extraordinarily shoddy results. If British judges
will make no attempt to remedy the resulting injustices (even though they might,
if they wanted, examine breaches of the European Convention on Human Rights),
British ministers must act to replace the present system. While waging war to
free Kuwait from tyranny, we must not forget the rights of people living in
Britain.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 13, 1991, Wednesday

Crisis in the Gulf: MI5 blamed for errors in round-up; Officials 'used out of
date files' to draw up list of Gulf crisis terrorism suspects for deportation

BYLINE: By staff reporters

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 702 words


A HANDFUL of middle-ranking MI5 officers using out of date paper files were
responsible for drawing up a list of potential Arab ''terrorists'' whose
detention has created a furore in Whitehall and raised questions about Britain's
commitment to civil rights in wartime, Whitehall sources said

yesterday.

Since the start of the Gulf war, deportation orders have been issued against 88
Iraqis and Palestinians of whom 82 are still in prisons and PoW camps in
Britain. The rest have been released after appeals to a Home Office tribunal and
angry public campaigns on their behalf.

The orders, issued by the Home Office on the strength of the MI5 list, included
Arabs who had lived in Britain for up to 20 years.

The detention of prominent, moderate Palestinians - particularly that of the
writer and academic Abbas Shiblak, who was freed on Wednesday night after two
weeks in prison, distressed the Foreign Office, where officials said the
apparently arbitrary action risked alienating moderate Arab opinion.

One senior official said that, in the light of the detentions, Britain was in
danger of ''winning the war but losing the peace''. Yesterday, commenting on Mr
Shiblak's release, the same official said that London was regaining its
reputation as a city of freedom.

Mr Shiblak and others freed have yet to receive any explanation for their
detention. But senior officials said the information which led to them being
linked to terrorists dated as far back as the 1960s. In some cases, orders were
issued on the basis of as little of three paragraphs of information in the
suspects' personal files.

Testimony from the detainees bears out the view of these officials that the list
was not drawn up on the basis either of surveillance or hard evidence of current
terrorist connections.

The MI5 list, compiled by no more than three officers, was written at a time of
maximum concern that the outbreak of war in the Gulf would lead to Iraqi-

inspired terrorist attacks. But some officials warned the apparently hasty
round-up of suspects raised the possibility that real terrorist cells in
Britain, if they exist, may have been overlooked. A small number of suspects
were added to the MI5 list on the advice of other security agencies.

The furore over the detentions, which led Amnesty International to say the
internees could be considered prisoners of conscience because they had been
detained ''without a fair hearing and in breach of international law'',
threatens to exacerbate tensions within the security community over
responsibility for counter- terrorism. Traditionally, MI5 and Britain's overseas
intelligence agency, MI6, have concentrated on monitoring and counteracting
Soviet bloc agencies. The end of the Cold War, however, called into question the
raison d'etre of Western espionage agencies and created a competition for funds
and resources. Since the outbreak of the Gulf crisis six months ago, Western
agencies have had rapidly to switch their attentions to the Middle East and
potential Arab terrorism.

Whitehall sources said the apparent haste of the MI5 operation involving the
Arab detainees, coupled with the failure of internal security agencies to foil
last week's IRA mortar attack on Downing Street, may tempt MI6 to seek a closer
role in counter- terror operations.

The sources suggested that MI6's greater knowledge of the modus operandi of Arab
terror groups might have helped to avoid the blunder of rounding up the likes of
Mr Shiblak. Once he and others were on the list, however, the Home Office had
little choice but to accept the recommendations of the security service.
According to one source: ''There was no one to blow the whistle.''

The Home Office's national security panel will begin hearing appeals from
detainees again today in Wormwood Scrubs prison, west London, after a break of
about a week. Visitors who have seen 35 Iraqis held as PoWs in the Rollestone
camp on Salisbury Plain said yesterday that they were being held in bare huts
and had been denied access to their families.

'Guilt by association', page 3

Gulf reports, pages 2-5

Leading article, page 20

Peter Jenkins, page 21

Fighting for detainees, page 21

Commentary, page 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                               February 15, 1991

COMPANIES: News: Dark Days For British Airways - British Airways is slimming
down to cope with desertion by its passengers following war in the Gulf.  But
it's anyone's guess as to how much damage the downturn will cause

BYLINE: By MARC POPIOLEK

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 596 words


FOUR weeks into the Gulf War, it's crystal clear which industry has suffered
most from the fighting. The victim is not, as might have been expected
beforehand, the oil industry. Instead, it's the world's airlines. Fear of
terrorist attacks has deterred business folk and tourists alike from flying.

Airlines the world over are suffering. Sabena was recently rescued by the
Belgian government. Other European carriers like KLM and Swissair have seen
falls in passenger numbers and are cancelling flights (see INVESTORS CHRONICLE,
8 February, page 60). Fares are being cut.


Feeling as much pain as any airline is British Airways. Before war started, BA,
like the rest, had to contend with higher jet fuel prices. This was hurting
profits, as shown by the latest third quarter results (see page 44). But whereas
virtually all other airlines lost money in the third quarter, BA stayed in the
black.

The outbreak of war has changed the trading climate for BA beyond recognition.
As the flag carrier for one of the major participants in the anti-Saddam
coalition, BA is a potential target for terrorist attacks. Many of Britain's
large companies have recognised this and advised their executives to use the
airlines of neutral countries instead. And the American tourists who used to
help fill BA's jumbo jets on its vital Transatlantic routes are staying home in
droves, fearful of travelling a continent nearer the bust-up. Since war started,
BA's traffic has fallen by 20 per cent.

For BA, it's a terrible, terrible shame. Not least because the airline's
marketing, attention to customer care and general efficiency are among the best
in the business.

Chairman Lord King admits these are 'dark days'. BA has moved fast, shedding a
tenth of its staff, delaying purchases of new aircraft and selling off old ones.
Conserving cash is the big priority. There will be big losses in the January to
March quarter, which might wipe out half of the current year's profits. Next
year will be 'difficult' says King.

Just how difficult is the multi-million pound question. Airline finances are
notoriously sensitive. Filling a few extra seats can easily make the difference
between a profitable and an unprofitable flight. There are large fuel, staff and
financing costs which must - somehow - be covered. Otherwise BA will burning
piles of pound notes every time one of its planes lifts off.

An optimistic scenario would see a swift end to the Gulf war - say by the end of
March - and a recovery in passenger numbers as the threat of terrorism is
perceived to recede. If traffic picked up in time for the main summer tourist
season, and was only slightly down on 1990, BA could remain profitable and keep
all its routes open. By 1992 the current worries could be forgotten.

More pessimistically, the terrorist threat could put travellers off flying BA
for months to come. Kleinwort Benson's Peter Bergius thinks the slowdown is
going to last well beyond the resolution of the Gulf conflict. Coming on top of
the effect of twin recessions in the UK and US - which are BA's biggest markets
by a long way - this could mean a protracted drop in revenues, ushering in more
cuts. Next year's results could look rough indeed.

Perversely, since war started, BA shares have actually risen a few pence to
140p. The stockmarket has risen and the shares are probably anticipating the
more optimistic of the two scenarios outlined above. But the truth is that no
one knows how bad things might get. If you don't buy the swift-recovery
scenario, sell the shares.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 1991 Financial Times Business

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 16, 1991

Government drops new bomb charges: Britain seeks to avoid extradition row with
Dublin

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT in Belfast

LENGTH: 497 words


THE British government yesterday sought to evade another row over extradition
with Dublin by agreeing to remove substitute charges put to an alleged IRA
bomber earlier this week.

The Attorney-General's office is now considering how to overturn a London
magistrate's decision to commit Desmond Ellis for trial, yet continue with the
prosecution. Mr Ellis was the first man extradited to Britain under new
legislation in the Irish republic.


A firmly-worded statement from the Irish government yesterday afternoon pointed
out that altering the specific charges against a suspect after he had been
extradited might threaten co-operation between the two governments.

The row began on Thursday after Mr Ellis's defence successfully challenged the
use of the 1883 Explosive Substances Act at a committal hearing at Thames
magistrates' court in east London.

The magistrate, Daphne Wickham, was forced to accept that the act required the
accused to be British or to have visited Britain. Mr Ellis, aged 38, is from
Dublin and there is no evidence he has ever been in Britain.

Faced with the collapse of the prosecution, two new conspiracy charges under the
Offences Against the Person Act and the Criminal Damage Act were drawn up by the
magistrate and Mr Ellis was committed.

Dublin reacted by accusing the British authorities of breaching the rule of
specialty an unwritten commitment that those extradited will only be tried for
the offences contained in the original affadavit, unless the Irish government is
consulted. There was no consultation in this case.

Quoting a judgment in the Irish Supreme Court, the statement from Dublin said:
'If either side were to breach this principle it would mean an end to the
reciprocal arrangement.'

The Irish government 'expects British counsel . . . to challenge the decision of
the magistrate in a higher court and understands they intend to do so'.

A spokesman for the Attorney-General's office in London said yesterday:
'Consideration is being given by the prosecution as to how the magistrate's
decision might be challenged.'

If the substitute charges are replaced by the original ones, the defence's
original objection will still stand. The Attorney-General may therefore be
forced to also challenge the magistrate's decision on jurisdiction and
counter-appeal the issue through higher courts.

Gareth Peirce, Mr Ellis's solicitor, said yesterday: 'The Attorney-General was
prepared to give his authority for this prosecution when there was no prima
facie case. This is the third time in the last two years charges against Irish
suspects have collapsed under this act.'

Belgium has rejected appeals for the release on bail of three suspected IRA
members awaiting trial since last December, the national Belga news agency
reported.

Jerry Roche, aged 41, Kieran McCarthy, aged 30, and John Daly, aged 26, were
arrested in December on charges of possessing offensive weapons and forming a
gang.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          February 16, 1991, Saturday

'SAFETY FIRST' WHITNEY CANCELS TOUR

BYLINE:  Paul Fuller, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 184 words


Singing star Whitney Houston has become the latest American performer to refuse
to cross the Atlantic because of the Gulf war after she postponed a sell-out
tour of Britain and Europe.  She followed a growing number of stars, businessmen
and would-be holidaymakers who fear to travel by air in case of terrorist
attacks by Iraq supporters. Whitney, 27, was due to start her European tour with
18 UK dates, beginning at London's Wembley Arena on March 25. All the concerts
have now been re-scheduled for August and September.  Her father John Houston
said yesterday: "After much deliberation, our concerns for the safety of the
entire touring company could not be overcome and therefore became the prevailing
factor in the decision to postpone." Information concerning the validity of
tickets and refunds is to be announced during the next few days.  Whitney is to
release her rendition of the American national anthem, performed at this year's
Super Bowl, her record company said yesterday.  She is to give all profits from
the cassette, CD and video to the American Red Cross Gulf Crisis Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 19, 1991

Terror at Rush Hour: Mainland 'attempt to keep enemy guessing' - IRA returns to
discredited civilian tactics, Call for more anti-terror legislation, Ripple
effect of travel fears

BYLINE: By DUNCAN CAMPBELL and OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 667 words


THE BOMBING of civilian targets in the heart of British cities a tactic that the
IRA has pursued and then rejected as counter-productive in the past is being
re-introduced in an attempt to keep the enemy guessing.

The campaigns in the mid-1970s, which included the Birmingham and Guildford pub
bombings and at one stage ran to an attack every week, were eventually abandoned
because IRA tacticians felt the deaths of civilians alienated republican support
on the mainland.


Since then the mainland attacks have been concentrated on prominent individuals,
military personnel and bases or symbolic targets, such as the Stock Exchange and
the Carlton Club and even Harrods where six people were killed by an explosion
in 1983.

But last week a member of the IRA's general headquarters stated: 'We will not
allow ourselves to be held to one tactic or particular modus operandi. Our
intention is always to keep the enemy guessing.'

The decision to bomb railway stations indicates that the IRA seeks
unpredictability from the mortar attack on Downing Street and the shooting of
soldiers in the Midlands to the attempted bombing of an anti-terrorist
conference.

The IRA are also anxious to demonstrate that recent jailings and arrests have
not destroyed its potential to strike at will or its ability to operate on the
mainland. Aware that the security forces are stretched by the Gulf war
surveillance operations, the IRA seeks to exploit the gaps. It is aware that
high-profile targets are being given police protection on an unprecedented
level.

In propaganda terms, it knows that one bomb on the mainland is worth dozens in
northern Ireland.

In an interview last week with Republican News, the Provisional IRA gave an
unusually detailed commentary on the strategy behind its bombing campaigns. The
tone, in the immediate aftermath of the Downing Street mortar attack, was one of
military confidence. 'Any action in Britain has many times the effect of a
similar action in the Six Counties,' the spokesperson said.

'The British establishment do not want the result of their occupation landing at
their front or rear doorstep.'

The introduction of mortars to London, the human bomb tactics in Northern
Ireland and the return to arson attacks on commercial premises in Belfast and
Lisburn may all signify a fresh determination to break out of what the IRA fears
has become a politically acceptable level of violence.

The mainland campaign of the 1970s led off with the Old Bailey bombing on March
8, 1972, and culminated most horrifically in the Birmingham pub bombings which
killed 21 people. In the meantime there were bombings and shootings in the West
End of London throughout 1974 and 1975. The four-man IRA unit caught during the
Balcombe Street siege were at one stage averaging more than one attack a week.
The four were jailed for 30 years in 1977.

The 1970s campaign also involved railway stations. In September 1973, a bomb in
the ticket office at Victoria station injured five people. Later that month
eight people were injured by a bomb at Euston station and five people were hurt
by a blast at King's Cross. Earlier that year two bombs were defused at Baker
Street.

In October 1975, one man was killed and 20 people were injured when a bomb
exploded at the entrance to Green Park Underground station in the heart of
London. In March 1976, an Underground train driver was shot dead after he chased
a gunman moments after a terrorist bomb exploded in one of his train's carriages
near West Ham tube station in east London. Nine passengers were injured by the
blast. A few days later one man was injured when a bomb exploded in a tube train
that had just left Wood Green station in north London.

In October 1983, an incendiary device designed to burn out signal cables in rail
lines south of London Bridge station was defused by an anti-terrorist squad
officer.

In July 1990, two fake devices were found at Blackfriars and Bank tube stations.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 19, 1991

Leading article: The return of the barren bomber

LENGTH: 440 words


YOU FEEL an eerie, weary sense of repetition. More bombs go off in London.
Ordinary men and women and children (not, as ten days ago, the Cabinet) are in
the blasting line. They are hard to protect. One man dies in the Victoria
station explosion; and at least 40 people are injured, several of them very
seriously. But here comes the weary futility. This is not some new terrorist
tactic. Civilians have been the main target for IRA bombers in Britain before.
Large numbers of innocent passers-by were injured, just like yesterday, in the
1970s. There were explosions at Victoria, Euston and King's Cross in 1973; with
two other bombs in Baker Street underground station, only defused at the last
moment.

What happened next in the 1970s is what will happen next now. The IRA, then,
were finally forced to abandon their mainland campaign against civilians when
they discovered how much support they were losing. Only the woefully naive could
believe that the major political parties would bow in the face of such crude
blackmail. There is no political will to withdraw from Northern Ireland, and
yesterday's explosions only makes such a notion yet more remote. The same
erosion of support which followed in the 1970s will recur again. The Victoria
tactics are not just inhumane, but utterly senseless too.


What on earth is the motive? A bomb in the capital, sadly, has more public
impact than a dozen explosions in Belfast. As we report elsewhere, there is
apprehension within IRA circles that their violence in Northern Ireland is now
regarded as politically acceptable. But this is thin, despairing stuff, with
only one obvious lesson for political leaders: that violence on either side of
the Irish Sea is equally unacceptable.

Inevitably, there is bound to be an inquiry into whether the police should have
moved more promptly to close the mainline stations. According to a London
Transport spokesman, the 40-minute warning received at 7am included a code word.
Yet there are up to 30 hoax calls a day, many of them with code words. The
police had already received 19 hoax calls yesterday, by the time the Victoria
bomb exploded. Hesitation from the police over stopping a thousand trains is
understandable. They are required to prevent the capital from disruption as well
as to protect the public. These are blind alleys. The real response, with
vigilance, is to carry on as normal; and to keep working, with steady vigilance,
at routes to address an Irish problem which will, one day, be solved; with no
role and much revulsion for the men who barrenly could only think of
indiscriminate murder along the way.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 19, 1991, Tuesday

London Station Bombings: The worst of times for BR

BYLINE: By DAVID BLACK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 339 words


A CRASH, a blizzard, financial distress and now terrorist bombings. It is not
proving a good year for British Rail - and it's not yet two months old.

Sir Bob Reid, the former Shell UK chairman who took over as chairman of BR four
months ago, has had little in the way of a honeymoon to settle down. Can he hope
for better times, or have the last seven weeks been a taste of trials to come?

Blame for the rail chaos in London yesterday cannot be laid at BR's door - it is
not responsible for anti-terrorist security.

However, the bombings and the aftermath will not have enhanced BR's embattled
public image. Among the world's rail community it might have the reputation of
being the most efficient railway network, but the feeling at stations in Britain
is that BR is not user friendly.

The crash at London's Cannon Street station on 8 January killed two people and
raised questions about the safety of BR's ageing trains. Snow in the first week
of February got sucked into new train engines and froze in door runners.

BR is a lean operation, with little slack. This might be alright for private
industry, but in a public service it means that when it snows and trains break
down, there are no spare ones to run the service.

On Sunday, Sir Bob asked for a guarantee that BR could spend a further pounds
1bn or more on new trains, and improving lines and facilities. He compared the
pounds 500m annual state subsidy to BR with the pounds 3bn support for both
French and German railways, and the pounds 4bn given in Italy. He said: ''I am
not asking for subsidy but for investment finance.''

Yesterday's bombings showed how vulnerable a complicated network is to
disruption.

Is the lesson that perhaps we have been forcing BR to sail too close to the wind
for too long? And the next time commuters find themselves stranded on a platform
waiting for a train that does not come, instead of cursing, should they consider
that it might be a miracle of organisation and dedication that BR manages to run
a service at all?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 19, 1991, Tuesday

Scotland Yard chief defends squad's record

BYLINE: By Quentin Cowdry, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 550 words


THE POLICE - GEORGE Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, was, as usual, carrying the burden of his office with apparent lightness
yesterday as he fielded questions from the media at the squad's central London
headquarters.

A casual observer could not have guessed that the bombs at Paddington and
Victoria stations were, respectively, the 26th and 27th IRA attacks to be
conducted on mainland Britain since August 1988. During that period the branch
and Mr Churchill-Coleman in particular have been subjected to some criticism
about their performance against the IRA, which has struck repeatedly in spite of
supposedly high levels of security.

The commander, whose bluff exterior disguises a shrewd intelligence, freely
admits that the squad's record could be better. But he believes that few people
outside the police or security services appreciate the difficulties of fighting
organisations as ruthless and determined as the IRA.

While two IRA members were recently jailed for 30 years after being arrested in
Wales last September and six other alleged members are awaiting trial before
British courts, a string of mainland atrocities committed over the past 12 years
remain unsolved, including the murders of the Tory MPs Airey Neave and Ian Gow
and those of seven military bandsmen in Regent's Park in 1982. It is also true
that some successes such as the discovery of a big arms cache in south London in
December 1988 stemmed from remarkable good luck.

However, detectives have had some notable successes, among them the capture of
the bombmaker behind the attack on a cavalry troop in Hyde Park in 1982 and the
man who planted the bomb that almost killed Margaret Thatcher in Brighton in
1984.

In Northern Ireland, the police's success rate is better, but there the
difficulties of gathering intelligence the key to tackling groups such as the
IRA while still substantial are less acute than on the mainland, where it is
easier for gunmen and bombers to hide in local communities. Police and other
security services on the mainland also face a much broader range of terrorist
threats than their counterparts across the Irish sea.

As pressure grows on the anti-terrorist branch to improve its success rate,
there are new problems for Mr Churchill-Coleman, who has headed the squad for
more than five years. Detectives are now all but certain that the team
responsible for many of the attacks conducted since August 1988, when the IRA
resumed its mainland campaign, has been replaced by another, more powerfully
armed cell. That team, which police believe carried out the mortar bomb strike
against Downing Street and yesterday's bombings, is plainly determined to be
more audacious and, on yesterday's evidence, less scrupulous in its targeting.

The commander, whose name appeared on an IRA hit-list found two years ago,
believes it is vital that the government and the police respond in a firm but
measured manner to the IRA's latest mainland campaign.

Far more reflective than his stolid image would suggest, he remains deeply
sceptical of demands for greater police powers. ''The IRA want us to overreact
and to panic,'' he said in a recent interview. ''But with professional policing
and the help of the public, this campaign will be defeated.''

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 21, 1991, Thursday

IRA not deterred by use of video cameras

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WARD

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 9

LENGTH: 413 words


VIDEO CAMERAS in shopping centres, on buses and motorways and outside public
buildings to combat rising crime have failed to act as a deterrent to IRA
attacks or to provide the police with evidence to help identify terrorists,
writes Stephen Ward.

Three times the IRA has carried out atrocities in front of video cameras without
any clues being provided.

Last summer at the Carlton Club, used by senior Conservatives, a timebomb
planted in the foyer seriously injured the hall porter. A recording showed
people entering and leaving the premises, but on a different day.

A fortnight ago a mortar was fired from a van in Horse Guards Avenue into the
garden of 10 Downing Street and two men were seen running away. Video cameras
surveying most of the area around the Prime Minister's home apparently did not
cover that particular street.

Finally this week a bomb exploded at Victoria station and a sophisticated
network of 20 or so cameras were not recording the night before when the bomb
was probably planted in a litter bin.

In each case there was a different reason for the failure to record evidence.
The Victoria system was installed for crowd control. In the middle of the night,
apparently, no one was watching and the recording device was off.

The Carlton Club failure was simple human error. The tape needed to be changed
each day, with the tapes rotated. On the day of the bomb, it had not been.

David Fletcher, chief executive of the British Security Industry Association,
the trade body for makers and installers of security equipment, pointed out that
every security system, from window locks to videos, has its limitations. ''While
it would be possible to have a camera recording every street in Britain day and
night, that is clearly not practical.''

Many robbers of banks and building societies have been identified, captured and
convicted on recorded evidence and many more almost certainly deterred from the
crime.

Criminals also take counter- measures. Rodney Whichelo, convicted for a
baby-food poisoning and blackmail plot was filmed withdrawing money from a cash
dispenser, but he had hidden his face with a motorcycle helmet.

It is likely that even if any of the perpetrators of the three recent IRA
attacks had been recorded, the image on the video cassette would have been of
people wearing clothing or disguises which appeared normal and would have raised
no alarms at the time, but which made their identification impossible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 21, 1991, Thursday

Woman 'stole car for IRA killers'

BYLINE: From TERRY KIRBY in Roermond

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 796 words


DONNA MAGUIRE, a suspected IRA terrorist, obtained false documentation and stole
the car used in the murders of two Australian tourists in the Netherlands last
year, a Dutch court was told yesterday.

The prosecution at the court in Roermond alleged that Ms Maguire, 24, of Newry,
was a key member of the four-strong IRA team which carried out the killings in
the town on 27 May last year. The IRA later admitted that the murders of Stephen
Melrose and Nick Spanos, two London-based Australian lawyers on holiday in the
area, were a mistake. The real targets were British servicemen.

Joe Laumen, the public prosecutor, said the charges alleged that Ms Maguire's
part in the plot involved obtaining false passports and false driving licences
in The Hague, and stealing a car in the town of Venlo, on the day of the
murders.

The prosecution also alleges that she was assisted by one or more of the other
three on trial - Paul Hughes, 26, from Newry, Sean Hick, 30, from Dublin, and
Gerard Harte, 27, from Lurgan.

The part played by Mr Hick in the conspiracy is alleged to have involved renting
a safe house in The Hague and hiring another car, an Opel Kadett, which was also
used on the day of the attack.

The trial of all four, which began yesterday amid stringent security
precautions, is expected to continue for another three weeks. It is taking place
just a few hundred yards from the site of the murders. The four are charged with
murder, or conspiracy to murder as an alternative charge, and also with
membership of the Provisional IRA.

Under Dutch law they have not been asked to make a plea in response to the
charges, which are being heard by three judges sitting without a jury. The
judges have already received 7,000 pages of documents relating to the case.

Describing the murders, Mr Laumen said that two members of the IRA team had got
out of the Mazda car and approached the Australians in the market square at
Roermond. One member of the IRA team was armed with a Kalashnikov semi-automatic
rifle and the other with a Sturm and Ruger revolver.

Mr Melrose was hit by fire from both weapons and Mr Spanos by the Kalashnikov
only. ''It may well be they didn't get the target they wanted,'' Mr Laumen said.

The court is expected to hear a detailed account of the incident today. The
prosecution is expected to outline which of the four accused is alleged to have
fired the shots.

Mr Laumen said yesterday that the prosecution alleged that all four were also
members of the Provisional IRA, ''an organisation involved with terrorism, arson
and explosive attacks''.

Lawyers for the defence argued that the charges relating to membership of the
IRA were an infringement of the Dutch penal code. Such charges had not been
brought under Dutch law previously against such organisations as the Palestine
Liberation Organisation and the African National Congress, in spite of the
similarity of their aims to those of the IRA, it was argued. The court is
expected to rule today on the submission to drop this charge.

As part of a series of defence submissions, Willem van Bennehom, who spoke on
behalf of the defence lawyers, accused the prosecution authorities of ''inhumane
treatment'' of the four accused. He said that they had been detained in solitary
confinement since their arrest last June, and for court appearances had been
forced to travel with bags over their heads and with their arms handcuffed below
one leg.

Even now they were still being forced to wear blacked-out ski- goggles to
restrict their vision on trips to the court, although they were now handcuffed
more conventionally. Lawyers had even been prevented from shaking hands with
their clients in court, he added.

Judge Bakermans, the president of the court, ruled that the lawyers could shake
hands with their clients and that they could have mutual contact with each
other, but that other restrictions would remain because of recent escapes from
Dutch courts.

The court also upheld defence submissions that four key witnesses, including one
who identified the driver of the getaway car, should be ordered to attend the
court. It rejected a prosecution claim that, since they had already given
statements at which they could have been challenged by the defence, there was no
reason for them to ''stick their necks out'' to give evidence.

Defence lawyers also objected to the inclusion among the paperwork submitted to
the court of legal material from West Germany - which is seeking to extradite Ms
Maguire in connection with alleged attacks on British bases - Belgium and
Britain.

The case continues today when Judge Bakermans will begin reading out the
prosecution's statement of facts, after which the four may be asked to lodge
pleas. A verdict is expected by April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                               February 22, 1991

BUSINESS: Parris On Politics: A Disaster Waiting To Happen

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PARRIS

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 919 words


When terrorists strike, then, up to a certain level of alarm, MPs tell each
other and the nation that we must carry on, things should be 'business as
usual'. To get rattled, we are reminded, only gives the terrorists their
victory.  That appears to have been the Commons approach to the explosion of two
bombs at London stations on Monday. To the bemusement of many MPs, there was no
Home Office Statement that day, though one had been expected.  Beyond a certain
level of alarm, however, we are instructed that the patriotic thing to do is -
frankly - to get rattled, and make emergency changes to our everyday behaviour.
'Business as usual' is then redefined as giving the terrorists their
opportunity. That was the reaction of the Metropolitan Police on Monday.  At
railway stations all over Britain announcements were relayed warning everyone
not to go to London at all, 'unless absolutely necessary.'

So the special train I caught from Derby - laid on efficiently by BR, to deliver
all passengers to West Hampstead (St Pancras being closed) - ran almost empty.
Employees had been virtually prohibited from going to work. Our reaction to
terrorism in this country is by turns to shrug our shoulders, and run around
like headless chickens. We haven't the ghost of a philosophy for meeting these
emergencies.


Nowhere is this clearer than with security at the Palace of Westminster itself -
and, at this point in the column, I pause, and ask myself 'How much should I
say?' A sort of unspoken thought has currency among MPs and journalists, that to
highlight the weaknesses in our national security only puts ideas in the heads
of terrorists. So nobody says anything - or they say it privately, and of course
nothing is done.

The Times journalist who last week gained access to corridors of power all over
Whitehall using his video-club membership card will no doubt be told he should
not have published his report but presented it confidentially to the Home
Office. Such criticism, too, is naive. Whitehall is not disposed to give much
weight to comments and suggestions from persons who are not royal commissions
and have no official standing. The fact that you (perhaps) or I live and work in
London, and notice that there are some curious questions about terrorism that
never seem to get aired, goes unremarked.

So here goes. In my uninformed view, the Palace of Westminster is a terrorist
disaster waiting to happen. Security arrangements have been much tightened in
recent years and are now proof, which they were not before, against nutcases.
They are no proof at all against even a half-way sophisticated terrorist plot.
All of us who work there, even MPs, must now show photo-identity passes; while
casual visitors must submit to a check on their bags. 'Strangers' in the public
gallery are no longer admitted to the benches immediately above the heads of
MPs. And that's just about all.

The precautions - such as they are - are properly policed. I make no complaint
against those who have to enforce them, but against the strategy they have been
told to work to. There are three enormous weaknesses to the Westminster system.

Firstly, the passes are not electronic and a passable forgery could, I believe,
be made by anyone with moderate skills in these matters. They are also being
lost or stolen all the time. The effect of a blanket system of photo-passes,
rigidly adhered to, is subtly to undermine a police officer's reliance on his
own instincts. Aware that possession of the pass is now the abracadabra that
lets you in, its presence or absence tends to become the centre of an officer's
attention. A constable chased after me the other day, stooped in order to search
my lapel for my (partially obscured) pass. He never once looked up at my face.
If he had, he would have realised that he knew me. Far from adding to security,
it can be dangerous to narrow the focus of surveillance in this way, unless its
object - the pass - gives foolproof clearance. A House of Commons identity pass
does not.

Secondly, passholders are not searched. Some three thousand people work within
the precincts. They include labourers, cleaners, kitchen porters, and a fairly
quick turnover of other catering staff - for wages and conditions are not good.
If it is claimed that exhaustive security checks are made on them before they
are hired, I must reply that I do not believe it.

Thirdly, there is a constant traffic of cars, taxis, vans and lorries into and
out of the precincts. Some are checked, others not ..

. and I could go further, and tell you which, and when. I could tell you how you
might get a van, if you are a terrorist, to a place where you might very much
like it to be. I shall not - but only to protect myself from the raised eyebrows
of erstwhile colleagues: let them not suppose that discretion protects them. I
have no doubt that talk of the kind you read above has been heard in a thousand
conversations in pubs and taxis, from Kingston to Kilburn.

An incident - to mince our words - at Westminster would be a publicity coup for
any terrorist group. The place has to be regarded as an absolutely prime target,
perhaps the prime target. Westminster guards its rights, its privileges, and the
ease of its facilities jealously, of course; but the time has come for a very
hard look to be taken at the place: preferably by someone who has no personal
interest in the daily convenience of working life there. Convenience and
security do not mix.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 1991 Financial Times Business

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 24, 1991, Sunday

Belfast goes to work, London goes to pieces; Cal McCrystal discovers how
Ulster's citizens cope with the constant threat of terrorism

BYLINE: By CAL MCCRYSTAL

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 1394 words


LAST Monday, citizens of Belfast coped with tedium. A young man in the west of
the city was shot in the stomach, hip and leg in his kitchen. A few miles away,
a woman was raped at gunpoint in front of her husband. On Shankill Road, police
pursued paramilitary drug-pushers. In Crumlin Road courthouse, two men stood
accused of trying to murder police and soldiers. Some streets to the north, a
pregnant single mother awoke to find a rat sitting on her stomach.

A dullish day for Belfast, which most mainlanders believe to be a daily scene of
mayhem. But in contrast that day, the mainland capital was almost brought to its
knees by events which Belfast people have learned to take in their stride: the
explosion of two bombs at railway stations.

When the IRA tried to kill the British War Cabinet in Downing Street on 7
February, the Prime Minister acknowledged that Whitehall had just had a taste of
the regular Ulster diet.

Unimpressed, Alderman Sammy Wilson, Protestant former Lord Mayor and press
officer for the Democratic Unionists, said: ''It is pathetic to see the reaction
of the Government and Members of Parliament from every party in the House of
Commons as a result of a few windows being broken in Downing Street and a hole
made in the back garden.''

The Catholic Irish News thinks he has a point. ''Everybody's lives are blighted
by paramilitary violence . . . And yet . . . British politicians, media and
public pay scant attention to the sufferings of people in Northern Ireland. It
is almost as if they believe we have reached an acceptable level of violence . .
. It is only when there is an incident in Britain that there is a response.''

At 6am last Monday, two hours after London's Paddington bomb and less than two
hours before the one in Victoria, Belfast's Central station on Albertbridge Road
opened for business. It has had six serious blasts since it began operating in
1976 (its predecessor, near the Europa Hotel, closed down after persistent IRA
attacks), among them a ''bicycle bomb'' timed to explode as a train entered the
station.

The first of the daily 3,000 passengers threaded past a ring of solid concrete
bollards and up a dingy stairway to a small concourse and four platforms. On
either side of the concourse are shops, and among them the Whistlestop Bar. Last
month, two incendiary bombs, placed under seats, exploded in the bar overnight,
causing ''slight damage''. Hours later, the area around the station was sealed
off, ''severely disrupting'' services to Bangor, Lisburn and Portadown, while an
abandoned taxi was examined for explosives (none was found).

On London's ''Black Monday'' Belfast's railway station was calm. Commodious
litter-bins, painted red, caught the eye but received no more than normal
routine inspection. ''At certain times of the year we get rid of them,'' said
Edward McMillan, assistant secretary of the Northern Ireland Railways Company.
The worst no-bin time is the Twelfth of July, anniversary of the Battle of the
Boyne, when tempers become heated.

What usually happens when the IRA plants a station bomb? ''There'd be a phone
call, perhaps to the local radio station or to the Samaritans,'' Mr McMillan
said. ''They would contact the police. Last night Tuesday , for example, the
police and Army came in at 16.40 and stayed until 17.05. We have a siren and a
public- announcement system attached, announcing 'Please clear the station.
There has been an incident'. We never mention the word 'bomb' in case it causes
panic.

''Most people get out as quickly as possible, though a few are so used to it
that they dilly-dally. Familiarity breeds contempt. Besides, everybody wants
things to appear normal. We have a normal life here.''

What is ''normal''? After a year in which the Troubles had claimed 76 lives in
Northern Ireland, the IRA greeted 1991 with a fire-bomb blitz on business
premises in the Greater Belfast area, including Lisburn, which caused damage
estimated at pounds 10m. On 11 January, the Royal Ulster Constabulary urged
shopowners to increase checks on customers and to search premises regularly,
especially after closing time. Bomb hoaxes proliferated, bringing Belfast
traffic to a virtual standstill (17 alerts in one day).

On 18 January, sea, rail and bus centres were targeted in fire and bomb attacks,
and Belfast airport was disrupted for six hours while a Semtex bomb in the
short-stay car park was sought and defused.

Belfast last week yielded few obvious signs of dramatically heightened security.
On Great Victoria Street, the Europa Hotel had removed a tall steel barricade
that had protected its forecourt for years. On entering a multi- storey car park
on Donegall Place, near the city centre, I was asked by a civilian guard for ''a
wee look in your boot''. At the new Castlecourt shopping complex on Royal
Avenue, behind the steel gates to the inner city, a uniformed woman explained
apologetically to a shopper: ''Just looking for wee bombs in handbags.''

Castlecourt had a fire-bomb attack in January. In it, as in many other Belfast
shopping centres, profligate crowds were not in evidence. One shop manager
explained that ''it's not the Troubles; it's the recession. It's been late in
coming here, but we're beginning to see it now.''

It's not that Belfast's citizenry has become blase; there is extraordinary
alertness, even in the bloodshot eyes of drunks. But people have found a certain
rhythm-in-strife. Whereas in the Seventies and much of the Eighties the centre
was ominous and lifeless at night, now cinemas beckon, streets blaze with neon,
and busy restaurants abound.

However, housewives do not carry pocket radios in their handbags, since this
might delay access to shops, and my tour of the city failed to reveal anyone
with a personal stereo. There is no impatience over repeated searches. Half a
dozen shoppers testified that security measures were ''no problem''.

Northern Ireland is used to its problem being ignored by large sections of the
British media. Yet its own newspapers reacted sympathetically to the plight of
Londoners after the Paddington and Victoria bombings. The Irish News splashed on
''Chaos and Carnage'', providing two pages of reports, plus a leader which
referred to the British ''Dunkirk spirit''.

On the wet streets of the city centre - Royal Avenue, Cornmarket, Castle Street,
and all around City Hall, where the security forces had a surprisingly low
profile - it might be easy to overlook Belfast's own resilient spirit after more
than two decades of death and destruction.

Roy Neill, director of an international insurance firm and a former president of
Belfast Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: ''I'm not saying the Ulsterman
is more resilient than the average Englishman, but when you have stark
adversity, as we have had, it brings out a bloody-mindedness in you.''

Mr Neill's office is in Bedford House, a nine-storey block behind City Hall. It
has been bombed five times since 1969. On all but the first occasion, warnings
were telephoned. Today, it is thoroughly, though not oppressively, guarded.

''For years we had a store of hardboard in the building, ready to fill in the
broken windows,'' Mr Neill said. ''Sometimes there is a terse message direct to
the building, and we used to get up and run. It was difficult to get the tenants
to adopt a common system of evacuation. So a drill was set up, with a Tannoy
system throughout. If the switchboard takes a warning call, the girl rings
security on the ground floor and an announcement comes through: 'A bomb has been
reported in the building. Would you please search your floor.'

''The police have said that the best people to search each floor are those who
work on it. It can be done in 30 seconds . . . There's got to be a balance
between hiding and going about your daily business. Yet there's just so much you
can do. If you take away the litter bins that keep Belfast tidy, the terrorist
will place his bomb somewhere else. People put steel shutters over their shop
windows, but the terrorists simply hung bombs on them.''

Mr Neill conceded that ''the initiative is always with the terrorist, and it is
extremely difficult to keep your guard up 24 hours a day, 365 days a year''.

''But,'' he added, ''you try to remain alert and follow certain rules. I always
look under my car before getting in.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 1991, Monday

Ready for the wounds, the burns, the pain; Mark Handscomb finds Manchester Royal
Infirmary bracing itself to cope with casualties of the land war

BYLINE: By MARK HANDSCOMBE

SECTION: LIVING PAGE; Page 16

LENGTH: 1349 words


''I NEVER, ever thought I would have to treat war casualties when I trained as a
medical student,'' Dr Rosemary Morton says. ''We are well organised, but I think
we are going to find it difficult.'' Dr Morton, consultant in accident and
emergency medicine at the Manchester Royal Infirmary, is used to patching people
up after motorway pile-ups. Dealing with the effects of mustard gas and shrapnel
is a different matter.

''I expect to see bullet wounds, blast injuries and severe burns,'' she says.
''I can see it being absolute chaos. There will be people milling around, there
will be drips up, everybody will be ill, they will have splints on their legs. I
think it will be horrendous.''

Eighty of the hospital's 600 beds have been assigned to the war wounded. At
present these beds are occupied by short-stay patients. They can be moved at
four hours' notice to peripheral hospitals to make room for injured soldiers.

Injured troops will be evacuated from clearing hospitals in Cyprus and the
Middle East to hospitals in Britain. Those able to handle the flight will be
flown to specialist hospitals in each of the 14 regional health authorities.
Each plane can carry 80 stretcher cases or 200 seated wounded, depending on the
severity of their injuries.

Dr Morton will check patients into the casualty department when they arrive and
allocate their priority for surgery. ''We have been told that the casualties we
will receive will be British. If the war is terrible, they may not be able to
identify the people they are putting on to the planes. But if they are American,
European or even Iraqi, we will treat these patients as our own,'' she says.

From his first-floor office at the hospital, Ian Hargreaves, the director of
nursing, co-ordinates the hospital's response to the Gulf war. ''There will be
three surgical wards and an intensive care area set aside for the receipt of
military casualties, but we certainly won't be mixing military casualties with
our normal National Health Service patients,'' he says.

''We don't know the type of injuries to expect. The military tell us that a high
number of burns patients are likely to arrive. They will need to be segregated
from other patients because they need treating in a sterile area.''

Pinned to noticeboards in surgeons' offices are well-thumbed copies of Ministry
of Defence briefing papers on how to treat the effects of chemical weapons.
These include advice on treating nerve gases, such as phosgene, which smells of
newly mown hay and can kill within seconds.

Soldiers who survive may have to come to terms with what the doctors describe as
a ''changed body image'': loss of an arm or leg, or disfigurement by severe
burns. Once in hospital, their chances of survival are pretty good. ''We're not
looking to lose many,'' Ann Salter, a senior nurse, says. ''In the Falklands,
they didn't get a lot of deaths once casualties were delivered to military
hospital because their conditions could stabilise.''

The hospital has a well-rehearsed plan for a civil emergency. Lessons learnt
after the Bradford and King's Cross fires, and at Hillsborough have been
incorporated so that relatives of casualties will be informed and clear records
will be kept of who is admitted to and discharged from the hospital.

To make sure staff do not over- extend themselves, Miss Salter will operate a
control room to supervise employees and equipment. ''Initially I think everyone
will be running on adrenalin,'' she says. ''If we see people stressed, we will
refer them directly out of the situation to whoever needs to help them.

''Everybody will come in to work when the first casualties arrive, but we don't
want people to burn themselves out in the first three days so we've got no staff
left to look after patients who arrive later,'' she says.

Clinical psychologists will be on hand for nurses to talk out their feelings
about treating the burns and blast injuries they have been told to expect.
''We're going to try to have a structured debriefing session at the end of each
shift for as long as it takes so that we are not sending our nurses home feeling
alone,'' she says.

''Hillsborough and the Bradford fire were different in that they happened
unexpectedly. They also had a range of casualties from children up to the
elderly. We know that we are going to get young men whose age range reflects
that of our staff. It's more difficult to look after somebody who is your own
age because you think, 'there but for the grace of God go I'.''

Counsellors will be available to help relatives of injured soldiers. ''There are
recognised stages of grief,'' Miss Salter says. ''People can become very angry
and they need to be able to let that anger out. We are talking here of very fit
young men, who should have had a life expectancy of 70 years.''

Manchester Royal Infirmary has been flooded with offers of help from voluntary
agencies and the Red Cross. While volunteers can help in a normal hospital ward,
Miss Salter has doubts about their usefulness in an emergency ward. ''I would be
horrified to think that we would have unqualified people on the wards. I know
they say they have got home nursing certificates and they can do bed-baths, but
bed-bathing a patient or feeding a dangerously ill patient is a highly skilled
job,'' she says.

For Lorraine McLean, a staff nurse, the Gulf war has been something of an
anticlimax. Like many of her colleagues, she expected casualties to arrive soon
after the air war began. ''When war broke out on 15 January, everybody spoke
about it,'' she says.

''Everybody had the papers out and said, 'Oh, look at this.' People talked about
Scud missile attacks on Israel when they came on duty and stayed up all night
watching television. Patients don't talk about it as much now and interest in
the war has definitely died down.''

Most of her preparation has been spent stockpiling special dressings to treat
burns. ''None of the nurses on our ward has had any experience of burns because
most of them go to the specialist burns unit at Withington Hospital,'' she says.

The prospect of working 12- hour shifts does not trouble her unduly because she
already works rotating night duty. Ann Redfern, a nurse on the same ward,
worries not only about her job, but about the implications of the war. She has
considerable sympathy for Palestinians living on the West Bank. ''I'd like to go
to Egypt and Jordan, Syria and Turkey and meet the day-to-day Muslim and talk to
him. I have a few Muslim friends and I talk to them about the war. I think we
are getting a very biased view over here.''

The war has made little difference to Grace Barrett's job as ward clerk. She
checks the medical notes and X-rays of patients as they come and go. ''I didn't
think the war would affect us being so far away. But it seems as though it's
going to. I've been through one war and never thought I'd go through another.
I'm surprised, because I didn't think there were any more Hitlers.''

Uppermost in Ian Hargreaves's mind are the security implications of treating
military personnel in a civilian hospital. Access for relatives and friends
makes wards vulnerable to sabotage. There has already been one bomb alert: it
turned out to be a hoax. Fears that the hospital might become a target for
terrorist attack, however, are real. Wards containing military casualties will
be guarded by police. Medical and nursing staff working in sensitive areas will
be issued with identity passes.

The surgical wards that have been allocated for use by military casualties at
Manchester seem quiet and relaxed at the moment. But even if the war is brought
to a rapid conclusion by a land war, its results will be seen in our hospitals
for many months to come.

''Military surgeons deal with these wounds by laying them open to heal slowly
rather than stitching them up, so they don't get gas gangrene,'' Mr Hargreaves
says. ''That would mean that one patient might need three or even four visits
back to have these wounds dealt with, which means they will occupy beds far
longer than people realise.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 1991, Monday

Anti-terrorism powers challenged

BYLINE: By JOHN PIENAAR

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 391 words


MINISTERS are facing a new political and legal challenge over police powers to
hold terrorist suspects in custody without judicial authority.

Powers in the Prevention of Terrorism Act to detain people for up to seven days
on the authority of the Home Secretary - claimed by ministers to be a vital
weapon against the IRA and other terrorist groups - are to be contested on
Thursday before the European Commission on Human Rights in Strasbourg.

The controversial powers have also been questioned in the annual legislative
review of the Act by Lord Colville, and the issue will prompt a political row
when ministers seek to renew the legislation in the Commons next Monday.

The dispute has been thrown into sharp focus by the IRA mortar attack on Downing
Street and the bombing of two London railway stations last Monday. The
Strasbourg case, brought by two former detainees, will test the validity of the
Government's decision to derogate from the convention two years ago on grounds
of ''national security''.

Ministers believe that the recent IRA attacks will help to persuade the
commission that the terrorist threat to Britain justifies the special powers,
rejected by the European Court of Human Rights in November 1988.

The Government's lawyers will urge the commission to uphold the British
derogation and rule the new case inadmissible before the court.

In his report, submitted to ministers last week, Lord Colville described the
derogation as ''still

a serious matter'', and suggested that the powers should now be overseen by some
form of legal tribunal: ''Nothing except a bold and new initiative seems likely
to deflect the continuing divergence of procedures between most of the rest of
Europe and ourselves.''

Barry Sheerman, a Labour home affairs spokesman, said yesterday that the
Opposition would ignore the call by Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, to fall
in behind the legislation.

''We believe the Act needs to be seen as an excuse for not tackling the real
issues. What is needed is proper intelligence and first-rate policing against
terrorism.''

He dismissed government claims that the special powers were needed to enable
suspects to be held on intelligence information. ''Any arrest made successfully
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act could have been made under normal
legislation,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 26, 1991, Tuesday

£1.6 MILLION CAMPAIGN TO FIGHT TOURISM SLUMP

BYLINE:  David Simpson, Press Association Consumer Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 188 words


A £1.6 million campaign to fight the UK holiday industry slump caused by the
Gulf war and the recession was announced today by the Government.  Half the
money will be spent persuading Britons the best holiday they can have is in
their own country. The rest of the cash will go on promoting Britain's
attractions as a holiday destination for foreigners.  Many Americans have
shunned European countries fearing possible terrorist attacks and the package
holiday industry has also reported a dramatic downturn in bookings from Britons
leaving hundreds of thousands of holidays unsold.  Tourism minister Viscount
Ullswater said: "I am well aware of the difficulties faced by the tourism
industry in the UK.  "The slowdown of the world economy is aggravated by the
situation in the Gulf. Terrorist outrages do not help."
    Viscount Ullswater was speaking in London at the British Institute of
Innkeeping awards where Mr David Watkins was given the title of 1990/1991
Innkeeper of the Year.  Mr Watkins, of The Crown, Langdon Hills, Essex, said
running a pub "was not a job, it was a 365-days-of-the-year way of life".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 26, 1991, Tuesday

Opposition calls for talks on anti-terror act

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 516 words


THE Labour party leadership will today urge all-party talks on measures to
defeat the Provisional IRA, including replacement of the contentious Prevention
of Terrorism Act with what it calls more workable provisions.

At a time of increased IRA activity in Britain, Roy Hattersley, the shadow home
secretary, is expected to call for a united effort to remove a key source of
difference between the two front benches over the methods of defeating
terrorism.

The government is shortly to seek its annual renewal of the Prevention of
Terrorism Act. Labour will oppose the move as it has done since 1983. It has
argued consistently for several years that the act is counter-productive because
of the effect it has on American and Irish opinion.

Labour says that the act's detention powers enabling people to be held for up to
seven days without charge, three days longer than under the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act, alienates law-abiding citizens and has been criticised by the
European court; that its exclusion powers for returning people to Northern
Ireland are offensive to the province because they mean that potential
terrorists can walk the streets of Belfast but not those of the rest of the
United Kingdom; and that its new provisions introduced with Labour support to
restrain the financing of IRA terrorism were criticised last week as a shambles
by Lord Colville's annual review of the act.

In pressing for key changes to the anti-terrorism legislation, the Labour
leadership is clearly hoping to avoid the risk that its annual vote against the
Prevention of Terrorism Act could be misunderstood and misrepresented by
opponents seeking to make political propaganda.

It wants an agreement that would remove the once-a-year source of friction
between the two front benches. Mr Hattersley will argue that it would be wrong
to allow the disagreement on the act to dash hopes of an inter-party agreement.

Mr Hattersley's offer today in a Birmingham speech has been authorised by Neil
Kinnock, the Labour leader. It comes after expressions of gratitude from
ministers at Labour's robust response after the Downing Street and Victoria
station attacks. Mr Kinnock and Mr Hattersley co-operated with the government in
not pressing for a Commons statement after the Victoria bombing in order to deny
parliamentary publicity to the perpetrators.

Mr Hattersley will set no conditions for the talks, other than that the
government should take time to listen to his proposals.

Labour leaders point out that Lord Colville, apart from voicing reservations
about the financial controls in the act, has also opposed the exclusion orders
and that the Bar Council has opposed the detention powers, calling for them to
be brought into line with the Police and Criminal Evidence Act.

Mr Hattersley will argue that the best way to defeat terrorism is to present a
fully united front to it, and that the only losers from talks between Labour and
the government would be the IRA. The heavy criticism of the act's three most
disputed provisions must raise questions about its effectiveness.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 2, 1991

Terror act pair get Euro hearing

BYLINE: By CLARE DYER, Legal Correspondent

LENGTH: 241 words


THE EUROPEAN Commission of Human Rights has declared admissible an application
by two terrorist suspects from Northern Ireland who were held for more than four
days without charge and without being brought before a judge.

Peter Brannigan and Patrick McBride claim their detention under the Prevention
of Terrorism Act breached article five of the European Convention on Human
Rights which requires detainees to be brought promptly before a judge or
magistrate.


The Government lodged a derogation a refusal to comply in December 1988. This
followed a ruling by the European Court in a case involving four Northern
Irishmen that the act, which allows suspects to be detained for up to seven days
without being brought before a court, violated article five.

Mr Brannigan and Mr McBride argue that the move breaches article 15 of the
convention, which allows a country derogating from its obligations to take
measures only 'in time of war or other public emergency'.

Unless the Government agrees to settle the case, the commission will give its
judgment on whether the UK has violated the convention. The next step is usually
to send the case to the European Court of Human Rights.

According to Home Office figures released yesterday, 193 suspects were detained
in Britain last year under the act, but only six were charged with terrorist
offences.

Ministers will seek to renew the legislation in the Commons on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 2, 1991, Saturday

'IRA bomb threat' closes M40 for search of bridges

BYLINE: By STEVE BOGGAN, ADAM LEBOR and TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 503 words


A TERRORIST threat to bomb a motorway bridge, believed to have come from the
IRA, led police to close almost the entire length of the M40 from London to
Birmingham last night. It is the first time a British motorway has been closed
by a bomb threat.

At about 12.30am near High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, Army Ordnance personnel
blew up two boxes at the edge of the motorway. It is understood they did not
contain explosives.

Another suspect package was found on a bridge over the motorway at Barford, near
junction 14 in Warwickshire. An Army bomb disposal squad was at the scene early
today.

Thames Valley police in Kidlington received a warning by telephone at about 9pm.

It is understood the caller used a code word which was recognised by police.

Early reactions suggested police were concerned over the possibility of a switch
in tactics by the IRA following its apparent success is disrupting London rail
services last month. On 18 February, at Victoria station, London, a bomb killed
one commuter and injured 38. Just hours earlier a bomb had damaged Paddington
station. In the days following, a number of warnings and hoaxes brought wide
disruption to rail and Tube networks.

Those bombings were indicative of the variety of tactics being used on the
mainland by the IRA in its current campaign. On 7 February, IRA terrorists fired
mortar bombs at Number 10 Downing Street while the War Cabinet was in session.

Although the IRA has not resorted to motorway attacks in England, there was
speculation last night that the organisation might now be attempting to disrupt
motorway traffic as yet another tactical switch.

In and around Belfast, motorways and other roads are routinely closed as as
result of suspicious packages or vehicles being discovered.

A Thames Valley police spokesman said late last night: ''All I can say is that
we have received a bomb call which we are treating seriously. At this stage it
is a case of being better safe than sorry.''

Police sources said officers had been ordered to search every bridge along the
length of the motorway at about 10pm, shortly after the call was received. The
operation was expected to last five hours.

Bomb disposal experts from the Central Ammunition Depot in Kineton,
Warwickshire, Europe's larges ammunition store, were put on alert, according to
local defence sources.

The M40 alert covered Britain's newest stretch of motorway. The pounds 300m
route, from Oxford to Birmingham, was opened by Malcolm Rifkind, the Secretary
of State for Transport, six weeks ago.

Robert Cobel, a motorist from Oxford, was turned back by police last night as he
attempted to drive to Birmingham. ''A policeman told me that the road was closed
at about 10.30pm.

''The RAC told me that their patrol people had been told to keep away from the
motorway and avoid overbridges.''

A Department of Transport spokesman said: ''The operation is being controlled by
Thames Valley police. We are not questioning their decision to close the
motorway.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 4, 1991, Monday

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 1319 words


BAKER ACCUSES LABOUR OVER ANTI-TERROR LAWS By Stephen Alderman, Press
Association Parliamentary Staff Home Secretary Kenneth Baker today accused
Labour of wanting to water down measures designed to protect people from the IRA
and other terrorists.  Shadow home secretary Roy Hattersley was "willing to
wound, yet afraid to strike", he said as the Commons debated the annual renewal
of the powers of the Prevention of Terrorism Act.  Mr Baker said: "We are not
here to score party political points. Terrorism is a matter which should unite
us." He recalled that last week Mr Hattersley had called for cross-party
discussions to create a common cause against terrorism, but added that he made
no new proposals.  He told Mr Hattersley: "I do not doubt for one moment that
you loathe terrorism as much as anybody on this side of the House." However, the
Home Secretary added to Tory cheers: "You want the powers in one way or another
watered down.  "You will the end, but deny the means and I have to say to you
that rhetoric against terrorism is not enough. Invective against terrorism is
not enough.  "You have to be prepared to act and you are willing to wound and
yet afraid to strike." The legislation's powers include outlawing of membership
of terrorist organisations, exclusion from mainland Britain and detention of
suspects for up to seven days without charge.

Mr Baker told the House Mr Hattersley had claimed the Act's detention powers
alienated law-abiding UK citizens.  The Home Secretary, referring to recent IRA
attacks and the murder of Tory MP Ian Gow, protested: "Law-abiding citizens of
this country are alienated by the fact that terrorists place bombs in litter
bins and kill innocent passers-by.  "They are alienated by the fact that
terrorists place bombs on railway tracks and the law-abiding citizens of this
country are appalled and alienated by the fact that MPs are assassinated in
their cars." Mr Baker warned: "The public who rely upon their MPs to protect
them will not understand a proposal which is aimed at dismantling these powers."
He told Mr Hattersley: "This is not a time for sophistry. The signal to the
country from the Labour front bench today should be a signal of determination,
resolution and strength." There would be rejoicing in the ranks of the IRA if
the powers were not renewed, said Mr Baker.  "It would be easier to plan and
execute their evil deeds. Their whole purpose is to sap and weaken the resolve
of the British Government and the will of the British people.  "Let us not give
them a chance of claiming a victory in this very House tonight." Mr Hattersley
regretted the Government was not prepared to give the legislation a "fundamental
re-examination together with the other parties in this House".  He warned: "It
creates the illusion of a campaign against terrorism, it possesses the virtue of
a tough title which obscures the need to reconsider the action we take.  "It
prejudices people in Great Britain, people abroad, people in Ireland, men and
women who should be wholly on our side, prejudices them against us and the steps
we are taking to defeat terrorism." It meant people could be held without
charge, court appearance or consultation with solicitors, he said.

Mr Hattersley said Labour was prepared to support extension of the Act after
talks with the Home Secretary.  Mr Baker, intervening, said: "You have said
nothing new today. All the limitations you seek to introduce have been all been
well rehearsed by you and your colleagues in the past.  "You want to dismantle,
water down and weaken this Act." Mr Hattersley listed changes sought by Labour:
    A judicial tribunal to examine cases where detention is extended beyond 48
hours
    Abolition of exclusion orders
    Tougher measures against financing of terrorism
    Consideration of a British Intelligence Bureau giving a national response to
the threat
    Video recording of interviews with all suspects in police custody
    Removal of internment powers from the Statute Book
    An independent complaints procedure for the army.  Robert Maclennan, for
Liberal Democrats, commented on Mr Hattersley's talks offer: "His speech today
gave no evidence that there is much to talk about."

Ivor Stanbrook, Tory Northern Ireland committee chairman, said anti-terrorist
efforts were hampered by a "ramshackle police structure".  The Government should
follow Germany's example in using national intelligence gathering, backed up by
the best staff and equipment.  "We have the policies to contain terrorism, when
we should have the policies to defeat it.  "We need more and more efforts. We
need more positive efforts ... and we are not getting them", he said.

In his speech, Robert Maclennan accused Mr Hattersley of "failing to recognise
that all those who have had the responsibility for the fight against terrorism
in this country have found that it (the Act) has contributed materially to the
fight".  He said Mr Hattersley was "more moved by political, perhaps party
political, considerations than considerations of the security of the realm" and
had "failed to measure up to the challenge of terrorism in this country".  The
Rev Ian Paisley (DUP Antrim N) called for the issue of identity badges to be
worn by the people of Northern Ireland.  He claimed nobody would be prepared to
argue reasonably, in the light of terrorist attacks, that wearing an identity
badge would remove civil liberties.  "We are all of us identified in various
ways for different affairs. Why should we not be identified in the battle
against terrorism?" Warning of a mounting terrorist threat, he said: "We don't
know what will be the spill-off from the (Iraqi) defeat in the Gulf.  "We don't
know what terrorist groups will be released upon our country."

opposed the legislation because he said it played into the hands of terrorists.
He said it was spurious to say that someone was soft on terrorism because they
were against some of the emergency measures to deal with it.  He added that
every bomb which went off was "a very pathetic statement" of the IRA's own
failure.  "What they are in effect saying is that the political objectives that
they wish to achieve cannot be achieved through politics and rational argument
and the power of persuasion." David Trimble (UUP Upper Bann) accused the Home
Secretary of having "a mental blind that is drawn down the Irish Sea", which was
reflected in his terminology. He said Mr Baker had only England in mind when he
referred to "this country".  He claimed this was "an encouragement to
terrorism".  Ivan Lawrence (C Burton) said there would have been justification
for Labour's decision to oppose the legislation after the Tories came to power
if there had been no terrorism since then.  "But unfortunately since 1982 when
Labour changed its mind, the need for this kind of legislation has grown, not
diminished."

Barry Sheerman, winding up for Labour, said: "The tragic loss of life over
recent years has led us to the conclusion that Parliament has failed to beat the
terrorists." He said the Act had "draconian powers" and gave terrorists a
special status that should be denied them.  A fresh approach was needed, and
Labour was prepared to sit down with the Government and work out an all-party
policy that would lead to the death of terrorism.  But Home Office Minister of
State John Patten replied that Labour's commitment to combatting terrorism would
be better appreciated if they supported the Act.  "The views of the Labour Party
if put into effect will lead to a growth in terrorism," he insisted.  The Act
was renewed by 303 votes to 138, Government majority 165.  The Government was
supported by Liberal Democrats, Ulster Unionists and Social Democrats. Northern
Ireland's Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) joined the Labour party in
opposing the renewal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 15, 1991

Release of the Birmingham Six: Bumbling day that turned to disaster - Shattered
lives / A jury, 11 judges, two home secretaries and four police inquires later
six Irishmen are granted their freedom / The day of the bombings

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 1806 words


THE five Irishmen who boarded the 7.55pm train at Birmingham's New Street
station had had a shambolic day. It was a miracle they made it at all, after
scrounging for money, betting on the dogs, taking a drink whenever the
opportunity arose and missing an earlier train.

But as they settled in the carriage with a pack of cards, they began to look
forward to the weekend ahead: paying respects at the funeral of school friend
James McDade and a couple of days away from wives and children, indulging in the
crack and the ale in West Belfast.


McDade was an IRA bomber who had blown himself up trying to wreck the Coventry
telephone exchange a week before. His remains, as the five changed trains at
Crewe for the Ulster Express, were being flown out of Elmdon airport in
Birmingham for Belfast. Although most of the five had nationalist sympathies,
like the vast majority of the Irish Catholic diaspora in England, they didn't
want any hassle. Their story, if required, for the Special Branch at the Heysham
ferry was that they were visiting family.

By the time the train arrived there 21 people were dead or dying and 162 were
injured in the wreckage of two crowded Birmingham city centre pubs. Even the
IRA, a legal organisation for only seven more days before the first Prevention
of Terrorism Act, was ashamed.

Who, then, were the infamous Birmingham five, soon to become six? They had left
Northern Ireland for England between 11 and 27 years before. All but Johnny
Walker, who came from Derry were born in Belfast. They were married and between
them had 27 children.

Gerry Hunter and Billy Power were economic refugees from the Ardoyne district of
Belfast, a Catholic enclave of overcrowding and poverty with unemployment at
more than 50 per cent. They went to the same secondary school, arrived
seperately in Britain in 1963 at the age of 17, and occasionally worked in the
same industrial painting firms in the Birmingham area. From 1968, another school
acquaintance from the Ardoyne, James McDade, worked with them.

Paddy Joe Hill, a bruiser in his younger days, went to the same infant school as
Power and McDade. In the 10 years after arriving in England in 1960 at the age
of 16, he collected a string of convictions for brawling, breaking and entering
and, finally, a 13-month sentence for wounding in 1970.

Richard McIlkenny and his wife, Kate, were also from the Ardoyne. Older than the
others at 41, McIlkenny had known the McDade, Hill and Hunter families since
childhood. A Birmingham resident for 18 years, he worked as a millwright's mate
in the same engineering firm that employed Johnnie Walker as a crane driver.

Walker, aged 40 at the time, had regularly worked since he came to England in
1953. In 18 years of marriage, his wife, Theresa, bore seven children. They left
behind in Birmingham Hugh Callaghan, aged 45, who had arrived in England from
the Ardoyne in 1947. An unemployed labourer suffering from an ulcer and nerves,
Callaghan saw them off at the station and made his way home in the usual way,
arriving the worse for drink.

Although exiles from before the recent troubles began in 1969, events in
Northern Ireland inevitably loomed large in their lives. The Ardoyne, where
family and friends still lived, had seen serious rioting that August. In the
early seventies the Provisional IRA was highly active in the area. Two of
McIlkenny's brothers had been interned. He, with Walker, Hunter and Hill
organised raffles for internees' relatives.

Pubs, as ever, were the centre of Irish working class life and in those less
security conscious days active members of the IRA mixed with their own. One
raffle organiser was Mick Murray, a workmate of Walker's, and a key figure in
the Birmingham IRA. Its commander at the time of the explosions was Seamus
McLoughlin, a cousin of Hunter, known as Belfast Jimmy.

McLoughlin's predecessor was Martin Coughlan. They both went with Hill, Hunter
and Walker on the Sinn Fein coach trip to the annual Wolfe Tone ceremony,
commemorating an 18th century Irish Republican hero, in Bodenstown, near Dublin,
in June 1974. The party also included Jimmy Ashe, Gerry Young and Micky Sheenan,
all IRA members.

The six almost certainly suspected that some of their acquaintances were
involved with the IRA, but this would have been true of anyone coming from the
small intimate ghettoes of West Belfast.

For men who were supposed to have spent the day plotting a bomb outrage, their
movements were extraordinarily casual.

Power and Hunter called that morning at the home of Seamus McLoughlin where
McDade's wife, Jackie, was staying. The house was full of people offering
condolences, including the two men's wives. Thinking of joining the funeral
cortege from Coventry they went to the Irish Centre in Digbeth where Sinn Fein
was supposed to be laying on transport. The area was crawling with police and
the coaches had been cancelled. Before going home to their families they did
what came naturally two light and bitters in the pub and a series of bets on the
dogs at Corals and the City Tote.

The pair of alleged desperadoes were both unemployed and broke and had to borrow
money at the last minute to pay their fare. McIlkenny had been on the night
shift until 7am. He slept till noon and his first port of call was the Crossways
pub where Johnny Walker and Hugh Callaghan were already well ensconsed.

He and Walker went to the factory where they both worked to pick up their wages
for the train fare, a journey which included two pints of Guinness each.
Callaghan spent a couple of hours later that afternoon playing with McIlkenny's
children. By that time he been drinking solidly for nearly four hours. He
remembers consuming six pints.

Hill, who nobody expected to arrive at the station because he, too was out of
work and skint, spent the afternoon scrounging Pounds 2 from his wife's money
box and Pounds 15 from Sister Bridget at the Convent of the Little Sisters of
the Assumption.

He finished a haphazard day by spending 45 minutes in the Crossways before
catching a bus to the station where the others were getting stuck into their
second round of pints.

At Heysham, the police had already been told by their colleagues in the British
Transport Police to look out for six suspect Irishmen. Paddy Hill had already
been allowed through security and on to the boat when the other four were
stopped and questioned. They gave their names and addresses. A phone check with
Special Branch files in Birmingham was negative.

Only a call from Lancashire CID chief, Joe Mounsey, who insisted they be taken
to Morecambe police station and forensically tested, prevented them from
leaving. They even asked about their mate, Hill. He was taken off the ferry.

In the early hours of the morning their homes in Birmingham were raided;
curiously for men who had been supposed to be making bombs nothing of interest
was found.

But within 48 hours, after the arrival of Dr Frank Skuse, with his now
discredited forensic test, and Detective Chief Superintendent George Reade, with
his Serious Crime Squad, four confessions were in the bag.

Billy Power, according to Detective Sergeant Alan Watson and Detective Constable
Michael French, cracked within 40 minutes, after being told that his hands
showed traces of explosives. 'Oh my God, Jesus. That can't be. Not these hands.'

Power's story is that he faced several hours of being punched and kicked on the
body and the back of the head. He was so terrified, he said, that he fouled his
trousers. The other four had similar tales of violence and abuse.

The jury at their trial in Lancaster the next year must have been utterly
bewildered by the confessions. All but Walker, who talked of 'parcels', said the
bombs were in plastic bags. Each man gave different numbers of bombs: Power
described seven, Walker three, McIlkenny four and Callaghan, though imprecise,
suggested six.

According to Power he alone placed two in the Mulberry Bush. But Callaghan said
it was he who went with Hunter to the Mulberry Bush, carrying one bag each which
they placed outside the pub. Walker, however, had Hunter and himself going to
the Tavern in the Town with only one bomb. McIlkenny said he and Hill planted
two bombs in the Tavern.

There was no explanation about who made the bombs, where the explosives and
other equipment came from or where and when they were primed. Nobody could
provide an explanation for another, unexploded bomb which was found that night
two miles away from the station.

When the debris was sifted, the forensic scientists said that the explosions
were probably caused by one or two bombs close together in each pub and each
weighing about 30lbs. The containers were probably briefcases, not plastic bags.

These remarkable discrepancies gave little trouble to Mr Justice Bridge, the
trial judge, in his summing up. Inaccurate in detail, the confessions may be,
but 'do they necessarily show that the statements are not genuine?' he asked the
jury.

Criminals often tried to minimise their own role. 'Read through, if you will,
the statements of Power and Walker in particular to see whether you can detect
that psychological process at work.'

Thirteen years later Lord Lane, the Lord Chief Justice, dealt with the problem
in 10 lines from a 169-page judgment.

Different aspects of the Birmingham Six case have been considered over the years
by two home secretaries, two directors of public prosecutions and 11 judges,
among them the most eminent in the land. There have been four police inquiries,
including the one into the assaults perpetrated on the men in Winson Green
prison shortly after their arrests. The spectre that hung over the criminal
justice system was powerfully expressed in Lord Denning's much quoted and later
regretted remark about the 'appalling vista' if the men were to win their case
against the police for damages in 1980. There remains one question: did the
police, as Chris Mullin, the Labour MP, and Granada's World in Action allege,
know the identities of the real bombers as long ago as late 1975?

Mullin says he has met the two bomb makers and the two planters, all now living
in Ireland, and that senior officers were able to put accurate names to his
candidates. Granada have named three of them with impunity, based in part on a
1975 Special Branch report, which named one of the planters and one of the bomb
makers. During the men's trial, Johnny Walker wrote a letter to the Home
Secretary in which he mentioned two of the same names and correctly identified
the Birmingham IRA commander who authorised the bombings.

The only answer from the West Midlands police is: 'We knew of these other men
but there was no evidence against them. We never said we got them all.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 15, 1991

Leading Article: Criminal justice itself is on trial

LENGTH: 1216 words


SUPPOSE the present criminal justice system was 99 per cent perfect in all the
convictions it achieved. That would still mean about 600 people wrongly
imprisoned every year by a system which annually imposes custodial sentences on
60,000. Most of those victims, of course, would only spend a few months inside.
But the Birmingham Six, who had their convictions quashed yesterday amid scenes
of exultation, have spent over 16 years behind bars. Justice is important in all
trials; but the bigger the offence the more crucial it is that justice be
achieved. Remember. Only eighteen months ago, not a single IRA terrorist
conviction had been overturned. Today, all convictions in the three biggest
terrorist cases Britain has staged the Guildford Four, Maguire Seven, and
Birmingham Six lie in ruins. The only thing left slumped in the dock last night
was the justice system itself. A royal commission is the right and only
response.

Guildford began it all. Two bombs in separate pubs on one night in October,
1974, killed five innocents. One year later the four defendants received some of
the longest sentences including one with a 35-year minimum from a British court.
The Birmingham bombs in November, 1974, remains the biggest terrorist incident
on mainland Britain, killing 21 and injuring 162. The Six accused were convicted
in August, 1975, each sentenced to 21 life sentences. The Maguire Seven went on
trial in January, 1976, receiving sentences of between seven and 14 years for
producing bombs for the IRA.


Fifteen years on, Guildford was the first of three legal 'bombs' to explode when
the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) announced that it would be 'wrong' to
sustain the convictions. The Appeal Court was told about concocted statements,
the suppression of other evidence and, worse still, valid alibi evidence
withheld by the police from the defence. Eight months later, the DPP reluctantly
conceded that the Maguire convictions were also 'unsafe and unsatisfactory'.
That was after the forensic evidence in the case the sole basis for the
convictions was shown by the May inquiry to be suspect. Now, with even more
reluctance, the DPP accepts there was police perjury, discredited forensic
tests, and suspect contemporaneous statements in the Birmingham case.

How could this have happened and taken so long to correct? The short answer is a
combination of inexperienced local police forces dealing with terrorism in 1974,
a judiciary with an unquestioned belief in police and forensic evidence, and the
enormity of the crimes themselves, which created a climate highly charged with
public expectations of swift conviction. There are, however, deeper causes to
the system's crisis. And its faults are far wider than these woeful failures to
deal with serious terrorist cases.

Several reforms have been introduced since 1974. All terrorist crimes are now
investigated by the Anti Terrorist Branch rather than by local police forces.
Forensic science has become more sophisticated. Prosecution decisions are taken
by the criminal prosecution service rather than the police. And new safeguards
in non-terrorist cases include stricter controls over police detention, improved
rights of access to lawyers and the tape-recording of all statements in police
stations. But these last safeguards still do not apply to terrorist offences,
even though the European Court of Human Rights has ruled unlawful the Act which
allows the police to hold a terrorist suspect for seven days without charge.

It is rare whatever conspiracy theorists think for the police to frame a person
they believe innocent. The problem is more complicated. Much more commonly,
evidence is bent by the police to ensure the conviction of people they have
talked themselves into believing guilty. A recent study by Justice, the law
reform charity, pointed to five common threads in the wrongful convictions
investigated by its staff: wrong identification, false confessions, perjury,
police misconduct and bad trial tactics. The Justice committee, which included
two former judges, concluded there was too little protection against
miscarriages of justice in the present system. Absolutely right.

Moreover, the crisis is no longer confined to the inadequacies of the players
police, prosecutors and judges but enfolds the procedure itself. So the root
question for the new royal commission is a simple one: should the present
adversarial system be replaced by an inquisitorial procedure? The commission
will need to look how each of the three separate parts of the present system
investigation, trial, appeal would be affected. Each has serious faults.

Investigations: crown prosecutors can point to holes in the evidence, but have
no way of knowing about evidence suppressed by the police. The main impetus
remains the need to secure a conviction. The police are free to formulate
immediate theories on guilt. The possible innocence of suspects is left to
defence lawyers, yet there is a huge disparity in available resources between
the two sides. This was best demonstrated in the Guildford case where, unknown
to the defence, the police did track down the alibi witness. Similarly, the
defence is denied the access to forensic services which the police enjoy. Legal
aid restrictions create further problems. Justice cites several cases where
wrongful convictions were reached because the defence, inhibited by its cost
ceilings, failed to obtain vital information.

Trial: instead of an inquisitorial search for truth, there is only an
accusatorial procedure in which the prosecution has to prove guilt beyond
reasonable doubt. Vital evidence is frequently never presented to the jury.
Unlike Scotland, one piece of evidence an uncorroborated confession is
sufficient to secure conviction in England. Both sides play games. Both sides
bend the rules. There is a built-in incentive to fabricate or suppress evidence.

Appeal: The Appeal Court has wide powers, but refuses to use them. Its approach
is narrow and restrictive. It rejects all appeals based on lawyers' mistakes,
incompetence or tactical errors like failing to call a vital witness.
Journalists and battling MPs have played a bigger role in correcting
miscarriages of justice than the docile, timid judges in the Strand.

There are many reforms which would improve this procedure: judicial supervision
of the investigative process, an independent forensic service, a special
committee to investigate miscarriages of justice. The royal commission, however,
should examine the more radical alternative: its benefits and faults. A year ago
the Guardian's law page looked at the inquisitorial system in France. It
concluded both that fewer innocent defendants were convicted, and that fewer
guilty offenders were acquitted. The DPP has conceded 'the merit' of considering
an inquisitorial procedure. The judiciary will be more resistant. Only the
authority of a full-blown royal commission can shift them. There has not been a
royal commission for 13 years. John Major is right to break this Thatcher taboo.
Whitehall does not know best. Birmingham heaps further ignominy upon the
procedures it holds dear. And our greatly discredited criminal justice system
now clearly needs deep analysis then radical surgery

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 20, 1991

Commentary: Paddling in a viscous pond

BYLINE: By EDWARD PEARCE

LENGTH: 1133 words


THERE is nothing so instructive as bad television. On Saturday I watched a
little of After Dark. Now After Dark at the best of times is verbal bumble puppy
I would sooner watch David Pountney demolish an Opera at ENO.

However because Saturday's long witter concerned the Birmingham Six, I stayed
for a while. The bottomless duplicity of an important section of our detective
police took on in that case a baroque quality. In that conspiracy against
justice, successive themes were introduced then balanced contrapuntally: the
evidence of Dr Skuse, the extraction of confessions from men, not of course
beaten up or tortured, just looking like that. The case was built up in the high
improvisatory manner; not for nothing did JS Bach compose a Three Part
Invention! Set atop all this has been part of the judiciary telling us, through
Lord Lane, that five new witnesses including two experts blasting the forensic
core of the case, were a waste of the Law's important time and an imposition
upon its too tolerant good nature. Beside that arrogance stands the subtle self
arraignment of Lord Denning for whom proof that policemen might lie and the
Courts and their saints sleep would be unthinkable and thus should not be
thought. Justice being a lesser thing than the good name of judges, his Lordship
jestingly regretted omission of the comforting discretion of hanging the men.


In this context I looked for something valuable even from After Dark. And indeed
there were some intelligent people, notably an impressive priest, Father
Buckley, advocating the de-protestantisation of the North, the
de-catholicisation of the South, a secular constitution for the Republic and the
measured withdrawal of the British. That wind will blow some more! But for the
45 minutes that I watched, proceedings were dominated by two unionists: Patrick
Cosgrave, a man invalided out of journalism some years ago but the master, as a
Southern Catholic, of an interesting transferred nationalism. For him the
British (and Israelis) perform the same heroic part when they blast anybody
apart that an IRA bomber does in the heart of an uncritical adolescent in Turf
Lodge.

Patrick Cosgrave was ordinarily obsessive, nationalistic (for Britain),
Thatcherite and brilliantly, well flashily, wrong. With him was a someone in
whose existence I wouldn't have believed unseen: the younger sort of Paisleyite
battering grandmother, the voice of papish-hating, drum knuckling,
reason-annihilating unionism from Larne, (where Conservative politicians
approved the shipping of arms in the furtherance of straight-up-and-down treason
shortly before the first world war).

Try to imagine Mrs Thatcher without intelligence, education, restraint or
inhibition, without that lady's grasp of politeness by numbers and with all her
failings inflamed into parody. Observe this bigot enjoying a cawing triumphant
laugh, a database of cherished grievance and the gift of unconfinable
interminable utterance; imagine this conversational equivalent of motorised
warfare and you have some notion of Mrs Ethel Smyth, such a bundle of
malevolence as I hope never to hear again.

One's heart went out to the sensible young woman from an Irish newspaper as
argument collapsed into retaliatory recollection of rival crimes committed by
Christian community against Christian community. Sadly there have been enough of
those to make the families of victims deserve more sympathy than hearers of Mrs
Smyth can ever give.

I switched to a video of Inspector Morse, that Platonic policeman, watched it
and returned. After two hours the same seamless everlasting wrangle was
continuing. For the fault of Ireland north and south is self-preoccupation.
There is change in the Republic, the election of Mary Robinson is not a flash in
the pan but a reflection of a late Irish stirring towards something more
cosmopolitan than De Valera's republic dedicated in constitutional form to 'the
Most Holy Trinity'.

But northern representatives in the Commons show no flicker of interest in
anything British, European or outerworldly not affecting the six sleepwalking
counties. As for Mrs Smyth and her like, they speak the old unionist curse: 'May
all papishes be rammed, jammed, slammed and damned into the great gun which is
in Athlone and may I be standing by with a lighted torch to blow them over the
hill of blastation.'

The trouble wih introspective Ireland is that latterly it has become too
recognisable to us British. We are getting like that. Not riven between camps of
course, but dully pre-occupied with ourselves. I spoke of the instructiveness of
bad television. One could say as much for radio. Except that this was excellent
radio. Enoch Powell was caught by The World at One last week on
autopronouncement. He sounded oddly monotonous. There was none of that queer
gaity of Mr Powell at his best, nor indeed of the sizzling rage of him at his
less than instantly attractive. It was a dull voice trapped between C and E flat
and as insistent as any maker of claims for Diana of the Ephesans.

The advocates of further involvement with Europe were up to their usual
malevolence of wishing to destroy us as a nation. As for those saying the
process was irreversible, they were snivellers. To snivellers he returned
without animation: 'The snivellers would say that, that was what the snivellers
would say.'

Listening to that and to Mrs Thatcher's recent outburst, censured as over the
mark by Paul Johnson, (which is like Van Gogh worrying about an excess of
yellow), one sees chiefly a simple nationalism. There are of course rational and
respectable arguments too much bureacracy, too much florid Clochemerlois
rhetoric though if as the BBC reports, France is really exporting union jacks to
Britain I don't think we should go on against the ERM.

But Mr Major managed across a couple of meetings to soothe the French and
Germans, give nothing tangible away and induce a lonely feeling in Mr Delors.
Concerned only with the rational case, we would never raise our voices.

No, for the Thatchers, Powells, and Ridleys the objection to Europe is the
irrational one, the waving of French-made union jacks, resentment of German
trading figures, fear, envy, sour pride and a tendency to look back at the ghost
floorshow of our history. In such a spirit our recent military excursions have
been dreamAgincourts. This is the valid charge against Ireland that modern
Irishmen struggle against. It is the way, doggy paddling in a viscous pond of
nostalgia, that our anti-European Right is going, a belief dare one say it, in
Ourselves Alone, and autism towards other people, leaving the horrid image of
Mrs Thatcher as the heroic leader of a chippy redoubt, run-down but defiant, as
perhaps Britain's De Valera.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 22, 1991

Major flies the flag and waives the rules for BA

BYLINE: By PATRICK DONOVAN, Business Editor

LENGTH: 478 words


JOHN MAJOR yesterday broke with the convention which separates politics from
commerce when he endorsed a Pounds 15 million British Airways campaign to boost
flagging passenger numbers by giving away free tickets on all international
flights on April 23.

Mr Major and the Transport Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, joined the BA chairman to
hold up a promotional poster outside No 10 Downing Street, causing astonishment
among rival airlines and opposition MPs.


Lord King was flanked by Beefeaters and airline stewardesses as he waited
outside No 10 for nearly 20 minutes while the Cabinet finalised yesterday's poll
tax announcement. Last year BA gave Pounds 40,000 to Conservative Party coffers.

The Prime Minister grasped the oversize BA ticket, and said he very much hoped
the promotional scheme would attract business lost through recession and the
threat of Gulf-inspired terrorism. Apparently wary of endorsing British Airways
directly by name he said he hoped the move would benefit 'British airlines'.

Yesterday the Prime Minister's office and BA sought to play down criticism that
ministers were directly endorsing the airline by saying yesterday's event was
not an official press conference.

In an attempt to widen its 'free ticket' campaign into a national tourist drive,
BA has invited Trusthouse Forte and other leading companies to join in a
cut-price promotional drive to bring back tourists to Britain.

However the shadow transport secretary, John Prescott, expressed surprise that
the Prime Minister was supporting the BA drive on a day when Heathrow
deregulation plans had thrown open more than 3,000 flight slots to rival
airlines.

He attacked Mr Major and Mr Rifkind for taking part in 'a flag waving ceremony'
when the entire British airline industry was under threat from deregulation.

Referring to BA's job-shedding programme, he said: 'It seems that redundancies
are to be bought off with free tickets.'

A spokesman for BA rival Virgin Atlantic said the airline would not link a
promotional campaign to politics in this way.

The chairman, Richard Branson, joked: 'We strongly urge you to fly with British
Airways on April 23. As for the other 364 days of the year you will still find
the best fares and best service on Virgin Atlantic.'

All BA reservations have been suspended on that date, though passengers already
booked will be refunded with a credit voucher.

Introducing the promotional package, Lord King said business had slumped by 30
per cent over the last year. Building back business could take a full six
months.

'The engine of consumer demand did not just idle in neutral it spluttered to a
complete stop and now needs a kick-start.'

Although passenger traffic has dropped because of the threat of terrorism, Lord
King said fear of flying 'evaporates when you get a free ticket'.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 3, 1991, Wednesday

Roermond Killings: Web of terror that spread across Europe; Terry Kirby examines
the IRA campaign that led to the murders of two Australian tourists in Roermond

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 1035 words


THE ROAD that led to the murders in Roermond began outside Portlaoise prison, in
the Irish republic, on 17 June 1988, with the release after 13 years of Dessie
Grew, 35, one of Republican terrorism's most feared operatives.

Grew, a former Irish National Liberation Army member who joined the Provisionals
in jail, returned to the village of Charlemont in Co Armagh where he lived by
selling cars. By the end of the year, he had slipped away to mastermind the
IRA's mainland Europe campaign against British military interests.

According to German and Dutch police, he was active on the continent by early
1989. In the following 18 months, seven people died and seven others were
injured in a series of bombings and shootings. Roermond was one of three
''mistakes''.

Almost all the attacks were later linked by police to Grew or his associates.
The Roermond court was told by prosecutor Jo Lauman: ''He was an active and
dedicated terrorist for many years. He was a spider in the web through which the
others moved.''

It was alleged in court these ''others'' included two men Grew met in prison:
Gerard Harte, 27, from Lurgan, and Sean Hick, 30, from Glenageary, Co Dublin; as
well as Donna Maguire, 24, from Newry. Also among them, it is believed, was
Patrick Murray, 45, wanted in Britain for questioning about terrorist offences.

Time was spent, probably in north-east France, hiring cars, obtaining false
papers, stashing quantities of arms, ammunition, bomb-making equipment and
Semtex explosive. On 19 June 1989 five bombs, containing 330lbs of Semtex, were
planted at a British base at Osnabruck in Germany, but only one exploded, with
no injuries. A few days later, a car bomb killed Corporal Steven Smith in
Hanover. His wife and four children were injured.

The BKA, the West German anti-terrorist police, allege these attacks were
carried out by Mr Murray and Miss Maguire with three others, including Leonard
Hardy, 28, from Belfast.It seems likely Grew masterminded them.

Ten days later Miss Maguire and Hardy left for Rosslare, southern Ireland. A
search by Irish police found photographs and documents relating to British
military bases. Hardy's suitcase contained explosive, a rifle sight and mercury
tilt switches. Using the information, French police arrested Mr Murray and two
others.

On 28 August, a car bomb was defused on the car of a soldier at Hanover. On 1
September, two soldiers were shot and seriously wounded at Munster, Germany. On
7 September Heidi Hazell, the wife of a British Army sergeant, was murdered at
Dortmund, Germany - the first ''mistake''. On 27 October an RAF Corporal and his
six-month-old daughter were shot dead in Wildenrath, Germany. The Roermond court
heard allegations that those on trial were linked with these attacks.

In February, Miss Maguire was released by Dublin's Special Criminal Court due to
lack of evidence. Hardy was given five years.

Meanwhile, Grew had returned to Northern Ireland. In March he was charged with
defrauding a car dealer, bailed, but required to appear for monthly remand
hearings. Even so, by the third week in April he was in The Hague with Mr Hick,
where Ingrid Heijman, 19, who was to become Mr Hick's girlfriend, rented a flat
as a base.

On 4 May, three terrorists were disturbed planting two bombs at a British army
barracks near Hanover. By now Harte was living in the Hague flat, sometimes with
Grew and Miss Heijman.

In Roermond, on the evening of 27 May, Stephan and Lyndal Melrose, together with
Nick Spanos and Vicky Coss, had just left a Chinese restuarant. The two men,
London-based Australian lawyers, and their partners were spending a long weekend
in southern Holland. Spanos and Coss were arm- in-arm in the rear of their
Citroen, parked in the town square. Mrs Melrose was in the front - they were
waiting for Mr Melrose to take a photograph of the square.

A Mazda car, stolen earlier that day, drove across the cobblestones. A masked
man got out and fired several shots from a rifle into Melrose. A second man with
a revolver shot Spanos two or three times through the back window and pumped
more shots into Melrose. Witnesses described their actions as calm and
unhurried. Forty minutes later, two men and a woman, speaking English, stopped
at a petrol station outside Roermond. The owner later identified them from
photographs of Mr Hick, Harte and Miss Maguire, the prosecution claimed.

On 2 June, an Army officer, Maj Michael Dillon-Lee, was shot dead outside his
home in Dortmund; 12 days later a bomb destroyed an unoccupied army diving
centre near Hanover. There have been no attacks since.

On 17 June, landowner Jean Voortman alarmed by gunfire in woods at his home at
Meerle in Belgium, near the Dutch border, discovered a young couple, claiming to
be lovers ''having a picnic on our way to the World Cup''. A suspicious Voortman
and his two sons found a freshly buried cache of weapons and held Miss Maguire
and Mr Hick. While being bundled into a police van, Mr Hick escaped.

Meanwhile, one of Voortman's sons spotted another man, later identified as
Harte, near the arms dump. After a few hours, he was arrested by Dutch police.
Mr Hick was arrested the next day.

The Roermond court was told that tests linked a Kalashnikov and a Sturm and
Ruger revolver in the arms cache with the Roermond and Wildenrath murders; the
Kalashnikov and a Webley revolver to the Munster shootings; and a cartridge used
in the Munster attack to the Hazell shooting.

Miss Heijman, pining for Mr Hick, revealed herself and the safe flat by writing
to local prisons in an effort to contact him. Among the equipment for forging
licence plates and passports there, detectives found Grew's prints. His
fingerprints were also found in the Ford Sierra, allegedly used by Mr Hughes.
Grew was also discovered to have bought a car used in the Wildenrath attack.

In October last year, at a remote farmhouse in Northern Ireland Grew was shot
dead by the SAS while on what the IRA admitted was ''active service''. At his
funeral, the Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams called Grew ''a freedom fighter and
a patriot''. He said: ''Those of us left to finish the unfinished business will
do so.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 3, 1991, Wednesday

Ulster to lose a man dedicated to reform; A key figure in running Northern
Ireland retires this month. David McKittrick examines the career of Sir Kenneth
Bloomfield, for decades an unassuming but pivotal figure

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 1029 words


ALTHOUGH the career of Sir Kenneth Bloomfield has been by any standards
distinguished and successful on the personal level, the four decades that it
spans are, in historical terms, littered with failed attempts to find consensus
within Northern Ireland.

His story is the story of Northern Ireland: attempts to create a new
relationship between Unionism and nationalism, and between the north and south,
against a background of continuing violence and civil unrest.

It contains many lessons for the politicians who will, in the coming weeks, meet
under the chairmanship of Peter Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland,
for the latest attempt to reach agreement. It also contains important
indications of what Mr Brooke would like to see emerging from the talks.

The career that has won Sir Kenneth the reputation as the most able
administrator to be produced by Northern Ireland began in 1952 when, as an
Oxford graduate, he joined the Northern Ireland civil service. A high-flyer in a
fairly sedate system, he was closely associated with attracting American firms
to Northern Ireland in the 1960s, a period remembered as the golden age of
outside investment.

He was right-hand man to the late Terence O'Neill who, elected as Northern
Ireland prime minister in 1963, set about modernising the economy and the
politics of Northern Ireland. Sir Kenneth was recognised as the key figure in
O'Neill's retinue; some would argue that he was the real power behind the
throne.

O'Neill relied heavily on him, and he is credited with writing many of the
keynote speeches that advocated better community relations between Catholic and
Protestant. Sir Kenneth helped to arrange O'Neill's unprecedented and pivotal
meeting with the Irish Republic's premier, Sean Lemass - the first time a
northern prime minister and a taoiseach had met.

When O'Neill fell in 1969, swept aside by the tide of growing tension and
increasing violence, Sir Kenneth stayed on and worked with the next two Ulster
prime ministers, James Chichester-Clark and Brian Faulkner. The relationship
between Unionism and Britain was redefined during these years, as British
ministers took an active interest in Northern Ireland and applied pressure for
the reform of Stormont and a softening of the old system of Protestant
ascendancy.

Sir Kenneth wrote the minutes of Stormont cabinet meetings and attended most of
the difficult meetings between British and Northern Irish ministers. Harold
Wilson described him as ''the quickest drafter of good statements I have seen'',
and James Callaghan regarded him as ''the brains of the outfit''.

The aim was to reform Stormont by attempting to make acceptable to Catholics a
system that had for half a century operated to their disadvantage. Faulkner made
some reforming moves but was overcome by a mixture of escalating IRA violence
and vociferous Protestant resistance to reform. Stormont fell in 1972.

Whatever his feelings, Sir Kenneth made an apparently effortless transition from
the old order to the new. It is a mark of his mandarin's professional dexterity
that he did so without losing credibility. When the power- sharing executive
came into being in 1974 he was the natural choice to act as its secretary.

The executive, which included Brian Faulkner's Unionists and John Hume's Social
Democratic and Labour Party, embodied the British concept of how Northern
Ireland should be administered. The old, all-Protestant Stormont system no
longer worked.

The new executive for the first time brought Catholic nationalists into the
highest levels of a Northern Ireland administration. And, through a new Council
of Ireland, it established an institutionalised link between north and south.
This was more than most Protestants were prepared to tolerate and a loyalist
general strike brought down the executive within months.

The memoirs of Brian Faulkner, who regarded Sir Kenneth as ''a thinker of the
highest order'' record the civil servant's reaction to the executive's collapse:
''We were climbing the marble staircase towards my office when Ken's proverbial
restraint snapped and he broke down. I had not until that moment quite
understood the depth of his individual commitment to a better future for
Northern Ireland.''

The Protestant opposition to power-sharing and the Council of Ireland led to
years of impasse, with only occasional efforts to find a variation on the power-
sharing theme that might be acceptable to Protestants. Sir Kenneth moved on to
head a series of Northern Ireland departments, serving as Head of the Northern
Ireland Civil Service since 1984.

The violence touched his life during that time. In September 1988, the IRA
planted four Semtex bombs around his Co Down home. Two of the four exploded,
badly damaging the house but leaving Sir Kenneth, his wife and his son of 18
uninjured though shaken.

Northern Ireland secretaries of state have continued to seek his advice. Since
the Anglo-Irish agreement of 1985, for example, he has been present at almost
all formal meetings between British and Irish ministers, very often as the only
person at the conference table born in Northern Ireland.

It is evident that he was there partly because of his political judgement, but
also because he holds the vision of a state transformed from what it once was -
a Protestant preserve - into a fairer polity. In this he reflects the standard
British line, which has been to reconstruct a new Stormont administered by both
Protestants and Catholics. The concepts that underlay the 1974 executive -
power-sharing and an Irish dimension - are those that animate British policy
today.

Sir Kenneth has been identified with the strand of moderate unionism that
believes the Northern Ireland system should, and could, be reformed. For most of
his three decades in the corridors of power the other strand of Unionism, headed
by such figures as the Rev Ian Paisley and James Molyneaux, has baulked at that
process.

Mr Brooke's talks will not end in success unless those hardline elements change
their minds and conclude that the Bloomfield approach, which they have opposed
so implacably down the years, was the right one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 6, 1991

Switch to arson strains security: The shop firebombs in Manchester echo an IRA
tactic in Ulster

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 593 words


FIREBOMBING commercial premises, an IRA tactic used relatively sparingly in
recent years, has been revived with a vengeance in Northern Ireland since the
beginning of January.

At least Pounds 25 million worth of damage was caused in a series of fires at a
shopping complex on the southern outskirts of Belfast three months ago.


Texas Homecare, Allied Maples, and MFI stores were gutted.

Since then several more furniture stores have been burnt down and hundreds of
staff have been laid off or made redundant.

Most of the attacks have been on shops in predominantly Protestant suburbs or
townssuch as Bangor and Lisburn.

Last month IRA arsonists moved into the centre of Belfast's nightlife district,
destroying Robinson's, an old Irish-style bar, with high wooden seats, owned by
Guinness.

The revival of the firebombing campaign is part of a policy to stretch security
services resources as far as possible, making the pattern of attacks more
difficult to predict.

A similar tactic has been the use of carefully-positioned, hijacked cars said to
contain bombs which snarl up Belfast's rush hour traffic. Both campaigns are
intended to disrupt any sense of relative calm and normality in Northern
Ireland.

As with the mortar attack on Downing Street and the Victoria railway station
bomb earlier this year, the Manchester firebombs continue the recent pattern of
importing into Britain techniques developed in Northern Ireland.

Such a variation of campaign tactics not only makes IRA intentions more
unpredictable; it also becomes harder to intercept active service units. Last
summer the Anti-Terrorist Squad began staking out the homes of prominent people
in England it suspected would become targets.

The revival of arson attacks conflicts with Sinn Fein's concern about high
unemployment among Catholics in the North and has been used to suggest the IRA
army council has the upper hand in the republican movement.

Sinn Fein accepts there may be contradictions, but has simply responded that job
losses are regretted.

'IRA actions have been used to draw attention away from the British government's
culpability in creating unemployment,' a Sinn Fein spokesman said.

The incendiary devices themselves are usually about the size of a cigarette
packet, containing a phial of flammable liquid such as lighter fuel, a timer,
and probably a circuit board and a small amount of explosives. Furniture stores
have been favoured targets because the devices can be slipped into the backs of
chairs and sofas where they are difficult to detect.

David Trimble, Ulster Unionist MP for Upper Bann, yesterday claimed that an IRA
bombing offensive would begin once the all-party talks on Northern Ireland's
future get under way.

He said: 'The IRA are excluded from these discussions so they will want to leave
their calling card. It's reasonable to assume the bombing will be stepped up
once the talks proceed.

'I believe we can expect a few 'spectaculars' when the talks reach a climax.'

That was the case the last time Northern Ireland's politicians met for
round-table talks. In the months before and after the talks in 1974, Guildford
and Birmingham were bombed by the IRA. In Dublin, 22 people were killed when
loyalist paramilitary car bombs exploded without warning.

Sinn Fein has also expressed fears that loyalists will step up their actions in
the lead-up to talks.

Earlier this year the Ulster Freedom Fighters planted incendiary devices in
several Dublin stores; they failed to explode.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 6, 1991, Saturday

IRA blamed for fire bombs; Anti-terrorist police believe incendiary attacks in
Manchester mark change of tactics

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and STEVE BOGGAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 634 words


THE IRA is believed to be responsible for the fire bomb attacks on shops in the
centre of Manchester early yesterday, in what appears to be another change of
tactics in its campaign in Britain.

Nine timed devices, each about the size of a cigarette packet, went off in and
around the Arndale shopping centre, damaging shops and severely disrupting
traffic.

Three unexploded incendiary bombs were discovered and defused later yesterday -
in Debenhams and Littlewoods department stores and in a football supporters'
shop. Forensic scientists were comparing them with devices salvaged from a
smouldering holdall found at Preston railway station on Wednesday night.
Scotland Yard anti-terrorist branch officers were last night assisting the
inquiry.

It emerged yesterday that Lancashire police had issued a statement on Thursday
afternoon, saying that ''an incendiary device'' had been found in the bag. This
was despite the issue of an alert to all police forces earlier in the day,
warning that a number of devices had been found.

Det Chief Supt Norman Finnerty, head of Lancashire CID, said that although
police had known within a short time there was more than one device in the bag,
a public warning was not issued until a report was received from scientists.
''We have to be careful about causing false alarms; the decision was taken after
careful consideration. The statement was not inaccurate because to my mind the
holdall was one device.''

In Manchester, British Home Stores and P&O Shopping Centres, owners of the
Arndale Centre, said they believed that such alerts could be passed to their
security officials.

Bill Connor, deputy general secretary of Usdaw, the shop workers' union, said:
''We will raise this at Parliamentary level. That sort of information could and
should be made available privately to large shopping centres.

''It could be done without alarming the public or encouraging hoax calls. The
results of a fire in a place like the Arndale could be horrific.'' Audrey Wise,
Labour MP for Preston, said: ''It would not be unreasonable for warnings to be
passed on to security managers. The sort of information police give each other
should be made available to those who are more vulnerable.''

Scotland Yard said last night that a ''routine warning'' of the possibility of
such devices being used by terrorist groups were passed to large stores several
weeks ago.

The first nine devices went off between 12.30am and 3.17am in or near the
Arndale Centre. Three caused minor damage in British Home Stores and one each in
Littlewoods, the River Island clothing store, Millets and Burton. Sprinkler
systems kept damage to a minimum. Further devices went off in Debenhams and a
menswear shop outside the centre.

The devices were mostly concealed among clothing or soft furnishings. Jim
Paterson, assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester, said it was
''extremely difficult'' for stores to ensure nothing was planted. ''Thousands of
people pass through the doors of such stores daily. It only takes a second to
conceal devices.''

Although no one had last night admitted the attacks, senior anti- terrorism
officers are assuming that the IRA was responsible. One said: ''This is
precisely the kind of change of tactic we have come to expect; it is only to be
expected they would try something used so much in Northern Ireland. The next
switch could be back to gunmen attacking human targets.''

Lancashire police are looking for two men, one who spoke with an Irish accent,
seen on platform three at Preston station at 8pm on Wednesday night. One was
carrying a blue holdall and spoke to a newspaper kiosk assistant. Officers are
also trying to trace everyone on the Euston to Glasgow train, which stopped at
Preston before the holdall was spotted at 11.20pm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 1991, Friday

New nuclear bunkers at US bases; Nato deployment of the latest generation of
tactical missiles in Britain could rekindle peace campaigns

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 564 words


A NEW generation of nuclear weapons bunkers is to be built at United States
airforce bases in Britain, fuelling speculation that Nato is preparing for the
arrival of nuclear missiles.

The deployment of Tactical Air to Surface Missiles (TASMs) in Britain to replace
the ageing US free-fall bombs would be highly controversial, rekindling the
anti-Cruise missile campaigns.

The Ministry of Defence declined to say what type of nuclear weapons will be
housed in the bunkers, but a spokesman confirmed that they will be used for
nuclear weapons. ''They are bunkers with adequate security,'' he said. ''They
are deeper, more up-to-date. They are for nuclear weapons, but they could be
used for conventional weapons.''

Asked which bases would be involved, he added: ''There is a policy of not saying
where nuclear weapons are tucked away.''

The British American Security Information Council, BASIC, said: ''They could be
for TASMs but they never announce TASM deployment.'' The bunkers are likely to
be built at US bases at Upper Heyford, Oxfordshire, and Lakenheath and
Brentwaters in Suffolk.

Although they will be hardened against attack by enemy aircraft, the bunkers -
replacing some existing shelters - will also increase the defences against
terrorist attack. The announcement that the bunkers were to be built was made in
a Commons written answer by Archie Hamilton, Minister of State for the Armed
Forces. He said: ''Agreement has now been reached on a programme to install the
new weapon storage and survivability system at certain airbases operated by the
USAF in the UK.''

The cost is likely to remain secret. The building will be funded by Nato as part
of its ''infrastructure programme'' but details are unlikely to be released. The
up-dating of nuclear weapons programmes is also highly secretive. The Soviet
Union has objected to the planned replacement of bombs with missiles which could
have a range of hundreds of miles.

Although the US has slowed down its nuclear weapons programme, it remains
committed to updating its free-fall nuclear bombs with TASMs. British ministers
have told The Independent that the British Government is also committed to
replacing its own free-fall nuclear bombs with TASMs, and is studying the types
of missile which may be deployed on its own aircraft.

Meanwhile, Nato is preparing to abandon its doctrine of flexible response, as a
result of the collapse of the Warsaw Pact, General John Rogers Galvin, Nato's
Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) confirmed in an interview with the US
International Defense Review.

Flexible response - in effect, allowing Nato to ''keep the enemy guessing''
about whether a massed tank attack would be met with a nuclear response - was
reaffirmed at last July's Nato summit in London. But General Galvin said the
situation had changed: ''First of all, a general nuclear release has become a
last resort. Direct defence meant that we were face to face with a very large
military force that could fall upon us practically without warning. That changes
now - there will be much longer warning time. Assuming that arms control is
implemented, the Soviet Union will field smaller forces, therefore we can
affaord smaller armed forces in the West.''

He said the new doctrine had no name, but it would be based on smaller, more
mobile multinational forces, like those used in the Gulf war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 13, 1991, Monday

HIGH TECH CAMERAS AIM TO FOIL STATION TERRORISTS

BYLINE:  Peter Archer, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


High tech surveillance equipment is to be installed at main railway stations to
foil terrorist bomb attacks, it emerged today.  The close circuit TV cameras
will be introduced as soon as possible in the wake of IRA bomb attacks at
London's Paddington and Victoria stations.  The cameras, which provide police
with video and still-frame pictures, were selected after a thorough security
review and consultation with experts worldwide.  British Transport Police chief
constable Desmond O'Brien said they would monitor station car parks as well as
platforms and concourses.  "We are aiming to put state-of-the-art surveillance
equipment in all stations we think are vulnerable," said Mr O'Brien.
Surveillance would be designed not only to combat terrorists but also to deter
other violent attacks, thefts, burglaries and hooliganism.

The BTP had consulted Interpol and other international police organisations. "We
are looking at what people are doing worldwide and seeking out best-practice in
an on-going major analysis," said Mr O'Brien.  Police and British Rail were
criticised following the IRA bomb attacks at Paddington and Victoria in
February, in which one man died, for leaving surveillance cameras at Victoria
switched off.  Mr O'Brien was speaking at a London news conference at which the
force's 1990-91 annual report was published showing a 3.6% reduction in crime on
Britain's railways.  Violent crime on BR and the London Underground dropped by
31.6% during 1990 compared to 1989.  Sex attacks were down by 15.1% and
robberies fell by 8.9%.  But burglaries rose by 3.1% and thefts, notably the
stealing of cars, rose by 6.5%.  The number of recorded crimes fell from 87,905
in 1989 to 84,744 in 1990.  Mr O'Brien said BTP had succeeded in reducing crime
on the railways, in the face of a crime wave elsewhere, by targetting particular
offences and trouble spots, and increasing the number of uniformed patrols.  "We
aim to put as many uniformed officers on trains and stations as we can," he
said.  The number of BTP officers had increased last year by 144 to 2,017 with
another 75 recruits planned for 1991.  BTP was trying to reduce the fear of
crime by showing police could make an impact, particularly on crimes of violence
and sex attacks.  Mr O'Brien said: "I think women are safe travelling alone at
night. But I understand why there is an anxiety and it is because of this that
we are making such a concerted effort to make people feel safer."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 14, 1991

Education: Life amid 'The Troubles' - Television images of war-torn city centres
do not tell the whole truth about everyday life in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: By MELISSA BENN

LENGTH: 644 words


NORTHERN Ireland's violent political upheavals are commonly referred to as 'The
Troubles'. Certainly, since 1968, a whole generation has grown up only too
familiar with the horrors of terrorist violence and the presence of army trucks
and troops on the streets, in the city centres and on the border.

But for someone growing up in Northern Ireland, life is more than the violence
we see on our television screens. For instance, Northern Ireland has one of the
lowest 'ordinary' crime rates in Europe. A survey last March, which looked at
peoples' experience of crime in 11 West European countries, the United States,
Canada and Austria, found that Northern Ireland had one of the lowest crime
rates recorded. Only 15 per cent of adults had experienced crimes such as
burglary and personal assault. In 1987, only 2 of the 43 police areas in England
and Wales had less recorded crime than Northern Ireland.


Images of 'war-torn' city centres are also at odds with much day-to-day reality
of life in Northern Ireland. For example, in the early 1980s traders backed a
'Belfast is Buzzing' campaign to re-establish the city as a successful
commercial area. More recent schemes include Laganside - a plan to transform the
area along the banks of the River Lagan in Belfast, which is expected to attract
pounds 700m of private finance and British government grants.

Such investments underline Northern Ireland's economic relationship with
Britain. Last year, the British government gave Northern Ireland pounds 1,700m
in support. Northern Ireland also directly received European Community grants
worth pounds 160m last financial year.

Young Protestants and Catholics may never come to know someone of a different
religion. It is estimated that half the population lives in almost exclusively
Catholic or Protestant areas. Most Catholic children attend grant-maintained
Catholic schools, whereas most Protestants attend state schools which are,
legally, open to children of all denominations but are generally regarded by
Catholics as Protestant in ethos. Even sport has tended to be segregated along
religious lines. Games such as cricket and rubgy have traditionally been
associated with the British and Unionism. Gaelic football and hurling are played
mainly by Catholics. However, soccer - and increasingly rugby - are played by
both religious groups and the Irish rugby team draws members from both sides of
the border.

However, new initiatives are breaking down these barriers. One of the most
successful of these is the integrated school movement, in which Protestant and
Catholic children are educated together. There are now 12 integrated schools in
the province, mostly at primary level, with a total enrolment of 2,300 pupils.

Supporters of integrated schools believe that, since a child's attitudes are
formed well before his or her teenage years, such mixed schooling is bound to
lead to a better relationship between the two communities. But the growth of
these schools depends on the demand from parents. Reforms enacted in 1989
provide for parents to vote in existing schools to determine whether they wish
to become integrated. Integrated schools now receive 100 per cent funding from
the Government.

Educational reforms have also led to the introduction of two new elements within
the Northern Ireland Common Curriculum: 'Education for Mutual Understanding' and
'Cultural Heritage'. These themes are designed to aid childrens' knowledge of
different religions and cultural traditions as well as to develop attitudes of
mutual respect and understanding. Mutual tolerance may also be improved by an
increasing acceptance of a shared history, and the Northern Ireland Common
Curriculum has introduced a common course for all students to explore the
shared, as well as the divisive, elements of their history and culture.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             May 14, 1991, Tuesday

Leading Loyalist killed by car bomb

BYLINE: By Tim Jones

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 532 words


AS NORTHERN Ireland's leading politicians met yesterday to try to rescue
deadlocked talks on its political future, the IRA murdered a prominent Loyalist
and Protestant paramilitaries threatened to end their ceasefire and renew
violence ''on an unprecedented scale''.

After a week of wasted dialogue that failed even to agree a venue for a second
round of talks, yesterday's meeting at Stormont, between Peter Brooke, the
Northern Ireland secretary, and leaders of the four main constitutional parties,
were being seen as the last chance to save the initiative on the province's
future, which began 15 months ago.

As the parties, which should have met across a table last week, continued
separate talks with Mr Brooke, it became understood that he told them that if
they could not agree, he had no choice but to present them with his own plan.
This is said to involve the second stage of the talks, which would involve the
Irish republic's government, opening in London with the substantive issues being
discussed in Belfast. The round would finish in Dublin before a third phase
involving both governments discussing the relationship between the two
countries.

It is understood that this compromise was arrived at on Friday when Mr Brooke
met Gerry Collins, the Irish foreign minister, in London.

Leaders of the two unionist parties had insisted that they would not travel to
Dublin, regarded as a ''hostile'' foreign capital, and said that all but phase
three should be held in London or a neutral location.

John Hume, leader of the SDLP, has maintained that the talks could alternate
between any two venues in Britain or Ireland.

As talks began yesterday, Robert Orr, a businessman and a senior member of the
Orange Order, was killed when an IRA bomb blew up his car in Armagh city. Mr
Orr, was a former member of the RUC reserve force, who resigned five years ago
to concentrate on business interests. Seamus Mallon, SDLP MP for Newry and
Armagh, said: ''The murder highlights in the most poignant way the absolute need
for a political settlement that will bring peace.''

The Ulster Loyalist Central Co-ordinating Committee, credited with bringing
about the outlawed UVF's and UFF's ceasefire during the talks, said: ''If the
talks break down without real progress, then Loyalist paramilitaries, some of
whom are very sceptical about the advantages of a ceasefire, will be extremely
angry. The only logical conclusion that could be drawn is that our elected
leaders cannot find a solution and a renewed military offensive on an
unprecedented scale would be inevitable.''

Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, said yesterday that the talks were
meaningless without his party's involvement, but refused to renounce violence if
that were a condition of being allowed to take part. The government was using
Sinn Fein's ''political position'' of supporting violence as an excuse to
exclude it, he said in London.

Mr Brooke emerged from Stormont last night after nine hours of talks and said:
''I hope we will be able to resolve it serious business is being done.'' The
parties will return today for a further attempt to reach agreement on a venue
for NorthSouth negotiations.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            May 22, 1991, Wednesday

GANDHI AND THE SHADOW OF TERRORISM

BYLINE:  Tom McMullan, Press Association Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


Rajiv Gandhi was a frequent visitor to Britain, both as India's prime minister
and before he entered politics.  If he had become prime minister again, he would
have visited London in just over two weeks time when 10 prominent Commonwealth
countries are to meet in London to discuss the development of the Commonwealth.
Terrorism was a central issue in Britain's relations with India during Rajiv
Gandhi's term as prime minister. At that stage India was troubled by terrorist
attacks from militant Sikhs in the Punjab.  Indian diplomats complained that
some of the finance for this terrorist activity was provided by the Sikh
community in Britain.  Indian diplomats complained that Britain was casting a
slight on India's legal system by its reluctance to agree to ready extradition
of those Sikhs suspected of promoting terrorism in India.  Mrs Thatcher and
Rajiv Gandhi helped to remove some of the misunderstandings during discussions
in London.  According to friends, Mrs Thatcher was furious that Sikh militants
in London appeared to gloat at the assassination of Mrs Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi's
mother.  Mrs Thatcher pledged that Britain would give every support to counter
any Sikh terrorist activities originating in Britain. She undertook to examine
whether Britain's suppression of terrorism act could be extended to India.
Since then Britain's relations with India have steadily improved.  Gandhi was
more than an opposition leader. Because of India's huge size - its population is
more than 1,000 million - a familiar name is important in providing a sense of
unity. Gandhi's grandfather, Nehru, was India's first prime minister at
independence. His mother continued the tradition.  Rajiv Gandhi's assassination
was also seen to highlight the dangers of electioneering in a modern democracy,
where terrorism is a constant threat.  As prime minister, Gandhi was accused of
becoming distant from the ordinary people of India. His campaign as opposition
leader at this election was designed to counter those allegations.  As far as
possible he tried to present himself as a man of the people. This meant that he
travelled in a simple car, and was ready to mingle with boisterous crowds.
Friends in London last night drew a doleful comparison with the Kennedy family
in the United States.  John Kennedy was assassinated as president, his brother
Robert was assassinated while campaigning for the presidential nomination.  Mrs
Gandhi was assassinated as prime minister, her son, Sanjay, who was being
groomed to take over, died in a plane crash.  It was after this that Rajiv
Gandhi entered politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 30, 1991, Thursday

Shenanigans we can do without

BYLINE: By PETER JENKINS

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 23

LENGTH: 916 words


FOR 22 years we have suffered the latest bout of Irish ''Troubles''. We have put
up with IRA atrocities on the British mainland and watched in disgust the reign
of murder, violence and bigotry in Northern Ireland. We have 16,000 troops
pinned down there and the annual cost of subsidy runs at pounds 6.4bn. Through
all of this the British have shown remarkable forbearance. Nothing would delight
us more than to see the last of those ''dreary steeples of Fermanagh and
Tyrone'' but we have stood by our constitutional guarantee to the Protestant
majority to ensure their citizenship of the United Kingdom for as long as they
wish.

This forbearance is now subjected to a new test. After 15 years of hopeless
political stalemate in which, due to its bigotry, the province of Northern
Ireland has had to be governed directly from Westminster, the Secretary of
State, Peter Brooke, is attempting to restore some degree of normal political
life to the province.

It took him 14 months of ''talks about talks'' to persuade the parties to agree
to sit down together. They have yet to do so. Of the 10 weeks allotted for the
round-table talks five have been frittered away in procedural wrangles.

First they quarrelled about the venue of the meetings, now they are quarelling
about who should serve as an independent chairman for the second round of talks.
Numbed as we have become by Irish violence, inured to reports of murder and
knee-cappings, we are now reminded of the infuriatingly infantile and third-rate
quality of Northern Ireland politics. ''What a gang'' we say despairingly as we
read of their latest manoeuvres, ''What is the point of dealing with such
people?''

This was always going to be the danger of searching for a new solution: to draw
attention to the truth that there is no solution - nothing that these people are
capable of agreeing that is consistent with the interests and responsibilities
of the British government.

Mr Brooke believed that he had detected a more conciliatory mood among the
younger generation of Unionist politicians debarred by direct rule from any
useful political career. The Dublin government was not so sure but was committed
under the Anglo-Irish Agreement to give devolution a chance.

The Unionists, riven by their own petty sectarian rivalries, want to undo the
1985 agreement, which allows the Republic a consultative role in the affairs of
the province. The nationalists are equally determined to cling to that agreement
until the day when the Protestant majority is genuinely willing to share power
with the Catholic minority and, even then, will insist on a continuing all-Irish
dimension. The procedural shenanigans that have so far stalled the talks,
childish though they may seem to us, reflect what are probably irreconcilable
positions. The conference, if it ever begins, will likely decide no more than
who is to be left holding the can for its failure. Such is the nature of
Northern Irish politics.

Mr Brooke's initiative is an attempt to undermine this conspiracy in favour of
the status quo. At the same time, it is a reminder that this status quo, which
enables everyone the luxury of their intransigence while continuing to blame
Westminster, is thoroughly unsatisfactory to the British.

It may suit the nationalists, and indeed the Republic, for Britain to bear the
burden of governing the ungovernable, while they make increasingly ritualistic
genuflections to the goal of a united Ireland; it may suit the loyalists, whose
brand of loyalty we could do without, to continue insisting on their various
formulae for Protestant ascendancy; but it does not suit us, the British, to
forever govern Northern Ireland in such a fashion.

While the IRA remains clearly in our sights, designated the terrorist
organisation that it is, we have an enemy against which to maintain our gritty
British resolution. But Mr Brooke's attempt to revive the political process
reminds us of the character of the ancient quarrel from which the IRA, and the
Protestant paramilitary thugs, suck blood. From that dispute our sympathy and
understanding has long since drained.

During the last 22 years the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland have
become fellow members of the European Community. Within that community the
ancient enmities of other countries have been for the most part subsumed and
forgotten. Today we regard the Republic of Ireland as a friendly partner while
the Republic itself, as the generations give way, pays increasing lip service to
the unresolved past as it discovers a new identity as a European state.

All over Europe, the trend is towards redefining the Continent as a ''region of
regions'' in which the nineteenth-century notion of the nation state, the
inspiration of Irish nationalism, gives way to new senses of identity.
Meanwhile, the historic schism between capitalism and communism is ended;
Germany is reunited and Europe one again. Yet still the ''Irish question''
smoulders on in the ashes of history.

What then do we do if the Brooke initiative serves only to demonstrate afresh
that the parties to the ancient Irish quarrel are incapable of mutual
accommodation under the aegis of the British and the protection of direct rule?
Do we simply slog on indefinitely, containing violence as best we can, shedding
blood and money as we go? Or will the time have come to break the bonds of
history and delegate the Irish question to the Irish to address within the
context of the modern world?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 1, 1991, Saturday

THE MORTARS' REIGN OF TERROR

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


Mortar attacks are among the deadliest weapons used by terrorists in Northern
Ireland but the paramilitaries still aim to develop more sophisticated
equipment.  The attack last night in which three soldiers died and 18 people
were injured was the latest incident illustrating the devastating consequences
of mortar bombs.  Last year the Irish police found a major mortar bomb factory
in Arklow, on the east coast of Ireland, which showed that terrorists were
experimenting with developing more accurate weapons.  And four months ago the
IRA brought the tactic to London when they launched a mortar attack on 10
Downing Street.  The IRA's most notorious mortar bomb attack was on Newry police
station in 1985 when nine policemen were killed.  Recent major terrorist-related
attacks include: Three police officers and a woman were injured when the IRA
launched a missile and gun attack on May 2 near a nursery in west Belfast.  In
April undercover RUC officers killed Colm Marks, who was on active service for
the IRA, in an ambush in Downpatrick.  The province was rocked on March 28 when
two teenage Roman Catholic girls and a young man were shot dead at a mobile shop
in Craigavon, County Armagh.  A few days before this attack, the IRA ambushed
the widow of a police sergeant murdered by the IRA four years ago.  The IRA
switched tactics to mainland Britain on February 18 when it targeted Paddington
and Victoria Station, killing one English civilian. On February 7 the IRA struck
at the heart of the Government when it launched the attack on Downing Street.
One bomb exploded, breaking windows and disrupting a Cabinet meeting chaired by
Prime Minister John Major.  One man died and another was injured when troops
opened fire when a car failed to stop at an army checkpoint in south Armagh in
December 1990.  On November 10 four men, including two police officers were
killed on a duck-shooting expedition in Lurgan, County Armagh.  In October 1990
six British soldiers and a driver were killed in "human bomb" incidents in
Londonderry and Newry.  In September two joy-riding teenagers were shot dead by
the Army.  In July Conservative MP Ian Gow was killed in a car bomb attack
outside his home.  In the same month a Roman Catholic nun and three RUC men were
killed in an IRA landmine explosion near Armagh city.  Two policemen were shot
dead in a crowded city centre market in Belfast on July 1.  Earlier that month
and in June the IRA bombed the Stock Exchange and Carlton Club in London.  In
April four UDR men were killed by an IRA landmine near Downpatrick.  In January
1990, three men were shot dead by soldiers at a Belfast betting shop robbery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                              June 7, 1991, Friday

Gadaffi's money fails to open diplomatic door

BYLINE: By Richard Ford and our Foreign Staff

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 486 words


MOVES by Libya to restore relations with Britain were rebuffed last night after
Colonel Gadaffi gave Pounds 250,000 to charity to atone for the murder seven
years ago of WPC Yvonne Fletcher. The Forign Office insisted that Libya must
give concrete proof that it had renounced terrorism and co-operate with efforts
to bring the killer to justice.

The cheque, along with a letter of regret over the shooting outside the Libyan
People's Bureau in London, was delivered to the Foreign Office by the
Conservative MP Teddy Taylor after a secret ten-day visit to Tripoli. He also
brought back a package of proposals aimed at restoring diplomatic relations.

Colonel Gadaffi's proposals were being studied by officials last night, but a
resumption of diplomatic ties is highly unlikely. Asked by reporters in Paris
whether it was time to end Libya's isolation, Douglas Hurd said: ''We think the
Libyan connection with terrorism is an overwhelmingly damaging one.''

The Foreign Office said: ''There can be no improved relations until we have
convincing evidence that the Libyans have renounced their support for
international terrorism, including the IRA. Libya was responsible for an act of
terrorism in London and there is no way it can compensate for that act. The real
test would be for them to cooperate with us in bringing to justice those who
murdered Fletcher.'' Semtex supplied to the IRA by Libya was still killing UK
citizens.

Diplomatic ties were broken after WPC Fletcher was shot while policing a
demonstration outside the Libyan embassy in St James's Square in April 1984. The
shot was fired from a first-floor window of the building, which for eleven days
was laid to siege by police. Thirty officials inside claimed diplomatic immunity
and were later expelled from the country.

Now Mr Taylor has brought home from Tripoli a cheque for a British police
charity, ostensibly from the Libyan Police Syndicate, which was handed over at
the end of an hour-long meeting with Colonel Gadaffi in a tent. Mr Taylor also
returned with proposals on ''much more substantial and significant issues'',
which he presented to Mr Hurd earlier this week.

Mr Taylor declined to disclose what was in the package, but said his meeting
with Colonel Gadaffi had been very useful. ''I found him a very deep person who
seemed anxious to convey the fact that there had been a change in policy in
Libya.''

The move was rejected by WPC Fletcher's mother, who described it as a cynical
publicity stunt. Queenie Fletcher said: ''He seems to think he can pay some
blood money and that will sort it all out. It's just a ploy to try and get in
with Britain again.''

Michael Winner, the film director who set up the Police Memorial Trust after the
shooting, was also dismissive. ''It's a very halfhearted gesture if you pay a
fine as it were, but keep the man who did the murder safe and happy out of the
reach of the law.''

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 23, 1991, Sunday

Gaddafi 'snub' enrages MP

BYLINE: By CAL MCCRYSTAL

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 395 words


THE Foreign Office has told Sir Teddy Taylor, Conservative MP for Southend East,
that it will decide in the next few days whether or not to return a pounds
250,000 cheque which Libya sent to a British police charity as an expression of
regret over the killing of WPC Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan embassy in
London in 1984.

The cheque, from the Police Syndicate (roughly equivalent to the Britain's
Police Federation), was handed to Sir Teddy on a recent visit to Tripoli, during
which the Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi showed a strong desire to improve
relations with Britain. The MP handed it to the Foreign Office on his return. He
told The Independent on Sunday that if the FO decided the money should be
returned he would ''explode all over the place''.

Sir Teddy's trip has already created considerable bitterness. He accuses the
Foreign Office of wrecking the Libyan initiative by leaking, on 6 June, parts of
a Libyan note expressing regret for WPC Fletcher's death and promising to end
support for terrorists and efforts to secure the release of British hostages in
Lebanon.

Last week, he quoted, for this newspaper's benefit, from a copy of the Libyan
note, which was signed by Col Gaddafi: ''With regard to relations with the IRA,
and similar organisations, Libya has frequently declared, and I herewith
confirm, its condemnation of terrorist activities whose victims are innocent
people, and on this basis Libya believes the so- called IRA is not worth sic for
us to have any contacts with, or to give it any support or backing. And that
applies to any organisation which uses terrorism as a means to further its
aims.''

On Monday, the Government made clear that there would be ''no response'' to the
Libyan leader. Col Gaddafi's reaction was to declare that Britain and the US
could ''go to hell''. Sir Teddy, who attracted Libyan attention when he helped
Glasgow Muslims find land for a mosque, believes the non-response will undermine
a movement towards moderation in Libya and inflame ''the hooligans'' in Tripoli.

He has written to the Prime Minister asking if he is fully aware of what was
happening to the Libyan initiative and if he had actually seen the note. He
claims that Col Gaddafi's promises deserve a courteous reply and that the Libyan
leader was genuinely concerned for the British hostages in Lebanon.

Interview, page 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 29, 1991, Saturday

IRA bomb found outside theatre

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 406 words


A TERRORIST bomb that was planted outside a London theatre but failed to explode
could mark a new IRA bomb campaign in Britain, detectives warned.

The 30lb bomb, one of the biggest to be used in mainland Britain, was placed
behind the Alfred Beck Theatre, in Hayes, west London, where an Army band gave a
concert attended by 290 people on Thursday evening.

The bomb was discovered yesterday morning when a woman walking her dog saw a bag
against the rear wall of the theatre in Grange Road. Police were alerted and the
bomb defused.

Detectives believe the plastic explosives were set to go off while the 27
bandsmen of the Blues and Royals regiment performed.

Commander George Churchill- Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, said: ''If the device had exploded, it would have caused multiple deaths
and very serious injuries, not only to the band but to the public as well.''

The bomb had a timing device which he believed was set to detonate shortly after
it was planted. No warning was given.

The bomb was about 50ft from the stage and placed near an air vent that would
have carried an explosion into the building.

It is unclear why it failed to explode. Commander Churchill- Coleman said the
reason could be a malfunction or the terrorists might have been disturbed before
arming the bomb.

The bomb was much larger than one that exploded at the Royal Marine School of
Music in Deal, Kent, killing 11 bandsmen and injuring 22 in September 1989.

It was being examined by forensic scientists. It is not yet known whether the
bomb was Semtex, the Czech-made plastic explosive supplied to the IRA by Libya.

The theatre had been searched by police before the bandsmen arrived at about
4pm. Police patrols continued during the well-advertised concert.

Officers believe the bomb was planted after 8.30pm on Thursday, when two
children were chased away from the area. A large grassy bank hid the device,
which was inside a small, brown canvas bag marked ''Montana''.

Commander Churchill-Coleman refused to criticise security arrangements, saying
it was a very busy area with people coming and going from a car park.

''It has become an attractive tactic by terrorists, particularly the Provisional
IRA, to lay low for periods of time to lull everyone, including the security
forces and the public, into a false sense of security. I strongly urge everyone
to remain particularly vigilant,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 2, 1991, Tuesday

Officer saw bomb in bin liner

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 195 words


A MASSIVE explosion would have killed and injured several people if an observant
worker at an RAF-Royal Navy recruiting office in Preston had not spotted a bomb
hidden in a plastic bin liner, Lancashire police said yesterday.

The bomb was about the size of a shoe box and attracted the suspicions of an
officer working late in the office. He saw the bag in the rear yard of the
building.

It was detonated in a controlled explosion on Sunday evening. Police said it
could have killed or injured people at a Baptist church next to the recruiting
office.

Although police believe the bomb is the work of the IRA, no organisation has
claimed responsibility.

A bag containing about 20 incendiary devices was found at the Preston's railway
station in April. Since February last year there have been about 15 bombings in
Britain, four of which have been at or near armed forces' offices.

A 30lb bomb was found outside the Alfred Beck Theatre in Hayes, west London,
last Friday.

A soldier and a civilian were injured in a bomb attack on troops in north
Belfast last night. An Army patrol was in the republican New Lodge district when
terrorists mounted an ambush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 3, 1991, Wednesday

Undercover officers 'foiled Sikh terror gang plot'

BYLINE: By ADAM SAGE

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 486 words


(First Edition)

SIKH extremists offered undercover policemen pounds 100,000 to murder six
moderate members of the Sikh community in London, an Old Bailey court was told
yesterday, writes Adam Sage.

The extremists, who believed the officers to be East End gangsters, also paid
pounds 9,000 for 10 kilos of what they thought was Semtex, John Bevan, counsel
for the prosecution, alleged. In fact, they received inert explosives.

One woman, Gursharn Sarkaria, 42, of Feltham, west London, and two men - Sutpal
Binjie, 22, also of Feltham, and Parmjit Singh Sidhu, 32, of Luton, Bedfordshire
- deny charges of conspiracy to cause explosions and of possessing explosives.
Ms Sarkaria and Mr Binjie also deny conspiracy to murder.

The court was told that the police became aware last summer of a terrorist plot
involving extremist Sikhs. Undercover officers were told that the three
defendants worked for an organisation known as the Freedom Fighters of
Khalistan, Mr Bevan said. Its aim was to set up a Sikh homeland, independent of
India.

Ms Sarkaria was the ''lieutenant'' and Mr Binjie the ''trainee'' in a plot to
kill moderate members of the International Sikh Youth Federation. The Semtex was
to be used for explosions in Britain and abroad.  ''Had the plans which they had
tried to put into effect succeeded, they would have involved the deaths of
innocent people in this country and damage and deaths abroad,'' Mr Bevan said.
''Fortunately, careful police work nipped the plans in the bud and three of
those involved - undoubtedly there are more - were arrested before any harm was
done.''

Ms Sarkaria had paid pounds 10,000 to an Italian man to murder the six Sikh
moderates. However, the Italian disappeared, and she then asked the undercover
policemen to carry out the killings. ''She was anxious that her superiors should
not discover her incompetence in losing the pounds 10,000,'' Mr Bevan said.

The price was to be pounds 15,000 for each murder, in addition to pounds 10,000
to be recovered from the Italian, Mr Bevan alleged.

In discussions with undercover officers, many of which had been tape recorded,
Ms Sarkaria had referred to a man called ''David'', who was her leader, Mr Bevan
said. In fact this man was Mr Sidhu. All three were arrested at Ms Sarkaria's
house in July last year, hours after the explosives had been supplied by
undercover officers, the court heard.

One of the policemen, who the court ordered could be known only as X, told the
jury that he had first met Ms Sarkaria and Mr Binjie in the Post House Hotel,
Heathrow, west London, on 9 July last year. They had agreed that in future
discussions the Semtex would be known as ''chocolate''.

Ms Sarkaria had also said: ''There are six people in this country who have to be
switched off,'' the policeman alleged. ''It's like electricity and switched off
means we want somebody killed.''

The trial continues today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 6, 1991, Saturday

RUC chief says threat of terrorism is high

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 286 words


THE THREAT of IRA violence is at its highest for two years, the Chief Constable
of the Royal Ulster Constabulary said yesterday. Hugh Annesley forecast a grim
outlook for peace in Britain and Northern Ireland.

He spoke as the RUC put on show the most comprehensive display of seized
terrorist weaponry seen in the British Isles.

It included armour-piercing grenades, home-made mortars, under-car booby traps -
which the Provisional IRA has used with devastating effect - Russian-made
anti-tank rockets, heavy calibre machine-guns, blast bombs and a Russian-made
flame thrower.

Mr Annesley said the IRA, even after 21 years of violence, would never be
allowed to win.

But he warned: ''The immediate outlook is grim. We are facing at the moment
probably the highest threat in the last two years.''

After the breakdown of the all- party talks, loyalist paramilitaries warned that
they are to launch a new offensive.

The chief constable said: ''If the loyalists go back to their campaign, and
there are more random killings, then the only description is to say that it will
be grim. Nevertheless the RUC and Army will do all they can to contain it, but
one has to say we anticipate an increase in deaths.''

He was disappointed at the failure of the Brooke initiative, but said he did not
regard it as a failure and believed the talks could start again in the autumn.

He said the IRA's campaign of violence would lead nowhere. ''The terrorists have
sullied the name of Ireland throughout the civilised world. They have caused
untold misery and lasting grief to thousands of families within both
communities.''

Asked if there would be more deaths, he replied: ''I cannot see an alternative
scenario.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 7, 1991, Sunday

Judge defends Harte acquittal

BYLINE: by Caroline Lees, Roermond

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 550 words


DUTCH judges at the centre of a growing controversy over their decision to free
a suspected IRA member convicted of the murder of two Australian tourists
yesterday defended their decision.

One of the three court of appeal judges, who cleared Gerard Harte on Friday,
only months after he received 18 years for the killings, said he could
understand why people thought the Netherlands was soft on terrorists.

''I can imagine that people will say we are lenient,'' Arnold Bonneur said. But
he suggested it would be difficult for a case such as the Birmingham Six or
Guildford Four to occur in the Netherlands. The Dutch legal system, he said, was
much more ''professional'' and less ''emotional'' than Britain's.

''It is difficult to make comparisons, but we have a system of appeal here and
every case must be treated on its technicalities, not on the politics
surrounding the case,'' he said.

Bonneur, 61, is, like his two colleagues on the bench, a Catholic. But he said
this had no influence on their decision to clear Harte and uphold a lower
court's acquittal of Donna Maguire, 24, Paul Hughes, 27, and Sean Hick, 30, the
three other Irish people accused of the murders.

In their ruling, the judges said the evidence linking the four to the murder of
the tourists last year in Roermond was circumstantial and there had been
discrepancies in evidence from witnesses.

The two Australians, both London-based lawyers in their 20s, had been mistaken
for British servicmen and shot in the town square by masked gunmen. The IRA
later apologised for their deaths.

Although the four have not been freed they face a hearing in the Netherlands
over alleged IRA membership and all but Harte are wanted by Germany in
connection with terrorist attacks the decision to clear them of the Roermond
killings continued to provoke outrage yesterday.

Paul Reynoud, a restaurant owner in Roermond who witnessed the killings, said:
''I gave my statement to the police, and it makes me angry to see that they have
now been acquitted. When you saw it happen, then it is very hard. It is easy for
the IRA to use Holland as a base. They think it's safe. The law has to be
changed.''

In Australia, the father of Stephen Melrose, one of the murdered men, said he
was devastated. ''It did bring some relief when Harte was convicted, but now he
has been let off,'' Tony Melrose said. ''I just can't understand it.''

The Dutch decision has also angered MPs in Britain and Northern Ireland, who are
increasingly worried at the difficulty getting convictions against suspected IRA
mmbers.

The Rev William McCrea, Democratic Unionist MP for Mid-Ulster, said yesterday he
believed the Dutch authorities should ask themselves serious questions about
their failure to get convictions for the deaths of the Australians. ''It seems
that the Dutch do not have a good track record either in detecting terrorists or
dealing with them in the courts,'' he said.

Sir Gerard Vaughan, Conservative MP for Reading East, said he would consult the
Foreign Office and the Northern Ireland Office. ''It is an absolute travesty of
international justice and very serious indeed. I hope the British government
will take this up with the Dutch authorities. People are beginning to wonder
whether there is any common justice at all.''

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gerald Harte; Suspected IRA member

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 1991, Monday

Breakout adds to the republicans' spectacular run

BYLINE: By WILL BENNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 567 words


YESTERDAY'S escape was the latest in a series of spectacular breakouts by people
convicted of or awaiting trial for IRA terrorist attacks.

Breaking out is the prime aim of every republican in a British jail. Escapes are
constantly planned in all prisons. Even if these prove unsuccessful, they raise
morale.

In December 1980, Gerard Tuite, who was awaiting trial on a charge of conspiracy
to cause explosions, broke out of Brixton.

Tuite, who was then 25, and two men accused of armed robbery escaped from the
maximum security D block by burrowing through a cell wall, climbing on to a flat
corridor roof and scrambling 10 feet down to an exercise yard.

Eluding TV cameras and floodlights, they crept through the shadows to the
perimeter wall, which they scaled using ropes, planks and scaffolding left by
builders. An inquiry blamed staff for ignoring security procedures.

Tuite was recaptured in March 1982 by Irish detectives in a flat in Drogheda, Co
Louth. That year he was jailed for possessing explosives in a case which made
legal history in the Irish Republic. It was the first time that an Irish citizen
had been tried in the republic for offences committed in Britain. Tuite lost his
appeal against the conviction, for which he received a 10-year prison sentence.

The most spectacular IRA breakout was on 25 September 1983 when 38 terrorists
broke out of the Maze jail in Northern Ireland. A prison officer was stabbed to
death and five others were seriously injured.

As at Brixton yesterday, smuggled guns made the escape possible. Five men with
guns held up staff while prisoners armed with weapons that included a
screwdriver and a craft knife overpowered other officers.

Within 20 minutes the prisoners had taken control of the block, without the
alarm being raised. Officers were moved to two games rooms where they were
forced to hand over their uniforms.

The stripped staff were tied up and pillow cases were placed over their heads.
They were forbidden to talk or move, except one who was taken to the
communications room to answer telephone calls to say that everything was normal.

When the kitchen lorry arrived the driver was seized and told to take the
prisoners to the main gate. A cord was attached to what he was fooled into
thinking was a hand grenade under his seat, although in fact it was tied to the
seat frame. With one prisoner in uniform with the driver in the cab, and another
37 hiding in the back, the lorry was let through two gates unchecked and the IRA
men then seized control of the main gate lodge. An officer raised the alarm but
it was just too late to prevent the escape.

Nineteen of the escapers were recaptured quickly but the rest disappeared.
Several have since been caught and a number of others killed in terrorist
incidents.

A report into the breakout by Sir James Hennessy, the then Chief Inspector of
Prisons for England and Wales, criticised poor security procedures, human
weakness, inadequate management as well as faults in the design of the prison.

In 1981, eight IRA men, six accused of murder, shot their way out of the
high-security Crumlin Road jail, Belfast. Smuggled firearms were used to hold up
prison officers in the area set aside for legal visits. The last escaper was not
recaptured for seven years.

Three RUC officers and two civilians were hurt last night in a bomb attack on a
Land-Rover in north Belfast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 11, 1991

Britain drops its opposition to EC weapons sales to Damascus

BYLINE: By JOHN PALMER in The Hague

LENGTH: 619 words


THE British Government yesterday took a significant step in pursuit of an
already improving relationship with Syria when it signalled readiness for the
European Community to lift its ban on arms sales to Damascus.

The move came amid reports that President Hafez al-Assad of Syria will shortly
write to President Bush accepting the United States' terms for a Middle East
peace conference.


The issue of the arms ban was formally raised by the Foreign Office minister,
Douglas Hogg, at a meeting of EC foreign ministers here yesterday. The ban was
introduced at British insistence in 1987 after the so-called Hindawi affair when
Syria allegedly backed a terrorist bombing attempt on an El Al airliner at
Heathrow.

But although Mr Hogg made clear yesterday that Britain would no longer oppose
any move to scrap the ban, the Dutch foreign minister, Hans van den Broek, the
president of the EC council of ministers, insisted that the time was not right.
A Dutch foreign ministry official later said: 'It would look very odd to lift
the arms ban at such a sensitive time in the attempts being made to get a Middle
East international peace conference off the ground.'

Mr Van den Broek did agree that all the signs were that Syria seemed ready to
send an early and positive response to a letter sent by President Bush to Israel
and the Arab states involved in the Middle East peace process.

'I understand that this response from Syria will aim to be constructive,' Mr Van
den Broek told journalists yesterday. 'The European Community will certainly
look to a similarly constructive response from Israel.'

Asked why he had chosen this moment to signal Britain's support for a move to
abandon the EC arms embargo, Mr Hogg said: 'I wanted to clear up a
misunderstanding about where Britain now stands on this matter which I discover
existed in Damascus when I was there a few weeks ago.'

When Britain had agreed to restore diplomatic relations with Syria last year,
President al-Assad had made it clear that Syria would not support 'any terrorist
action against western interests'. Syria had indicated that this did not include
terrorist action against Israel or in the occupied territories.

The Foreign Office minister insisted that Britain would continue to deplore 'all
acts of terrorism', but he said that the original EC arms ban had been initiated
because of an attack on an aircraft on British soil.

Even if the EC arms ban were lifted, Mr Hogg stressed, the Government had no
intention of resuming arms sales to Syria. 'Our national controls on arms sales
will remain in place,' he said.

Asked about the negative response of the Dutch EC presidency, Mr Hogg said he
would leave it to the Dutch to judge the 'most opportune' moment to make a
formal proposal removing the embargo. Mr Hogg was unable to say whether other EC
countries might then sell arms to Syria.

The Government's motives in stepping up relations with Damascus appear primarily
linked to its desire to see Syria as a full participant in the proposed Middle
East conference. Mr Hogg denied that the issue of the arms ban was linked to the
early release of British hostages in Lebanon.

After yesterday's meeting, EC diplomats predicted that a positive Syrian
response to the US plan for a peace conference would increase pressure on the
Israeli government, which opposes any involvement of the United Nations. Mr Van
den Broek, whose government is less critical of Israel than most other EC
states, made it clear that European pressure would continue on Jerusalem to show
more flexibility and that the European Community would insist on playing a full
sponsoring role with the US and the Soviet Union.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 11, 1991, Thursday

UK backs lifting of embargo on Syria

BYLINE: From DAVID USBORNE in The Hague

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 13

LENGTH: 395 words


BRITAIN surprised its European Community partners yesterday by suggesting that
an EC-wide arms embargo imposed on Syria after the 1986 El Al bombing attempt at
Heathrow Airport could now be lifted in recognition of improved relations.

Douglas Hogg, the Foreign Office Minister, told EC colleagues at a meeting in
The Hague that Britain ''would not object'' if the Twelve decided to end the
embargo. But any suggestion of such a step being taken now was dismissed by the
Netherlands, which holds the EC presidency.

The Dutch Foreign Minister, Hans van den Broek, said it would be inappropriate
to make such a gesture when the West was ''on the edge of a breakthrough'' in
the Middle East peace process. A Dutch spokesman said: ''Such a move would not
be understood by public opinion, especially when we are discussing limiting arms
sales to the Middle East.''

The EC ministers none the less voiced optimism that Syria may be poised to
signal its willingness to participate in an international peace conference. The
EC hopes for a positive reply from Damascus to a letter sent two weeks ago by
President Bush asking for Syrian support for a conference.

Mr van den Broek remarked: ''There are certain signals that Syria is intending
to give a response soon and that Syria is trying to be helpful.'' Mr Hogg said
the analysis was shared by Britain. Israel, replying to a letter of its own from
President Bush, has reiterated its opposition to a peace conference.

Britain may have several reasons for wishing to demonstrate sympathy for Syria.
The Syrian government was a staunch ally during the Gulf war, and Damascus is
known to have influence with Arab groups still holding British hostages in
Lebanon.

After the attempted bombing of the El Al plane by a Palestinian, Nezar Hindawi,
Britain insisted the EC impose an arms embargo on Syria. Noting that Britain and
Syria restored full relations last year, Mr Hogg said there was no reason for
the embargo to continue. He had made his position plain to the Syrian government
during a recent visit to Damascus.

''The UK is willing to see the arms embargo being raised,'' Mr Hogg said. ''We
accept that the Syrian government is not sponsoring any terrorist activity
against any Western government.'' He accepted, however, that Syrian- sponsored
terrorism in Israel and the occupied territories continues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             July 14, 1991, Sunday

Another IRA suspect goes free as justice lets terrorism off the hook

BYLINE: Richard Palmer and Liam Clarke

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1168 words


GERARD HARTE, who was cleared by a Dutch court of IRA membership and the murders
of two Australian lawyers, was released last night by Dublin detectives after
questioning about arms offences.

He grinned ahe emerged from Bridewell Garda station in the city centre after 23
hours' detention and was bundled into a waiting car. Police had the power to
hold him for a further 24 hours, but said: ''He has been let go and there is no
question of any charges at the moment. He is free to go wherever he wants.''

The decision to free Harte, who was classifed as an IRA prisoner when he was
jailed for four years for armed robbery in the Irish republic, provoked protests
from Conservative and Unionist backbenchers last night.

Sir Teddy Taylor, Tory MP for Southend East, said: ''I am afraid this is one of
a whole series of actions of the courts and the authorities in the republic of
Ireland which makes us wonder if they are really with us in the battle against
terrorism.''

David Trimble, the Unionist MP for Upper Bann, where Harte comes from, blamed
the Foreign Office for failing to persuade the Irish and Dutch governments to
close loopholes that allowed suspects to go free. ''Clearly those governments
are at fault, but more criticism should be diected at the Foreign Office, which
has failed to establish the proper framework for co-operation with these foreign
states,'' he said.

Whe Harte was released in the Netherlands on Friday, Leonie Moreland, the wife
of a former RAF serviceman, elbowed her way to the front of the crowd and spat
at him: ''You murdering IRA bastard.'' It was a scream of anger that voiced the
frustration of millions of Britons after more than 20 years of IRA terrorism.

Dutch police had lifted Harte by his anorak collar to steer him clear of the
crush and allow him to fly to Dublin. He had been acquitted of the murders along
with three other IRA suspects, who have been held in custody pending extradition
to Germany, where police wish to question them over other offences.

For Moreland, a 25-year-old Dutch woman who persuaded her husband to leave the
RAF because she could not stand the ''unbearable'' pressure of being an IRA
target, the protest was a matter of pride. ''When I saw Harte I went blind with
anger for two seconds and all my frustration poured out. The verdict was
unbelievable. I was ashamed to be Dutch,'' she said at her home in Roermond
yesterday.

The release of Harte and the acquittal of the others in the same week that two
IRA suspects broke out of Brixton prison at gunpoint, has brought Britain's
security forces to their lowest point.

The crisis has also focused attention on their shortcomings. An analysis of 20
of the worst terrorist outrages to hit Britain and Northern Ireland in the past
20 years shows that in only seven cases criminals have been successfully jailed
for offences that have left 136 dead and 610 injured.

In 10 bombings and shootings there have been no charges. In those cases where
suspects have come to court, 10 people have been freed on appeal and one
cleared. MPs believe communication and liaison between police forces and
specialist anti-terrorist groups must be improved.

''There are jealousies between police chiefs,'' said Ken Maginnis, the Ulster
Unionist MP. ''As head of the anti-terrorist squad, George Churchill Coleman has
an impossible task because he is not guaranteed the co-operation of various
chief constables.''

His comments came after it emerged yesterday that the two IRA suspects who
escaped from Brixton prison last week have been linked to other terrorist
offences, including an attempt last year to kill Sir Peter Terry, the former
governor of Gibraltar.

Security sources in London said police had forensic evidence to widen murder
conspiracy charges against the men, Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McAuley, if they
were ever recaptured.

Police are making slow progress in the search for the latest IRA unit operating
in Britain, which is more sophisticated than any that has operated on the
mainland before. The group of up to eight people has established a network of
safe houses outside the usual IRA haunts in the Irish community. Its targets
have been carefully selected at sites widely dispersed around the country. The
targets and the methods used to attack them have varied so much that detectives
admit it is impossible to predict what they will do next.

Such professionalism has demanded a co-ordinated response that makes the best
use of police and intelligence resources to put the terrorists on the defensive.
These organisations include Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, S013, the
Special Branch, military intelligence and the British Services Security
Organisation, which is responsible for the security of army personnel.

The Security Service, or MI5, gathers intelligence on Protestant terrorism in
Britain, the IRA abroad and in the Irish republic. The Royal Ulster Constabulary
is responsible for the Provisional IRA in Northern Ireland and the Secret
Intelligence Service, MI6, also monitors activities from its bases abroad.

In the past year Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch has been in charge of
co-ordinating police investigations into terrorist attacks on the mainland.
However, rivalries persist between the organisations working against the IRA and
operations have been hindered by their reluctance to swap information because of
a fear of betraying sources.

Often police trying to run informers have been hindered by Home Office
guidelines that specify that an informant must not ''actively engage in planning
or committing a crime'' or mislead a court about hisher own involvement,
something which would make it impossible for an agent to remain active within
the IRA for any length of time.

The terrorists have become adept at exploiting weaknesses. If bombers are
caught, the IRA's training manual, known as the Green Book, has two basic
messages: ''Organise your defensive before your offensive,'' and: ''The best
anti-interrogation method is to say nothing.''

Security sources yesterday called for improvements to refine intelligence
operations. They want to modify the Home Office guidelines to take account of
the need to be involved in crime in order to penetrate a terrorist group.

They also want to set up a central body for handling all intelligence on
organised crime within Britain, similar to the FBI in America, which would have
the power to override individual police forces in major investigations and to
distribute intelligence to them on a need-to-know basis.

An Irishman was detained by police for five hours under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act yesterday after a security blunder enabled him to wander
unaccompanied round a RAF base in Bedfordshire.

Padraig Caughey, 35, was released once Special Branch officers were satisfied he
arrived at RAF Stanbridge by mistake after boarding a bus that he thought was
taking him to Luton railway station. The Ministry of Defence has launched a full
investigation.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gerald Harte

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 15, 1991, Monday

Unionists surrender the old certainties; As Unionist parties are blamed for the
collapse of the Brooke talks, Cal McCrystal looks at the mood of their
supporters

BYLINE: By CAL MCCRYSTAL

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 1132 words


BEFORE the Troubles Unionist Party headquarters in Belfast was an imposing
building, exuding durability. Its three storeys in Glengall Street were a
respectable height in a low-rise city. The spokesmen within wore dark suits and
club ties and breathed secrets and whiskey fumes over journalists who could be
trusted to toe the party line: ''Keep Ulster British. No Surrender!''

Now, dwarfed by tall buildings, the citadel is a sorry reflection of the halcyon
days before the violence began 22 years ago. Protected by bomb-proof doors, its
employees affect rumpled shirts and sweaters. They are careful with reporters.
Outside, a large garish sign boasts ''Keeping Ulster British'', but inside the
florid confidence has gone.

It was an obvious place to begin a search for ''Unionist Man'', a creature
resistant to evolutionary forces and increasingly difficult to define at a time
when Britain seems bent on solving the ''Irish Question'' once and for all. Mark
Wilson, 23, a party spokesman, defined Unionism in negatives: ''We don't regard
our Britishness as in the gift of the drunken egotists who run this place,''
meaning the men from Whitehall. He tried to explain the distress over the
party's isolation last week after the Unionist-engineered collapse of the
constitutional talks promoted by Peter Brooke, the Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland. ''The Anglo-Irish Agreement made everyone so damned angry,''
he said. ''I remember sitting in a wee bar in Dungannon when I heard about it. I
wanted to hit something. So I hit the bottle.''

Mr Wilson was born near Caledon, a village two miles from the border. There, in
1968, the civil rights movement scored its earliest success, creating a Unionist
backlash and, in turn, the IRA terrorist campaign. In Caledon, 450 Protestant-
Unionists maintain a quiet ascendancy over 50 Roman Catholic-Nationalists. The
majority were raised on a diet of Orangeism, the Bible and Kipling: ''We know .
. . The terror, threats and dread/ In market, hearth and field/ We know when all
is said/ We perish if we yield'' (''Ulster 1913'').

Glenn McLoughlin, 30, a laboratory technician and Unionist ward secretary, is
not an Orangeman and has no wish to become one. He has vague memories of the
1968 row when an unmarried Protestant woman jumped a housing queue of needy
Roman Catholics. He agrees ''Unionism shot itself in the foot''.

Mr McLoughlin conceded that Unionism would have benefited from ''wiser heads''.
But he has difficulty with even these mild words of dissent. Even so, no
traditional Loyalist emblems adorn his living room, which looks on to a
rose-covered wall and, beyond, the rich Clogher Valley. In many respects he
represents the ''New Unionist''. Like other ''thinking Unionists'', he confronts
a reality apparent to non-Unionists for years: continued Unionist resistance to
the process begun by the Anglo-Irish Agreement makes stable government in
Northern Ireland impossible to achieve. And the more they resist, the more they
validate the need for that process. In short, they are losing control.

In one breath Mr McLoughlin describes his party's leaders as ''headless
chickens'', in the next, he reproaches himself for being ''disloyal''. His
genuine desire to present an enlightened image is distorted by little shudders:
''The nationalist who smiles at you sweetly is the one who will stick a knife in
your back . . . I know it's hardly worth electing some Unionist councillors, but
it's better than voting Sinn Fein.''

The Unionist movement as a whole is split between the followers of Ian Paisley
(Democratic Unionist Party) and the Glengall Street brand of James Molyneaux.
The influential Belfast magazine Fortnight said last week that Unionists were
''donkeys led by donkeys''.

It used to be said (mostly by Catholics) that if pushed, Unionists would show
more loyalty to the half-crown than to the Crown. Clearly, a large number of
well-educated, well-heeled Protestants have lost patience with the Unionist
leadership.

They drive BMWs (Northern Ireland has the highest concentration of BMWs per head
of population in the UK) and socialise easily with a new, upwardly thrusting
Catholic middle-class. They are among the three-quarters of the Ulster
population who want the constitutional political parties to resume talks on the
province's future as soon as possible (according to a recent Gallup survey). But
they also worry about the outcome as earnestly as do the sectarian working-class
Paisley Unionists.

Robert McCartney, barrister, leading Unionist and admirer of Garret FitzGerald
(the former Irish leader who helped forge the Anglo-Irish Agreement), uses an
analogy with the law on rape. ''It is not consent if you have her by force and
everyone agrees that in relation to Northern Ireland force is out. It is not
consent if you have her by fear, that is by threatening her, which is what the
the Provisional IRA are doing. And it is not consent if you obtain her agreement
by fraud . . . Unionists are now worried that her consent will be obtained by
fraud through a series of careful structurings.''

It seems a valid worry. Dr FitzGerald, after all, once said that as long as
consent was withheld, ''we are prepared to accept that decision. But we believe
we are entitled to work for that consent''. On the other hand, genuine Unionist
concern has been undermined by factionalism.

Unionist Man seems increasingly impatient with an inert centre. ''The collapse
of Empire and Commonwealth hasn't got through to the old guard of Unionism,''
Mark Wilson said. But his next statement contains the inevitable paradox. While
''the emphasis is on change within the party'', it is to the former Empire and
to the Commonwealth that Unionism now turns. ''We have sent people to America,
Australia and New Zealand, trying to persuade people there that it is an
extremely bad idea to raise money for the IRA.''

Terrorism unites Unionists against terrorism. But what if terrorism finally goes
away or is roundly defeated? It is at this point that Unionist Man begins to
twitch. Mr McLoughlin is unmarried and not a regular churchgoer, but when he has
children they will be raised as staunch Protestants. How would a united Ireland
diminish him?

''There's no abortion or contraception in the Republic.''

''But if the Republic amended its constitution to legalise these?

''Have you seen the roads down there? Full of pot-holes!''

''Let's say you fell in love with a wealthy Protestant girl from Wicklow and, on
marriage, she persuaded you to live in the Republic, raising your kids as
Protestants. How would you suffer?''

There was a long pause. ''That's a terrible hard question,'' he said. ''Is it a
trap?''

When I nodded, he laughed for a long time . . . but he never replied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            July 18, 1991, Thursday

TRAVELLING IN PEACE

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 157 words


Politicians and public figures from Britain and both sides of the Irish border
were on a "peace train" excursion today from Belfast to London.  The trip is an
extension of protests begun two years ago against IRA bomb attacks on the rail
link between the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland. It is also aimed at
highlighting terrorist attacks in Britain, including the bombing at London's
Victoria station in which a man died.  Representatives of Ulster's main
political parties - excluding Sinn Fein - were among 500 people joining the
first leg of the journey from Belfast to Dublin. Church and trade union leaders
plus figures from the theatrical world were also on board.  Later the
campaigners, together with supporters from the Irish Republic, were making a
ferry crossing to Holyhead and completing the trip to London by rail.  A rally
is planned at Westminster tomorrow and a peace conference is scheduled in London
on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 25, 1991, Thursday

Convictions deal major blow to terrorist group

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT and ADAM SAGE

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 816 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police believe they have achieved a breakthrough in the fight
against Sikh terrorists with yesterday's convictions at the Old Bailey.

They think Parmjit Singh Sidhu was second-in-command of an extremist Sikh
separatist group based in Britain.

Mr Justice Michael Wright said he was ''wholly satisfied'' Sidhu was a
high-ranking member of a terrorist group behind the attempt to obtain Semtex
explosive and assassinate moderate Sikhs in Britain. During the trial Sarkaria
and Binjie did their ''utmost'' to protect Sidhu.

The jury saw a video of Sidhu, made for extremist propaganda purposes, showing
him visiting a military training camp for Sikhs involved in the struggle in
Punjab and congratulating trainees.

Police believe his conviction is a major blow to the group behind attacks in
Britain and abroad. The group is a splinter of the International Sikh Youth
Federation (ISYF), the main separatist movement in the faction-ridden world of
Sikh politics in Britain. It opposes Indian rule in Punjab and wants a separate
and independent homeland for Sikhs called Khalistan. Extremists within the
organisation believe that using violence to achieve their aims is justified.
Detectives believe the extremists plotted to kill moderates like Beant Singh to
''teach them a lesson''.

ISYF members have been behind a number of terrorist attacks in the United
Kingdom. In 1987, Patrick Timlin, a former soldier, was jailed for a minimum of
30 years, and Gurmail Singh Basra, a member of the ISYF, received two life
sentences, for their part in a plot to kill Sikh moderates. Two years later,
Rajinder Singh Batth and Magit Singh Sunder, both ISYF members, were found
guilty of murdering the leader of a breakaway Sikh movement. Although it was
claimed that Sarkaria and Binjie were also militant members of the ISYF, Mr
Justice Wright said it was not clear to what extent their involvement was due to
their enthusiasm for the Khalistan cause. Both claimed they were not religious
people although Sarkaria knew a lot about problems in the Punjab.

The judge said it was clear she was partly motivated by a ''very considerable
greed for money''. Police believe Sarkaria met Sikh extremists during a visit to
India and, in an attempt to impress them for financial gain, said she could help
them. It is believed she told them she could obtain firearms and night vision
sights for them through her contacts in Britain. Later she agreed to get Semtex
which police believe was to be used in attacks in Punjab.

In an effort to fulfil her promises she made contact with two undercover police
officers who posed as hitmen. Police procedures in undercover operations were
tightened after accusations that officers in another case against Sikhs plotting
to kill Rajiv Gandhi, the former Indian prime minister, had breached Home Office
guidelines and acted as agents provocateurs. In the latest trial both officers,
known only as X and Y, presented the guidelines they had to follow in court. Mr
Justice Wright praised both for their courage.

Sarkaria told the officers six people were targeted, although only Beant Singh
was ever identified. It is believed he and other moderates were to be attacked
because they took part in a High Court action last year to regain control of the
Havelock Road temple in Southall, west London, from extremists.

Control of the temple, described as the biggest outside India, brings
considerable power and wealth. Its weekly income is pounds 8,000 a week, while
running expenses are pounds 2,000, Beant Singh said last night.

He said he had survived many attempts on his life as a result of the battles
over the temple. He receives regular visits from police who advise on his
safety. Some militants, although a small minority, were prepared to resort to
violence, he said.

He said Sidhu, Sarkaria and Binjie had virtually no support for their actions
within the British Sikh community, or the main body of ISYF members. ''Every
Sikh wants a separate country,'' but the vast majority believed this should be
achieved peacefully, he said.

Another source said Sidhu, Sarkaria and Binjie represented ''only themselves''.
He said there was limited support for the armed struggle in the Punjab but
almost no backing for violence in Britain. Sikhs, who had originally been split
over tactics, had been further fragmented by personality clashes.

In 1987, the ISYF split into two factions - a northern group based around Sikhs
in Birmingham, Derby and other cities, and a southern group based largely in
London. The rival groups battled each other to gain control of Sikh gurdwaras,
or temples. This rivalry has often erupted into open violence on the streets.

Once in control they could collect the congregational donations, estimated to
run into millions of pounds a year, which it is claimed are sent back to India
to fund the fighting in Punjab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             July 28, 1991, Sunday

Assad steals centre stage in Mid-east peace moves

BYLINE: by Marie Colvin, and Ian Glover-James, Jerusalem

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 981 words


IN HIS drab Eastern bloc-style offices in downtown Damascus, Hafez al-Assad, the
Syrian president, has a wall map depicting greater Syria. It includes the Golan
Heights and the ''provinces'' of Jordan, Lebanon and Palestine. In this wishful
piece of cartography, Israel does not exist.

The elimination of the Jewish state and the restoration of greater Syria has
been Assad's cherished dream for 21 years. Yet now he has declared a willingness
finally to embrace realpolitik and to make peace with Israel.

It is a remarkable, almost unbelievable, conversion for a man who once vowed to
destroy Israel, who ruthlessly suppresses dissent in his country and who was
once the scourge of Washington and London because of his sponsorship of
terrorism. From Tel Aviv to the White House, the question being asked is: can
Assad really be trusted?

The man Henry Kissinger once called ''the most interesting man in the Middle
East'' is one of the most wily and Machiavellian despots ever to appear on the
Middle East stage.

His recent realignment is the result of the Gulf war. Faced with the demise in
influence of the Kremlin, which used to support his regime, Assad has played his
cards flawlessly; his decision to allow Syrian troops to take part in the
American-led alliance against Iraq was enough to elevate him in the eyes of the
West from terrorist paymaster to international statesman.

It was Syria's agreement to attend a Middle East peace conference on terms
proposed by James Baker, the American secretary of state, that revived the
moribund peace process.

Assad, a tall and thoughtful man, is known for his secrecy and great patience:
he is used to getting what he wants and does not flinch from killing to get it.
In 1982, when faced with a Sunni uprising in the town of Hama, he sent in the
army which murdered 20,000 men, women and children. His sponsorship of terrorist
attacks includes the attempted bombing in London of an Israeli aircraft in 1986,
which caused Britain to cut diplomatic relations with Syria.

Assad has, however, correctly calculated that the world is as pragmatic as he
is: for years, Britain said relations could never be resumed unless Assad
disciplined one of his aides, Mohammed al-Khouli, who was said to have
masterminded the London operation. Diplomatic ties were restored, though, when
Assad's help was needed in the Gulf war even though Al-Khouli remained a close
adviser to the president.

Israel's worries about whether Assad can be trusted are hardly surprising. His
office is also adorned with a picture of Saladin, the Muslim leader who
conquered the Crusaders in the 12th century. Assad has often boasted that Israel
would one day suffer the same fate.

Assad must relish the pressure his participation in the peace process is putting
on Yitzhak Shamir, the taciturn Israeli prime minister, who is being urged by
the United States to issue a positive response. What makes Shamir hesitant is
his determination to resist territorial concessions to the Arabs. Should the
talks get under way, however, Shamir and Assad may find they have more in common
than their political beliefs would indicate. Like Assad, Shamir is also a loner
and deeply secretive.

Complicating things for Shamir is the way Baker has achieved solid Arab backing
for his plan, puncturing the Israeli notion that the Arabs are opposed to talks.
Shamir will play along, making as few concessions as possible. ''Shamir is a
fanatic strategically,'' says one analyst, ''but a pragmatist when it comes to
tactics.'' The Israeli prime minister knows that to reject Baker outright would
threaten the $10 billion he will ask for in aid from the United States in
September and would undermine American-Israeli relations.

Shamir must also consider his domestic situation. Polls last week showed that
more than 70% of Israelis want their country to join the peace process. Settlers
on the Golan Heights oppose it, but even there a near-heretical feeling is
growing. ''No price is too high to pay for peace,'' said one Israeli farmer.

The peace process may yet founder, as it did in 1989, over ho will represent the
Palestinians at the conference. Shamir has said he will not talk to any member
of the Palestine Liberation Organisation; the PLO has acquiesced and said the
delegation need not include its members. But Shamir has also rejected any
Palestinians from east Jerusalem, saying that their presence would compromise
Israel'sclaim that Jerusalem is not negotiable.

The Americans are trying to convince the Palestinians not to let Shamir off the
hook by refusing to enter talks without an east Jerusalem representative. The
issue is not as petty as it might see: east Jerusalem is the political and
cultural heart of the Palestinians in the occupied territory and home to many
people they consider their leaders.

The PLO is also showing some pragmatic leanings. Yasser Arafat, its chairman, is
under pressure from long- serving members to support the talks. He has few
places to turn. His unflagging support for Saddam Hussein has cut him off from
the West and isolated him from Arab states. And there is pressure closer to
home: a pragmatic programme put forward by a new Palestinian party headed by
Saleh al-Khalili could be looked on with favour in Washington.

Having led the Palestinian movement for some 30 years, Arafat feels frustrated
at having to give way. ''In the last 4 hours I have been under more pressure
than ever before in my life,'' Arafat said last week.

Even if the major pieces are in place, the process could drag on over small
matters. The Palestinians insist their flag must be on the table; Shamir has
demanded that the Jordanian-Palestinian delegation display only a Jordanian
flag. But Baker has left all parties little room to manoeuvre, arguing that it
does not matter why they come to the negotiating table, as long as they come.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             July 28, 1991, Sunday

British firms sold arms to Nidal

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 882 words


BRITISH defence companies sold millions of pounds worth of weapons to
international terrorists in deals financed through the collapsed Bank of Credit
and Commerce International (BCCI).

Royal Ordnance, one of Britain's biggest arms companies, and the defence divsion
of Pilkington, the glass manufacturer, were among at least six British firms
that supplied Abu Nidal and other Palestinian terrorists on credit from London
branches of the bank.

In the past decade, Abu Nidal, the world's most dangerous terrorist, is reported
to have made Pounds 60m profit from arms deals, including sales of British-made
equipment.

This money was used to finance a terror campaign that included 12 British
targets and claimed nine British lives overseas.

MI5, the security service, was aware of many of the transactions but allowed
them to go ahead in order to be able to track worldwide terrorist activities.

Some of the weapons were used by terrorists in attacks on civilians; othes were
sold at a profit through Abu Nidal's worldwide network of front companies.

The disclosures will provoke controversy over the role of the intelligence
services in allowing terrorists to finance their operations by trading on the
London arms market.

There is also a suggestion from a Home Office source that the Bank of England
may have been slow to close BCCI because intelligence agents were using it in
order to investigate the laundering of terrorist funds.

The Labour party said last night it would write to ministers demanding an
explanation and would also demand that the secret services be made accountable
to parliament.

Most of the weapons were shipped by Abu Nidal on false documents or with the
collaboration of sympathetic governments, unknown to the British firms involved.

A consignment of one Royal Ordnance weapon called Arwen, capable of firing
plastic bullets and CS gas grenades, was ordered by Sierra Leone in 1985. But
the weapons were sent to the German Democratic Republic where they were shared
between state police and the Abu Nidal Organisation (ANO).

Andrew Jeacock, a Royal Ordnance spokesman, said last night that the weapons
were covered by a licence from the Department of Trade and Industry.

''I am absolutely shocked to learn about this. We knew about the shipment but we
thought it was going to Africa,'' he said.

PE Pilkington, which makes high-technology equipment for the Ministry of
Defence, supplied without realising an order of sophisticated telescopic
night-sights, called Snipe, to a representative of SAS Trading and Investments,
one of Abu Nidal's front companies, in 1986.

Philip Webb, a Pilkington spokesman, said: ''We know nothing of the claim but
now you have brought it to our attention we are in the process of a thorough
investigation.''

Other companies that unwittingly dealt with Abu Nidal's organisation included
Titan International Freight, an arms trading company based in Rochester, Kent;
Field Arms Ltd, a London-based supplier of small arms, now dissolved; and
Aircraft Equipment International of Ascot, two of whose directors were fined for
selling aircraft parts to Iran in 1988.

Most of the deals were financed on BCCI guarantees and letters of credit lodged
at the bank's branches in Hyde Park and Sloane Street, London. Many weapons were
distributed through Abu Nidal's network of representatives in Warsaw, Cyprus,
East Germany and Panama.

In one deal in 1988, Titan arranged the Pounds 43m sale of missiles, tanks and
artillery to Chad through Monzer al-Kassar, an arms dealer who worked with Abu
Nidal. The commission on this deal alone would have been about Pounds 6m.

Field Arms, until recently based in Mayfair, sold up to Pounds 15,000 of small
arms whichsecurity sources say ended up in the hands of Abu Nidal's terrorists.
Again the finance came from BCCI.

British intelligence learned of the arms deals by monitoring BCCI banking
transactions. In what sources say was a significant coup in penetrating
terrorist groups, MI5 recruited two managers at BCCI's Sloane Street branch in
1986. The informants supplied details of 42 accounts used by 11 terrorists and
arms dealers.

By tracing movements of funds through the accounts, it is claimed that British
intelligence was able to prevent attacks and solve terrorist crimes.

One BCCI account belonged to Yasser Haider, one of Syria's senior military
intelligence officers, who co-ordinated Palestinian terrorist cells in Europe.

In 1986, Nezir Hindawi, one of Haider's agents, hid a bomb in the luggage of his
pregnant Irish girlfriend, who was boarding an El Al jumbo jet at Heathrow.

Britain later severed diplomatic ties with Syria after tracing payments from
Syrian intelligence officers to Hindawi through Haider's BCCI account.

Robin Leigh-Pemberton, governor of the Bank of England, has confirmed Insight's
report of last Sunday, which first revealed links between Abu Nidal and BCCI.
Leigh-Pemberton told MPs he had been informed of the suspect accounts in 1988.

A spokesman for John Major, the prime minister, said the terrorist accounts
would form part of the judicial inquiry into BCCI that is to be carried out by
Lord Justice Bingham.

Accounts belonging to 125,000 British investors remain frozen after BCCI was
closed without warning on July 5.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Bank of Credit and Commerce International; Insight

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 3, 1991, Saturday

Britain seeks extradition of IRA bomb suspect

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 145 words


THE GOVERNMENT is seeking the extradition from Germany of a Northern Ireland man
after a court trying him and another man on IRA bombing charges decided there
was insufficient evidence to hold them in custody.

The Northern Ireland Office said yesterday that a warrant had been issued for
the extradition of Gerard Hanratty, 32, from Andersonstown, west Belfast, who is
wanted by the RUC for alleged firearms offences.

On Wednesday, Hanratty and Terence McGeough, 33, from Dungannon, Co Tyrone, were
told by the special terrorism court in Dusseldorf that warrants for their
detention on charges relating to the bombing of an army barracks in July 1988
were being lifted because of a lack of evidence.

Although both men were technically freed, Hanratty was immediately re-arrested
because of the British extradition warrant and McGeough faces another charge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 4, 1991, Sunday

Nuclear alarm as subs are dumped at Rosyth

BYLINE: by John Rowland

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1147 words


Deadly duo: nuclear submarines Dreadnought, bottom, and Swiftsure sit in
Rosyth's dry dockPhotographs by Ciaran Donnelly

Silent threat: Churchill had part of its conning tower taken away in the last
six weeks to remove radioactive fuel rods

ROSYTH, the naval base saved from closure last month, has become the graveyard
of a generation of obsolete nuclear submarines which the navy does not know what
to do with.

Aerial photographs taken by The Sunday Times Scotland last week reveal for the
first time that Rosyth, due to house the navy's newest Trident submarines, will
also be the resting place for its oldest boats.

It is a controversial solution adopted reluctantly by the navy which, until last
year, intended to scuttle the old boats at sea. That option was banned last year
by the London Dumping Convention, the meeting of foreign ministers which agreed
to keep radioactive waste out of the world's oceans.

Time is running out for the earliest nuclear submarines. Up to seven are out of
service, victims of reactor faults which experts say will lead to their
scrapping, and the move to Rosyth has started as the queue of suspect vessels
lengthens.

Within the last six weeks, two elderly boats, Swiftsure and Churchill, have
nosed their way into the base to join Dreadnought, the navy's first
nuclear-powered vessel, launched shortly after the Cuban missile crisis of 1962
and scrapped seven years ago.

Conqueror, the navy submarine which sunk the Argentinian cruiser General
Belgrano killing more than 500, is expected to arrive shortly.

She and Warspite, both obsolete, are being fitted with towing hooks ready for a
final journey from Devonport which defence analysts believe will end at Rosyth.

The slow build-up has alarmed MPs and local families, many of whom live on
housing estates within half a mile of the base. They want the Ministry of
Defence to make a full statement on nuclear submarine storage and are demanding
outside inspections of hulks to monitor radiation levels.

Alex Falconer, Euro MP for mid Scotland and Fife, is convinced Rosyth is the
final destination of boats due for decommissioning. He said the base should
accept only those such as Dreadnought, which was based there during its working
life.''We have a responsibility for getting rid of our own waste, but not for
getting rid of other people's, and that includes Swiftsure and Churchill.''

The future of the decaying fleet was temporarily forgotten last month as Tom
King, the defence secretary, announced the reprieve of Rosyth to cheers from
Scottish MPs in the Commons.

But as he spoke, workmen were hacking the conning tower off Churchill and
lifting out radioactive fuel rods to be taken by rail to the Sellafield nuclear
re-processing plant. The boat then was moved out of dry dock and tied to a wharf
behind the walls of the basin which guards the base entrance from the Firth of
Forth.

Swiftsure followed into the same dry dock to lie nose to nose with Dreadnought.
The MoD last night confirmed that plans to refit Swiftsure had been postponed
and a spokesman said she may be scrapped as part of defence cuts. A decision on
other old submarines belonging to the Churchill and Swiftsure classes is
expected by Christmas.

The MoD spokesman denied that Renown, a Polaris submarine also berthed at
Rosyth, is to be scrapped and said it is expected to return to sea next year
after a refit.

John Large, a nuclear engineer, said: ''It looks as if Rosyth could be the
graveyard of the nuclear submarines.'' He believes a design fault in the nuclear
reactors of the Churchill and Swiftsure class boats, built before 1975, means
all seven will be scrapped.

At Rosyth there will be ample room. The reprieve announced by King means the
four type-42 destroyers based there will shortly move south to Portsmouth. Once
HMS Liverpool, the last type-42 in dry dock, departs, the berths will be left
free for submarines.

Further space is being added to accommodate Trident, the first of which is due
to enter service in three years.

But Large is concerned at the risks of mothballing the submarines at a site so
close to housing. Fire, or terrorist attack, could force the evacuation of homes
within two miles of the port.

If fire broke out, people would receive the maximum permitted yearly dose of
radiation in half an hour by inhalation, he explained.

That risk will remain for the next 20 years. It will take at least two decades
for radioactivity levels to fall sufficiently for a start to be made on
dismantling the reactors of Churchill, Dreadnought and the sister ships.

Even then the future is uncertain. The navy cannot guarantee the submarines will
be broken up. Radiation from each reactor is so intense that robots must be used
for dismantling work, and these have yet to be invented.

Several options are open. The plan favoured most is to encase the submarines in
concrete and sink them deep in the ocean, in defiance of the London Dumping
Convention ban.

A ministry official emphasised that the moratorium on disposing of nuclear waste
at sea was voluntary, and had not been accepted by Britain.

But this method would attract fierce criticism from overseas and from
environmental groups at home, which claim that the vessels could not be
monitored or retrieved if radioactivity was released.

The alternative of burying submarines in shallow graves on ministry land has
foundered following the failure of a feasibility study to identify a suitable
site.

The ministry may instead decide to dismantle the submarines and bury the pieces
in a deep repository planned for Sellafield. But this increases the risk of
contamination to workers.

The debate has not impressed Greenpeace, the environment campaigners, who accuse
the MoD of complacency. ''They have had nearly 40 years to think about this
problem and they are no nearer a solution,'' said Janet Convery, an anti-nuclear
campaigner.

Renewed uncertainty about the future of Rosyth is not welcome in the small
semi-detached homes of dock workers and servicemen clustered around the base.

Caroline Harrison, a naval wife, led a women's campaign against closure of the
base. She said: ''We really need to go into this and find out how it will effect
us. I would like it to be made public. We do not want these things hushed up.''

John McFall, Labour MP for Dumbarton, said more nuclear submarines will increase
the number of workers exposed to radiation. ''It will put pressure on manpower,
especially to keep radiation levels down.''

Until now, he added, Rosyth workers have avoided the excessive radiation doses
received by tradesmen refitting nuclear submarines at Devonport.

But the risks remain. Dreadnought is slowly being eaten by rust and is leaking
radioactive water through her bilges. Last week she was awaiting a clean up to
get rid of the weeds on her hull which are making it worse.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Scotland

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 12, 1991, Monday

Armalite and ballot box are failing in their aim; As the republican marching
season begins in Belfast, David McKittrick, Ireland Correspondent, reports on
the no-win reality facing Sinn Fein and the IRA

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 675 words


THE IRA is better armed than ever, but there is no sign of it making progress
towards its political aim of forcing a British withdrawal from Northern Ireland.

Indeed, the Anglo-Irish Agreement has brought about a new relationship between
the British and Irish governments, a major component of which is the joint
determination to ensure the IRA and Sinn Fein do not succeed. The republicans
are now the only significant part of the nationalist spectrum to call for a
British withdrawal; Dublin gives greater priority to dealing with the IRA than
to realising its longer-term political aspirations.

However, the IRA is active in many areas, and has a presence in Britain and in
continental Europe. It only has to strike in one ''theatre of war'' to give the
general impression that it is successful in all of them.

A month ago, Hugh Annesley, Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary,
warned that the terrorist threat was particularly high and described the
immediate outlook as grim. Some 500 extra troops were flown into Northern
Ireland in June, and the RUC is pressing for 400 more officers. All the signs
point to more violence in the months ahead.

In some cases, the security forces create their own difficulties by increasing
friction with the public. Two months ago, three IRA volunteers who were ambushed
in Co Tyrone by undercover troops died in a burning car. According to more than
one non- republican source, police officers routinely asked motorists at local
roadblocks whether they had ''enjoyed the barbecue''.

In political terms, Sinn Fein continues to represent a useful adjunct. It has
dozens of councillors in Northern Ireland who regularly make news and stay in
the public eye. The Sinn Fein vote went up in the most recent elections in its
west Belfast heartland. The Westminster seat held by Gerry Adams looks safe for
him.

The broader picture, however, is that while the republican machine may be able
to keep functioning indefinitely, there is no sign of it making progress towards
its aim of forcing a British withdrawal. Republican durability has been
established, but so too has the consistency of opposition of the many elements
who oppose its purpose and methods.

Sinn Fein may be strong in Belfast, but it has contracted in many other areas.
In the republic, it has no representatives in the Dail, only a few councillors,
and its already tiny vote is now tending towards zero. The strong reaction
recently when the IRA shot dead a farmer in the republic demonstrated the
southern fear of a spillover of the northern troubles.

Before the launching of the Brooke talks, there were many warnings that if the
talks failed the initiative would pass to the men of violence. But although the
talks wound up without success, there is little sense that Sinn Fein have been
beneficiaries of the exercise. Militarily, the IRA remains a menace, but even
here it has limitations. Its sympathisers have shown themselves unwilling to
accept certain types of violence, such as the use of ''human bombs''.

Pessimistic observers hold that the IRA and Sinn Fein will continue as before,
keeping up the violence in the Micawber-like hope that something will turn up to
transform the situation.

More upbeat observers, by contrast, believe that republican leaders will at some
stage confront the fact that although they are not going to be beaten, they are
not going to win.

At that point, the theory runs, they will call off a campaign which has become
an exercise in lethal futility.

For the first time, the RUC in Belfast yesterday permitted part of the annual
republican anti-

internment march to pass through the city centre on its way from south to west
Belfast. There were no serious incidents. Several thousand people attended the
Falls rally.

In an unusual development, Mr Adams told the rally he wanted to appeal to
Unionists, whom he described as ''our brothers and sisters'', to join with Sinn
Fein in building a future. He warned Unionists that the British government would
one day dump them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 13, 1991, Tuesday

Baker is reviewing Judith Ward case

BYLINE: By HEATHER MILLS and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 458 words


THE HOME SECRETARY is reviewing the case of Judith Ward, jailed for life for the
1974 IRA bombing of a coach carrying soldiers and their families, it emerged
yesterday.

Twelve people, including a mother, two children and nine soldiers, died in the
blast on the M62 in Yorkshire. At the time it was the IRA's worst atrocity.

Kenneth Baker is understood to be considering new material surrounding the
scientific evidence which formed a major plank of the prosecution case.

It apparently centres on the testimony of Dr Frank Skuse, whose ''Greiss'' tests
for nitroglycerine were called into question in the case of the Birmingham Six.
It emerged that soap would have produced the same ''positive'' results that he
obtained for nitroglycerine.

Dr Skuse carried out similar tests in Ward's case which were said to show traces
of explosives on her hands, her ring and her bag. The Home Secretary is also
considering a dossier on the case prepared by her solicitors.

After the release of the Birmingham Six one of them, Billy Power, asked: ''Why
is it that Judith Ward is still in prison, and we are released? She should be
released as soon as possible.'' She is not treated as a republican prisoner.

Mr Baker yesterday refused to comment as, coincidentally, he visited the
Metropolitan Police forensic science laboratory, in south London. It is open to
him to refer the case straight to the Court of Appeal or to order a further
police investigation, as he has done recently in the case of two of the three
men convicted of the murder of PC Keith Blakelock at Broadwater Farm in north
London.

The Home Office started looking at Ward's case and that of the Birmingham Six
after doubts were raised at the public inquiry conducted by Sir John May over
some scientific tests and procedures relied on in the early Seventies. Sir
John's discoveries led to the quashing earlier this year of convictions of the
Maguire family for handling explosives.

Although Ward, the longest serving woman prisoner convicted of Irish terrorism
in Britain or Ireland, has never appealed against her conviction, there has for
some time been concern about the evidence against her. It consisted of
contradictory confessions and the scientific tests, which then enjoyed a great
deal of credibility. She has generally not been in favour of a campaign to
reopen her case. After a 22-day trial at Wakefield Crown Court she received 12
life sentences and other sentences totalling 30 years.

During her trial, the Guildford pub bombings took place and her supporters claim
that contributed to an atmosphere of hostility. After she was jailed the IRA
issued a statement saying that she had nothing to do with the explosions and was
not a member of the organisation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 1, 1991, Sunday

IRA ADMITS BEING BEHIND MAINLAND BOMBING CAMPAIGN

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin and Alison Little, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 331 words


The IRA today claimed responsibility for five bombing attacks and confirmed
fears of a new terror campaign on the mainland.  It admitted planting an
incendiary device found unexploded on Saturday at a bookshop in London's Charing
Cross Road.  A statement issued by the terrorist organisation in Dublin also
admitted it had been behind a number of other recent incidents - including an
attack on a pub in Charing Cross Road and in a Manchester shopping centre, and
the discovery of unexploded devices in Preston, Lancashire and on a London
underground train last week.  IRA "active service units" were said to have been
responsible for all the incidents.  Forensic experts were today examining the
incendiary device found at Bargain Books of Oxford in Charing Cross Road.  The
device, contained in a small cassette-tape type box, was similar in construction
to those found earlier this year in the other incidents.  A Yard spokesman said:
"The head of the anti-terrorist branch, Commander George Churchill-Coleman has
warned retailers and the public to remain vigilant and alert to these and other
types of terrorist incidents." In its statement, the IRA warned that similar
attacks would be maintained as long as Britain stayed in Northern Ireland.  The
statement read: "An active service unit of the IRA placed the device which was
discovered in the Oxford Book Shop in Charing Cross Road, in central London, on
Saturday.  "Our volunteers also placed devices which exploded in the Cambridge
Pub, in Charing Cross Road, last month and in the Manchester Shopping Centre in
April. "The munitions discovered in Preston in April and in the Hammersmith
underground rail depot last week, were also under the control of our active
service units.  "The IRA again serves notice on the British government that as
long as Irish people continue to suffer under British occupation of part of our
national territory, then attacks such as these will continue on their territory
and elsewhere."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 17, 1991, Tuesday

Sinn Fein man killed at college

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 372 words


A SINN FEIN councillor was murdered yesterday by a gunman in the grounds of the
college where he was a lecturer in business studies.

Bernard O'Hagan, 37, a father of three, was shot dead as he got out of his car
at the further education college in Magherafelt, Co Londonderry.

The outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters admitted killing Mr O'Hagan. It claimed he
was an IRA officer and had been involved in organising IRA ''active service
units'' in Britain. This allegation was denied by Sinn Fein.

Mr O'Hagan was the fourth member of Sinn Fein killed since May by loyalist
groups, who in recent times have targeted republicans such as him, as well as
Catholics chosen at random.

Mr O'Hagan represented the Sperrin area on Magherafelt council. He is the second
Sinn Fein member on the council killed by the UFF. The previous victim, in 1989,
was John Joe Davey.

The murder confirmed that appeals from churchmen and politicians for terrorists
to call off the tit-for-tat round of sectarian murders have gone unheeded.

The killing provoked a round of condemnation and outrage, and a split between
the two Unionist parties.

Ken Maginnis, MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone, the Ulster Unionist party
security spokesman, said all murder was wrong. ''There is no right target for
murder.''

But the Rev Robert McCrea, MP for Mid Ulster and a member of the Rev Ian
Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party, said: ''He who lives by the sword often
dies by the sword.''

He said Mr O'Hagan believed ''firmly in the right of the IRA to carry on its
murderous deeds and without apology stood for the policy of the Armalite in one
hand and the ballot box in the other''.

In Belfast yesterday, the funeral took place of a Catholic shot dead by
loyalists as he worked on his car. Kevin Flood was killed in the early hours of
last Friday.

Three women were injured in two incidents last night.

A woman and a girl suffered superficial wounds when IRA gunmen opened fire on a
house in Tildarg Road on the outskirts of west Belfast.

The IRA said their target - a man - escaped.

In a loyalist area in the north of the city a woman was injured by flying glass
when shots were fired at a house.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 2, 1991, Wednesday

Pub bombs police face perjury charges

BYLINE: By HEATHER MILLS, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 581 words


THE FORMER detective who headed the police investigation into the 1974
Birmingham pub bombings, which ended in one of Britain's gravest miscarriages of
justice, faces charges of perjury and conspiracy to pervert the course of
justice.

Detective Superintendent George Reade and three other retired West Midlands
officers, Detective Sergeant Colin Morris and Detective Constables Terence
Woodwiss and Rex Langford, are to appear before a Bow Street magistrate in
London next month.

The decision to charge the officers comes seven months after the Court of Appeal
freed the six men wrongly imprisoned for the IRA bombing of two Birmingham city
centre pubs, in which 21 people were killed. The charges followed an
investigation into the affair by Devon and Cornwall police.

Yesterday one of the Six, Hugh Callaghan, who like the others served more than
16 years in prison, greeted the news with reservations: ''What about the 20
other officers? Devon and Cornwall police have never come to me and asked me
what happened at the hands of the officers.''

Chris Mullin, the Labour MP who campaigned for the men's release, said: ''You
have to have dropped off a Christmas tree from a great height to believe that
what happened in the Birmingham case was the work of four police officers, three
of them rather junior.''

Twenty-five West Midlands officers were questioned during the inquiry. But a
spokeswoman for Sir Allan Green, the Director of Public Prosecutions, said
yesterday: ''The DPP has concluded that there is insufficient evidence to
justify proceedings against any other person in this connection.''

Mr Reade would not comment on the case yesterday. But he, like the other
officers, is expected to contest the allegations fiercely.

Mr Callaghan and the five others, Richard McIlkenny, Paddy Hill, Billy Power,
Gerry Hunter and Johnny Walker, were jailed for life in 1975 as a result of
scientific tests purporting to show that two of them had traces of
nitroglycerine on their hands and confessions which the men claimed were beaten
out of them by police.

The DPP's office could not say last night why it had been decided to summon the
four officers to a London court when it was a West Midlands case investigated by
Devon and Corwall police.

Last June, Ronald Bartle, the Bow Street stipendiary magistrate, threw out
charges of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice against three Surrey
officers in the Guildford case. He said publicity and delays in bringing the
charges meant the officers could not get a fair trial. The DPP is seeking to
challenge the ruling.

The quashing of the Birmingham convictions soon after the uncovering of the
miscarriages of justice that sent the innocent Maguire family and the Guildford
Four to jail prompted Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, to set up a Royal
Commission to examine the criminal justice system.

News of the charges yesterday came on the eve of an unprecedented appearance by
a government minister at the judicial inquiry examining the Maguire case.
Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, is to give evidence to Sir John May about
his involvement in the case as Home Secretary between 1984 and 1989.

He will be asked why he and his department failed to intervene, despite growing
indications that the scientific evidence which convicted the family was flawed,
and on the wider issue of whether the Home Office should take a more
investigative role when faced

with allegations of a miscarriage of justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 1991

Bomb suspect 'left 24 prints'

BYLINE: By JOHN MULLIN

LENGTH: 294 words


SCIENTIFIC tests showed there were 24 separate instances of fingerprints
belonging to Desmond Ellis on a cache of bomb-making equipment discovered two
years after an IRA bombing campaign in London, an Old Bailey jury was told
yesterday.

David Jeffreys QC, for the prosecution, said Mr Ellis's prints were found on a
radio transmitter, two encoders, a long term delay time and power unit, and
seven incendiary devices discovered by chance in October 1983 near Pangbourne,
Berkshire.


Thirteen of the prints were found on the adhesive side of tape used in various
devices, according to evidence outlined by Mr Jeffreys. A further four prints
were on tape used internally in fire bombs to attach the bag holding the
incendiary powder.

Forensic evidence linked the Pangbourne cache with five bomb attacks in London
which killed three people in the autumn of 1981.

Mr Jeffreys, completing his opening speech, said: 'When you look at the places
where his fingerprints were found you must ask the question - can they have got
there innocently?

'Can they have got there in a way other than in the course of making bombs or
helping in the making of bombs, or at least the handling of bomb-making material
even if he did not personally make them?'

Mr Ellis, aged 39, denies conspiracy to cause explosions and possessing
explosives between January 1, 1981, and October 27, 1983.

Mr Jeffreys said the Crown had no evidence to show Mr Ellis was in mainland
Britain at the time of the campaign, but that did not diminish his
responsibility as part of the conspiracy.

Mr Jeffreys suggested Mr Ellis's prints had got on the items 'during the first
few months of 1981 - certainly before the bombing campaign in London'.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 20, 1991, Sunday

BOOK REVIEW / The revised version of mighty Blighty; The Myth of the Blitz by
Angus Calder, Cape pounds 18

BYLINE: By BLAKE MORRISON

SECTION: THE SUNDAY REVIEW PAGE; Page 37

LENGTH: 711 words


WE ALL know the myth: the bombs raining down on London for 76 consecutive
nights; the cheery Cockneys sleeping soundly in the Underground; St Paul's
riding high above the smoke and devastation; the evacuees shocking their genteel
country hosts with headlice and demands for mugs of beer; the spirit of Taking
It and Pulling Together and Carrying On and (until Pearl Harbour) Standing
Alone. If we know the myth so well, even those of us too young to have lived
through it, that's partly because of the memories of parents and grandparents,
partly because of newsreels, and partly because of the definitive book on the
subject, Angus Calder's The People's War, itself now 22 years old.

Calder intended his book to challenge easy assumptions that the Second World War
helped to make Britain a more just, less class- divided society. Yet he has gone
on worrying that for many readers his book merely confirmed the myth. The Myth
of the Blitz is his answer to that - a piece of self-correction and
self-deconstruction.

By ''myth'' Calder does not mean that there has been a cover-up or Soviet-style
falsification of evidence. His point is that the Blitz, like Dunkirk or the
Battle of Britain, has become a fable of national identity - we cherish the
notion that out of adversity the British people found deep reserves of courage
and endurance which enabled them to save the world. And though there is much
truth in this, he questions the myth's complacent grandiosity.

Was it really true, for example, that Britain stood alone? No. Britain depended
heavily on the US for arms and resources; without Roosevelt and lend-lease, it
couldn't have afforded to go on fighting; and whatever Britain's moral victory,
after 1945 world ascendancy passed to the US. Was it true that everyone in our
island pulled together? No. There were 60,000 conscientious objectors; there
were Scottish and Welsh nationalists, communists, too, reluctant to defend
''English imperialism''; there were thousands of aliens, nervously interned by
the authorities; and then there was the other island, whose Republican wing
carried out terrorist attacks in British cities. Was it true that morale stood
consistently high? No. People panicked, ran away, suffered depression, felt let
down by the government. Were class conflicts set aside for the duration? No.
More days were lost through strikes in 1942 than in 1939, and some workers
complained that the ''real Nazis'' were their bosses.

To demythologise can be begrudging, nit-picking work. It can also seem
unpatriotic, and Calder's defensiveness about this turns belligerent in the very
first sentence, when he speaks, provokingly, of the ''Malvinas'' war of 1981 (as
well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb). But he comes to praise as well as bury,
paying tribute, for example, to the courage of Bomber Command, half of whose
crews (some 55,000) were killed, and pointing out that it has never been
properly commemorated because the myth cannot accommodate the idea that British
pilots knowingly killed foreign civilians.

The best parts of the book show how poets, novelists, artists and film-makers
all helped contribute to the myth. Calder detects a Churchillian rhetoric in the
language of Eliot's Four Quartets (''Now and in England'', ''For us there is
only the trying'', etc); he discusses the films of Humphrey Jennings, the
journalism of Ed Murrow (whose columns helped sell the Brits to America). He
shows how images of a ''deep England'' appealed to national pride and sentiment,
and he refashions some of these images: a photo showing women running an RAF ops
room is juxtaposed with a conventionally romanticising one of a lone male pilot.

Is the myth of the Blitz waning? Calder thinks it may be: the fall of Margaret
Thatcher, the low-key mood during the Gulf War, the move towards Europe - all
this suggests we have put jingoistic isolationism behind us. He has mixed
feelings about this: ''Sentimental as it may seem to present the English as
mild, quiet people with great reserves of patience and tolerance, there was a
lot to recommend this national ideal over any encouraged, between about 1850 and
1918, by proponents of imperial expansion.'' The myth is dead, Calder seems to
be saying, long live the myth!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 24, 1991

Bomb charge man admits IRA work

LENGTH: 392 words


ALLEGED IRA conspirator Desmond Ellis took no part in a terrorist bombing
campaign plot in England in the early 1980s, an Old Bailey court was told
yesterday. He told the court he thought mainland bombings were
counterproductive.

He did work for the IRA in Dublin in 1980 and was jailed for eight years for his
activities, said his counsel, Geoffrey Robertson QC.


Mr Ellis, aged 39, came from a family of Irish nationalists and was approached
by the Provisional IRA in October 1980 to 'help the boys by holding some
equipment'.

He arranged for some bomb-making equipment to be kept at his sister's home.
Later he was asked to help more directly.

'His role was to check the explosive devices which had been made by others
before they went from Dublin to the north where he was told and assumed they
were going and very clearly did go.'

He was arrested on May 13, 1981, and sent to prison. 'What he was doing was
thoroughly unlawful. He deserved to be punished and he was,' said Mr Robertson.

Mr Ellis, from Finglas, Dublin, denies conspiring with others to cause
explosions likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to property in the UK
between January 1, 1981, and October 27, 1983.

The prosecution alleges that although Mr Ellis never set foot on the mainland,
his fingerprints were found on devices discovered in a cache near Pangbourne,
Berkshire, which was linked with explosions in London in October and November
1981.

Mr Robertson said: 'Mr Ellis is accused of being a member of an IRA gang which
bombed England in 1981. He was not a member of that gang - was not a member of
that conspiracy.'

Mr Ellis told the court he had had no knowledge of any planned IRA bombing
campaign in England.

Asked if he ever agreed with anyone that any item on which he worked should be
sent to England, Mr Ellis replied: 'Definitely I did not.'

Mr Robertson told the jury there was no direct link between any of the
explosions in London and anything which Mr Ellis had allegedly touched.

Cross-examined by David Jeffreys QC, Mr Ellis told the jury he had always felt
attacks on mainland Britain were counter-productive. 'All I knew was that I was
helping the IRA and the total help at the end of the day would be that at some
stage Britain would be pushed out of Northern Ireland.'

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 24, 1991, Thursday

Bombs trial man denies knowing of IRA plot

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 9

LENGTH: 492 words


THE alleged IRA conspirator Desmond Ellis told an Old Bailey court yesterday
that he had ''no idea whatsoever'' of any plan to set off bombs in Britain in
the early Eighties.

Cross-examined by David Jeffreys QC, Mr Ellis said he had always felt that
attacks on mainland Britain were counter-productive.

Mr Jeffreys asked what he thought the targets were to be of bombs that he helped
to make in Dublin. Mr Ellis replied: ''I only helped with certain items. All I
knew was that I was helping the IRA and the total help at the end of the day
would be that at some stage Britain would be pushed out of Northern Ireland.''

Earlier, his counsel, Geoffrey Robertson QC, told the court that Mr Ellis, 39,
had worked for the IRA in 1980, in Dublin, where he was arrested and jailed for
eight years. ''He was approached by the Provisional IRA in October 1980 and
asked would he help the boys by holding some equipment. By the end of 1980 he
made a decision to help . . . He arranged for some bomb-making equipment to be
kept at his sister's home.

''Having performed that service once he was asked to repeat it and then to help
more directly. His role was to check the explosive devices which had been made
by others before they went from Dublin to the north where he was told and
assumed they were going and very clearly did go, until he was arrested on May
13, 1981, and sent to prison.''

Ellis obviously handled many items during the time he helped the IRA as a
quality controller, Mr Robertson told the jury. ''What he was doing was
thoroughly unlawful. He deserved to be punished and he was.''

Mr Ellis, from Finglas, Dublin, denies conspiring with others to cause
explosions likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to property in the UK
between 1 January 1981, and 27 October 1983. The judge has told the jury to
forget about a second charge, alleging possession of explosives, as it added
nothing to the first charge.

The prosecution alleges that although Mr Ellis never set foot in England, his
fingerprints were found on devices discovered in a cache near Pangbourne,
Berkshire. The cache had clear links with events in London in October and
November 1981, when four bombs exploded and one was made safe, the prosecution
says.

Mr Robertson said the question was whether the jury was satisfied beyond
reasonable doubt that the object of Mr Ellis's assistance to the IRA was to
cause explosions in England.

Mr Ellis told the court he had no knowledge of any planned IRA bombing campaign
in England on his arrest in Dublin. He was told the devices he handled and
worked on in Dublin were destined for Northern Ireland. Asked if he ever agreed
with anyone that any item on which he worked should be sent to England, he
replied: ''Definitely I did not.''

Mr Robertson told the jury there was no direct link between any of the
explosions in London and anything which Mr Ellis had allegedly touched.

The trial continues today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 1991

Media: A piercing silence - On the third anniversary of Britain's broadcasting
ban, Chris Bryson reviews a study on the erosion of civil liberties in the UK /
Censorship

BYLINE: By CHRIS BRYSON

LENGTH: 626 words


DURING a period when many citizens of eastern European and Latin American
nations have won unprecedented political freedoms, there has been a 'marked
change for the worse in the climate for liberty in the United Kingdom',
according to a major study released last week by a New York-based international
human rights group. In accounting for this worsening climate, the report points
the finger at the lack of a written constitution guaranteeing freedom of
expression.

The 66-page report, entitled Restricted Subjects, is published by the Fund for
Free Expression, a division of the international monitoring group Human Rights
Watch which issues frequent reports on human rights conditions around the world.
The report details the widespread erosion of civil liberties that have occurred
in Britain, particularly during the latter part of the eighties.


Among other things it reviews the 1988 expansion of police powers to control and
prevent public assembly, governmental interference in television interviews and
documentaries, political vetting of community organisations in Northern Ireland,
the Prevention of Terrorism Acts and Section 28 of the Local Government Act.

'Whether you are talking about official secrecy or libel or regulation of
broadcasting or so-called terrorism-related offences, and any number of other
areas, Britain falls far short of where it ought to be in terms of compliance
with internationally recognised standards for freedom of expression,' says Gara
La Marsh, executive director of the Fund for Free Expression and author of the
report.

Restricted Subjects is one of a series of 1991 Human Rights Watch reports
investigating Britain's record. A February report condemned Britain for
detaining Arabs for deportation during the Gulf war. Earlier this month, Human
Rights in Northern Ireland documented human rights abuses by all parties to the
Irish conflict. A November report will investigate conditions in British
prisons.

Human Rights Watch has turned its attention to Britain because many countries,
particularly in the Commonwealth, justify their own repressive actions by
pointing to the British example, according to La Marsh. He cites the South
African President P W Botha's praise in 1988 for the ban on broadcast interviews
with some Northern Ireland groups. 'Things have changed pretty substantially in
South Africa in the last year or so,' La Marsh says. 'Unfortunately, the
broadcast ban is still in effect.'

Although Restricted Subjects endorses no specific structural reform, such as the
incorporation of the European Convention of Human Rights into British law, La
Marsh notes that most other Western nations have a written constitution. In the
US, the 200-year-old Bill of Rights lists freedom of expression as a citizen's
first right. A government broadcast ban on subversive interviews would be
unlikely in the US because the First Amendment to the Bill of Rights would
enable court challenges. 'Britain is not inherently a more repressive place,'
says La Marsh. 'But when repression happens, the remedy is less clear than in
other places.'

Recommendations made by the report include:

- Repeal of the Official Secrets Act, or modification to allow a legal defence
that publication serves the public interest.

- Reform of the defamation laws to provide a higher burden of proof for public
figures.

- Revision of the Public Order Act to recognise an affirmative right to
peaceable assembly.

- Rescission of the Northern Ireland Broadcasting Ban and reform of the
broadcasting law to insulate TV and radio from government interference with
content.

Restricted Subjects available from Human Rights Watch, 90 Borough High Street,
London SE1 1LL. Price pounds 3.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 28, 1991, Monday

Rights and Wrongs: Freedoms under threat as legal curbs grow

BYLINE: BY CAROLINE MOOREHEAD

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 833 words


A MAN OF 20 whose home lies in a republican area of Belfast was arrested
recently as he walked off a boat in Scotland.

He was searched, photographed, fingerprinted and put into a cell for 48 hours.
He was then informed that he would have to stay a further 48 hours; then another
14.

As he was at last set free he was served with an order excluding him from the
whole of the United Kingdom, except Northern Ireland, for ''instigating or
participating in acts of terrorism''. During the entire 110 hours of his
detention, no one had asked him a single question about terrorism.

About 100 exclusion orders of British citizens, the Home Office says, are in
force. Ninety-five of them exclude people from Great Britain or the United
Kingom as a whole, the rest from Northern Ireland. Under the Immigration Act of
1971, the Home Secretary equally has the authority to deport non-British
citizens: between November 1990 and January this year, 180 people from the
Middle East were instructed to leave. They had no right of appeal.

These exclusion orders are cited in a new human rights report as examples of the
way in which the United Kingdom is fast losing its famous climate of civil
liberty. Restricted Subjects: Freedom of Expression in the United Kingdom,
published today by the Fund for Free Expression in New York, paints an
uncomfortable picture of a country increasingly hemmed in by legal curbs.

Not only is Britain shedding its hallowed traditions of freedom, the report
suggests, but also it is failing to honour its international agreements. The
United Kingdom has been taken before the European Court of Human Rights at
Strasbourg for breaching the European Convention on Human Rights more than 30
times since 1966, the year it finally agreed to enforce its articles. This is
more than any other country in Europe.

Much of the legislation highlighted in the report as repressive has come into
existence only in the last 20 years, and most of it stems directly from the
conflict in Northern Ireland. Orders and Acts have slipped almost
surreptitiously into existence.

The broacasting ban of 1988, which allows television to broadcast the face of a
member of a proscribed organisation but not his or her voice, and the Public
Order Act of 1986, which insists on six days' notice for a demonstration, are
both quoted as evidence of the restrictions.

Historically, the machinery for suppressing information in Britain was the
Official Secrets Act, first approved by Parliament after a half-hour debate in
1911 at a moment of tension between Britain and Germany. It stood, virtually
without amendments, for 78 years.

In 1989, in the wake of the Spycatcher case, a White Paper to reform the Act was
introduced. In theory, it looked as if the law had been narrowed. In practice,
the absolute ban on disclosures about the intelligence and security services was
retained, and new offences crept in, such as revealing from official sources the
name of a person whose telephone has been tapped - even if it was done without a
warrant.

Tough police powers for the prevention of terrorism were introduced into the
United Kingdom as a whole in 1974, after the Birmingham pub bombings. The Act
itself started life as a temporary measure. It has been renewed three times -
each time keeping the word ''temporary'' in its title. The law covers not just
terrorism, defined as ''the use of violence for political ends'', but the
''promotion'' of illegal acts. Under its articles, organisations said to be
involved in terrorism can be proscribed, and suspects can be held for seven
days. For the first 48 hours, a detainee can be held incommunicado. Between 1974
and 1990, 6,932 people were detained in connection with Northern Ireland - and
nearly 6,000 of them released without further action.

In contrast to the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and several European
countries, there is no general right to government information. True, recent
Private Members' Bills have finally given people the right to see their health
records, and, in some circumstances, their school, social work and housing
records as well. Otherwise, British subjects who want to know what their
Government is up to will still have to wait 50 or 100 years after the event,
before the Public Records Office unseals its Government files.

Restricted Subjects makes clear that those who govern think they know best.
Though a robust domestic movement for reform has been growing, it has made
little ground against regulations that are turning Britain, the 66-page report
says, into a place in which the Government does not disguise its hostility to
Press freedoms.

Worse, British attitudes towards civil liberties have implications far beyond
its shores. At the very moment when the Commonwealth as a whole has at last

decided to throw itself behind human rights, Britain's approach to official
secrets, broadcasting, libel and public order can hardly fail

to be reflected all the way from Kenya to Malaysia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 29, 1991, Tuesday

Arms from Africa fuel paramilitary terror; David McKittrick reports on three
Ulster loyalists convicted in Paris of plotting to trade missile secrets for
guns

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 1273 words


A FRENCH court gave three Northern Ireland loyalists suspended sentences
yesterday for their part in a plot to give South Africa British missile secrets
in exchange for money or guns. The three, who were members of the paramilitary
Ulster Resistance organisation, were arrested in Paris in 1989 with a South
African diplomat and an arms dealer. A piece of missile manufactured by the
Belfast company Shorts was recovered at the time. Noel Little, 41, of
Markethill, Co Armagh, who was described in court as the main instigator, was
given a three-year suspended sentence and fined 50,000 French francs (pounds
5,175). Samuel Quinn, 43, a Territorial Army missile instructor from Co Down,
was given a two-year sentence with a Fr30,000 (pounds 3,100) fine while James
King, 52, also of Co Down, received a one-year sentence with a Fr20,000 (pounds
2,070) fine. The arms dealer, American Douglas Bernhart, 43, was given a
three-year suspended sentence and a Fr100,000 (pounds 10,350) fine. All four
were banned from re-entering France for three years, though Quinn said he hoped
to remain in Paris. The South African diplomat involved claimed diplomatic
immunity and did not face trial. The three loyalists will presumably face RUC
questioning if they return to Northern Ireland. The four men were convicted of
arms trafficking and associating with criminals involved in terrorist
activities. They were accused of having stolen missile parts and documents. They
were also accused of having furnished weapons and ammunition to South Africa,
despite an embargo on arms sales. A number of South African diplomats were
expelled from Britain and France after it emerged that their country had been
trying to obtain British missile secrets and had supplied money and guns to
loyalist extremists.

THE 1980s will go down in Irish history books as the time when rival
paramilitary groups were armed, for very different reasons, by two countries at
either end of the African continent.

Earlier this year, a French judge heard the case against five men involved in
transporting huge arms shipments from Libya to the IRA. Yesterday, she disposed
of the case of three loyalists involved in an even more ambitious scheme, in
which South Africa was prepared to give loyalists large amounts of guns and
money in exchange for multi-million pound British missile secrets.

The South African escapade reads, in part, like a Frederick Forsyth thriller
and, in part, like a Feydeau farce. It involves Paris and Lebanon, Portadown and
Pretoria, and features extraordinary bungles by the loyalists and the security
forces. The story can be traced to 1985, when three different loyalist groups -
Ulster Resistance, the Ulster Defence Association and the Ulster Volunteer Force
- came into contact with an Ulsterman who had moved to South Africa and become
involved in the arms industry there.

At a meeting in the east Belfast home of a senior paramilitary leader, he
offered to supply guns, though he said he was only interested in orders worth a
quarter of a million pounds or more. Alternatively, he would accept missile
parts or plans. The loyalists sent a UDA man to South Africa, where he was shown
a warehouse full of weaponry. But the UDA man was, in fact, a British army
undercover agent. So British military intelligence, presumably, knew of the
South African connection right from the start. The loyalist groups were
interested in an arms deal but were short of money. After some unsuccessful
attempts to obtain material from Shorts missile factory in east Belfast, they
helped to stage a bank robbery in Portadown, Co Armagh, in June 1987, which
raised more than pounds 300,000.

A fair amount of this appears to have gone into the pockets of some paramilitary
leaders, but pounds 150,000 was used to buy a consignment of weapons. This
consisted of 200 Czech assault rifles together with Browning pistols, RPG-7
rockets and hand grenades. This is well below the black-market value of such
weapons, and the assumption is that the South Africans let the loyalists have
the guns at a cut-price rate in the hope of receiving missile technology. The
transaction was set up through Douglas Bernhart, an American arms dealer who
worked for the South African arms industry. He put the loyalists in touch with
Joseph Fawzi, a Lebanese arms dealer, who had the weaponry shipped into Northern
Ireland in crates marked as containing ceramic tiles.

The consignment arrived in December 1987, and the following month was split
three ways among the loyalist groups. The UDA's share - apart from its RPG-7s -
was seized almost immediately at a Royal Ulster Constabulary roadblock. It has
never been clear whether this was a routine roadcheck which, not surprisingly,
took an interest in the spectacle of two heavily-laden identical hired cars one
of which contained Davy Payne, one of the UDA's best-known figures; or whether
the security forces knew of Payne's journey and were waiting for him.

But the unanswered question is how the security forces, who presumably were
aware of the whole enterprise through their UDA agent, missed the other
two-thirds of the shipment. Parts of it have been recovered, but much remains at
large and has been used in killings by the loyalists, including the attack on a
republican funeral by Michael Stone in 1989, in which three people were killed.

By this stage, the South African connection was thoroughly blown: Payne, for
example, had Noel Little's telephone number written on his hand when he was
arrested. Nonetheless, the South Africans were undeterred, and a technical
officer at their embassy in France arranged for three Protestants to be trained
in firing an RPG-7. At one stage they offered pounds 1m for a complete missile
system or a complete blueprint, and said they would pay several million pounds
for the newest and most advanced missile, Starstreak.

According to Bernhart, the South Africans handed over pounds 50,000 as down
payment on a missile. There were several thefts of missile parts from Shorts and
another from the Territorial Army missile battery where one of the accused,
Samuel Quinn, worked as an instructor. But the parts taken appear to have been
inoperative. Some were models.

When the loyalists went to Paris in April 1989 the whole thing had become a
fiasco. They were tracked all the way first by the British security forces and
then by the French, who had surreptitiously photographed Little on a previous
trip to Paris when he met Bernhart, the Ulsterman who made the original contact,
and South African diplomats. On this occasion the South Africans hoped the
loyalists had brought valuable missile material; as it turned out, Little and
the others were hoping to palm off dummy material of little or no practical use
to them. French police moved in and broke up the meeting. At first it looked as
though the loyalists would be charged with transporting weapons, but they faced
lesser charges since what they had was not in working condition and could not be
classed as a weapon. They have spent little time in prison, having been bailed
on condition that they did not leave France.

In the meantime, the French and the British have expelled a number of South
African diplomats, and security at Shorts and Territorial Army bases in Northern
Ireland has been considerably tightened. The British Government regarded the
whole episode as both alarming and embarrassing, and shows no sign of wishing to
take the matter further.

But most of the weapons supplied by the South Africans - like those given to the
IRA by Libya - remain secreted by terrorist groups in Northern Ireland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 1991

IRA bomb maker cleared

BYLINE: By DUNCAN CAMPBELL, Crime Correspondent

LENGTH: 496 words


THE first Irishman to be extradited to the United Kingdom under the new Irish
extradition laws, was yesterday acquitted at the Old Bailey of conspiring to
cause explosions which resulted in deaths and injuries in England in the early
1980s.

Desmond Ellis, aged 39, a television repair man from Finglas in Dublin, had
admitted working on bombs for the IRA to use in Northern Ireland but denied any
part in the mainland campaign. After less than three hours' deliberation, the
jury returned a unanimous not guilty verdict.


Mr Ellis, who thanked the jury and waved to his family and friends in the public
gallery, was immediately rearrested and taken to Paddington Green police station
in west London. An application under the Prevention of Terrorism Act for an
exclusion order was made last night, and it was anticipated he would be sent
back to Ireland overnight.

Outside the court his solicitor, Gareth Peirce, said: 'Mr Ellis would just like
to say that the verdict was a victory for both Irish and British people. He
would like to express his thanks to the members of the jury.'

Ms Peirce called for the extradition process to be re-examined. The 1987
Extradition Act removed the defence of political motivation for terrorist-type
offences.

Mr Ellis's father, Noel, aged 65, who had been present throughout the trial,
said the jury had clearly listened to the arguments.

'Luckily, the jury had great common sense,' he said. 'The prosecution went into
all the gory details, but the jury showed sense. Of course, if they got the
troops out of the North, none of this would happen.'

Mr Ellis pleaded not guilty to conspiring to cause explosions and to possessing
explosives between January 1, 1981 and October 27, 1983. He was acquitted by the
jury on the first charge. The judge, Mr Justice Swinton Thomas, had already
struck out the second charge and instructed a formal not guilty verdict to be
returned.

Mr Ellis's supporters, who had mounted a nationwide campaign when extradition
proceedings started, celebrated the verdict outside the Old Bailey, waiting for
the police escorting Mr Ellis to leave the cells.

'They spend all this effort trying to get him into the country and now they
can't wait to get him out of it,' said Father Paddy Smith, of the Irish
Commission for Prisoners Overseas. He said the case called into question the
extradition procedures.

Mr Ellis had told the jury he was a member of an IRA bomb-making team in Dublin
and had served eight years for related offences in the republic. But he denied
plotting to design bombs for a mainland campaign.

'All I knew was that I was helping the IRA and the total help at the end of the
day would be that at some stage Britain would be pushed out of Northern
Ireland,' he said.

After retiring briefly the jury sent a note to the judge asking for a definition
of conspiracy. Shortly afterwards they returned with their verdict.

Defeat turns to victory, page 2

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 31, 1991, Thursday

Self-confessed IRA man cleared over bombings

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 423 words


DESSIE ELLIS, a confessed IRA ''quality controller'', was yesterday cleared by
an Old Bailey jury of involvement in a 1981 London bombing campaign.

The jury took just two hours to clear Mr Ellis, 39, a television repair man, of
Finglas, Dublin, of conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom between
January 1981 and October 1983. The three-week trial came after two and a half
years of legal battles to bring the case to court, the first under new
Anglo-Irish extradition agreements.

Mr Ellis thanked the jury after he was discharged. He was immediately
re-arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act pending a police application
to the Home Office to have him excluded from Britain. He was being held last
night at Paddington Green police station and was expected to be flown to Dublin
this morning.

News of his acquittal was greeted with cheers outside the Old Bailey by
supporters who demonstrated every day of the trial. His parents and sister,
Patricia, joined in the celebrations.

Gareth Pierce, his solicitor, said: ''Mr Ellis wants me to say that this is not
just a victory for the Irish but for the British people and he asks his thanks
to be given to the jury.''

The prosecution claimed that Mr Ellis had made parts for IRA bombs in Dublin in
early 1981, which were then smuggled into England, where his fingerprints were
found in a cache of bomb making equipment discovered accidentally. It was
alleged this linked him with an IRA team which carried out bombings in London in
late 1981, although it was never claimed that he visited England or made the
planted bombs, which were the work of three IRA members all since convicted of
terrorist offences.

Geoffrey Robertson, QC, counsel for Mr Ellis, told the jury that Mr Ellis had
handled bomb making equipment as a ''quality controller'' for the IRA but the
trial was unfair since he had already been convicted in Dublin in 1983 for
conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom and sentenced to eight
years.

From the witness box, Mr Ellis denied knowing that equipment he had been asked
to store and check for the IRA in 1980 and 1981 had been destined for England.
He said he believed it was for Northern Ireland and that explosions in England
were ''counter- productive''.

The implications of the outcome of the case for the extradition process were
still being assessed last night. Supporters argued the acquittal underlined the
system's fairness; critics said the Irish government was wrong to support the
case.

Background, page 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           October 31, 1991, Thursday

Ellis cleared of IRA bomb plot charges

BYLINE: By Michael Horsnell and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 836 words


DESMOND Ellis, the first paramilitary suspect to be extradited from the Irish
Republic to stand trial in Britain, was expected to be sent home to Dublin after
being cleared at the Central Criminal Court yesterday of taking part in an IRA
bombing plot.

The former television repair man was rearrested at the Old Bailey under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act and served with an exclusion order before being
taken to Paddington Green police station, where arrangements were being made for
his return to the republic.

Mr Ellis, aged 39, remained emotionless in the dock as the jury returned a
unanimous verdict after deliberations lasting three hours. The jury accepted a
defence case that included the argument that Mr Ellis was not in Britain during
the bombing and that he had already served eight years in Portlaoise jail on
explosives charges, which meant that trying him again constituted double
jeopardy. During the trial, his counsel said that he had acted unlawfully, had
deserved to be punished and had been.

Yesterday, through his solicitor, Gareth Peirce, the freed man said: ''This is
not just a victory for the Irish people, but a victory for the British people. I
want to express my thanks to the jury.''

His father, James Ellis, said: ''Lucky enough, the jury had a bit of common
sense, but the judicial system needs to be changed.''

The prosecution had alleged that, although Mr Ellis had never set foot on
mainland Britain, his fingerprints were found on devices discovered by forestry
workers in an arms cache near Pangbourne, Berkshire, in 1983.  According to the
prosecution, the cache had links with a bombing campaign in which three people
were killed in London in 1981 when four devices exploded and one was made safe.
Among the injured in the campaign, was Lieutenant-General Sir Steuart Pringle,
commandant general of the Royal Marines, who lost a leg when his car exploded
outside his home in Dulwich.

Mr Ellis admitted during his trial that he had worked for the IRA in 1980 in
Dublin, where he was arrested and jailed for eight years on explosives charges.
He told the Central Criminal Court that he had ''no idea whatsoever'' of any
plan to set off bombs in Britain in the early Eighties and that he had always
felt that such attacks were counter-produtive.

Geoffrey Robertson, QC, for Mr Ellis, had told the jury that Mr Ellis had
already served ''long years in prison'' in Ireland for helping the IRA in 1980,
only to be brought back to Britain to be punished again for what he did in 1981.
''No civilised society allows anyone to be punished again for the same
offence,'' Mr Robertson said.

The bombing campaign in London in late 1981 included the attack on a coachload
of Irish Guardsmen returning to Chelsea barracks in which two members of the
public were killed and several people injured. Other targets included the then
Attorney-general, Sir Michael Havers (now Lord Havers), but he and his wife were
away when two bombs were left outside their home in Wimbledon. A bomb at a
Wimpey Bar in Oxford Street killed Kenneth Howarth, an explosives officer.

Mr Ellis, of Finglas, Dublin, had denied conspiring to cause explosions likely
to endanger life or cause serious damage to property in the UK between January
1981 and October 27, 1983. A second charge on which he was extradited from
Dublin last year of possession of explosives was dropped by the judge halfway
through his trial.

Mr Ellis was arrested by special branch detectives at his home on May 13, 1981,
months before the attacks. Detectives raided the house and found electronic
timing devices, batteries, bulbs and a circuit board.

Mr Ellis was extradited in November last year on charges under the Explosives
Substances Act of conspiring in the United Kingdom to cause an explosion likely
to endanger life between January 1981 and October 1983.

The magistrate refused to commit Mr Ellis on the original charges and
substituted two new charges alleging conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm by
use of explosive substances and conspiracy to cause criminal damage.  The
magistrate's action ''unwittingly stirred upan international hornet's nest'', Mr
Robertson said. Under international law, no one who had been extradited could be
tried for offences other than those on which they had been extradited.

In May this year, the Director of Public Prosecutions applied to the High Court
to quash the magistrate's directive, apparently to give it carte blanche to
bring back the original charges. The application was refused.

In Dublin, the acquittal of Mr Ellis was seen last night by all except
republicans as a significant step forward in Anglo-Irish extradition and a
development likely to make exchanges of suspects easier (Edward Gorman writes).

The decision to free Mr Ellis has undermined the case of those in Ireland,
inside the main government party Fianna Fail and in Sinn Fein, who argued that
no republican suspect could ever get a fair trial in a British court.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 15, 1991

Justice demands that Libya surrenders Lockerbie suspects, Hurd tells MPs

BYLINE: By NIKKI KNEWSTUB

LENGTH: 435 words


BRITAIN expects Libya to respond fully to its demand for the surrender of the
two men wanted for murder charges arising out of the Lockerbie bombing, the
Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, told the Commons yesterday. 'The interests of
justice require no less,' he said.

Mr Hurd assured MPs that there was no immediate concern for the 5,500 British
nationals working in Libya, though the situation would have to be watched
carefully. He did not name the two men.


Sir David Steel, the Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman, asked if
Britain was prepared to go the United Nations Security Council to press for the
return of the two men. Mr Hurd said Britain did not see the need for an
intermediary.

Mr Hurd and the shadow foreign secretary, Gerald Kaufman, praised the detective
work that had lead to the two Libyans.

Mr Kaufman said Libya could only be welcomed back into the world community when
it was clear that it was no longer involved in terrorist attacks that sickened
the civilised world.

Mr Hurd said: 'The Lord Advocate (of Scotland) has demanded of the Libyan
authorities the surrender of the accused to stand trial. I repeat that demand on
behalf of the whole Government. I know the House will unreservedly endorse it.
The accusations levelled at Libyan officials are of the gravest possible kind.
As the warrants . . . make clear, the charges allege that the individuals acted
as part of a conspiracy to further the purpose of the Libyan intelligence
services by criminal means, and that those means were acts of terrorism.

'This is a mass murder, which is alleged to involve the organs of government of
a state.' Mr Hurd pointed out that Libyan officials faced arrest warrants in
France, where they were issued on October 30 over the destruction of a French
UTA DC-10 over the Sahara in September 1989.

Britain was consulting the United States and other friendly governments, many of
whom lost nationals on Pan Am Flight 103, about the next steps. 'I understand
that the investigation has revealed no evidence to support suggestion of
involvement by other countries.'

Mr Hurd concluded: 'This fiendish act of wickedness cannot be passed over or
ignored.'

He was asked by Sir Teddy Taylor, Tory MP for Southend East about reports that
the bombing was commissioned to Syrian nationals by Iran and sub-contracted to
Libya. Mr Hurd said members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
- General Command arrested in Germany in 1988 clearly had bomb-making equipment
similar to that used at Lockerbie, but no links were found between the two.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 15, 1991

Leading Article: Wanted for murder, somewherein Libya

LENGTH: 512 words


ALMOST three years after the Lockerbie bomb, two (faraway) men are charged with
mass murder. It is not just the relations of the 270 people killed on the Pan Am
jumbo who will welcome this announcement. A new chapter has opened. At last,
after investigations in 70 different countries and 15,000 statements over 1,050
days, there are names on the wanted list. They are both Libyan intelligence
officers. Both are believed to be in Libya. The arrest warrants will be
circulated through Interpol but, specifically, both the UK and the US formally
asked Libya to hand over the suspects yesterday. Clearly, once interrogated,
both could provide vital information.

But will Libya give them up? Only six months ago, Libya sought to restore
diplomatic relations with Britain through an apology and the offer of pounds
250,000 to a police charity in compensation for the murder of WPC Yvonne
Fletcher. This was rightly refused. Yet Colonel Gadafy continues to deny any
involvement in state-sponsored terrorism. He claims to have turned his back on
such activities. Here is his chance to substantiate those claims. There could be
no better test of his sincerity. There could be no more serious offence than the
mass murder with which the two Libyan agents are charged.


The likelihood of Libya responding to the warrants is remote. And, according to
the Foreign Secretary's statement to the Commons, the investigations suggest
that no other state was involved in the terrorist act. What happens when Tripoli
refuses? For understandable reasons, Douglas Hurd declined to speculate
yesterday. There are 5,500 British nationals working in Libya, and their
interests need to be protected. But the first step is obvious: speedy
implementation of the 1978 Bonn Agreement, where the seven leading industrial
nations made it clear that all aviation links would be cut off from any country
which refused to hand over, or put on trial, suspects of aviation terrorism. The
Foreign Office should have its faxes ready to send out to other member states.
The grim cycle of state-sponsored terrorism will only begin to be halted when
its bleak disadvantages are made clear. There could be no clearer violation of
international law than the Lockerbie bomb. There will, as always, be plenty of
voices urging restraint. They should fall silent. This is no time for expediency
or short-term diplomatic manoeuvres.

Is Libya the only state involved? There is already a great deal of evidence - to
which Dr Jim Swire refers in his letter on this page - of Syrian and Iranian
complicity. Certainly, the PFLP-GC terrorist group, arrested in Germany with
bombs designed to explode on aircraft, used Syria as a sanctuary. There are good
grounds for believing that Iran was using this group for a revenge attack for
the downing of an Iranian airbus by the Americans. Mr Hurd emphasised yesterday
that no evidence tars other states at present. Be sceptical of that, given the
new Western interests in restoring relations with Syria and Iran. But be
prepared for great pressure on Libya.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 1991

Bomb blast heightens fears of fresh IRA mainland campaign

BYLINE: By VIVEK CHAUDHARY

LENGTH: 291 words


LAST night's attack in St Albans confirmed anti-terrorist experts' fears of an
attack by the IRA after a lull in activity by the Provisionals on mainland
Britain.

It was the second attack against the Blues and Royals military band in six
months. A 20-30lb bomb was discovered in June outside the Alfred Beck Theatre,
in Hayes, Middlesex, where the band had been playing, but the device was
defused.


Last night's attack comes less than a month after shots were fired at two men,
seen outside the perimeter fence at St Omer barracks in Aldershot.

The last concerted campaign by the IRA was in the summer of this year after
incendiary devices were found in various locations in central London and
north-west England.

One device was found in a bookshop and three on a London Underground train at a
depot.

Police also claimed in August, that an incendiary device started a fire in the
Cambridge pub in the West End of London.

In April, a series of arson attacks on stores in or near the Arndale Centre in
central Manchester, was also suspected to be the work of the IRA. Days earlier,
a burning holdall containing 20 timed incendiary devices was found at Preston
railway station.

The beginning of the year saw one of the IRA's most daring attacks. In February,
mortar bombs launched from a van in Whitehall, narrowly missed the War Cabinet,
meeting during the Gulf conflict. One bomb exploded in the back garden of Number
10 Downing Street and others landed near a police station.

Bombs were also planted at Paddington and Victoria stations, in London, a few
days later.

One man was killed and 40 injured at Victoria station, the first attack on
civilian targets in London since the IRA bombed Harrods in 1983.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 1991, Saturday

Ulster security increased as toll of deaths rises; Army and police reinforced as
Ulster loyalists kill three men and Dublin signals toughening of the law

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 591 words


FEARS were growing yesterday that sectarian killings in Ulster would continue
after two days of mounting violence.

Extra patrols are being added in the hope of deterring loyalist and republican
gunmen and to help to establish a cooling-off period.

The Government responded to seven murders in 48 hours by increasing security in
Northern Ireland. Regular army units were boosted and security force reservists
switched from part-time to full-time duties. Police shifts were also extended.
Internment, last used in the early 1970s, was also being discussed in security
circles.

IRA attacks which left four Belfast Protestants dead on Wednesday evening were
followed by three killings by loyalists in Co Armagh the next night.

A five-week-old girl, critically wounded in one attack, was saved after a
seven-and-a-half hour operation. Kerri Louise White was hit in the arm and
stomach when gunmen burst into a south Belfast house to shoot and kill Billy
Kingsberry, 35, and his stepson Samuel Mehaffy, 19.

The death toll has already passed last year's total of 76 and shows no sign of
slowing down. The expectation that the situation is set to deteriorate further
has led to the idea of internment without trial being canvassed more openly than
before in high-level security force circles.

Peter Brooke, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, asked yesterday about
using internment, said the power was available if the Government chose to use
it. He added: ''Since one of the great advantages of internment is that it
should be carried out with surprise, I don't think it is actually very helpful
for it to be permanently under debate.''

In one move, which has not been used since 1988, about 1,400 part-time members
of the Ulster Defence Regiment were called up by the army General Officer
Commanding, Lieutenant-General Sir John Wilsey, to carry out full-time duties.
That involves UDR battalions in Belfast, Armagh and Antrim, representing about
half of the force's part-time strength.

More than 200 extra regular troops have already been re-deployed to Belfast,
where much of the recent violence has been centred.

Half or more of these have been sent to the mainly nationalist west of the city.
There is speculation that the UDR move, clearly a short-term measure, is to
facilitate the movement of more regular troops from Britain. An army spokesman
said no decision had yet been made to call in the ''Spearhead battalion'', the
unit which remains on permanent standby in Britain, but this remained an option.

In another development, the working shifts of Royal Ulster Constabulary officers
in some areas have been increased to 12 hours from the normal eight.

A decision to increase the complement of the force by 441 more officers was
announced this week, but it will take up to two years for them to reach the
streets. The moves were announced after meetings between Mr Brooke and security
chiefs.

Loyalist sources reported heavy and sometimes deliberately visible surveillance
on those the authorities regard as active gunmen - an obvious attempt to inhibit
movements. Surveillance of IRA activists is more difficult for the police and
Army, since many live in areas hostile to the security forces.

IRA attacks on the security forces have not ceased, but this year the
organisation has killed 11 Protestants who it alleges were extreme loyalists.

Meanwhile, Dublin sources said the latest killings would be high on the agenda
at a session of the Anglo-Irish Conference due to be held in Dublin early next
week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 1991, Saturday

Blast sparks terror alert; One killed in St Albans by suspected IRA bomb near
army band as forces crack down in Ulster

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT, DAVID MCKITTRICK, TERRY KIRBY, TIM KELSEY, JAMES
ROBERTS and COLIN HARDING

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 1099 words


ONE PERSON died last night in a suspected IRA bomb attack on an army band
playing a concert in St Albans, Hertfordshire.

The bomb exploded outside a bank in the city's high street. Police said they
were treating the incident as a terrorist attack.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, was quickly at the scene. The city centre was cordoned off as police
sniffer dogs carried out searches. Army bomb disposal officers were also
present.

Last night's bomb comes at a time when IRA activity in Northern Ireland is
running at a high level. But although there have been a number of incidents in
England this year, the organisation's terror campaigns in Britain and
continental Europe had appeared to be flagging.

Yesterday the Government acted to increase security in Northern Ireland after a
week of mounting violence which has seen seven terrorist murders in a 48- hour
period.

IRA attacks which left four Belfast Protestants dead on Wednesday evening were
followed by three killings by loyalists in Co Armagh the next night.

Regular army units were boosted and security force reservists switched from
part-time to full-time duties. Police shifts were also extended. Internment,
last used in the early 1970s, was also being discussed in security circles.

Peter Brooke, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, asked yesterday about
using internment, said the power was available if the Government chose to use
it. He added: ''Since one of the great advantages of internment is that it
should be carried out with surprise, I don't think it is actually very helpful
for it to be permanently under debate.''

The death toll in Northern Ireland has already passed last year's total of 76
and shows no sign of slowing down.

Initial reports last night said the St Albans explosion was a car bomb, but
police later discounted that. Other early reports suggested a gas explosion. The
blast happened at a Barclays bank building in St Peter's Street. The bank had
been disused for a few months after a new branch was opened near by.

It was within 100 yards of the the Alban arena where the Blues and Royals band
was playing. The concert was scheduled to end at 10pm.

The explosion took place at 9.55pm. Inspector Roger How, of Hertfordshire police
said: ''The building is certainly damaged. One person was killed. We don't know
whether it was a man or a woman, but it was a civilian, who may have been
passing or standing by the bank.'' Police said no warning had been given.

One other person was injured. A St Albans City hospital spokesman said that the
person was slightly injured after being knocked off a bicycle by the blast. They
had been treated and left hospital, the spokesman said.

The concert was open to the public and had been widely publicised locally.
Police carried out a security sweep of the venue earlier in the day.

Local author Christopher Jones, who was walking to a video shop in St Peter's
Street when tonight's explosion happened, said: ''There was a loudish bang and a
flash.

''Glass from a building society next to the bank was blown out but telephone
boxes were untouched.

''I was about 100ft away when it went off. There were people on the pavement
wondering what had happened.'' He said that the explosion took place in a
pedestrian precinct. People leaving the concert would pass directly through the
precinct area.

Barry Morecambe, 21, barman at the nearby Blacksmith's Arms said: ''The whole
place shook and there was an enormous bang. I thought something had actually run
into the pub. Everyone panicked. The music was blaring but the noise of the
explosion shook the whole place. Everyone rushed out. All we could see was smoke
coming from Barclays Bank. The police were quickly at the scene.''

As police sealed off the city centre, John Davis said: ''I just can't believe
it. I was using the cashpoint machine at Barclays only minutes before the
explosion.''

Mr Davis, 19, a mechanic, of Park Street, St Albans, added: ''We were out for a
drink and had run out of money so we went to the cashpoint machine. When we got
back to the pub only a few seconds later, we felt the blast as well as hearing
the explosion.''

Labourer Richard Rogers, 19, also of Park Street, said: ''The main street was
busy for a Friday evening but we noticed that there were a couple of blokes
hanging about near Barclays bank, which is only 100 yards from the City Hall
where the concert was being given.''

David Stevens, 18, an electrician from Colney Heath, St Albans, said: ''There
was smoke and everything as well as rubble outside the bank. There were bits and
pieces all over the place but I didn't see anyone hurt.''

The explosion comes shortly after police chiefs warned the threat of renewed
mainland terrorist attacks remained high. Police throughout Britain have
committed thousands of officers in operations costing millions of pounds to
counter the danger.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner William Taylor revealed the scale of
the anti-terrorist operations.

In an operation codenamed Octavian, set up more than two years ago, officers
provided security for 200-plus individuals and sites identified from IRA
hit-lists and intelligence assessment as potential targets. They included
judges, civil servants, politicians and military personnel. About 40 were given
24-hour covert surveillance.

The operation led to a number of arrests, including Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse
McAuley at Stonehenge in October last year. They were charged with conspiracy to
murder former Whitbread chairman Sir Charles Tidbury, but escaped in July while
on remand in Brixton jail.

A second, shorter operation, codenamed Neon, saw officers staked out potential
military targets. It led to more than 160 arrests and although none was for
terrorist-related offences, Mr Taylor said the operation yielded important
intelligence.

After last night's blast, Geoffrey Dickens, the Conservative MP for
Littleborough and Saddleworth, who is an honorary alderman of the City of St
Albans and a former leader of the district council, said: ''This atrocity must
be seen as a grim warning of a possible wave of pre-Christmas IRA strikes on the
mainland.''

Mr Dickens said that he would be tabling a question to Tom King, Secretary of
State for Defence, calling for extra vigilance throughout the United Kingdom in
the coming weeks.

Last February, the Provisional IRA was blamed for a bomb explosion on the London
Midland railway station at St Albans minutes before a crowded InterCity train
was due. No one was hurt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 1991, Saturday

US to call for worldwide trade embargo on Libya

BYLINE: By SARAH HELM, Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 421 words


BRITAIN and the US plan to call for a worldwide trade embargo against Libya if
its leader, Muammar Gaddafi, refuses to forswear terrorist activity and hand
over two Libyan intelligence agents charged with the Lockerbie bombing.

According to senior British officials, trade sanctions are the most likely
manifestation of what President George Bush said yesterday would be the
''international response'' if Colonel Gaddafi does not respond to pressure.

The European Community is likely to be asked to back sanctions along with the
Group of Seven (G7) leading industrial countries. Libya's leading trading
partners are Italy, Japan, Germany, Britain and the Soviet Union. The first four
of those would be covered by G7 and EC sanctions. Officials are not ruling out
asking for a United Nations trade embargo against Libya, but China would
probably exercise its veto in the Security Council.

US sources say Washington will be seeking international co-operation to isolate
Libya first, and will get tougher if that does not work. President Bush has
refused to rule out military action, although that is viewed in Britain as
highly unlikely in view of the probable repercussions in the UN and the
restrictions of international law. Mr Bush may be playing up his tough stance to
appeal to US domestic opinion.

Britain has already notified its EC partners of plans to seek agreement on
sanctions, though there is still some hope in the Foreign Office that Colonel
Gaddafi might yet succumb to pressure and hand over the suspects.

Sanctions are likely to win support in the EC, although southern states,
particularly Italy, would suffer. Britain does pounds 250m of trade with Libya.
Although diplomatic relations have been broken off, there are still 5,000
British citizens in the country.

Individual countries have in the past imposed sanctions or used force
unilaterally in attempts to secure custody of suspected terrorists. The US
already has a trade embargo against Libya. But to employ such widespread trade
sanctions for anti-terrorist purposes, as proposed, is unprecedented. Such a
move within the G7 would signal a international policing role for the largely
economic body.

If a sanctions resolution were put to the UN, the controversial question of
sovereignty would almost certainly be raised. The West, however, would argue
that Libya has no right to protect the suspects under the veil of sovereignty
because the blowing up of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie was an act of
international aggression.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 1991

Letter: Two sets of rules in the pursuit of justice after Lockerbie?

BYLINE: By D A TURNER

LENGTH: 451 words


DR JIM Swires (Letters, November 15) calls for international action to force
Libya to hand over the Libyan officials recently named in connection with the
bombing of Flight 103 so that they can be put on trial in Britain or the US, a
call that is echoed in stirring terms by your own lead editorial of the same
day.

In his letter Dr Swires also states what many of us have long suspected, that
the fate of Flight 103 over Lockerbie was an act of revenge for the destruction
of an Iranian civilian airliner by a US warship in 1988, with a loss of around
200 innocent lives.


I would like to ask Dr Swires, and the editor of the Guardian, if they will also
call on the government of the US to hand over to Iran the captain of the USS
Vincennes, so that he can be put on trial in Tehran? If not, can one of them
explain why different rules apply in the two cases?

There is a long list of similar questions that could be asked. Would the US have
acceded to a request by the Hung Seng government in Cambodia to hand over for
trial the US officials responsible for the completely illegal (in both US and
international law) bombing of Cambodia in the seventies, that cost more than
100,000 Cambodian lives? Will the US pay compensation to the relatives of the
50,000 Chileans who lost their lives in the military coup in 1972, a coup
organised and financed by the CIA to overthrow a democratically elected
government, in violation of every significant principle of international law?
Will the US now hand over to Libya the officials responsible for the illegal
bombing of Tripoli in 1986.

There is no extradition treaty between the US (or Britain) and Libya. There is
no legal basis for the request that the two Libyan intelligence officers be
handed over. The US itself has a long record of state sponsored terrorism,
conducted as an instrument of policy to overthrow or punish governments of which
it disapproves, and no US government has ever agreed to hand over to another
jurisdiction a US official involved in terrorist acts - on the very few
occasions that one of them has been put on trial (such as Colonel Oliver North),
it has been done in the US.

I fear that in the next few months we shall see some kind of international posse
organised by Britain and America to compel Libya to hand over its nationals,
perhaps even by the use of military power. This will do nothing whatever to
advance the cause of international law. It will be yet another demonstration of
the principle that Might is Right. The proper role of liberal papers like the
Guardian is to protest against official hypocrisy, not line up behind it.

(Prof) D. A. Turner.

University of Kent,

Canterbury.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 22, 1991, Friday

FREED TERRY HELPS CHILDREN IN NEED

BYLINE:  Finlay Marshall, Press Associaton

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Freed church envoy Terry Waite went out of his way to help others in need today
by making a contribution to the BBC's Children In Need appeal.  The 52-year-old
former hostage was sending a signed copy of a Press Association photograph of
himself and former Archbishop of Canterbury Lord Runcie to the BBC Television
Centre in London.  The picture, taken at RAF Lyneham, Wiltshire, when Mr Waite
returned to Britain after being freed in Lebanon, was featured widely in
newspapers around the world.  Mr Waite is continuing to stay in the VIP flat in
the officers' mess at the base with his wife Frances and their four grown
children.  He was not making public appearances for some time while undergoing
medical examinations and de-briefing following the 1,763 days he spent as a
prisoner in Beruit, mostly in solitary confinement.

Mr Waite is keeping out of the public gaze entirely.  Even RAF Lyneham commander
Group Captain Ian Corvitt has not met his guest since they shook hands on the
wind-swept tarmac when Mr Waite's aircraft touched down after bringing him from
Damascus via RAF Akrotiri, Cyprus, where he had an overnight stop.  Mr Waite's
77-year-old mother Mrs Lena Waite spent more than three hours with her son
yesterday.  Between the medical examinations and debriefings, Mr Waite is
chatting on the telephone with members of his family or friends or relaxing in
the VIP suite and reading the thousands of goodwill messages sent from around
the world.  Mr Waite has now received more than 7,000 cards and letters. He has
also been sent several pairs of shoes and even a box of kippers.  Many letters
have come from children.  An RAF spokesman said: "He has been deeply touched by
them. That is why he felt he should send the signed photograph to the Children
in Need Appeal." Mr Waite has apparently postponed plans to tell the British
people about his captivity. He was held for most of the time chained in a cellar
cell on his own, guarded by armed men from the Islamic Jihad organisation.
Security at RAF Lyneham is tight.  The Wiltshire base, like all military
installations, is on a high degree of alert with armed guards and wire fences to
protect it from IRA terrorist attacks.

Mr Waite left RAF Lyneham for a short time today to travel by road to a nearby
military hospital for X-rays and other treatment.  It is probable that the
church envoy, who suffers from asthma, was under examination in case he picked
up an ailment during his captivity.  Doctors in Germany attending the other
freed hostage, Scottish-born Tom Sutherland, discovered only hours before he was
due to fly home to America that he was suffering from a peptic ulcer.  He is now
having treatment in Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 24, 1991, Sunday

Letter: Republicans not trying to provoke new internment

BYLINE: From JAMES RUSBRIDGER

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 24

LENGTH: 170 words


EVEN IF the security forces did manage to intern those responsible for terrorism
and not (as has happened frequently in the past) innocent people, internment in
Northern Ireland is fatally flawed.

First, for how long are people to be interned? Second, although there might be a
short-term reduction in terrorist attacks, internment would be an excellent
recruiting exercise, and young people would soon flock to fill any gaps, anxious
to take revenge on the security forces. Third, internment would provide valuable
propaganda for the IRA around the world, encourage aid from sympathisers, create
innumerable appeals to European courts, block extraditions, and put Britain in
the dock for having political prisoners. Fifth, it would enhance the IRA's
prestige as a true fighting force, something the British government has
consistently denied. Sixth, there is no reason to believe that, on their
release, the internees would not re-start the battle with increased violence.

James Rusbridger

Bodmin, Cornwall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          November 28, 1991, Thursday

UK demands Libyan action on Lockerbie

BYLINE: From Martin Fletcher in Washington

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 402 words


BRITAIN and America yesterday demanded drastic action by Libya to atone for the
Lockerbie bombing and to end its sponsorship of terrorism.

The two governments insisted that Colonel Gadaffi's regime compensate the
families of the 270 Lockerbie victims, surrender the two Libyan agents chaged
with carrying out the bombing, accept responsibility for their actions, and
co-operate with the continuing Anglo-American investigation.

The French government joined London and Washington in further demanding that
Libya conduct no further terrorist acts, end all support for terrorist groups
and prove its renunciation of terrorism ''by concrete actions''.  France
recently charged six Libyan agents with responsibility for blowing up a French
airliner over the Sahara in 1989, killing 171 people. The joint statement issued
by the White House said it expected Libya to comply promptly and in full with
the demands.

Practically, however, the American government saw no chance of that. The next
moves will seek to achieve Libya's economic and diplomatic isolation through
measures such as severing airlinks with Israel and an embargo on Libyan oil
sales. The statement did not spell out the consequences of non-compliance but
the Bush administration has expressly not ruled out military retaliation.

Yesterday's statement had been delayed to get French participation.  Paris's
support should make it easier to obtain European-wide backing for
counter-measures. Oil accounts for 90 per cent of Libya's export earnings, most
of it going to a handful of European countries, including Germany and Italy.

The State Department said it would be up to individual relatives to file
compensation claims against Libya. The only remotely comparable case was the
accidental shooting down of an Iranian airliner by an American warship in the
Gulf in 1988. The US offered $250,000 in compensation for each of the 290
victims who died, $100,000 if they were not wage earners.

The statement demanded that Libya co-operate with the continuing Lockerbie
investigation by disclosing ''all it knows of this crime, including the names of
all those responsible, and allow full access to all witnesses, documents and
other material evidence, including all the remaining timers''.  The timer that
detonated the Lockerbie bomb was one of 20 custom-made for the Libyan
intelligence service in 1985 by a Swiss company, Mebo.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 1991

Environment: Eco-terrors and the illiberal tendency: Jonathon Porritt attacks
Britain's gathering anti-green backlash

BYLINE: By JONATHON PORRITT

LENGTH: 958 words


DURING the environment debate earlier this month Teresa Gorman regaled the House
of Commons with a hugely entertaining diatribe against all things green. Were it
not for the fact that it's impossible to take Mrs Gorman seriously, I might have
got just a little irked at being described as an 'eco-terrorist'. But to be
associated in that charge with no less a person than Sir James Goldsmith left me
too dumbstruck to do anything about it.

There's nothing quite so libellous in Andrew McHallam's new pamphlet for the
Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies, entitled The New
Authoritarians (extracts were published in the Guardian on Tuesday, see also
Letters Page today), though members of the National Trust, let alone the Liberal
Democrats, may be surprised to find themselves tarred with the same illiberal
brush. I've never read one of the Institute's 'occasional papers' before, but if
they're all as dizzyingly unstructured, ill-informed and facile as this one,
then they're clearly on to a real publishing phenomenon. Mrs Gorman must have
already put in for a bulk order.


The New Authoritarians is riddled with a host of undefended and indefensible
assertions. By conflating all shades of green into one composite, all-purpose
model, anyone who has ever expressed an interest in the environment stands
accused of harbouring 'an innate tendency to collectivism' (Margaret Thatcher
and Peter Kropotkin would be equally aggrieved at such a charge), of wishing to
'return to an idealised past' (in the mass of green books published over the
last five years, not one provides evidence of any such retrogressive
romanticism), of being 'anti-urban' and 'pagan', with 'a worrying potential for
violence'.

There is no attempt whatsoever to adduce actual evidence of authoritarian
tendencies within the green movement - unless you count a couple of throwaway
references to Hitler and Pol Pot. As it happens, there is a handful of people in
the green movement whose ideas are distinctly 'illiberal', but their influence
is utterly insignificant.

It ill behoves McHallam to conjure up wholly fictional, quasi-fascist skeletons
in the green cupboard when not so far to the right of his own political position
there are some very real and very fleshy authoritarians only too keen to
suppress the first stirrings of democratic green politics.

Though its lack of any intectual rigour guarantees prompt oblivion for Mr
McHallam's pamphlet, it would be foolish not to see it as part of a wider
picture. Though it remains as yet unorchestrated, some kind of backlash is
clearly underway. It can be seen in the continuing attacks on Oxfam by
right-wing ideologues who want to see all such agencies tamely dishing out
charity rather than working for justice; in Sir Derek Barber's bigoted and
bombastic recent defence of intensive agriculture, which shocked even the Royal
Agricultural Society of England in whose name he claimed to be writing; in the
fulminations of fundamentalist Christians like Tony Higton who believes that
anyone within the Church of England who talks about the environment has been
subborned by demonic New Age forces; in a thin but steady trickle of polemical
papers from right-wing institutes, including the Institute of Economic Affairs;
in the pathetic efforts of the so-called Campaign for Real Education to prove
that the WorldWide Fund for Nature (WWF) is subverting the minds of young people
today with its educational material.

It's hard to quantify what all this amounts to. At the level of serious
political analysis or cogent rebuttals of the green movement's positions, almost
nothing at all. At the level of racy copy from those out to make their name in
opposing 'the new enviromental consensus', it's bound to reinforce the stance of
those politicians and industrialists who are hoping that all this greenery will
just blow over.

The green movement deserves better. In almost every other European country there
has been a lively and relatively informed debate about the origins, principles
and merits of green politics today. Despite the fact that in numerical terms
alone (with around four million paid-up members of national and local
environmental organisations) the green movement is one of the largest and most
influential in Britain today, most political commentators still go about their
business as if it didn't exist.

This is bad for the green movement, which urgently needs and would benefit
greatly from a far higher level of political analysis and criticism. It's
interesting to think back to the early seventies when the publication of books
such as Schumacher's Small is Beautiful and The Club of Rome's Limits To Growth
stimulated an intensely controversial debate that lasted until the middle of the
decade.

In comparison to the fiery encounters between Paul Ehrlich and Julian Simon, or
the 'no growth' versus the 'unlimited growth' lobbies, today's debate is tame
indeed. This may sound like a bit of devilish advocacy, but perhaps Andrew
McHallam is right to assert that the new consensus about green issues has been
too easily established.

Without a more informed debate, most people will continue to see 'the
environment' as a detached policy issue which requires no more than a few tweaks
to our existing political and economic systems. Worse yet, those who would like
to engineer a backlash against the greens will find it easier to attract
attention to their half-baked prejudices than would normally be the case.

In the interests of promoting such a debate, perhaps Mrs Gorman will accept a
challenge to talk about the environment on a motion of her own devising. There
would be no shortage of 'eco-terrorists' to help set her straight.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 1991, Friday

Gaddafi attempts to avert US action

BYLINE: From CAROL BERGER in Cairo

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 451 words


THE LIBYAN leader, Muammar Gaddafi, stepped up his campaign to prevent
retaliatory action against his country with a surprise visit yesterday to Egypt
for talks with President Hosni Mubarak. His visit to the presidential palace
outside Alexandria came a day after Britain, the US and France demanded that
Libya surrender two intelligence agents indicted for the Lockerbie bombing.

In the past week Libya has sent envoys to Egypt, Iran, Syria and Lebanon. Libya
has denied involvement in the December 1988 bombing, in which 270 people died,
and has demanded that a neutral body investigate the allegations. While Western
countries have rejected Colonel Gaddafi's denials, his claims of innocence have
found a more receptive audience in the Arab world. Earlier yesterday an official
at the Foreign Ministry said Egypt was working to prevent a military strike
against its neighbour.

''We are trying to find a way to allow the Americans to be satisfied and for the
Libyans not to suffer,'' the official said.

When asked if Egypt considered the allegations unfounded, he replied: ''The
Iranians, Iraqis, Syrians and Libyans . . . They the US are taking us out one by
one, concentrating on each of us and building a case. The issue is: Can you
really identify who the bombers were? Is it possible?''

Egyptian newspapers have carried lengthy editorials warning the US about
military retaliation against Libya. Of all Arab countries, Egypt enjoys the
closest ties with Western governments. Its good relations with the US, France
and Britain make it well- placed to mediate between the three governments and
Libya. No deadline for Libya's compliance with demands to deliver the two
accused men has been set. But a British official speaking in London said Libya
should comply within weeks.

NICOSIA - Libya yesterday invited legal experts from Arab and Western countries
to visit the country and investigate its role in the Lockerbie bombing, Reuter
reports.

''Libya welcomes the possible coming of a committee of Arab and international
justice officials to follow up the progress of the investigation,'' a Foreign
Ministry statement carried by the Libyan news agency, Jana, said. Ahmed Taher
al-Zawi, a judge investigating charges against the two Libyans, had asked
Britain and the US to let him see documents relating to the accusations.

The statement repeated Libya's rejection of ''all forms of terrorism and
terrorist attacks that target civilians. Libya . . . has not and will not be
linked to any group . . . that carries out such an inhuman act, because Libya
itself was a victim of terrorism,'' it said, referring to the US bombing of
Tripoli and Benghazi in 1986.

Leading article, page 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 1, 1991, Sunday

Dropped weapons linked to terrorism

BYLINE: By ANDREW GLINIECKI

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 352 words


SCOTLAND YARD'S anti-terrorist squad launched a full-scale investigation
yesterday after an off-duty police officer recovered a bag full of weapons from
a man acting suspiciously in Wanstead, east London.

Police said last night that they believed the weapons were intended for acts of
terrorism and that they had begun a series of extensive inquiries throughout the
London area.

The recovery was made after a man carrying a bag along a road was approached by
a police officer puzzled by his behaviour.

The man dropped the bag and ran away. For operational reasons, the police are
refusing to disclose any further information, but it is understood that they are
working on the theory that the suspect was intending to act as a lookout or
bodyguard for a terrorist gang.

A police spokesman said last night: ''This officer showed extreme bravery and
initiative so soon after a police sergeant had been murdered just a few miles
away.''

The recent intensification of terrorist activity in mainland Britain,
culminating with the St Albans bombing last month in which two terrorists died,
has prompted a policy of increased vigilance by the police and security forces.
A key part of police strategy has been to uncover the secret arms caches which
have allowed terrorists to strike so effectively. Police concern is at its
height over the Christmas period.

Two years ago, police found three separate caches of IRA arms and explosives in
London alone, including 50lbs of Semtex under bushes on Hampstead Heath in the
pre-Christmas period.

Critics say the finds have often been more a matter of luck than judgment. But
the police have also scored successes following major undercover operations.

A seven-week clifftop surveillance operation in Wales, completed in December
1989, led to the recovery of 100lbs of Semtex, rifles, pistols, detonators and
timers.

- IRA fire bombers struck again in Belfast yesterday as the terrorists kept up
their campaign to ruin pre-Christmas shopping. An incendiary device gutted a
shoe shop in Ann Street, and another caused minor damage to a bar in Gresham
Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 1, 1991, Sunday

Israel not guilty of aggression

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 158 words


WHEN Sir Ian Gilmour referred to the Arab attack on Israel in 1948 (Letters,
November 17), he omitted to mention their rejection of United Nations resolution
181 calling for the partiion of the part of Palestine still under British
mandate into an Israeli and an Arab state which, incidentally, Israel accepted.

When he talked of Israel attacking Egypt in 1956 and 1967, he made no reference
to the fact that on both occasions Egypt allowed terrorists to launch attacks
across the Sinai borders and blockaded Israeli shipping hding to the Gulf of
Aqaba, an act of war in all books of international law.

Sir Ian admitted that Nasser ''provided a plausible pretext''; in fact he
provided more. He sent his tanks towards the border, gave the UN forces in the
buffer zone their marching orders and declared his objective to destroy the
Jewish state and its people.

Moshe Kahtan

Executive, Likud-Herut

(Great Britain)

London NW2.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Letter

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 2, 1991

Store fire bombs are latest ploy in IRA tactics on the mainland: John Mullin and
Owen Bowcott chronicle the way terrorists have sought to incorporate an element
of surprise into their strategy

BYLINE: By JOHN MULLIN and OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 596 words


THE DISCOVERY of 20 firebombs at Preston railway station in April signalled to
anti-terrorist chiefs another switch in the IRA's mainland tactics.

Firebombs are an effective weapon, easy to make and simple to plant. On the
mainland, a London pub, a Manchester shopping precinct, and Tube trains have
been hit this year.


But in Northern Ireland terrorists have increasingly targeted furniture stores.
Devices timed to go off in the middle of the night have caused up to pounds 70
million worth of damage.

Yesterday, after examining the four London stores hit by fires at the weekend,
Scotland Yard confirmed that incendiary devices were used.

The fire bombs measure about three inches by four inches. The incendiary mixture
has been refined to make the bombs ignite more easily, but it is the terrorists'
simple move of wrapping them in tissue paper which allows them to burn longer,
forensic experts have told the Royal Ulster Constabulary. Soft furnishings and
fabrics are easily ignited by the bombs, which explains the choice of furniture
stores.

Until the series of explosions in Belfast yesterday, 287 firebombs had been
planted in Northern Ireland this year, of which 122 went off and 165 were
defused.

In the first three weeks of November alone, 39 devices were planted, with 12
igniting.

Northern Ireland politicians say these figures help put into perspective the
difference in the terrorist threat to the mainland and to the province, where 88
people, including 69 civilians, have died this year.

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said last night:
'An incendiary device going off in Great Britain tends to get more coverage than
a death over here. That grates with Ulster people because it seems their lives
are worth less than some minor destruction to property.'

Over the past three years, the IRA has chopped and changed its targets and the
devices used against them in an effort to keep anti-terrorist detectives on the
hop.

In August 1988, the IRA bombed Mill Hill Barracks in north London, killing a
soldier. It then switched from military establishments to 'soft targets', such
as army recruitment offices and educational centres.

In June 1990, in another change of tactics, the IRA bombed the Carlton Club in
Piccadilly and a month later attacked the Stock Exchange. Both were regarded by
them as legitimate political and establishment targets.

As if to underline the range of options open to them, last February the IRA
launched a mortar attack on Downing Street, and four days later bombed
Paddington and Victoria railway stations, killing two people.

The spin-off came in the following days as hoax telephone calls paralysed
London, in much the same way as cars allegedly containing bombs have halted
traffic at key points in Belfast.

Two weeks ago, two of the IRA's mainland operatives, Frank Ryan and Patricia
Black died as they tried to plant a bomb in St Albans, Hertfordshire, while the
Blues and Royals band were playing.

The weapons used in mainland attacks have also varied, and include bombs and car
bombs, bullets and mortars.

While Scotland Yard was delighted at unearthing an arms cache in Wanstead, east
London, at the weekend, a similar chance discovery of a bomb factory in Clapham,
south London, just before Christmas in 1988 failed to halt a successful IRA
mainland campaign.

As Andrew Levitt, a Wanstead resident, said yesterday: 'If they can hide
material there, then you have to wonder how many other stashes they have around
the country.'

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 2, 1991, Monday

Incendiary device increasingly used in terror attacks

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 425 words


THE IRA has perfected a new type of incendiary device which this year has been
increasingly used in shops and stores in and around Belfast, leading to millions
of pounds' worth of damage.

Use of the weapon is now a familiar part of the IRA campaign in Northern
Ireland, where scarcely a weekend goes by without some of the devices turning
up. They are easy to make and plant, pose little danger to those who use them,
and are hard to detect and extinguish. Firebomb searches are now routine for
staff in many business premises.

According to Royal Ulster Constabulary statistics, more than 100 have been
planted in the province this year; 39 were used in the first few weeks of last
month.

A few years ago incendiaries had practically left the IRA's armoury, only five
being reported during 1989, but last year saw an increase to 33. The new refined
devices are considered highly reliable; more than 70 per cent of them explode as
designed. They are usually timed to go off in the early morning, in the hope
that fire will take hold before the emergency services arrive.

A week ago the RUC in Belfast predicted a renewed wave of incendiary attacks in
the run-up to Christmas. Police appealed to shopkeepers to search their premises
meticulously at closing time. The devices can inflict devastating damage. Last
January, high winds fanned a fire started at a major out-of-town shopping
complex near Belfast, producing a blaze which caused damage estimated at pounds
25m.

In Britain, incendiaries have turned up on several occasions this year, but have
yet to inflict major damage. The weekend attacks may be partly due to an IRA
desire to show that the loss of two of its members in St Albans has not removed
its capacity to operate on the mainland.

In more general terms the organisation is always keen to use as many different
tactics as possible against as many types of targets as possible, to keep the
security forces guessing. It has thus made a point of using varying techniques
such as shootings, bombings and under-car boobytraps against military, political
and other targets. One part of its philosophy is to attempt to take to Britain
as many features of its Northern Ireland campaign as possible.

Such switches often tend to take the security forces by surprise, as in this
year's mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. Apart from that incident, however,
1991 has been a bad year for the IRA both in England and on the Continent, with
both the level and effectiveness of attacks falling in comparison with previous
years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 5, 1991, Thursday

Lockerbie bomb suspects 'under arrest in Libya'

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 519 words


PARIS (Reuter) - Libya has detained two men wanted by US and British authorities
in connection with the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am plane over Scotland, the Libyan
ambassador to France said yesterday. ''The two people are definitely detained,
there is no doubt about that,'' he said in a telephone interview.

Libya has also apparently promised to sever all links with terrorist groups
including the IRA, shut down terrorist training camps and renounce terrorism,
the British Foreign Office minister, Douglas Hogg, said in Cairo last night.

''We have had a number of messages from Colonel Gaddafi . . . that he was
willing to give us information about their Libya's involvement with the IRA and
other terrorist organisations and that the Colonel was willing to close down the
camps in Libya and was willing to accept that terrorism was a policy that he
will not pursue,'' Mr Hogg said. But he added: ''Until he does that we are going
to remain unconvinced.''

Mr Hoggg, on a tour of North Africa and Malta to present Britain's case, said
Britain urged its regional ''friends'' to persuade the Libyan leader, Muammar
Gaddafi, to hand over two Libyan intelligence agents accused by London and
Washington of blowing up PanAm flight 103 over Lockerbie, killing 270 people.

In response to Mr Hogg's remarks, the Libyan mission in Cairo said Col Gaddafi
did not have the authority to have Libyan citizens extradited.

Earlier, the Saudi newspaper Asharq al-Awsat reported the two suspects were
being held, along with several others charged with bombing a French plane in
1989. The newspaper quoted the head of Libyan intelligence, Col Youssef
Abdel-Qadir al-Dabari, as saying a Libyan judge investigating the bombing of the
PanAm plane had issued orders for two men accused in the case to be detained and
questioned. But he argued against handing the two over to Britain or the US for
trial.

''There is no law which says a country has to hand over its citizens for
investigation in another country, and there is no legal basis for saying that
the investigation has to take place where the incident happened,'' the newspaper
quoted Col Dabari as saying. The United States and Britain have threatened
unspecified action against Libya if it fails to extradite the two men and have
pointedly refused to rule out military action.

In London, the Foreign Office said it had received no word from Libya to confirm
the report of the arrests. ''If the Libyans want to communicate with us through
the Italians they will do so, but we've received nothing yet,'' a Foreign Office
spokesman said. Italy now looks after British interests in Libya through its
embassy in Tripoli. Britain severed diplomatic relations with Libya over the
shooting in 1984 of a British policewoman outside the Libyan embassy in London.
Col Dabari said Libyans accused by France of involvement in bombing a UTA
airliner over Niger, in which 170 people died, had also been detained but had
not yet been questioned, as the judge was working on the Pan Am case first. A
French judge has charged four Libyans with involvement in the UTA bombing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 8, 1991, Sunday

Gadaffi promotes 'mastermind' of Lockerbie attack

BYLINE: Marie Colvin, Tel Aviv

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 564 words


A LIBYAN suspected of masterminding the Lockerbie bombing has been promoted to
head of the country's extensive intelligence network, according to a senior
government source in Tripoli.

Colonel Muammar Gadaffi, the Libyan leader, has moved Abdullah al-Senoussi, his
brother-in-law, from deputy head of foreign intelligence to intelligence
supremo. Senoussi, one of Gadaffi's most trusted aides, is believed to have
directed the operations which resulted in the Lockerbie bombing and the
destruction of a French airliner over Africa in 1989.

Despite earlier evidence that Syria and Iran were involved, Scottish
investigators claim they have only been able to secure forensic evidence against
two Libyans. Israel insists, however, that a Syrian-backed Palestinian group was
involved in the Pan Am bombing three years ago, in which 270 died, and that the
Iranians paid for it.

British police have not found enough evidence to charge Senoussi, though they
accept he played the key role in planning the bombings. But French authorities
have found enough information to charge him and three others for their
involvement in the bombing of a UTA jet over Chad. That attack, in which 171
died, was believed to be in revenge for French aid to Chad in its war against
Libyan-backed rebels.

Senoussi's promotion last month appears to undermine Gadaffi's latest attempts
to evade Western punishment; he told the Egyptians he was severing links with
terrorist groups and renouncing terrorism. He also claims to have detained the
two men charged by British authorities, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al-Megrahi and
Al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah, although there has been no indication that he intends to
allow their extradition to face trial.

Britain, the United States and France are considering a package of economic
sanctions, including an arms and air embargo, unless Gadaffi agrees to the
extradition. A military strike, while still unlikely, has not been ruled out.

Meanwhile, Israel believes that Hezbollah, the group responsible for kidnapping
Westerners in Beirut, has planted cells in Europe in preparation for terrorist
attacks. Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency, has recently received new
information on Hezbollah through secret contacts with the Iranian ledership over
the Middle East hostage crisis.

It has learnt from Iran, which has a more direct control of the Lebanese group
than was earlier thought, that Hezbollah has planted agents in Western Europe
and may be targeting Jewish refugees making their way to Israel and the United
States from the former Soviet Union. Several of these refugees pass through
transit points in Europe where they might be vulnerable to attack.

The discovery about the European cells is only one of a number of breakthroughs
that Mossad claims to have made. It has established the existence of a hitherto
unknown branch of Hezbollah, known as the Special Security Apparatus, which was
responsible for the Beirut kidnappings.

The brief of the Apparatus extends beyond kidnapping to assassinations of
Westerners, Israelis and Arabs hostile to Iran. The group has ties to radicals
in Tehran and with Palestinian extremists such as Ahmed Jibril, implicated in
the early stages of the planning of the Lockerbie bombing. The Israelis believe
the group gets its money either from Iran and Libya, or by kidnapping and
robbing banks.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 9, 1991, Monday

Europe: Twelve asked to look to human rights records

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 826 words


AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL has called on the leaders of the 12 nations meeting in
Maastricht today to ensure there are no human rights violations in their own
countries and to implement a fair asylum policy.

Serious alleged human rights abuses, principally by police and prison officers
against prisoners and other detainees, have been recorded in France, Germany,
Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain as well as the United Kingdom,
according to Amnesty.

As tomorrow, the second and final day of the Maastricht summit, is also
International Human Rights Day, Amnesty International has chosen the occasion to
draw attention to the domestic human rights records of the EC countries.

In its latest European report, Amnesty says it has received many allegations of
torture and ill-treatment by the police in Greece. It says it is ''concerned
that the Greek authorities failed to respond to its allegations''. ''In some
cases investigations . . . appeared to be inadequate or attempts had been made
by the judicial authorities or police to obstruct alleged victims from making
complaints.''

In one case, in January, a man arrested by the Athens drugs squad died after
allgedly being beaten around the head; Amnesty has received no reply to its
requests for information about the case. In another case, a 17-year-old girl was
beaten and kicked when arrested by riot police at a demonstration against a
visit by George Bush in July; an investigation is under way. Greece is one of
several countries criticised by Amnesty for the imprisonment of conscientious
objectors to national service, who, in Greece, are denied alternative civilian
service.

In France, several judicial inquiries are under way into allegations of ill-
treatment in police custody. They include the case of Aissa Ihich, 18, a high-
school student from the Paris area arrested in May during street disturbances,
who was allegedly beaten by police and died 36 hours later from a severe asthma
attack.

Amnesty are concerned by suggestions that his attack was brought on by the
beating, that police refused to allow medication to be given to him and by the
refusal of the authorities to identify which police organisation carried out the
arrest.

The prolonged isolation in German prisons of convicted or suspected terrorists
can have ''serious physical and psychological effects'', says Amnesty. The
organisation is particulary concerned about conditions under which a suspected
terrrorist, Barbara Perau- Hofmeier, has been held since 1986. She is prevented
from participating in any communal activities, including church services, except
for exercise.

Amnesty says it is also concerned about the ''virtual isolation'' of long- term
female terrorist prisoners held in Stuttgart prison who are forbidden
association with the majority male population of the prison or with each other.
Germany is also holding a number of Irish people in connection with alleged IRA
attacks.

In Italy, Sollicciano prison, near Florence, has been the source of a number of
reports of ill-treatment of prisoners, particularly non-EC immigrants who make
up half its population. Four cases of alleged violence in the prison have been
raised by Amnesty with the Italian authorities; similar allegations have also
been made following incidents in Padua and Novara prisons.

The Spanish police have also been the subject of allegations by a Basque
politician who was arrested over links with Basque terrorists, and who claimed
she was held incommunicado and interrogated while variously blindfolded, held in
a straitjacket, hooded in a plastic bag and while being beaten and given
electric shocks. A judicial inquiry is under way.

The Amnesty report also repeats its worries about human rights abuses in the
United Kingdom, including well- documented recent miscarraiges of justice
following ''long-standing concerns about fair trial issues'' particularly ''the
absence of safeguards for detainees in the pre-trial phase''. In addition,
Amnesty has raised the issue of alleged ill-treatment of suspects and
allegations of a ''shoot-to-kill'' policy by the security forces in Northern
Ireland.

On asylum, Amnesty says the growing number of people fleeing possible torture,
execution and other human rights violations are increasingly blocked when they
try and find safety in many European countries only to find ''mazes of rules''
and ''screening out procedures''.

Amnesty says that some European governments show a ''dangerous lack of
understanding'' of the problems of asylum-seekers and treat them as illegal
immigrants rather than those seeking to escape persecution.

The criticism is particularly embarrassing for the British government in the
wake of two recent cases in which Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, has been
severely criticised by the courts for ordering the return of asylum-seekers from
Zaire and India. Britain is resisting greater EC co-operation on immigration
issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 16, 1991, Monday

MPs attack failure to catch IRA bombers

BYLINE: By NICK COHEN, Home Affairs Reporter

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 282 words


TORY backbenchers yesterday criticised the failure to catch IRA mainland
bombers, after the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square and a north London
shopping centre were firebombed at the weekend, writes Nick Cohen.

Retailers will be examining today whether the firebombings and cold snap in the
South have further hurt pre-Christmas trade.

If there has been a national effect, all but those store chains that regard it
as a matter of principle to obey the law could be pushed into opening next
Sunday - the last before Christmas.

Yesterday, the IRA admitted responsibility for the weekend attacks. Three
firebombs exploded in department stores at the Brent Cross shopping centre in
Hendon, north-west London, on Saturday. No one was hurt and damage was slight,
but the centre was closed all morning and losses were estimated at more than
pounds 5m.

Early yesterday, a firebomb exploded in the bookshop in the National Gallery's
newly opened Sainsbury wing in central London. Sprinklers extinguished the
flames. The gallery was open yesterday afternoon. Other London galleries were
searched, but no firebombs were found.

The IRA, which began mainland firebombings on 1 December, said: ''The economic
cost of disruption to daily life in Britain will continue to rise as long as the
British government and its Army continues to occupy part of Ireland's national
territory.''

Ivor Stanbrook, Tory MP for Orpington and chairman of the party's constitutional
committee, said yesterday: ''This latest outrage shows the Government has got to
do far more to crack down on terrorism.'' He called on Kenneth Baker, the Home
Secretary, to show he was competent and on top of his job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 16, 1991, Monday

'ABANDON YOUR HOLIDAY TO STOP FIREBOMBERS', BAKER URGED

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Chris Parkin, and Alison Cameron, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


Beleaguered Home Secretary Kenneth Baker is being urged to give up his Christmas
holiday to crack down on terrorist attacks after the IRA stepped up its mainland
firebomb blitz.  The call came from some Tory MPs who spoke out after the latest
incendiary exploded early yesterday at the National Gallery, where a Queen's
Pictures exhibition is on show.  The attack followed three firebomb explosions
in stores at the Brent Cross shopping centre in north-west London on Saturday,
causing trade losses put at more than £5 million.  Enraged Tory critics claimed
the Government was failing to deal with the problem either effectively or with
sufficient resources.  Ivor Stanbrook, Conservative MP for Orpington and
chairman of the party's influential constitutional committee, called on Mr Baker
to give up his festive holiday and work "flat out to demonstrate he is the
capable minister we all know him to be".  Mr Baker is also being urged to renew
his call in the Commons this afternoon for extra public vigilance against the
terrorist campaign.  But Whitehall sources indicated the prospect of a statement
in Parliament was unlikely.  This was greeted with disappointment by Labour who
appealed to Mr Baker to change his mind, but said it would not try to force a
statement by tabling an emergency Commons question to him.  Shadow home affairs
minister Barry Sheerman said: "I am surprised given the seriousness of this
campaign and the loss of turnover in the retail world. "The key to all this is
for continued vigilance ... on the part of everybody in these last few days of
Christmas shopping." In a brief statement issued in Dublin yesterday, the IRA
said "active service units" carried out the weekend attacks.  It added: "The
economic cost of disruption to daily life in Britain will continue to rise as
long as the British Government and its Army continues to occupy part of
Ireland's national territory."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 17, 1991

Clapham bomb brings travel chaos to London

BYLINE: By DUNCAN CAMPBELL, Crime Correspondent

LENGTH: 593 words


THE IRA's concerted campaign to cause confusion and economic damage on the
mainland brought widespread disruption to London yesterday as a bomb exploded
near Britain's busiest rail junction during the early morning.

The Stock Exchange was later closed for two hours and trading disrupted as
anti-terrorist branch officers searched the building after a bomb warning had
been phoned through to the Samaritans.


A bomb went off at 6am at Latchmere Junction, between Clapham Junction and
Queenstown Road stations in south London. No-one was injured. A warning had
already alerted the police and British Rail staff and emergency services were
standing by.

All London's mainline stations and their adjoining underground stations were
closed during the morning rush-hour after warnings were telephoned to TV-am that
bombs had been planted. Services used by 500,000 commuters were severely
disrupted.

The bomb and disruptive hoax warnings come after 10 days of IRA activity in
Manchester, Blackpool and London. At the weekend incendiary devices were placed
in the National Gallery and Brent Cross shopping centre, north London.

An IRA statement at the weekend said: 'The economic cost of disruption to daily
life in Britain will continue to rise as long as the British government and its
army continue to occupy part of Ireland's national territory.'

The current IRA pattern would seem to be to hit a combination of symbolic,
disruptive and random targets, using devices that are almost impossible to
detect and taking advantage of the resulting confusion to cause further economic
damage. The IRA is aware that many prime targets may now be subjected to
round-the-clock police surveillance so the shift to shopping centres and
unguarded railway lines is logical.

Many of the devices have been planted at weekends, giving credence to the theory
that active service unit members have regular jobs and are well integrated into
London life.

The anti-terrorist branch are maintaining an optimistic response. In an
interview on Thames Reports to be broadcast tonight, the head of the branch,
Commander George Churchill-Coleman, says: 'We are winning the fight against
terrorism and they know that jolly well.'

Mr Churchill-Coleman says he believes that no more than half a dozen people are
operational at any one time. 'They would like to give you the impression they
have many more people here, with the ability to travel up and down the country
to commit acts of terrorism at will. That's not true.'

He says the constant shift of tactics is aimed at causing the public the highest
apprehension and 'to keep the police hopping from place to place.'

William Taylor, the Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner with
responsibility for specialist operations, said that much of the disruption had
been caused by hoax calls, some made by the IRA. He warned that hoax callers
faced four years in prison.

Mr Taylor appealed to the public, saying: 'You are our eyes and ears and we need
your continued co-operation.' He asked people who saw anything suspicious to
contact the police immediately.

John Major said that he was 'absolutely appalled' by the explosion. Malcolm
Rifkind, the Transport Secretary, said it was impossible for every line of the
railway network to be securely guarded. He praised the travelling public for
their 'great stoicism.'

Joan Ruddock, Labour's transport spokeswoman, urged an inquiry into how the rail
network could be better protected.

pounds 50m cost, page 2; Leader comment, page 18

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 17, 1991, Tuesday

Terrorists keep changing tactics to elude security forces

BYLINE: By WILL BENNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 503 words


THE BOMB explosion near Clapham Junction, which led to the closure of London's
main railway stations, was typical of the IRA's policy of constantly changing
tactics, writes Will Bennett.

This year the IRA in mainland Britain has concentrated on planting incendiary
devices, which can cause enormous damage and disruption with minimum risk to the
terrorists.

But this tactic has been combined with attacks on political and military targets
and, as yesterday, on London's vulnerable transport system used by hundreds of
thousands of commuters. A senior IRA member said recently: ''You change your
tactics to keep them guessing. It all depends on logistics. If you stick to one
tactic, you can become predictable and be tracked down. They can find out when
you work to a pattern.''

In 1990, almost all the IRA's attacks in England were against political and
military targets. They included shootings and bombings. Ian Gow, the
Conservative MP, and two soldiers were murdered.

This year the IRA campaign has been more varied. It opened with a spectacular
mortar attack on 10 Downing Street in February, which almost killed John Major
and members of the Cabinet who were in a meeting.

Eleven days later, a bomb at Victoria Station in London killed one man and
injured about 40 other people. A second exploded at Paddington Station without
causing casualties. The capital's transport system was paralysed for a day.

In April, the incendiary campaign began in north-west England, but in June the
emphasis returned to military targets. A bomb timed to go off during a
performance by the regimental band of The Blues and Royals in west London failed
to explode. Another was found near an RAF information office in Preston,
Lancashire.

In August, further incendiary devices were found in London but in November the
tactic changed again, this time disastrously for the IRA. Two terrorists blew
themselves up during a second attempt to bomb the Blues and Royals band in St
Albans, Hertfordshire.

This month there have been firebomb attacks in London, Blackpool and Manchester,
the last being at the National Gallery on Sunday.

Although the tactics change, the overall strategy of attacking soft targets,
causing as much chaos and economic damage as possible, remains constant.
Military targets are increasingly difficult to penetrate.

The tactic of causing maximum disruption and loss for minimum outlay and risk
was evident in yesterday's attack. One bomb and the fear that there might be
another on a station is estimated to have cost the capital's economy at least
pounds 40m.

The IRA knew that British Rail would close the system yesterday rather than risk
a repeat of the tragedy in February when stations remained open after a bomb
warning and a commuter was killed by the explosion at Victoria.

It also knew that, even if yesterday's events did not have the dramatic impact
of a murder, they would remind the business community and hundreds of thousands
of commuters of Ireland's endless troubles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 17, 1991, Tuesday

IRA bombing of railway 'cost London pounds 40m'

BYLINE: By WILL BENNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 505 words


A SMALL IRA bomb which did little more than rearrange the stone ballast under a
railway track brought travel chaos to London yesterday and is estimated to have
cost the capital's economy more than pounds 40m.

The bomb exploded under a little-used side track at Latchmere, near Clapham
Junction in south London, just before 6am. Although the blast was heard some
distance away it failed even to damage the rails just above it.

There were no casualties, although a commuter train was passing nearby on
another track at the time. The only damage caused was a hole blown in the
ballast under the rails and the dislodging of a telegraph pole.

But shortly before the explosion a man claiming to be from the IRA and using a
codeword had telephoned the television station TV-am. He said there was a bomb
at a mainline London station.

The police, remembering the bombing which killed a commuter at Victoria station
last February, took no chances and closed every rail terminal in the capital.
They did not know whether the call was a hoax or whether the bomb referred to
was the one that had already exploded.

Victoria and Waterloo stations were closed for four and a half hours and the
rest of the terminals for about three hours. Some commuters switched to the
Underground but many took to the roads causing long traffic jams on some routes
into London. A spokesman for the AA said that there was a 12-mile queue on a
link road onto the M11 in Essex, a 10-mile tailback on the A3 in Surrey and that
traffic had been moving even more slowly than usual on the M25 round London.

The Association of London Authorities estimated that about half the capital's
500,000 train commuters did not get into work, while many of those who did make
it were at least two hours late.

One of those affected was Malcolm Rifkind, the Secretary of State for Transport,
whose train from Edinburgh was halted at Watford. He said: ''This particular
explosion did not take place within a railway station, it was on a stretch of
line. You cannot guarantee that every bit of railway line in the UK can be
permanently watched or guarded.''

Tens of thousands of shoppers stayed at home at a time when stores were hoping
that sales would pick up just before Christmas. The ALA estimates that the whole
incident may have cost London's economy more than pounds 40m.

It followed a spate of firebomb attacks around Britain, one of which closed the
Brent Cross shopping centre in north London on Saturday.

The IRA, although it switches tactics, is concentrating on economic targets and
yesterday achieved considerable results from a bomb which Scotland Yard called
''a very small device''.

A BR spokesman said last night: ''There may be a few hiccups in the service in
the morning but we should be largely back to normal.''

Parents discovered an incendiary bomb inside a toy car bought for their child in
a Belfast store. An RUC officer said last night: ''The IRA has sunk to a new low
with the planting of this device. It's an absolute disgrace.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 17, 1991, Tuesday

New director general of MI5 is a woman

BYLINE: By MARK URBAN and ANTHONY BEVINS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 593 words


THE SECURITY Service - MI5 - has become the first major Western intelligence
agency to appoint a woman as its head. Stella Rimington is to become Director
General in February, the Home Office announced yesterday.

Mrs Rimington, 56, will succeed Sir Patrick Walker. The appointment will be seen
by many in Whitehall as a triumph of equal opportunities policy. Several other
women have risen to high posts in MI5 - for example becoming directors of
branches.

More than half of MI5's staff is believed to be female, although many are
clerical staff. MI5's responsibilities include protecting Britain from foreign
spies, terrorists and ''subversives''. British agents abroad are run by MI6.

The announcement itself is a major break with the all-pervasive official secrecy
which had previously covered the identity of intelligence personnel. (When New
Statesman carried a picture of Mrs Rimington several years ago, she and her
family moved house amid concerns about her security.) Sir Patrick's Who's Who
entry is limited to two lines saying he joined the ''Ministry of Defence,
1963''.

Mrs Rimington, who does not feature at all in Who's Who, joined the Security
Service 22 years ago, and has been the senior deputy director-general of MI5 for
about a year. Her new post carries the rank of second permanent secretary with a
salary of pounds 77,500.

Mrs Rimington is married to, but separated from, John Rimington, the head of the
Health and Safety Executive. He said yesterday: ''She's a very kind and straight
person and the country is fortunate in having her services in such a position.''
The couple have two daughters.

Mrs Rimington cut her teeth in MI5's F Branch, responsible for countering the
activities of political subversives. During her term there, Cathy Massiter, a
fellow officer, made public criticisms of the department's classification of
broad sections of the left as ''subversives'', which resulted in Labour MPs and
trade unionists being followed and having their telephones tapped.

The future Director General is believed to have become head of F2, a section
which analysed the threat presented by political extremist groups, in the early
1980s. It was probably her work in F Branch which brought her to the attention
of Sir Patrick, who once headed the department.

Mrs Rimington's career received a big boost when, in the late 1980s, she was
appointed Director of Counter-Terrorism, dealing with IRA attacks in Britain and
on the Continent as well as Arab terrorism in the UK. She found herself at the
head of a fast-expanding section, boosted by MI5's strategy of redeploying
resources as the Soviet threat ebbed. In recent years Counter-Terrorism grew at
the expense of F Branch.

Someone who worked with her describes her as ''a smashing person with a
formidable grasp of her work''. Another former colleague called her ''a person
of incredibly clear brain, very broad and imaginative, very incisive in
argument, and extremely quick to pick up

the weak point in anybody else's argument - extremely good in

committee''.

As Director of Counter-Terrorism she brought ''a dramatic ability to read the
terrorists' intentions and second-guess them''. On the debit side, he said she
was ''a person with very little personal charm''.

The appointment was made by Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, as laid down in
the Security Service Act 1989, which put the agency on a statutory footing for
the first time. The Prime Minister was consulted, and under the terms of the Act
she will have a right of direct access to him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 17, 1991, Tuesday

YOU WILL NOT BOMB US INTO SUBMISSION, BAKER TELLS IRA

BYLINE:  Michael Chilvers, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 544 words


Home Secretary Kenneth Baker today told the IRA that Britain would not be bombed
into submission.  Reacting to yesterday's terrorist attack at Clapham Junction,
Mr Baker said: "The IRA are trying to disrupt the economic life of this country
but they will not succeed.  "They have made clear that they have political aims
but London and Britain as a whole will not be bombed into agreeing with their
views." Mr Baker's defiance came as the man leading the mainland
counter-terrorism campaign, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, said a great
deal of work was going on "behind the scenes" to prevent attacks.  "And yes, we
are winning the fight against the terrorists, and they know that jolly well,"
said Mr Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad.

Mr Baker, speaking to reporters at the launch of a new police national computer
in Hendon, north London, said the capital came back to active life yesterday
afternoon after the Clapham Junction blast.  "They are trying to create as much
disruption as possible but they are not going to disrupt London, they will not
disrupt Christmas or the life of this country." Mr Baker said the police
depended upon information and urged everyone to report anything suspicious
immediately.  Terrorist devices were often very small and difficult to detect,
he said.  "There was one in a toy in Northern Ireland yesterday. How sick can
you get?" The call for vigilance was echoed by Mr Churchill-Coleman, who said
the terrorists constantly changed tactics to give the public the highest level
of apprehension and to keep the police hopping from place to place.  "In both of
these efforts, they are failing," he added.  He said the IRA had no more than
six people operating on the mainland at any one time with little local support,
although they wanted to give the impression they had many more people here.  In
an assessment of the battle against the IRA, he said: "We live in a democracy
and we fight the terrorist on those terms.  "No-one can sit here and say we can
prevent every terrorist act, any more than we can prevent every crime that takes
place."

The commander makes his comments in tonight's Thames Reports film Living With
Terror, which examines IRA attacks during 1991.  Meanwhile British Rail services
were back to normal today with increased security at London's mainline stations
after yesterday's bomb attack.  But thousands of commuters had their journeys
disrupted again this morning after a security alert closed Marble Arch tube
station.  The fire brigade and police were called after an explosion was
reported under an eight-car train, but London Underground said later a technical
fault caused the "bang".  The station was evacuated as soon as the bang was
heard, and a spokesman said: "Everyone is a bit jumpy at the moment and it was
thought safer to act."
    Police today issued clearer still pictures of two men they wish to interview
about firebombing attacks in Manchester's Arndale shopping centre.  Detectives
who spent hours studying video tape from security cameras in stores want to
trace two men who stood out because both were carrying shoulder bags and the
smaller of the two, who was wearing a basball cap, was carrying a large blue
holdall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          December 18, 1991, Wednesday

'THIRD COUNTRY' LOCKERBIE TRIAL BID REJECTED

BYLINE:  Paul Bromley, Press Association Lobby Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


Britain today rejected suggestions that a third country could stage the trial of
two Libyan agents suspected of the Lockerbie bombing.  The Foreign Office
insisted that the trial should take place in Scotland, where the crime was
committed. A Bulgarian foreign ministry official, speaking after a Libyan envoy
arrived in Sofia for talks on the case, said today: "Most likely Libya will ask
Bulgaria to host the trial." Bulgaria was the first country to formally support
a joint US and British statement demanding Libya surrender the two agents,
disclose all it knows about the bombing and pay compensation to victims'
families.  But a Foreign Office spokeswoman in London said: "Our position
remains absolutely the same. We believe that they should be tried where the
crime was committed." Britain and the United States have charged Abdel Basset
Ali Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah with the bombing, but Libya has rejected
demands that they be surrendered for trial.  The two agents have been placed
under house arrest by Libya and Tripoli has named a judge to conduct a separate
inquiry.  Pan-Am Flight 103 was blown up over the Scottish town of Lockerbie on
December 21, 1988, killing 259 people aboard the aircraft and 11 on the ground.
Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi claimed on Monday that the loss of the plane was
an accident and not a terrorist attack at all.  He claimed that the Jumbo jet
crashed because of bad weather, hit a petrol station and exploded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 20, 1991, Friday

Diary

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 916 words


LIGHTS! CAMERA! ACTION! HANDCUFFS!

A POLICE film crew has been caught red-handed masquerading as a BBC television
team at a street disturbance - confirming long-held suspicions that the police
use the media as cover for surveillance operations. Minutes of a top-level BBC
meeting passed to the Diary reveal that the Metropolitan Police have apologised
to the BBC for an incident one weekend early in November. A BBC crew was filming
a demonstration around London's Whitechapel Road when it came across another TV
crew. Interested, the BBC people asked a police inspector accompanying the other
crew where they came from. ''Oh, they're from the BBC,'' came the reply. The
corporation promptly made a formal complaint to Scotland Yard. Yesterday John
Wilson, the BBC's Controller Editorial Policy, said: ''We have been conducting a
bit of a campaign to stop these practices. We will just have to wait and see if
there are more instances.'' The point is, of course, that such abuse can and,
according to some, has, endangered bona fide journalists. Scotland Yard
yesterday confirmed that the incident had taken place and said that the officer
''was quite wrong'' and had ''been advised as to his conduct''.

DAVID SEMLER, the cinematographer who filmed Dances With Wolves, was introduced
to the Queen during her trip to America this summer. At least, that's what the
gay newspaper All Points North says. And it reports that when told of Semler's
profession, Her Majesty remarked: ''How terribly interesting. Actually, I have a
brother- in-law who is a photographer.'' To which Semler responded: ''How
terribly coincidental. I have a brother-in-law who is a queen.''

THE PERFECT WIFE:

A certain Dr John Rimington was criticised by Friends of the Earth at the
Hinkley Point public inquiry four years ago for failing to seek adequate public
consultation on a document about nuclear power called ''The Tolerability of
Risk'', which he had overseen as director of the Health and Safety Executive. Dr
Rimington insisted, quite grumpily, there'd been lots of consultation: ''All the
Commissioners' wives read the document.'' At the time this response was
dismissed as pathetic, with sexist overtones, by Friends of the Earth. But in
the light of this week's announcement of a new chief for MI5, we appreciate that
Dr Rimington's wife, Stella, would have been an ideal authority to consult on
the risks of nuclear power - particularly in respect of bombs and terrorist
attacks.

JACK TINKER's review of the new, ''original'' Phantom of the Opera in
yesterday's Daily Mail contained a paragraph on the show's limited previous
exposure in Britain, concluding: ''However, it has acquired cult status in San
Francisco (.)'' Nosy as ever, we asked what, if anything, the brackets contained
when Mr Tinker filed his copy. And this was his original line: ''However, it has
acquired cult status in San Francisco (where they know a thing or two about
tongues in cheeks).'' Strange - what on earth could be the problem with that?

BBC LEAKS A BIT

Yet more confidential BBC minutes arrive. This time they're from BBC TV's
programme review board, a weekly meeting where heads of department are rude
about the opposition and each other. And they are rude. Even the god-like
Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman came under the lash for his work on Did You
See?. Kevin Loader, a former producer of the programme, said Mr Paxman ''could
be very lazy'' and had chaired a ''sloppy'' discussion. Discussing BBC2's Not
Mozart of 1 December, Alan Yentob, Controller of BBC2, admitted that it ''really
was the pits''. If he lived next door to the Controller of BBC2, he said, he
would have come round and shot him. Bill Bryden, former head of television
sales, told the meeting he did come round - but Mr Yentob was out.

THE DUKE of York demonstrated a refined wit in the tradition of his father to
guests at a US Embassy party last night: ''I have a theory about the death of
Robert Maxwell. There was an Irish tart on board his yacht and he said to her,
'Why don't you toss me off?' So she did.'' Cue stunned silence, broken by polite
laughter and the plaintive voice of Norman Willis, the TUC chief: ''You can't
say that about him - he was my publisher.''

SPELLBOUND

Almost three out of 10 seven- year-olds cannot spell simple words such as
''car'' or ''man'' - and civil servants employed by the Department of Education
and Science can't cope with ''enrolled''. The DES yesterday published a glossy
brochure with the results of the first national tests for seven-year-olds. It
tells us: ''. . . all 7 year olds enroled in just over 16,000 primary schools
maintained by local education authorities were assessed.''

A DAY LIKE THIS

20 December 1911: Henry James writes to Edith Wharton in Paris: ''Your letter is
delightful, but Sargent postpones the portrait which Wharton had commissioned
till after the 15th of Jan. It is inevitable - the mornings here are of black
darkness. Though I shall thus be growing older & more battered every hour, I beg
you possess your soul in patience. Let the aspects of your favourite city, the
fascinating Paris, meanwhile sustain your spirits. The aspects here are of
smeared soot, & we wallow, drenched, on a thick mud paste. A dismal document
from the Scribners flanked by an appalling one from the Macmillans this a.m.,
tells me that the sales of my Edition, on which I counted for the bread of my
vieux jours, is rapidly & hopelessly falling to derisive figures . . .''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 24, 1991

Answers to the Christmas Quiz

LENGTH: 918 words


IN THE PICTURE

1. Michael Randle and Pat Pottle; 2. Seymour Hersh, author of The Samson Option;
3. President Aristide of Haiti; 4. Nigel Kennedy; 5. Margaret Thatcher's
legislation lost Carol her job and TV-am the franchise; 6. Freddy;7. Sonia
Gandhi refused to take husband Rajiv's place as Leader of the Indian Congress
Party; 8. Kitty Kelley, unofficial biographer; 9. Derek Bentley, whose case was
reopened 38 years after he was hanged; 10. Jennifer's diary in Harper's & Queen;
Mrs Betty Kenward made way for a younger party-goer.


WHO

1. Terry Waite, receiving a card featuring John Bunyon; 2. Gorbachev, trapped
during the coup; 3. Sir Allan Green, Director of Public Prosecutions, who
accosted a prostitute; 4. Ron Noades, Crystal Palace Chairman; 5. Judge Clarence
Thomas, according to Professor Anita Hill, who made claims about a pubic hair
and a bottle; 6. Ian Botham, returning to Test cricket at The Oval after a
two-year gap from Test cricket; 7. Prince Charles, as President of Patrons; 8.
Boris Yeltsin, outside the Russian Parliament; 9. John Simpson of the BBC; 10.
Clare Short, who resigned as opposition spokesperson.

WHOSE

1. Winnie Mandela; 2. Benetton's full colour ad featuring a nude baby was
rapidly aborted; 3. MP Teresa Gorman, who sued constituency Chairman Anthony
Mudd for libel; 4. Robert Maxwell; 5. Keith Prowse ticket agency; 6. Lord King,
Chairman of British Airways, which gave away free tickets; 7. Gerald Ratner;
'It's crap,' he said; 8. BT; 9. Coronation Street; 10. Western Isles council
invested in BCCI.

WHO DIED

1. Alfred Wainwright, whose ashes are scattered in the Lake District; 2.
Trumpeter Miles Davies; 3. Sir Bernard Miles, aka Long John Silver; 4. Eric
Heffer, in his posthumous biography; 5. Dame Margot Fonteyn; 6. Madam Mao 7.
Frank Capra, director of You Can't Take It With You; 8. Sir Angus Wilson, author
of Such Darling Dodoes; 9. Freddy Mercury, who died of Aids; 10. Jack Trevor
Story, communicating with his young girlfriend.

WHERE

1. Wandsworth, whose poll tax was wiped out by the government grant; 2. Brixton
prison, when a gun was concealed in the shoe of an IRA terrorist; 3. In his
Range Rover in a Surrey car park. He was beaten and robbed; 4. London Zoo; 5. In
Hyde Park, waterproofed in polythene during Pavarotti's concert; 6. Outside the
opera; 7. Space; she was Britain's first astronaut; 8. The Quorn in
Leicestershire, its animal atrocities being captured on film; 9. Staffordshire
children's homes, where Pin-down led to massive compensation; 10. The MCC voted
to exclude women.

WHO SAID

1. John Major, after the bomb blast in Downing Street; 2. Nigel Lawson; 3. Dr
George Carey, Archbishop of Canterbury; 4. Dr Jonathan Sacks, Chief Rabbi; 5.
Dave Nellist MP; 6. Margaret Thatcher; 7. Terry Wogan; 8. US General Colin
Powell, on Iraqi army; 9. Norman Tebbit; 10. Salman Rushdie.

WHICH

1. The Tosa, the banned fighting dog; 2. Bill Wyman of the Rolling Stones and
Mandy started divorce proceedings; 3. Edwina Currie successfully sued the
Observer, where she had been compared to a character in a David Hare film; 4.
Count Nikolai Tolstoy; 5. General Norman Schwarzkopf; 6. John Hapgood, of York,
when the Ven. George Austin prophesied C of E's collapse; 7. Britain - Vic
Williams was court martialled for desertion during the Gulf crisis; 8. Marlon
Brando; 9. Sir Alastair Burnet from ITN; 10. Spurs, after Gascoigne's injury
postponed his sale to Lazio and reduced the asking price.

WHAT

1. A French stamp featuring Polynesia accidentally included the island; 2. The
oldest; his tenant turned out to offer unusual services; 3. The Universe,
according to latest estimates; 4. The bomb warning was not believed as it came
with an outdated password; 5. Electrostatic deposition analysis, used to check
the authenticity of statements taken down by police; 6. Breaking and entering by
using a car as a battering ram; 7. Gulf War plans lost by Wing Commander David
Farquhar; 8. Books - Pentos broke the net book agreement; 9. The new council
tax; 10. The Fifth Man in the spy network.

HOW

1. Sir Geoffrey Howe is to retire; 2. US basketball star Earvin 'Magic' Johnson,
discovering he is HIV positive; 3. These were job-losses announced by
self-governing hospitals; 4. Salman Rushdie's Japanese translator was stabbed to
death; 5. He was hit with a golf club; 6. It came from Colonel Gadafy as payment
for the killing of WPC Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan Embassy; 7. He taxed
mobile phones in his budget; 8. By marriage - to Sir Peregrine Worsthorne; 9.
Birkenhead MP Frank Field was deselected then reselected but Liverpool MP Terry
Fields was expelled by the Labour Party for militancy; 10. He was caught abusing
himself in a blue-movie house.

WHY

1. John Taylor, black Tory candidate, ran into trouble from party activists; 2.
Traces of soap seem to have been mistaken for nitroglycerine; 3. Because sister
Vanessa put an ad in the New York Times opposing the Gulf war; 4. Because his
exiled compatriot had been stabbed by a secret policeman's poisoned umbrella; 5.
By 'the wrong kind of snow' for the engines; 6. He donated pounds 2m to the Tory
party; 7. Sooty was redesigned as an environmentally-friendly puppet; 8. Tour
company Intasun collapsed; 9. In an attempt to force the Church Commissioners to
put their money where the C of E's mouth is; 10. President Bush turned out to
have Graves's Disease - but was too healthy for Dan Quayle to take over.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 27, 1991, Friday

MI5 fears jail escapers are planning new year attack

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 570 words


THE SECURITY services have warned Kenneth Baker, the Home Secretary, that the
two IRA suspects who escaped from Brixton prison could be planning a new year
terrorist attack in Britain.

Intelligence officers believe the two - Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McAuley -
who broke out in July, are still on the mainland.

Ministers have been told to expect a resumption of the IRA firebombing campaign
in Britain which is aimed at disrupting the economy. The January sales are
thought to be a likely target.

It is believed that only one active service unit was involved in the
pre-Christmas firebombings but security sources, including MI5, believe
Quinlivan and McAuley could now be involved with another unit in planning an
assassination or an attack on a state target.

The disclosure could prove damaging for the Home Secretary who fought off
Opposition demands for his resignation over the break-out of the two IRA
suspects. It underlines the seriousness of the security lapse which led to their
escape.

Security surrounding individuals and buildings has been reviewed after the
heightened state of alert about the IRA. Mr Baker has avoided statements after
each bombing to minimise the propaganda effect in Britain of incendiary attacks
which also have to be endured in Northern Ireland.

But the Home Secretary did say: ''I do urge everybody to be very vigilant and to
report anything suspicious to the police. The terrorists are trying to disrupt
our economy and our lives and they will not succeed. That has to be the
message.''

Labour is planning to attack Mr Baker's performance in the new year as part of
the party's pre-election campaign against the Tory record on law and order.

However, the Conservatives are planning to use Labour's opposition to the annual
renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) in February for a
counter-attack on Labour in the run-up to the general election.

John Patten, Minister of State at the Home Office, yesterday accused Neil
Kinnock, the Labour leader, of being ''muddled and wrong-headed'' on the fight
against terrorism.

In a new year message to his Oxford West and Abingdon constituents, Mr Patten, a
former Northern Ireland minister, said the Act ''is a vital weapon in the armour
of the police and security services. The police wish and need it to be retained;
80 per cent of the British people also wish it to be retained. Astonishingly, Mr
Kinnock wants to scrap the PTA and proposes nothing to replace it.

''Mr Kinnock has no clear policy on the fight against terrorism and his policies
on other key law and order issues seem equally muddled and wrong-headed.''

A Labour spokesman said: ''It is absurd for the Tories to attack us on this.
Neil Kinnock was in Northern Ireland only last Friday. We have made it clear
there would be a crackdown on terrorism, if Labour won power.''

Labour believes the PTA, which gives the police powers of arrest and detention
for suspected terrorists, is counter-productive because it alienates the Irish
community and is not effective in catching

terrorists.

Ministers concede that the main hope of stopping the current campaign is an
intelligence breakthrough, possibly with the help of the Irish community in
Britain.

In the long term, the Government hopes a new European police intelligence unit,
Europol, which was agreed at Maastricht, will be established during the British
EC presidency next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 28, 1991, Saturday

Letter: Dealing with the IRA: politicians must put aside pride; people must not
be cowed

BYLINE: From Mr JAMES RUSBRIDGER

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 15

LENGTH: 349 words


Sir: On 2 July 1940 Hugh Dalton, Minister of Economic Warfare, wrote to the
Foreign Secretary, Lord Halifax:

We have got to organise movements in enemy-occupied territory comparable to the
Sinn Fein movement in Ireland.

Two weeks later Special Operations Executive (SOE) was born with the task, as
Churchill put it so dramatically, of ''setting Europe ablaze''.

Over the next five years groups of very brave and dedicated men and women, all
of whom were specially trained in guerrilla warfare and supplied with the latest
weaponry (including plastic explosive), attacked the Germans when and where they
could, usually choosing soft targets and avoiding direct conflict with the
German army.

How effective SOE was has been the subject of many books, but in France, even in
June 1944, German soldiers (in uniform) felt safe enough to wander round
shopping, go to dance halls and meet French girls. Rommel was still driving
around France, unescorted, in an open Horch, and SOE had never dared launch a
rocket attack against his headquarters at La Roche-Guyon.

By contrast the IRA, which we are so often told consists of no more than 100
active members, is tying up 12,000 soldiers, 7,000 UDR, 8,500 RUC plus 4,500
reservists and various contingents from the SAS, MI5, MI6 and GCHQ in Northern
Ireland.

On the mainland, the seat of government has now come under attack, and the Prime
Minister cannot now venture ouside except in a heavily guarded armoured convoy
even to go 400 yards to the Commons. Virtually every government and military
establishment in Britain is under constant armed guard.

One tiny bomb closed down every London railway station, something that the
German air force never managed to do in the whole of the Second World War, and
people were not told to carry on with ''business as usual'' (as in wartime), but
to go home.

When Mr Baker says ''the IRA hasn't achieved anything'', I wonder what he means.
The Germans never ''defeated'' SOE. But, equally, SOE never ''defeated'' the
German army.

Yours faithfully,

JAMES RUSBRIDGER

Lanivet, Cornwall

23 December

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          December 28, 1991, Saturday

Review of the Year

BYLINE: Sara Driver

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 3570 words


JANUARY - 3.Patrick Sheehy, Britain's most wanted IRA suspect, was found shot
dead in Co Tipperary.

6.Thirty people died as storms swept across the UK and Ireland.

8.One passenger was killed and 247 injured when a rush-hour train crashed into
buffers at Cannon Street.

13.Soviet troops, ordered to the Baltic republics to enforce conscription, fired
on civilians outside the television building in Vilnius, killing 14.

16.After the UN deadline for Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait passed without
response, the US launched an air attack over Baghdad and the Gulf war began.

18.Iraq fired 12 Scud missiles at Israel.

22.Three people were killed by a Scud missile in Tel Aviv.

25.The Iraqis created an environmental disaster by pumping millions of gallons
of crude oil into the Gulf.

29.The first land battle took place when Iraqi troops and tanks invaded Saudi
Arabia.

29.Nelson Mandela, president of the ANC, and Chief Buthelezi, leader of Inkatha,
met for the first time in 30 years.

Died: King Olav of Norway, Miles Copeland, Sir Alec Rose, Alfred Wainwright.

FEBRUARY

1.President de Klerk announced the abolition of South Africa's remaining
apartheid laws.

7.The IRA launched a mortar attack on 10 Downing Street, while the War Cabinet
was in session. No one was hurt and the meeting continued in the basement.

9.Lithuania's referendum on independence recorded a 90 per cent vote in favour
of becoming an independent republic.

13.Iraqi civilians died when the US bombed a Baghdad air-raid shelter.

18.One man was killed and 43 injured when an IRA bomb exploded at Victoria
station during the morning rush hour. Another bomb had exploded earlier at
Paddington station, causing damage but no injuries.

21.A peace plan agreed by Iraq and the Soviet Union was rejected by the allies.

22.Iraqi troops set light to hundreds of oil wells in Kuwait.

24.Allies launched a land attack to force Iraqi troops out of Kuwait.

25.Baghdad radio announced that President Saddam Hussein had ordered his troops
out of Kuwait.

28.A ceasefire in Iraq and Kuwait formally came into effect from midnight.

Died: Dame Margot Fonteyn, Sir Monty Finniston, Ron Pickering.

MARCH

3.Iraqi and allied military leaders met in occupied Iraq to agree basic details
for a permanent ceasefire.

3.Shias in Basra and parts of southern Iraq revolted against Saddam Hussein, but
were suppressed.

4.Flight-Lieutenant John Peters and ten other prisoners of war were released by
the Iraqis.

7.Liberal Democrats won the Ribble Valley by-election with a majority of 4,601,
a swing of 24.7 against the Conservatives.

14.The Court of Appeal quashed the murder convictions of the Birmingham Six
after they spent 15 years and seven months in prison.

15.President Borislav Jovic of Yugoslavia resigned.

17.The Soviet Union held its first referendum on the preservation of the Union.
Around two-thirds voted to keep the Union.

19.Norman Lamont raised VAT to 17.5 per cent to finance a cut of Pounds 140 a
head in the poll tax.

25.Derek Hatton, former leader of Liverpool City Council, was charged on three
counts of conspiring to defraud taxpayers.

25.The film Dances with Wolves won seven Oscars, including best picture.  Jeremy
Irons was best actor for Reversal of Fortune, and Kathy Bates best actress for
Misery.

30.Iraqi troops killed thousands of Kurdish refugees as they fled towards the
Turkish and Iranian borders.

Died: Sir Joseph Lockwood, Monsignor Marcel Lefebvre, Lord Penney.

APRIL

2.Roger Cooper, the businessman held in prison in Iran for five years, was
released.

3.The UN Security Council called on Iraq to destroy its stockpile of weapons and
to pay reparations for the invasion of Kuwait.

4.Children taken into care from the Orkneys, after allegations of ritual abuse,
were returned home. Sheriff David Kelbie ruled that procedures followed by
social workers had been ''fundamentally flawed''.

6.Seagram, ridden by Nigel Hawke, won the Grand National.

7. The Gulf allies began dropping food by parachute to Kurdish refugees stranded
on remote mountains along the Turkish border.

8.The EC approved John Major's plan for the creation of a ''safe haven'' for
Kurdish refugees under the auspices of the UN.

14.Ian Woosnam won the US Masters in Georgia.

17.US troops moved into Iraq to set up refugee centres for the Kurds.

19.Dr George Carey was enthroned as the 103rd Archbishop of Canterbury.

23.Michael Heseltine announced that the poll tax would be replaced by a council
tax based on the capital value of properties.

23.Gerald Ratner told the Institute of Directors that Ratners Group's profits
came from selling people what they wanted: ''Total crap.''

30.More than 100,000 died when a cyclone struck Bangladesh.

Died: Martha Graham, Sir David Lean, Viscount de l'Isle, Graham Greene.

MAY

14.Winnie Mandela was sentenced to six years' imprisonment for her part in the
kidnapping and assault of four black youths.

15.It was revealed that Lord Hanson had bought 20 million shares in ICI, raising
the possibility of a takeover.

15.Manchester United won the European Cup-Winners' Cup, 2-1 against Barcelona.

16.Labour overturned a Conservative majority of more than 9,000 to win the
Monmouth by-election with a majority of 2,406 amid a ''dirty tricks'' row over
the way Labour used the health issue during the campaign.

18.Helen Sharman lifted off in a Soviet Soyuz rocket to become the first Briton
in space.

18.Six-year-old Rukhsana Kahn was badly injured when attacked by a pit bull
terrier in Bradford.

18.Tottenham Hotspur beat Nottingham Forest 2-1 to win the FA Cup.

20.John Major announced education reforms which included the abolition of the
distinction between universities and polytechnics.

20.The Queen conferred an honorary knighthood on General Norman Schwarzkopf
during her state visit to Washington.

21.Rajiv Gandhi, former prime minister of India, was killed in a bomb explosion
at a campaign meeting in Srierumbudur.

21.A ban on the import of pit bull terriers and Japanese tosas began at
midnight.

21.Patricia Cahill was jailed for 18 years in Thailand for smuggling heroin.

21.President Mengistu of Ethiopia fled from the civil war in his country to take
refuge in Zimbabwe.

24.Lazio, the Italian club, agreed to pay a record fee of Pounds 8.5 million for
Tottenham Hotspur's Paul Gascoigne, despite his knee injury.

26.A Lauda Air Boeing 767 with 223 on board exploded over Thailand.

28.Forces of the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front took control
of Addis Ababa.

28.Lord Tombs, chairman of Rolls-Royce, announced he would take a 10 per cent
pay cut, not long after it was revealed that Robin Leigh-Pemberton had received
a 17 per cent rise from the Bank of England.

30.A report by Allan Levy QC and childcare expert Barbara Kahan condemned the
practice of ''pindown'', used at four children's homes in Staffordshire.

30.George Walker was removed from his position as chief executive of the Brent
Walker leisure group.

Died: Eric Heffer, Rajiv Gandhi, Brigadier Lorne Campbell of Airds VC, Coral
Browne, Wilfred Hyde-White, Ronald Lacey, Bernie Winters, Stanley Mortensen, Sir
Angus Wilson, Madame Mao.

JUNE

3.Prince William had a 70-minute operation following an accidental blow to his
head from a golf club at his prep school.

10.England won the first Test against the West Indies, the first time since 1969
that England beat the West Indies at home.

11.Mount Pinatabu in the Philippines erupted, shooting a plume of ash 15 miles
into the air. Nearly half a million people were evacuated and more than 350
died.

13.Boris Yeltsin was voted president of Russia and the people of Leningrad voted
to revert to the city's original name of St Petersburg.

17.South Africa's Population Registration Act was repealed.

17.Douglas Brand, the British engineer sentenced to life imprisonment in Iraq on
charges of spying, was released and, after a tug-of-war in Amman, was driven to
safety.

22.Alan Sugar and Terry Venables succeeded in their takeover of Tottenham
Hotspur plc.

25.John Major condemned the 58 per cent pay increase awarded to John Baker,
chief executive of National Power.

25.Croatia and Slovenia declared their independence from the federal republic of
Yugoslavia.

26.Patrick Pottle and Michael Randle, who admitted aiding George Blake to escape
to Moscow 25 years ago, were acquitted at the Old Bailey.

27.Up to 100 people were reported dead when Yugoslav tanks moved into Slovenia.

28.Margaret Thatcher announced she would not stand again at the next election.

Died: Dame Peggy Ashcroft, Stan Getz, Lord Miles, Gerald Priestland.

JULY

2.John Birt was appointed to take over as director-general of the BBC from 1993.

4.Labour won the Liverpool Walton by-election and relegated the Militant-backed
Real Labour candidate to third place.  5.The Bank of Credit and Commerce
International was closed down after the discovery of widespread fraud.

5.A Dutch court acquitted four suspected members of the IRA of the murder of two
tourists in Roermond.

6.Steffi Graf beat Gabriela Sabatini to win the women's singles at Wimbledon.

7.Two IRA suspects broke out of Brixton prison, and shot a car driver before
hijacking his vehicle.

7.Michael Stich beat Boris Becker to win the men's singles title at Wimbledon.

8.Nigel Mansell became England's most successful Grand Prix driver when he won
the French Formula One race.

10.The ICC readmitted South Africa as a full Test-playing member.

11.A four-minute long total eclipse of the sun was visible from Hawaii. The next
total eclipse of similar length is not expected for another 150 years.

18.Flooding affected half of China, killing at least 1,700 people.

21.Ian Baker-Finch won the 120th Open Championship at Royal Birkdale.

22.John Major launched his citizen's charter, and vowed to increase quality and
value for money throughout the public services.

23.Tom King announced that 22 cavalry and infantry regiments would merge in the
biggest restructuring of the army this century.

29.Two founders of BCCI were indicted by a New York grand jury on charges of
defrauding depositors of at least $5 billion (Pounds 2.97 billion).

30.100,000 people, including the Prince and Princess of Wales, sat in pouring
rain to hear Luciano Pavarotti in Hyde Park.

31.Presidents Bush and Gorbachev signed the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty at
the end of their Moscow summit.

31.Teresa Gorman MP was awarded Pounds 150,000 damages against Anthony Mudd
after he libelled her in a spoof press release.

31.The FA was given permission by the courts to start a Premier League in the
1992-93 season.

Died: Max Jaffa, Michael Landon, Sir Robert Lusty, Cyril Mills, Lee Remick.

AUGUST

8.John McCarthy was freed after more than five years' captivity in Beirut.

15.Four divers, two British, were lost, trapped in a diving chamber under the
South China Sea, after typhoon Fred hit an oil pipe-laying barge.

1622 First Division clubs handed in their notice of resignation to the Football
League.

19.An eight-man junta staged a coup in the Soviet Union and announced that
President Gorbachev had been relieved of his duties because of ill-health.
Boris Yeltsin announced he was taking control of Russia.

20.Three supporters of Boris Yeltsin were killed in clashes with Soviet troops
in Moscow. Russian troops defected to Yeltsin.

21.President Gorbachev flew back to Moscow to reclaim power. Estonia and Latvia
declared independence.

22.One of the eight-man junta, Boris Pugo, shot himself. Six others were
arrested, and Vasili Starodubsev went on the run.

23.President Gorbachev was publicly humiliated by Boris Yeltsin in the Russian
parliament, when the Russian president insisted that Gorbachev read minutes of a
Soviet cabinet meeting.

27.Moldavia became the eighth Soviet republic to secede. The EC recognised the
independence of the three Baltic states.

28.The Soviet government was formally dismissed and the KGB's ruling body was
disbanded.

30.Liz McColgan won Britain's first gold medal in the women's 10,000m race at
the world championship games in Tokyo.

Died: Innes Lloyd, Soichiro Honda.

SEPTEMBER

1.John Major became the first western leader to visit Moscow since the coup.  He
then flew on to Peking.

1.David Owen announced he would retire from politics at the next election.

1.Kriss Akabusi, Roger Black, Derek Redmond and John Regis won the men's 4 x
400m relay in Tokyo.

2.President Bush formally recognised the independence of Lithuania, Latvia and
Estonia.

9.The Meadow Well housing estate in Tyneside was devastated by riots, looting
and arson.

9.Keith Prowse, the world's oldest ticket agency, shut with Pounds 15 million in
debts. Eight days later, the agency was sold to Wembley plc.

12.The jobless total hit 2.4 million, the highest figure for three years.

22.Michael Watson, the middleweight boxer who suffered a severe injury during a
title fight with Chris Eubank, had two brain operations.

25.Jackie Mann, the oldest of the western hostages in Beirut, flew home to
Britain and was greeted by a Spitfire victory roll over RAF Lyneham.

25.Sir Roland Smith resigned as chairman of British Aerospace and was replaced
by Sir Graham Day.

27.President Bush announced sweeping unilateral nuclear arms cuts.

30.Gail Halford won an unprecedented civil case victory in the High Court when
Mr Justice Rougier named Michael Brookes, the man she sued for damages, as the
muderer of her daughter, Lynn.

Died: Frank Capra, Oona Chaplin, Miles Davis, Carol White, Klaus Barbie, Cyril
Knowles, Roy Fuller, Jean Rook, Dr Seuss.

OCTOBER

1.The Soviet Union announced plans to cut its armed forces by almost half in
response to President Bush's proposals to cut America's nuclear arsenal.

3.Sir Allan Green, Director of Public Prosecutions, resigned after being
reported by police for kerb-crawling.

6.Elizabeth Taylor celebrated her eighth wedding when she married construction
worker Larry Fortensky.

9.Malcolm Rifkind rejected British Rail's preferred route for the high-speed
rail link from the Channel tunnel into London in favour of a more
environmentally friendly route through east London.

14.Aung San Suu Kyi, the Burmese opposition party leader under house arrest for
more than two years, was awarded the Nobel peace prize.

15.Judge Clarence Thomas was confirmed as a member of the US Supreme Court by a
Senate vote of 52-48, despite allegations of sexual harassment made against him
by Professor Anita Hill.

16.Four television companies, Thames, TVS, TSW and TV-am, lost their
broadcasting franchises in ITV's shake-up.

16.George Hennard perpetrated the worst mass shooting in American history when
he shot 22 people dead in a Texas cafe.

21.US professor Jesse Turner was set free after five years in captivity in
Beirut.

22.Asil Nadir, chairman of Polly Peck, was charged with 58 counts of theft worth
Pounds 130 million, and a day later faced writs for Pounds 1 billion issued by
the Polly Peck International administrators.

22.Ben Okri won the Booker prize for his novel, The Famished Road.

23.The House of Lords ruled that marital rape is illegal.

23.South Africa was admitted to the 1992 cricket World Cup after a special
meeting of the ICC.

25.Dr Malcolm Smith won a record Pounds 150,000 damages for slander against his
former partner, Dr Alanah Houston, who alleged that he sexually harassed her.

28.Nick Davies, foreign editor of the Daily Mirror, accused of working for
Mossad, was dismissed for ''untrue'' denials of a meeting with an arms dealer in
Ohio.

30.Patients given a new bill of rights for better treatment under the NHS.

30.Twelve-year-old Adele Thompson was killed by joyriders in Liverpool, the
twelfth person to die in joyriding incidents in less than two months.

Died: Joseph Papp, Martin Ennals.

NOVEMBER

2.Australia beat England 12-6 in the final of the rugby World Cup.

3.In Madrid, Israeli and Palestinian delegates held their first face-to-face
talks since 197.

3.Dubrovnik sent out an SOS to the rest of Europe as the ancient walled town was
shelled by Serbian forces.

4.Imelda Marcos wept as she returned to Manila after six years in exile.

4.Coronation Street actor Bill Roache won Pounds 50,000 libel damages against
The Sun over an article which claimed he was boring.

5.Robert Maxwell, newspaper proprietor and founder of Maxwell Communications
Corporation, died at sea after disappearing overboard from his yacht near the
Canary Islands. Shares in MCC and Mirror Group Newspapers were suspended on the
London Stock Exchange after Maxwell was reported missing. The value of the
shares fell Pounds 235 million when they restarted trading two days later.

7.The Tories lost the Kincardine and Deeside by-election to the Liberal
Democrats and the Langbaurgh by-election to Labour. Labour retained Hemsworth,
in Yorkshire, with a reduced majority.

7.American basketball player Magic Johnson announced his retirement after being
diagnosed HIV positive.

8.59 Vietnamese boat people were forcibly repatriated from Hong Kong.

10.Robert Maxwell was buried with full honours on the Mount of Olives in Israel,
as speculation continued as to the cause of his death.

11.The Brink's-Mat bullion trial at the Old Bailey was aborted after five months
and a legal bill estimated at Pounds 2.5 million.

14.Warrants were issued in Edinburgh and Washington for the arrest of two
Libyans wanted for the murder of the 270 victims of the Lockerbie tragedy.

15.Two IRA terrorists were killed by their own bomb near St Albans civic centre,
where the band of the Blues and Royals was playing.

17.The Croatian town of Vukovar fell to the Serbian-dominated Yugoslav army
after an 86-day siege.

18.Terry Waite was released by his kidnappers in Beirut after an ordeal that
lasted nearly five years. With him was Tom Sutherland, the Scottish-born
American, who had been in captivity since 1985.

19.Eduard Shevardnadze was reappointed Soviet foreign minister, 11 months after
he resigned the post.

24.Ian Richter, the chemical engineer held in Iraq on spying charges for more
than five years, flew home from Baghdad.

24.Freddie Mercury, former lead singer of the rock group Queen, died of Aids.

25.The Court of Appeal cleared Winston Silcott of the murder of PC Keith
Blakelock, because evidence had been fabricated by the police.

26.Three high-street supermarket chains challenged Sunday trading laws when they
announced plans to stay open seven days a week up to Christmas.

26.Asil Nadir, founder of Polly Peck, was declared bankrupt.

29.Kenneth Baker, the home secretary, became the first government minister to be
found guilty of contempt of court for his handling of the deportation of a
Zairean teacher.

29.Frank Beck, the former head of three Leicestershire children's homes, was
given five life sentences for sexual and physical abuse of children in his care.

Died: Robert Maxwell, Lord Moynihan, Gustav Husak, Ralph Bellamy, Klaus Kinski,
Fred MacMurray, Freddie Mercury, Yves Montand, Tony Richardson, Gene Tierney.

DECEMBER

1.IRA incendiary devices went off in several London stores and an explosives
cache was found in a garage in Wanstead, east London.

2.Ukraine voted to become an independent state.

2.Joseph Cicippio, abducted from the American university in Beirut in 1986, was
released by his kidnappers.

2.Shares in MCC were suspended on the London Stock Exchange ''pending
clarification of the financial position of the Maxwell family companies''.

3.Alann Steen, an American journalism teacher held in the Lebanon for nearly
five years, was released.

3.Kevin and Ian Maxwell gave up exective control of the family publishing and
media empire amid disclosures that unauthorised loans had been made from Mirror
Group Newspapers' pension fund to MCC private companies.

4.Terry Anderson, held for 2,454 days by kidnappers in the Lebanon, became the
last American hostage to be freed.

4.The Serious Fraud Office started nvestigations as Pounds 526 million was found
to be missing from pension funds and companies controlled by Robert Maxwell.

5.The Daily Mirror, Britain's second biggest-selling newspaper, was put up for
sale.

8.The leaders of Russia, Belorussia and Ukraine announced the formation of a new
commonwealth of independent states, effectively proclaiming the end of the
Soviet Union.

9.Kevin Maxwell's assets were frozen by the courts.

10.European leaders in Maastricht agreed historic treaties on political and
economic union, while John Major won an opt-out clause on single currency and
the removal of the social chapter.

10.The provisional liquidators of Bishopsgate Investment Management, the pension
fund management that administered the Maxwell companies' pensions, issued a writ
against Kevin Maxwell for up to Pounds TG 450 million.

11.William Kennedy Smith broke into tears when a Palm Beach jury found him not
guilty of raping Patricia Bowman.

13.Five southern Soviet republics announced they would join the newly founded
free-market commonwealth.

13.The IRA planted a bomb at the back of a police station in Co Armagh, which
injured 66 people.

Died: Baroness Hart of South Lanark, Sir Roy Welensky, Gordon Pirie, Jack Trevor
Story, John Arlott.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 3, 1992, Friday

Kurds 'threatened by terrorist group'; Claims that revolutionary groups'
sympathisers in London are extorting money from immigrants have aroused concern
at Scotland Yard

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and TIM KELSEY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 753 words


CLAIMS of intimidation among the Kurdish community in London by a revolutionary
group trying to raise money are causing concern to senior Metropolitan Police
officers.

The activities of the PKK, or Kurdish Workers Party, are being closely monitored
by Special Branch officers. The group has been responsible for terrorist attacks
in Turkey. A spokesman for the Turkish Embassy said that several complaints of
extortion among the expatriate community in Britain had been received by the
Consul-General and had been forwarded to Scotland Yard.

''We have been told that Scotland Yard are taking it very seriously,'' he said.

The PKK's British arm, the ERNK, or National Liberation Front of Kurdistan, runs
fund-raising campaigns among the large Kurdish community in the Islington and
Hackney areas of north and east London. It denies that the money is used for
military purposes, saying it is used to help relatives of dead or jailed
activists.

Although police sources say the efforts have a target of pounds 350,000 this
year, a spokesman for the Kurdistan Information Centre said the figure was
closer to pounds 50,000. The spokesman said the allegations were inspired by the
Turkish government.

Police believe that some of the fund-raising, by men who claim to be acting on
behalf of the PKK, has been supported by threats of violence against shopkeepers
and other small businessmen who are perceived to have more money than the rest
of the community. Many of those approached are reluctant to contribute because
they believe the money is used to fund terrorism. The ERNK is not the only group
raising money among Turks and Kurds. The English, Turkish, Kurdish Cultural
Solidarity Association, which has ties with Dev-Sol, a terrorist group in
Turkey, mounts annual collections, and is also alleged to have forced people to
donate.

Although police have been told about the threats, efforts to persuade anyone to
make an official complaint have failed because of fear of reprisals. Police have
been trying to establish whether three recent incidents - a gang fight in
Tottenham, a stabbing in Stoke Newington and a brawl in a butcher's shop in
Hackney - have connections with the intimidation.

Suggestions of intimidation and the fact that people are afraid to come forward
have also surfaced in a Turkish newspaper. One Ankara-sourced report said that
Scotland Yard was in close touch with Turkish police about the matter, although
this has been denied by Yard sources.

One senior uniformed officer said: ''We know that these fund-raising campaigns
exist. The difficulty comes when asking someone for a contribution turns into
putting the arm on them. Equally, how can we be sure that those who say they
represent the PKK actually do so? Assessing the degree of menace involved is
also a very tricky business and what we can prove at the moment is very
different from what we know. But we are deeply worried that one day these
threats will be carried out.''

The force has ordered an intensification of efforts to develop links with the
Kurdish community but the officer said Kurds may be ''too frightened'' to talk
to police. ''In Turkey and Iraq, the police are seen as a much more repressive
arm of the state than they are here, so they simply do not want anything to do
with us.''

The community is naturally inward looking and very few of its members speak
English, while there are only a few Turkish-speaking police officers. Much of
the reluctance to deal with police stems from the fact that large numbers of
Kurds are illegal immigrants; this also makes estimates of the size of the
community difficult - police think it is about 5,000 strong, but admit they
might be wildly mistaken. Kurdish groups put it at 10,000.

The PKK has been waging a guerrilla war against Turkey from bases within the
Kurdish controlled areas of Iraq; its bases were attacked recently by the
Turkish army and air force. It campaigns for a Kurdish state.

Matthew Brady, a spokesman for the Kurdistan Information Centre in north London,
said the ERNK had been fund-raising since August in a campaign due to finish
next week. He said: ''We deny absolutely that this intimidation happens. All our
collecting is done among the Kurdish community for which we obtain receipts. The
Kurdish community are the last people we want to antagonise because we want
sympathy for our cause. These allegations surfaced last year in the Netherlands
and we believe it is the work of agents or sympathisers of the Turkish
government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 3, 1992, Friday

LIBYA WILL NOT FACE SANCTIONS - REPORT

SECTION: OOO

LENGTH: 387 words


WASHINGTON, Friday - The United States, Britain and France do not plan to call
for new sanctions against Libya for the Lockerbie bombing and the destruction of
a French aircraft in which a total of 441 people died, it was reported today.
The Washington Post newspaper quoted diplomatic sources as saying the three
governments would instead ask the UN Security Council to call on Libya to
respond to charges that its agents planted the bombs.  The report was backed
today by Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman who said that the ambassadors of
the three Western nations confirmed the decision at a meeting yesterday with
Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa and Arab League Secretary General Esmat
Abdel Maguid.  The bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie in December 1988
killed 270 people, while the attack which downed a French UTA airliner over
Niger in 1989 killed 171.  All three countries have accused Libyan intelligence
officers of the bombings and called on Libya to hand them over for criminal
trials. The strongly worded demands were widely viewed as a signal that the
three governments would ask for UN sanctions.  The Washington Post quoted
diplomatic sources as saying the three countries gave up the idea after deciding
that the 15-member Security Council would not approve of sanctions.  The new
approach would probably be presented next week in the form of a resolution
sponsored by Britain, it said.  The US State Department refused to comment.  A
Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "Our position is quite clear as
ministers have stated on a number of occasions. We expect a prompt and positive
response from Libya to our demands. We expect compliance in full." He refused to
comment on the possibility of further action if Libya did not comply.  "We have
been discussing with our partners what further steps may or may not be
necessary. Nobody is going to indicate one way or another what those steps might
be," he said.  AP mpd


The French Foreign Ministry in Paris later denied the Washington Post report.
Spokesman Maurice Gourdault-Montagne said: "The information published in the
Washington Post is totally without foundation. The Security Council's
deliberations on terrorism, particularly on the attacks on the Pan Am and UTA
planes, are still on the agenda." Reuter mpd


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 4, 1992, Saturday

Bath beauty and the bombs; A top rating in Baedeker's guide book became a death
sentence for 417 people. Frank Barrett tells a story of war, terror and revenge
in 1942

BYLINE: By FRANK BARRETT

SECTION: WEEKEND TITLE PAGE; Page 23

LENGTH: 2028 words


Bath's Haycombe Cemetery is a neat municipal burial ground on the western edge
of the city. To one side is open, rolling Somerset countryside; to the other
rows of properties that would once have been known as council houses. It is in
most respects an unremarkable place: a well- tended cemetery with a small
church, a crematorium, trim burial plots and carefully groomed pathways.

But a couple of hundred yards from the entrance to Haycombe Cemetery are two
mass graves. With their neat lines of headstones they look like part of a
military cemetery, the sort you can find throughout Belgium and northern France.
But, except for a handful, the people buried here are not Army privates or
flight sergeants.

The presence of these two long lines of identical headstones is shocking among
the usual monumental expressions of family grief. For in the two mass graves lie
the bodies of 263 citizens of Bath who were the victims of war: more than half
of Bath's estimated 417 men, women and children who died in three separate
German air raids directed at the city during two nights in April 1942.

By British standards this was a terrible toll; in the Coventry Blitz of November
1940, which has a prominent place in the annals of national tragedy, 568 died.

Fifty years on, the city of Bath has to make the decision about how to
commemorate the anniversary. As we move towards a united Europe, it is argued
that we should simply forgive and forget; but already it is clear that there are
local people who are prepared to do neither.

Bath was not chosen at random by the Luftwaffe. The sequence of events began
with the British raid on the German Baltic port of Lubeck on 28 March 1942.
Lubeck was a city of no great strategic importance to the Royal Air Force. In
medieval times it had been the chief business centre of northern Europe, and its
centre of largely wooden, handsome merchants' houses was reckoned to be one of
the finest in Europe.

The head of Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris, chose Lubeck as a test bed to
prove the destructive power of a concerted force of bombers. The theory was that
given sufficient aircraft, with the capacity to carry enough destructive
weapons, the Germans could be bombed into surrender.

Sir Arthur wrote: ''Lubeck was not a vital target, but it seemed to me better to
destroy an industrial town of moderate importance than to toil to destroy a
large industrial city.''

The attack, carried out by 234 British aircraft, was in two waves. Sir Arthur
explained: ''The main object of the attack was to learn to what extent a first
wave of aircraft could guide a second wave to the aiming-point by starting a
conflagration; I ordered a half-an- hour interval between the two waves in order
to allow the fires to get a good hold.'' He added, chillingly, that Lubeck was
''built more like a fire-lighter than a human habitation. I wanted my crews to
be well 'blooded', as they say in fox-hunting, to have a taste of success for a
change.''

''Bomber'' Harris realised his ambitions. More than 2,000 buildings were
destroyed; 200 acres of Lubeck were devastated mainly by fire; almost half of
the city was wiped out. Dr Joseph Goebbels, Germany's propaganda minister,
estimated that 80 per cent of Lubeck's magnificent old medieval centre ''must be
considered lost''.

Harris's success provided a welcome boost for the Prime Minister, Winston
Churchill. The British had not yet had much success against the Germans - recent
war news had been dominated by the inexorable Japanese conquest of south-east
Asia. The defeat of Rommel in north Africa was still a year away.

Churchill recognised the propaganda value of the heavy bombing of German cities.
Bomber Harris followed the destruction of Lubeck with a heavy raid on Rostock
and the first ''thousand-bomber'' raid on Cologne, when 13,000 houses were
destroyed and 469 people killed.

The Luftwaffe had been concentrating most of its resources on the Soviet front,
and its attacks on British cities had become relatively infrequent. But now
Hitler, infuriated by the destruction of Lubeck, ordered reprisals: a series of
attacks on undefended English historic towns.

Among Germany's gifts to European culture and pleasure are the Baedeker guide
books, indispensable companions for serious pre-war travellers in Europe. When E
M Forster's Lucy Honeychurch, the young heroine of A Room with a View, found
herself Baedekerless at Santa Croce in Florence, the agony she so plaintively
expressed was something any thinking person could understand.

But in April 1942 Baedeker became a guide not to contemplation but to
destruction (some may think it poetic justice that the Baedeker publishing
operation was itself later wiped out in the Allied bombing of Leipzig).

It has been said that Hitler instructed someone to take a copy of the Baedeker
guide to Britain, and to attack those cities it rated most highly. However, the
most widely repeated version of events is that it was Baron Gustav Braun von
Sturm, the deputy head of the press department at the German foreign office, who
said: ''Now the Luftwaffe will go out for every building marked with three stars
in Baedeker.''

In his diary Goebbels later recorded: ''The Fuhrer declared that he would repeat
these raids night after night until the English are sick and tired of terror
attacks. He shares my opinion absolutely that cultural centres, health resorts
and civilian centres must be attacked now. There is no other way of bringing the
English to their senses. They belong to a class of human beings with whom you
can talk only after you have first knocked out their teeth.''

The first target of what became known as ''the Baedeker raids'' was Exeter,
which was attacked on the nights of 23 and 24 April 1942. Bath was hit on 25 and
26 April. Norwich was the target on 27 and 28 April - on 28 April York was also
bombed, suffering the destruction of its ancient Guildhall. In the next month
Canterbury and Exeter (again) were attacked.

But it was in Bath that the Luftwaffe wreaked the most havoc. In the genteel
Georgian city where ''Beau'' Nash had banned duelling and Jane Austen's demure
heroines had promenaded and courted their beaux, there came what was perhaps one
of most cold-blooded aerial attacks against civilians since the destruction of
Guernica by the Germans in the Spanish Civil War.

Bomber Harris had selected Lubeck for his experiment in destruction because it
was relatively undefended, a ''soft target''. For the 163 German bombers who
took off from about 9.30pm on 25 April in near-perfect flying conditions, Bath
was a sitting duck.

The city's residents were used to air-raid warnings - the city was near enough
to Bristol to have become familiar with the sound of bombers passing overhead.
But on this night, the largest bombing raid on Britain in more than a year was
not heading for Bristol docks - its target was Bath's city centre.

Despite the presence of large parts of the Admiralty, which had been evacuated
there at the beginning of the war, and the presence of some minor arms
manufacturers, Bath had never been considered a strategic target. It was thought
safe to evacuate children there from London. The city therefore had no defences
against a full-scale Luftwaffe attack. Without interference from night fighters
or anti-aircraft batteries, the German aircraft were able to fly low and select
their targets at leisure. As well as dropping bombs, the planes caused terror by
machine gunning the streets.

By the time the residents realised that they were being attacked in earnest, it
was too late to reach the safety of the shelter.

The first wave of bombs was incendiary; as with Lubeck, the intention was to set
the city ablaze to make it an easy target for the aircraft carrying
high-explosive bombs. But few people expected another raid the same night. The
all-clear sounded, and the emergency services tried to deal with the fires and
tend to casualties. Then, a few hours later, the bombers returned - this time
with high explosives. Even the air-raid shelters could not hope to survive a
direct hit. It was estimated that 300 of the 417 deaths were caused by the
high-explosive bombs.

When the Luftwaffe returned the next night, it was expected - but the defences
were still able to do little to arrest the destruction. During this third raid
the Assembly Rooms - only recently re- opened - were destroyed. But of all the
''cultural'' targets in Bath, this was the only significant victim. For the most
part, the bombs fell away from the centre in the densely populated suburbs.

In the three raids 329 houses and shops were totally destroyed, 732 had to be
demolished; altogether more than 19,000 buildings were damaged.

The Luftwaffe's success in hitting Bath with such ease was seen by the British
government as a grave blow. In the five days of Baedeker raids, 938 British
civilians were killed in all the cities.

On 27 April Churchill told the War Cabinet that government departments should do
all they could to ensure disproportionate publicity was not given to these
raids. Our attacks on Germany, he said, were inflicting much greater damage; and
it was important to avoid the impression that the Germans were making full
reprisal.

Consequently, the Press Censorship Bureau maintained careful control on the news
reports of the Bath Blitz. In the archive at The Bath Evening Chronicle, the
photographs taken at the time still show the censor's mark.

Those photographs that depict large-scale destruction and glum faces were likely
to be rejected. The sort of thing approved by the censors was a picture of Mrs
Elizabeth Dick, 101, telling the Mayor of Bath: ''Hitler thought he'd frighten
me. But he didn't.''

In fact, this sort of ''keep smiling through'' Blitz spirit was usually only to
be found in Pathe newsreels. In reality, two nights of ordeal by bombing had
brought the city near to panic. There were reports of looting. Many people,
reluctant to risk a third night in the city, fled, prepared to sleep in the open
in the countryside.

Eventually, however, the British Government decided that, in attempting to
destroy an important cultural city such as Bath, the Germans had done themselves
more harm than good in terms of world opinion - and it was happy to play up the
barbaric destruction.

While the Germans largely ceased intensive air raids on Britain (until the
advent of the V1 and V2 flying bombs), Bomber Harris had only just begun his big
carpet- bombing attacks on Germany.

By coincidence, while Bath contemplates the fiftieth anniversary of the Bath
Blitz, the RAF is preparing to honour Bomber Harris with a statue. Herbert
Wagner, the Mayor of Dresden, where 35,000 people were killed by Allied bombing,
has taken exception: ''We should attempt everything possible to prevent old
wounds being re-opened.''

In an attempt at reconciliation Bath City Council considered inviting the German
ambassador to read a lesson at a memorial service to be held at Bath Abbey. The
suggestion succeeded in opening old wounds.

An alternative idea, approved by the council, to invite the mayor of Brunswick,
Bath's twin town in Germany, was also attacked. Chris Kilminster, a Bath
resident who lost six members of his family in the Blitz, was quoted in The Bath
Evening Chronicle: ''I think the people of Bath should be left alone to remember
what happened in peace, in our own way, without having any Germans present. I am
not against Germans, I just feel it is still too close to the event to have them
present at the fiftieth anniversary.''

Mr Kilminster says his views are shared by most Bath residents. Bath council's
chief executive, Clive Abbott, disagrees that there is a widespread anti-German
tendency in the city: ''Most people are in favour of a memorial service with a
theme of reconciliation and hope for the future.''

At Haycombe Cemetery, workers will mark the anniversary by straightening the
gravestones. On the morning of Sunday 26 April, a memorial service will be held
at the cemetery's church. This will, I was told, be a private service for
relatives of victims of the Blitz. ''No Germans will be invited.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 10, 1992

EXTRA CHECKS FOR BELFAST 'RING OF STEEL'

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words


HUNDREDS of part-time members of the Ulster Defence Regiment were yesterday
called up to establish a cordon of vehicle checkpoints around Belfast city
centre in an effort to deter IRA car bomb attacks.

Royal Ulster Constabulary officers are also being brought to the capital from
smaller towns to enable some checkpoints to operate round the clock.

The heightened security follows a meeting on Wednesday night between the chief
constable of the RUC, Sir Hugh Annesley, and the senior army officer in Northern
Ireland, Lieutenant General Sir John Wilsey.

Earlier this week the IRA detonated two large van bombs in the centre of the
city, causing extensive damage.

Escalating compensation costs are causing the Northern Ireland Office severe
financial problems, while the repeated devastation of the main shopping areas
threatens to undermine business confidence.

But whether more checkpoints will deter the IRA remains uncertain. In the run-up
to Christmas extra troops were deployed in the city but the IRA still exploded
bombs in Brunswick Street and beside the Europa Hotel.

One report yesterday suggested that the security forces had stopped the Post
Office van carrying Tuesday's bomb into the city centre, but failed to detect
the device. Five men have since been arrested in connection with the attack.

The fresh security measures were welcomed by Belfast's Lord Mayor, Nigel Dodds,
who said: "The security forces seem to be taking the situation as seriously as
it merits. The extra troops sent from Britain late last year should not have
been withdrawn in the first place."

But he added: "I am a bit disturbed about some of the implications of this ring
of steel. The security forces should be more concerned with the areas the
terrorists operate from and have their safe havens."

Martin McGuinness, a senior Sinn Fein figure, criticised the new security
arrangements, saying: "What is not needed are actions by the British forces
which further erode civil liberties and make an already bad situation worse."

- A Catholic man working in a roadside chip van near Moira in County Down was
shot dead by gunmen yesterday in an attack which bore the hallmarks of a
loyalist sectarian killing. He was the second victim of sectarian killing this
year after the outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force shot dead a man in Moy, County
Tyrone, last week.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 10, 1992, Friday

Letter: IRA peace conditions for Northern Ireland

BYLINE: From Mr DANNY MORRISON

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 387 words


Sir: George Blythe (Letters, 7 January) writes that he would ''like to hear the
IRA 'justify' its acts of terrorism'' and that he sometimes despairs of
''whether its leaders even want a solution''.

Let me assure Mr Blythe that Irish republicans want peace, but we realise that
there cannot be peace or justice in Ireland until the British Government
withdraws its claim of sovereignty and allows the Irish people to determine
their own future.

The British Government is fighting a war, a dirty war, in Ireland. Almost
annually - until the arrival of Peter Brooke - British ministers assured the
public that the IRA was on the verge of imminent defeat. It was a ''terrorist''
organisation without support. Yet, during the hunger strike, IRA volunteers
Bobby Sands and Kieran Doherty were elected to parliamentary seats. Since then
Sinn Fein has established a healthy electoral base in the North of Ireland.

The reaction of the British Government to these developments was to use
exclusion orders against Sinn Fein's elected representatives to prevent them
from speaking in Britain, to change the electoral law, and to suppress real
discussion by introducing a broadcasting ban. When Gerry Adams had no mandate in
1972, a British Tory government released him from jail and flew him in an RAF
plane to London for secret peace talks. But in 1992, when Gerry Adams, MP, has a
mandate, he is banned from the airwaves and ministers refuse to meet him.  The
IRA will not go away. Surely that much is now clear? The British people are
paying for a war they cannot win. It is ironic that above Mr Blythe's letter The
Independent should carry an editorial praising Germany for grabbing the nettle
and recognising Croatia as a nation, and Serbia for withdrawing from East
Croatia where the rights of the 600,000 Serbs will be guaranteed by the EC. If
Ireland, if the Republican Movement, accepted a similar settlement regarding our
national minority - the 900,000 unionists - would Britain withdraw under the
same conditions that mother Serbia has now accepted?

There could be an IRA ceasefire next week if Britain indicated its willingness
to settle the Irish question.

Yours faithfully,

DANNY MORRISON

Long Kesh Prison

Long Kesh, County Antrim

7 January

The writer is a former senior spokesman for Sinn Fein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 10, 1992, Friday

BOMBS WON'T MAKE US WAVER, SAYS MAJOR

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 222 words


Prime Minister John Major condemned the latest terrorist attacks in London and
Northern Ireland and said they would not shake the determination of the British
people.  Speaking outside Conservative Central Office, he said: "I think the
terrorists really should have learned by now that neither in Belfast, or in
London or in anywhere else in the United Kingdom, will they be able to bomb
people out of their normal activities, their homes, their schools, or anything
else. "If they want to reinforce our determination to make sure we defeat them,
this is the way to do it. It is utterly counter productive." Mr Major reaffirmed
Britain's commitment to peace talks in Northern Ireland.  "We are very keen for
the talks to proceed," he said.  "That is the way to make progress, to talk, not
to place bombs that may or may not injure innocent people." Northern Ireland
Secretary Peter Brooke had done "magnificently" to get such different views
around the table, he said.  Mr Major also praised the people of Belfast for
their stand against the terrorists.  "The real thrust of their campaign has been
against the people of Belfast, who have withstood it with very great courage for
many years.  "The people of Belfast have not wavered, have not weakened, have
not changed their determination, and neither will we," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 10, 1992, Friday

'COWARDLY' ATTACK CONDEMNED

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 965 words


Party leaders and MPs today united in condemning the bomb attack on Whitehall.
Labour leader Neil Kinnock said: "Whether they are burning shops in Ulster as
they did last night or bombing Whitehall as they did this morning, terrorists
are enemies of all of the people.  "They must know that their atrocities will
change nothing and their attacks only provide proof, therefore, of their
cowardice and inhumanity." Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown said the IRA
was "living in cloud cuckoo land" if it thought it could terrorise Britain into
submission.  He described the Whitehall bombing as a cowardly and desperate act
and said such "pointless and futile violence" would never bring success to the
terrorists.  Recalling the moment he heard the explosion from his Westminster
office, just a few hundred yards away, Mr Ashdown told Sky News: "It took me
straight back to many similar times in Belfast when I was there as a soldier. I
knew it was a bomb.  "I greatly fear we are seeing the start of a bombing
campaign in Britain. It is an act of desperation on their part." He said the IRA
was losing public support and its actions would be dismissed by the nation.  Mrs
Thatcher expressed concern about the blast at a presentation in central London
by the Falkland Island government to mark Margaret Thatcher Day.  She asked
photographers about the explosion and when told there had been no deaths or
injuries she said: "Oh thank goodness. It is always the most tragic when people
are injured or killed. Buildings can be repaired." She asked if there had been a
lot of damage to cars and said that area always seemed to be full of traffic
throughout the day.

Patrick Cormack, Tory MP for Staffordshire South, said: "This is yet further
evidence of the diabolical nature of these animals who are prepared to maim and
kill indiscriminately, and further indication that we have got to be vigilant at
all times.  "But no-one should ever suppose that the work of Whitehall or
Parliament will be brought to a halt by a gang of desperate, brutal and
fundamentally stupid people." Sir William Clark, Tory MP for Croydon South, who
heard the blast from his home a quarter of a mile away, called the attack "an
act of desperation" by terrorists.  "They won't break the spirit of the British
people, I am absolutely certain of that," he told Sky TV.  He added that
improving security in Whitehall without closing it to the public would be
difficult.  "I would have thought the security is sufficient as it is," he said.
Robert Cryer, Labour MP for Bradford South, said: "This means that we have to be
ever more vigilant and to face the loss of more freedoms because of the dangers
created by the bombers, who will achieve nothing except hostility and
resentment." Peter Hain, Labour MP for Neath, said: "This is a horrifying
incident which is clearly aimed to disrupt the whole of the Government machine.
"If this kind of thing continues then central London is going to be in chaos."

Peter Robinson, Democratic Unionist MP for Belfast East, said: "It seems to be a
small explosion by the standard of what the people of Belfast have to suffer.
"It shows the folly of the present Government's policy, which is reacting to
what the terrorists do.  "It's about time they took the battle to the terrorists
and made life difficult for the IRA instead of waiting for the IRA to attack.
"They should be hunting them and hounding them and giving them longer
sentences."

Ivor Stanbrook, chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland committee, said:
"This outrage shows that the IRA can operate in London with impunity and that
the Government's response to terrorism is quite inadequate.  "If the IRA can get
another bomb into Whitehall only months after firing a mortar shell into 10
Downing Street, then the so-called review of security which followed the last
incident is a mockery.  "The Government must wake up to the fact that the
manpower and resources devoted to fighting the IRA are quite inadequate.  "The
protection of its citizens from these outrages should be given the highest
priority." Shadow Northern Ireland secretary Kevin McNamara said today's blast
was "a cause for considerable concern and one must be grateful that no-one was
hurt."

Mrs Thatcher later told the Press Association: "All terrorist acts are utterly
despicable and endanger the lives and property of others.  "We must never give
in to it - otherwise democracy will be in danger.  "Everyone in Northern Ireland
has a vote. Terrorists are the people who don't like the results of the ballot
box and therefore resort to the bomb.  "They must never be allowed to succeed."
Trade Secretary Peter Lilley heard the blast from his Victoria offices a mile
from Whitehall.  "I heard a very loud explosion and thought it might be a bomb,"
he said.  He added that any attempt by the IRA to bomb British people on the
mainland or in Northern Ireland was counter-productive.

Later Mr Kinnock added: "Democracy must make no concessions whatever to the kind
of attacks which terrorists make. That would be the only kind of perverse
victory they could get and we must deny them even that victory."

Dr Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said: "The IRA are now
on a campaign to try to bomb their way to the negotiating table.  "It is quite
evident that there are people within the community now, including politicians,
saying that the IRA should be at the negotiating table.  "It seems to them that
if they put up a big enough show and maim and kill and bomb everywhere they can,
the Government will concede.  "The fears of the Ulster people are that the
Government will concede. We have seen concessions during the past 20 years and
the fear is that the Government will give in."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 10, 1992, Friday

BRIEFCASE BOMBERS ATTACK WHITEHALL

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 878 words


Briefcase bombers brought New Year terror to the heart of London today.
Whitehall was targeted for the second time in less than a year as an explosion
brought the rush-hour at the centre of the Government's administration area to a
standstill.  A coded warning was received by the CBS news network and police
were immediately notified. The device was discovered in a briefcase left between
two parked cars in Whitehall Place at the back of the old War Office, Scotland
Yard said.  Bomb disposal officers were immediately ordered to the area but the
device exploded before they could start work on it.  Soon after the blast, a
second device was reportedly found in a skip outside the Ministry of Defence
offices in nearby Northumberland Avenue.  A wave of bomb alerts was also
triggered in Northern Ireland, where terrorists have struck at major commercial
centres with bombs and incendiary devices in recent weeks.  Two police sergeants
found the briefcase and were clearing the area when the bomb device went off.
The building - opposite the Ministry of Agriculture and near the National
Liberal Club - is not currently in use but still belongs to the Ministry of
Defence.  No one was hurt although one police officer was only 80 yards from the
blast at the time.  The explosion was less than 300 yards from Downing Street,
where Prime Minister John Major had been preparing for this morning's meeting
with Cabinet colleagues to discuss the Government's general election strategy.
He left Number 10 for the Conservative Central Office just a few minutes before
the blast.  Mr Major condemned the bombing, which he said would not shake the
the determination of British people.

Today's explosion is the second time in less than a year that terrorists have
attacked the heart of the capital.  The IRA launched a mortar bomb attack on
Number 10 Downing Street in February last year, damaging the windows of the room
in which Mr Major was heading a Gulf war Cabinet meeting.  A Scotland Yard
spokesman said of today's blast: "It appears they wanted to show how powerful
they are." A warning about the bomb was passed to top TV companies some time
before the blast, Anti-Terrorist Squad commander George Churchill-Coleman said
after visiting the scene.  Bomb disposal experts were called in but the device
went off before explosives experts could deal with it, he said.  Mr
Churchill-Coleman warned against hysteria over the attack, saying: "This kind of
thing is going to happen from time to time, and it is up to everyone to exercise
individual vigilance.  "But I must emphasise we should not overreact. To cause
panic and terror is what the terrorists want".  It was up to the individual to
"play their part in maintaining vigilance".

The attack was immediately condemned by party leaders and MPs from all sides.
Labour leader Neil Kinnock said: "Whether they are burning shops in Ulster, as
they did last night, or bombing Whitehall, as they did this morning, terrorists
are enemies of all of the people." Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown, who
heard the explosion while working at his Westminster office, said the IRA was
"living in cloud cuckoo land" if it thought it could terrorise Britain into
submission.  Mrs Margaret Thatcher told the Press Association: "All terrorist
acts are utterly despicable and endanger the lives and property of others.  "We
must never give in to it - otherwise democracy will be in danger." Trade
Secretary Peter Lilley, who heard the explosion from his Victoria offices a mile
away, said any IRA attempt to bomb British people here or in Northern Ireland
into a change of policy would be counter-productive.  "It will make us all the
more determined to resist those who seek changes by bombs rather than the ballot
box."

More than three hours after the blast Anti-Terrorist Squad officers were still
sifting through debris thrown over 200 yards along the side of the old War
Office building.  Most attention was being paid to a gap of around 15 feet
between a white Rover 216 car - the front of which had been blown away by the
explosion - and the back of a white Citroen van.  The briefcase containing the
bomb was found on the road between the two vehicles.  That space - a few square
feet - was reduced to a mass of debris from the two wrecked vehicles mingled
with glass from nearby buildings and whatever pieces of the briefcase which
remain.  One officer at the scene said there appeared to be room between the two
vehicles to park a small car, but the fact that this was the only vacant space
in a street-long meter parking zone might or might not be significant.  The
centre of the blast was beneath one of the four majestic cupolas on towers at
the corners of the 1906 neo-classical War Office building.  The building, at
present empty during refurbishment, is still officially owned by the Ministry of
Defence, which has a more modern main block just 200 yards from the site of the
explosion.  Windows in the War Office's lower three floors were shattered over a
distance of nearly 100 yards.  So were windows in the National Liberal Club,
which is on the same side of Whitehall Place. A few windows in the Ministry of
Agriculture offices opposite the War Office in Whitehall Place were also
smashed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            January 10, 1992, Friday

Gunmen kill Catholic as security net is criticised

BYLINE: By Edward Gorman, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 619 words


A ROMAN Catholic man was shot dead in Northern Ireland and a car bomb was
detonated outside a police station yesterday as the government faced further
criticism over new security measures in Belfast designed to deter IRA bombings.

The Ulster Freedom Fighters, a loyalist paramilitary group, said last night that
it shot the man, named by neighbours as Philip Campbell, aged 28. A UFF
statement implied that the murder was a response to the IRA bombing offensive.
It said: ''Unlike the government we have the will to take on republican
paramilitaries and no amount of failed security force policy will deter us from
our task in 1992.''

Mr Campbell was shot by gunmen who drew up outside a mobile shop where he was
working a a roadside near Moira, Co Down. He was taken to hospital in Lisburn
but died shortly afterwards.

The killing is the second in the province this year. Police said that the victim
had no links with security forces.

The car bomb blew out windows in shops and houses surrounding the main police
station in Londonderry. The building was protected by a blast wall.  The bomb
exploded in a car abandoned at the front of the station as police, acting on a
tip-off, were evacuating people, including elderly residents, from the area.
There were no injuries.

In Belfast, serious traffic congestion was caused throughout the day by new
security measures designed to stop IRA van bombings of the city centre, which
have caused serious damage six times in the past eight weeks. Three people will
appear in court in Belfast today charged over an IRA bomb attack which wrecked
offices and shops on Monday.

Lieutenant-General Sir John Wilsey, General Officer Commanding, and Sir Hugh
Annesley, the chief constable of the RUC, decided on Wednesday to put several
hundred part-time members of he Ulster Defence Regiment on full-time duty to
operate new checkpoints in support of the RUC. Other soldiers and police were
also redeployed to Belfast and other areas of the province.

The police said that the new measures, which temporarily increase the full-time
element in the UDR for the second time in as many months, involved mobile and
permanent vehicle checkpoints manned round-the-clock.

Some unionists gave the strategy a guarded welcome but Ken Maginnis, the Ulster
Unionist Party's security spokesman, said moving security resources to Belfast
would simply leave the IRA free to operate elsewhere with greater effect. He
said that the IRA, not the public, hould suffer the inconvenience of extra
security. He called for the reintroduction of internment.

Nigel Dodds, unionist lord mayor of Belfast, said new measures should be
introduced province-wide. The government's decision before Christmas to withdraw
from Northern Ireland a temporarily assigned extra battalion of troops was a
''serious error of judgment''.

However, although the military and police forces have said privately that more
regular troops should be posted to the province, Peter Brooke, the Northern
Ireland secretary, said the decision was taken by General Wilsey and Sir Hugh.
Sinn Fein said the new strategy in Belfast would only erode civil liberties
further and worsen the situation. Martin McGuinness, a senior spokesman, said it
was time Britain realised that the conflict could only be solved through a
political dialogue with all parties involved.

Mr Brooke promised yesterday that there would be no let-up by the security
forces in the fight against the IRA (Michael Evans writes). Speaking at the
Royal United Services Institute for Defence Studies, London, he said that the
police and armed forces would have the resources they needed to undertake their
difficult and dangerous work.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 11, 1992, Saturday

MAJOR DEFIES THE BOMBERS;
Four-minute danger drive before Whitehall blast

BYLINE: Peter Rose, Sean Poulter

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 2440 words


JOHN MAJOR drove into a danger zone to defy the IRA yesterday.

As Whitehall went on full-scale bomb alert, security advisers stressed the risk
of leaving the safety of 10 Downing Street.

But the Prime Minister told them that he would not let the IRA disrupt his
schedule. Downing Street sources described him as 'very determined'.

At the time his Daimler pulled away, security chiefs knew only that a device had
been spotted in a briefcase. No-one knew if other bombs had been planted in the
area.

Streets were still being evacuated and hundreds of civil servants warned to stay
inside and keep away from windows.

Mr Major's car was in the danger area for four minutes, but was clear by the
time the 5lb bomb exploded in Whitehall Place, 300 yards from Downing Street,
destroying a car and blowing a policeman off his feet.

Tory MPs saluted the Premier's courage in refusing to remain in Number 10, one
of the country's safest buildings which withstood an IRA mortar attack last
February.

Sir Teddy Taylor, secretary of the influential Commons Home Affairs committee,
said: 'I am 100 per cent behind him. I think it is crucial that we should not
give in to terrorists.'

Mr Major himself re-emphasised his determination to lead by example when he said
of the latest attack: 'I think the terrorists really should have learned by now
that neither in Belfast, or in London or in anywhere else in the United Kingdom,
will they be able to bomb people out of their normal activities, their homes,
their schools, or anything else.

'If they want to reinforce our determination to make sure we defeat them, this
is the way to do it. It is utterly counter-productive.'

Last night police were hunting for the driver of a red G-reg Volvo 244 which was
seen parked at the spot where the bomb was planted 45 minutes before it
exploded.

Mr Major's defiant drive, to a meeting with Tory YARDS FROM NUMBER 10, THE IRA
STRIKES AGAIN

Terror in a briefcase

Parties unite to condemn the 'enemies of the people' chairman Chris Patten at
party headquarters, came 20 minutes after a coded warning of a bomb in Whitehall
Place was phoned to the London office of the American CBS television network.

Scotland Yard was alerted at 8.40am and police began a search.

By 8.50 a cordon was in place and at 8.56 Sergeants Alan Davies and Clive
Gardner discovered the brown leather briefcase.

At 8.58, Mr Major was told of the alert, but insisted on taking the risk.

His car arrived safely in Smith Square at 9.02. Ten minutes later the bomb went
off, blowing 44-year-old Sgt Davies off his feet as he watched from 80 yards
away.

The blast wrecked a parked car and van, smashed windows in the old War Office
building, the National Liberal Club and the Ministry of Agriculture, and hurled
pieces of the road surface hundreds of yards.

It caused rush-hour chaos in central London as roads were closed and buses
diverted, and drivers were warned to stay away from the area until further
notice.

The narrowest escape was by Mamoud Ibrahim, 40, a doorman at the Royal
Horseguards Hotel, whose uniform top hat was pierced by a shard of glass six
inches long.

Minutes before the blast he had been feeding money into a parking meter for the
car destroyed by the bomb.

Mr Ibrahim, a father of three from Holland Park, West London, said: 'At the time
it was all happening too fast to take in. Now I realise I was very lucky to get
away unscathed.'

British Gas worker Neil Flaven, 17, said: 'There was an almighty bang. We had
the jackhammers going and earplugs but we still heard it. It shook the ground.'

Barbara Henty, 37, a Ministry of Agriculture office worker, said: 'I was

in the office when the window came in and there was a tremendous thump.  People
were very shocked and work became impossible.'

Another eye-witness was Igor Gromyko, 37, grandson of the former Soviet Foreign
Minister Andrei Gromyko, who was jogging past when the police cordons went up.

He said: 'There was an enormous explosion. I've never seen or heard anything
like it in my life. A dust cloud rose to about 40 feet. I am amazed that no one
was killed.'

Mrs Una Elphick, 51, a Ministry of Agriculture administrative officer who works
in Whitehall Place, said she would have been 'blown to bits' by the bomb if
police had not cordoned off the area.

Seconds after the explosion she said: 'Police were yelling at us: 'For Christ's
sake get away from the area'.'

Her colleague Sarah O'Dell, a 25-year-old executive officer who was also
standing by a police cordon, said: 'It looked as if a parked van had been torn
to shreds. There was just a charred and burnt-out shell left. I would have
walked past that vehicle and would have been very seriously injured if not
killed from the sheer force of it.'

Miss O'Dell, who saw the mortar attack on Downing Street last February, went on:
'Security has been very tight here ever since then. There have been three or
four evacuations in the past year because of hoaxes.

'It is an unnerving place to work but you cannot let it worry you too much
otherwise they've won.

'You've got to get on and do your work even though it is only by the grace of
God that no one was hurt today.'

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
squad, urged the public to be the 'eyes and ears' of the fight to catch IRA
bombers.

He said: 'This demonstrates the need for everybody to turn their anger at these
events to action, to maintain the closest watch for anything or anybody
suspicious.'

Home Secretary Kenneth Baker said: 'These attacks will get the IRA nowhere.
Security has been stepped up and the police have achieved several successes in
the fight against terrorism.'

Party leaders united to condemn the outrage.

Neil Kinnock said: 'Whether they are burning shops in Ulster or bombing
Whitehall, terrorists are enemies of all of the people.

'They must know that their atrocities will change nothing and their attacks only
provide proof, therefore, of their cowardice and inhumanity.'

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown, who heard the explosion at his
Westminster office, said the IRA was 'living in cloud cuckoo land' if it thought
it could terrorise Britain into submission.

The IRA claimed responsibility for the bombing in a Dublin statement warning of
further attacks if there was not an end to 'British interference' in Irish
affairs.

But Mr Major reaffirmed Britain's commitment to peace talks in Northern Ireland,
and added: 'That is the way to make progress - to talk, not to place bombs that
may injure innocent people.'

Comment - Page SIX

Bombers blew my car to pieces

SALES rep Andrea Hogben emerged from a conference last night to find her prized
company car blown to pieces.

The IRA bomb went off a few feet from the bay where a hotel porter had parked
the white Rover 214 the previous evening.

'I'm absolutely shocked,' she said. 'Words are insufficient to describe how I
feel about the IRA.'

Miss Hogben, 29, from Capel, Surrey, works for a medical equipment company and
was in London with two colleagues for an anaesthetists' conference. She was
staying at the Royal Horseguards, which was damaged by the blast.

Maintenance engineer Don Irvine's Citroen van, parked next to the Rover, was
also wrecked.

Mr Irvine, who was working on a boat on the Thames, said: 'The explosion rocked
the whole boat.'

He added: 'I was lucky. I normally have my dog with me but as I was due to be at
the boat most of the day I left him at home. Otherwise he'd have been in the
van, and wouldn't have stood a chance.'

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Torn apart: The car parked next to the bay where the briefcase bomb
was planted in Whitehall Place (2) Aftermath: Smoke rises from the scene of the
blast, which shattered windows and sent debris flying (3) Firing line: Policeman
is knocked over 80 yards away (4) Shock: Andrea Hogben

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 11, 1992

LATEST VARIATION ON AN UNPREDICTABLE THEME;
Duncan Campbell on 20 years of increasingly sophisticated IRA actions on the
mainland

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 462 words


THE Whitehall bomb attack is the latest variation in an IRA campaign
encompassing explosions, shootings, car bombs, firebombs and hoaxes that has hit
military, symbolic and commercial targets in almost equal measure.

The aim is to keep the security forces guessing and to strike in high-profile
and unpredictable ways.

"There is no pattern to it and there will be no pattern to it," said Commander
George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist branch yesterday.

IRA tacticians have long been aware of the propaganda power of a mainland
attack. From March 1972, when a team of young bombers - some of whom are still
in prison - car-bombed the Old Bailey, the aim has been to hit targets and
headlines in equal measure. While an assassination or a major bomb in Belfast or
Derry may get little news coverage, an attack on the mainland - and particularly
the capital - is guaranteed coverage.

The IRA is also aware that a small active service unit can cause massive damage
and confusion. The four members of the Balcombe Street gang, the IRA men jailed
in 1977 after a six-day siege in London's Balcombe Street, were said to have
carried out almost an attack a week for more than a year.

Anti-terrorist sources acknowledge that the current campaign could be the work
of one or two units operating in London and the North-west. The number of
attacks at nights, weekends or outside working hours has led to speculation that
the IRA members have jobs on the mainland and have merged into British society.

But Commander Churchill-Coleman said yesterday that he believed around "half a
dozen" people were involved in the attacks and that they made frequent visits to
the mainland.

The IRA's modus operandi has become more sophisticated over the years. The days
when an IRA team could be arrested trying to buy tickets to Ireland hours after
a blast - as happened to the Old Bailey bombers - have passed. There also
appears to be no shortage of equipment or volunteers. Intelligence sources
believe the shipment of tons of Semtex from Libya to Ireland in the 1985-6
period could last for years.

The IRA's ability to recruit, despite the heavy sentences given to members and
the lack of political movement, was indicated by the fact that Frank Ryan and
Patricia Black-Donnelly - who were killed by their own bomb in St Albans last
year - were both new to security sources.

The rationale behind the attacks has been to make the mainland electorate so
weary of the disruption that they urge a withdrawal of troops and an eventual
abandonment of Northern Ireland. Already a majority in Britain supports
withdrawal of troops, and the IRA hopes a mixture of despair and irritation will
eventually force a British government to react.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 11, 1992

Major defies the bombers

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words


WITHIN hours of the IRA launching its second bomb attack in just over eleven
months on Whitehall, heart of British government, Mr John Major defiantly issued
a message to the terrorists that their campaign would not divert people from
leading a normal life.

A man with an educated "Irish-Scots" voice was said to have telephoned the
American CBS television's London office with a warning of the attack.

Despite the Prime Minister's display of bravado, the IRA did succeed in causing
rush-hour chaos in central London after a 5lb Semtex bomb, concealed in a
briefcase, exploded in Whitehall Place near the Ministry of Defence and about
300 yards from Downing Street.

Last night, police were looking for a red G-registered Volvo 244 seen parked in
the bay where the bomb was placed shortly before it exploded at 9.10am.

The Volvo was seen in the bay outside the National Liberal Club between 8.30am
and 9am.

No-one was injured in the latest attack which almost certainly heralds a new
phase in the IRA's mainland campaign. Police had cleared the immediate area and
cordoned off roads prior to the explosion.

It came not quite a year after the IRA attempted to wipe out the Cabinet in a
mortar attack launched from a van which had been parked only a short distance
away from the seat of yesterday's explosion.

Yesterday's blast followed thirty-minute telephone warnings to the offices of
Channel 4 Television and CBS. Mr Adrian Monck, assignments editor of CBS, who
took one of the messages, said of the caller: "The guy was breathless and
obviously didn't stay on the line for a chat.

"The information was very specific. He sounded professional and knew what he was
doing. He spoke with an educated sort of Irish-Scots voice and hung up very
quickly, but I could hear him breathing nervously down the line. It was
literally over in 15 seconds."

The Prime Minister had left No. 10 Downing Street minutes before the bomb
exploded. It was heard several miles away.

He declared: "I think the terrorists really should have learned by now that
neither in Belfast, nor in London, or in anywhere else in the United Kingdom,
will they be able to bomb people out of their normal activities, their homes,
their schools, or anything else.

"If they want to reinforce our determination to make sure we defeat them, this
is the way to do it. It is utterly counter-productive."

Following the telephone warnings, which included recognisable codewords, police
had cleared the area and warned people in nearby buildings to stay indoors and
away from windows.

Two police sergeants had spotted the briefcase, but the device went off before
an explosives officer from the bomb squad could examine it. One policeman was
about 80 yards away from the bomb when it exploded. He was blown off his feet.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist branch, had no
doubt that the IRA intended to cause the maximum disruption to life in London
and at the same time gain some "kudos".

The explosion wrecked the front of a white Rover and the rear of a van. The bomb
had been placed in the space between the vehicles.

The blast also smashed the windows of the old War Office building, still owned
by the Ministry of Defence but empty while being refurbished, the nearby
National Liberal Club, and the Ministry of Agriculture.

Mr Churchill-Coleman, who just before Christmas insisted that the police were
winning the war against the IRA, repeated requests for the public to remain
vigilant and report anything or anybody suspicious.

Two other suspected devices were reported near the scene of yesterday's
explosion, but these turned out to be false alarms with good intent.

The anti-terrorist chief believes that about half a dozen terrorists could be
operating in England -- at least one unit in the South-east and another in the
North-west. He does not believe that those responsible for yesterday's explosion
were the same terrorists who planted incendiary bombs around London before
Christmas.

Mr Churchill-Coleman said the terrorists had taken a risk in planting a bomb
when thousands of people were making their way to work.

Other political leaders joined the Prime Minister in condemning the attack.

Labour leader Neil Kinnock said: "Whether they are burning shops in Ulster, as
they did last night, or bombing Whitehall, as they did this morning, terrorists
are enemies of all the people."

Mr Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Liberal Democrats, said the IRA was living in
cloud cuckoo land if it thought it could terrorise Britain into submission.

In a statement admitting responsibility, the IRA said last night there would be
further similar attacks if British interference in Irish affairs did not end.

A grandson of former Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko was just 100 yards
from the blast as he returned from a morning jog.

Freelance journalist Igor Gromyko, 37, found himself barred from the Horseguards
Thistle Hotel by police. Mr Gromyko said he was arguing with police when
suddenly: "I heard this very loud explosion and saw a lot of dust. I have never
seen anything like it at all, and I hope I never do again."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BOMB IN A BRIEFCASE: Moments after the explosion in Whitehall Place the
dust is still settling. The 5lb bomb had been placed near a row of parked
vehicles, a number of which were severely damaged.Igor Gromyko

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 11, 1992, Saturday

Anti-terror team 'warned'

BYLINE: By CHARLES OULTON, STEVE BOGGAN, JASON BENNETTO, and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 507 words


ANTI-TERRORIST officers investigating yesterday's IRA bomb explosion in
Whitehall were warned a month ago that several IRA suspects were missing from
their normal circles in Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.

The Royal Ulster Constabulary's special branch told two senior officers who flew
to Belfast for a briefing in mid-December that they suspected the missing
''players'' were involved in terrorist activities in Britain.

The IRA attack, which caused some damage to buildings but no injuries, was aimed
at the heart of government. It was in the form of a 5lb device contained in a
small brown leather briefcase, which was planted in a parking bay in Whitehall
Place, less than 300 yards from Downing Street.

John Major, the Prime Minister, had been working in Downing Street but left for
Conservative Central Office a few minutes before the blast. He condemned the
bombing - which occurred 11 months after he survived an IRA mortar bomb attack
on 10 Downing Street - and said it would not shake the confidence of the British
people.

''I think the terrorists really should have learnt by now that neither in
Belfast, nor in London nor in anywhere else in the United Kingdom, will they be
able to bomb people out of their normal activities, their homes, their schools,
or anything else,'' he said.

The bomb exploded at 9.11am, 41 minutes after the IRA telephoned Channel 4 and
the London office of CBS, the American television service. Adrian Monck, an
editor at CBS, heard a man with an Irish accent say: ''IRA. There's a bomb in
Whitehall Place. It will go off in 30 minutes.''

Two police patrol sergeants spotted the briefcase on the ground between a white
Rover 216 and a white Citroen van, which were both parked on meters. An
explosives officer was called and was moving away from the briefcase when it
exploded.

Another officer standing about 80 yards away was blown off his feet by the
blast, and windows were broken in nearby buildings, including the Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the National Liberal Club, and the Royal
Horseguards Hotel.

Igor Gromyko, 37, a freelance journalist and grandson of Andre Gromyko, the
former Soviet foreign minister, had been out jogging and was returning to the
Royal Horseguards Hotel when the bomb exploded. He said: ''A policeman would not
let me back to the hotel and I was arguing with him when there was a huge
explosion, and a massive cloud of dust and an enormous noise . . .''

One officer said the gap between the Rover and Citroen, which were both badly
damaged, was large enough for another car. It is possible that the bombers
parked their car in the space before leaving the device behind.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, said:
''Obviously this device was placed while thousands of people were on their way
through the area to work. The criminals took a real risk in doing this and the
more people that keep their eyes and ears open the bigger the risk they take.''

(Photograph and map omitted)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 11, 1992, Saturday

Bombers breach Whitehall security

BYLINE: By Richard Ford and Sheila Gunn

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 720 words


THE IRA breached Whitehall security to strike at the heart of government for the
second time in eleven months yesterday when a briefcase bomb exploded 300 yards
from 10 Downing Street.

The 5lb device exploded minutes after the prime minister had left for an
election strategy meeting at Conservative Central Office. The IRA said that the
bombing was timed to coincide with that meeting and to force ''the occupation''
of Northern Ireland on to the political agenda.

But political leaders of all persuasions insisted that they would not be swayed
by acts of terrorism, and Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland secretary, declared
his determination to press ahead with talks next week on devolution for the
province. John Major backed that initiative, saying: ''That is the way to make
progress, to talk, not to place bombs.''

He added: ''The terrorists really should have learnt by now that neither in
Belfast, nor in London, nor anywhere else in the United Kingdom, will they be
able to bomb people out of their normal activities, their homes, their schools,
or anything else.''

Nobody was hurt when the bomb in a Whitehall Place parking bay exploded during
yesterday morning's rush hour, but a Rover car and Citroen van in neighbouring
bays were wrecked and windows of government buildings and the National Liberal
Club were shattered as debris scattered across hundreds of yards. Traffic in
central London was disrupted for several hours as roads were closed and buses
diverted.

The bombers had issued two telephone warnings at bout 8.30 yesterday morning and
the brown leather briefcase containing the device was spotted by two police
sergeants. They called an explosives officer, who was moving away from the bomb
when it went off at 9.10am, blowing another officer off his feet.  Police were
last night looking for a red G-registered Volvo 244 series car seen earlier in
the bay where the bomb was planted.

Anti-terrorist squad officers believe the attack may have been the work of the
same man who organised the mortar attack on Downing Street last February.  Other
possible suspects include two men who escaped from Brixton prison last July, but
police do not think the bombing was carried out by the IRA cell that has
attacked English shopping centres in the past few weeks.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist squad, said that
no morethan half a dozen activists, operating in separate gangs, were involved
in the present mainland campaign. He believed individuals were travelling around
the country and going away after planting their bombs. He did not think the
devices were being made here.

The Whitehall Place attack had been designed to cause maximum disruption to life
in the capital and to win ''kudos'' for the IRA, he said. ''Obviously this
device was placed while thousands of people were on their way through the area
to work. The criminals took a real risk in doing this, and the more people that
keep their eyes and ears open the bigger the risk they take.''

However, the fact that bombers had again broken through in such a sensitive area
brought calls for tougher policing and tighter security. Ivor Stanbrook,
chairman of the Conservative backbench Northern Ireland committee, said: ''This
outrage shows that the IRA can operate in London with impunity and that the
government's response to terrorism is quite inadequate. If the IRA can get
another bomb into Whitehall only months after firing a mortar shell into 10
Downing Street, then the so-called review of security which followed the last
incident is a mockery.'' The Labour MP Alan Meale called for a parking ban in
Whitehall.

But Neil Kinnock said: ''Democracy must make no concessions whatever to the kind
of attacks which terrorists make. That would be the only kind of perverse
victory they could get, and we must deny them even that victory.'' Paddy Ashdown
added that the IRA was living in cloud cuckoo land if it thought Britain could
be terrorised into submission.

Besides its attack in London, the IRA caused disruption across Northern Ireland
yesterday with scores of bomb alerts, including two on car ferries at Larne in
Co Antrim. The alerts came after firebomb attacks on stores in Ballymena and a
car bombing in Londonderry that slightly injured a soldier.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 12, 1992, Sunday

Is there a way to stop the IRA from winning?

BYLINE: By NEAL ASCHERSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 1248 words


I AM GLAD not to be the only one to think that the IRA is winning. Long before
Friday's impudent blast in Whitehall, two gigantic car bombs rang in the New
Year, smack in the commercial centre of Belfast. And I remembered the interview
from Northern Ireland which we put on the front page in November:

''The IRA terrorists are better equipped, better resourced, better led, bolder
and more secure against our penetration than at any time before. They are
absolutely a formidable enemy. The essential attributes of their leaders are
better than ever before.'' The person who said this to our David McKittrick was
a ''senior, authoritative security source''. He said it in part to fly a kite
for the reintroduction of internment. But he also made these remarks because he
quite plainly believes them to be true.

What does ''winning'' mean, though? The IRA is not going to win in the sense of
driving British troops bodily out of Ireland. Neither are strokes like Friday's
small bomb in Whitehall going to break the will of British governments (although
a concentrated campaign of mass slaughter by bomb in English cities might well
break public morale in the end. The Provisionals seem to have gone temporarily
off that tactic, and we have to pray that they will not return to it).

Winning for a guerrilla army means, in the first place, not being defeated.
There are wars in which time is on the guerrilla side: the longer the insurgency
is kept up, the closer comes the day when the enemy goes home - because domestic
public opinion no longer supports its campaign, because of a change in the
international situation, perhaps because of some wider bargain brokered by third
parties. That was the secret of ''victory'' for the Vietcong, for the FLN in
Algeria, for Frelimo and the MPLA in Mozambique and Angola, and - not least -
for the old, undivided IRA between 1916 and 1921.

In that sense, the Provisional IRA is on course for eventual victory. The
counter-terrorist campaign is a structure of great blocks of interdiction,
fences of restriction, an array of well-baited traps. But the IRA has learned
how to survive among those blocks and fences, and on the whole how to evade the
traps. It is still learning, and its activity (as the ''source'' said) tends to
grow bolder and more skilful. All it has to do is to hang on in there until the
cost of containing the IRA becomes too high.

It is already high. James Rusbridger remarked in a letter to this paper that
about 100 active IRA members ''are tying up 12,000 soldiers, 7,000 UDR, 8,500
RUC plus 4,500 reservists and contingents from the SAS, MI5, MI6 and GCHQ in
Northern Ireland''. He underestimates the Provisionals, who probably have some
300 men and women under arms. Even so, each IRA fighter would be holding down
100 members of the security forces. If nothing changes, this stand-off could go
on well into the 21st century. Except that it is not a stand-off. Time,
ultimately, is not on the British side.

Meanwhile, Britain is becoming more intimately involved in that tortuous,
dangerous, wider Europe where there are many Ulsters. In what was Yugoslavia, we
will probably soon see Douglas Hurd (or Gerald Kaufman) supporting European
Community plans for ''transferring'' Serbian minorities, or re-drawing
frontiers, or giving the Serbian government rights over Croatian citizens of
Serbian origin.

Winston Churchill wrote famously of the ''dreary steeples of Fermanagh and
Tyrone'' which always re-emerged from the flood of events. There are dreary
steeples in Slavonia and Transylvania, in Lithuania and Silesia and Trans-Olzia,
in Carinthia and south Slovakia and Bukovina and Podolia . . . All this begins
to make Britain's problem in Ireland look relative. Many Europeans have this
disease, in one form or another. Their treatment is often a lot more radical
than ours. Moreover, they find it easier to send for the United Nations or some
other international medical team than the British, who still insist on
do-it-yourself cures.

To say that ''the IRA is winning'' is to invite ideas on how to stop them
winning. Bringing back internment, however, is a dud idea. It could be done much
more accurately and impartially (lifting Loyalists too) than in 1971. It would
for a time remove almost the entire command structure of the Provisionals. But
it would also push events off down a familiar spiral, ending at the same
position but one level nearer to Hell. Popular outrage in the
Nationalist/Catholic community . . . political mobilisation . . . spontaneous
self-defence networks soon taken over by the survivors of the IRA and becoming
the recruiting and training ground for the next Provisional offensive. All the
recipes rougher than internment (resettling the rural population behind barbed
wire, counter-terror on the scale of the French in Algeria) lead down the same
spiral. All, including internment, would violate European standards of human
rights.

I know of only one sure method of suppressing the IRA. That would be to unite
Ireland. If that were to happen, the first act of a government of all Ireland
would be to hustle the IRA into jail and throw away the key. Politics is a less
dirty business than terrorism, but just as treacherous.

But would that not be an absolutely ''British'' suggestion (smooth, cynical,
selfish): that Ireland should be united simply in order to get rid of Britain's
IRA problem? Certainly. But that is the unspoken hankering of most London
politicians - Tory, Labour or Liberal Democrat. For them, Northern Ireland is no
more than a growth which they would like removed before it turns malignant.

How few members of the English ruling class seem to like the Protestant people
of Ulster for themselves! Even English romantics on the Powellite fringe of
Conservatism who insist that Ulster is an integral British province are in love
with an idea, not with a living community. In Northern Ireland there are two
deeply-rooted communities with two cultural traditions. One is plainly Irish.
The name of the other is much disputed. ''Loyalist'' and ''Unionist'' are just
labels. ''Protestant'' is far from the whole story. Some like to call themselves
''Ulster-British''.

That wise teacher Edna Longley, who lectures at Queen's University in Belfast,
says that '' 'Irish' is both an identity and an allegiance. 'British' is only an
allegiance, and one can be Northern Irish and British, Scottish and British,
Welsh and British.''

If we agree that there is a Northern Irish identity but that Britishness is only
an allegiance, then both cultures in Northern Ireland require less allegiance
and more identity - until what is done there is done without instant reference
to Dublin or London. Personally, I would wish to see an end to the division of
Ireland. I would like, instead, to see many divisions of Ireland. Let both
Dublin and London centralism break down to allow Munster and Leinster and
Connaught and a smaller Ulster (corresponding to present Northern Ireland, less
some of the Catholic border areas) to develop more identity of their own. Not
forgetting, of course, that ''fifth province'' which President Mary Robinson
sees within each of us, ''that swinging door which allows us to venture out and
others to venture in''.

Victory for the IRA requires one condition: that allegiances in Ireland remain
rigid, unquestioned and inseparable from identity. But that condition is one of
the few things in Northern Ireland that can be changed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 16, 1992

IRA ESCAPER LOSES US ASYLUM FIGHT

BYLINE: SIMON TISDALL IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 531 words


THE convicted IRA gunman, Joseph Patrick Doherty, who escaped from jail in
Belfast in 1981 and fled to New York, yesterday lost his battle to obtain asylum
in the United States, and now faces the prospect of immediate deportation to
Britain.

In a split decision, the US Supreme Court ruled that the Justice Department and
the then Attorney-General, Richard Thornburgh, had acted lawfully in 1989 in
disqualifying Mr Doherty from pursuing his request for asylum through US
immigration procedures.

Chief Justice William Rehnquist said Mr Doherty had failed to provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim for sanctuary. Mr Doherty was found guilty by a
Belfast court in 1981 of murdering a British soldier during an ambush in
Northern Ireland.

A member of the IRA since the age of 17, and a deputy company commander at the
time of the attack, Mr Doherty was arrested in a New York bar in 1983, a year
after his escape, and has been held in detention ever since. He claimed the
murder was a political crime.

The 5-3 Supreme Court decision overturned an earlier ruling by the US Court of
Appeals in New York. It also ignored a petition signed by more than 130 members
of the US Congress, supporting Mr Doherty's constitutional right to apply for
asylum.

Wrangling over extradition of IRA terrorists has become a significant irritant
in US-British relations. Father Sean McManus, of the Irish National Caucus, a
Washington-based lobby group, called the decision outrageous, adding: "The
Supreme Court has acted as a bounty-hunter for the British government."

He added that in the view of many Irish-Americans, the Supreme Court's action
was politically motivated.

The US Justice Department said last night that a decision on Mr Doherty's
deportation would be taken soon.

Ironically, given past US criticism of detention without trial in Northern
Ireland, Mr Doherty's eight-year incarceration in New York marked one of the
longest periods that a person has been held without charge or trial in US legal
history.

Owen Bowcott writes from Belfast: The outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters yesterday
claimed responsibility for the shooting of a Protestant builder on the eastern
outskirts of Belfast, alleging he was a police informer.

David Boyd, aged 41, was leaving his home in Dundonald on Tuesday evening with
his girlfriend when two gunmen approached them. One opened fire with a shotgun.
A second shot was fired into Mr Boyd as he lay on the ground and he died at the
scene. His girlfriend escaped unharmed.

The loyalist group, the paramilitary wing of the Ulster Defence Association,
claimed Mr Boyd had been providing information to the Royal Ulster
Constabulary's Special Branch.

The UFF statement also said that it had knowledge of two other men who had
passed information to police. The RUC declined to comment on the allegations.

Mr Boyd, who was awaiting sentence on fraud charges, was the fifth civilian
victim of the Troubles this year.

- The president of the Irish Republic, Mary Robinson, is hoping to travel to
Northern Ireland in the next few months. Last January Belfast city council voted
against inviting her.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 19, 1992, Sunday

Troops out, if the Nationalists lower their sights

BYLINE: By NEAL ASCHERSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 23

LENGTH: 1236 words


AFTER last Sunday's column about Northern Ireland I received many letters. Four
especially struck me. Two were from Englishmen, one from a Pole and one from an
Irishman.

(Columns? Letters? Do pieces of paper matter when seven men have been torn to
bits by an IRA bomb on the Omagh road? Yes, they matter even more, because bombs
are meant to destroy not only bodies but minds.)

The first Englishman, who lives near Belfast, said that ''Irish Nationalism is
by definition about narrowness. Irish Unionism is by definition about breadth''
- conglomerates like the Habsburg Empire or the United Kingdom worked best.
(This recalled to me a remark by the late Hubert Butler of Kilkenny: ''Whereas
the Irish Nationalists have been wrong about most things, the Irish Unionists
have been wrong about everything.'')

The second Englishman, after scolding me for contemplating Scottish
independence, observed that European regions were better than nation-states, and
perhaps Northern Ireland's salvation lay in that direction. I will come back to
this. The Pole said that there should be a plebiscite area by area, as there was
in Upper Silesia after 1918 (when a frontier had to be drawn between Poland and
Germany). But he was pessimistic: ''Northern Ireland is a deadly mixture of
nationalism (of a kind), religion and social division.''

Then came the letter from Dublin, from ''a citizen of the Irish Republic raised
in the Catholic cultural tradition'', who spends much of his time working in the
North. Civilly enough, he advised me that ''really it is too glib to make
suggestions which would spill other people's blood with such liberality''. He
accused me of proposing surrender to the IRA. The consequence of that would be
''Belfast's descent into the bloody enclaves of Beirut''. He asks: ''Would the
death toll be worth it? Could you suggest a number of dead which would be the
break-even point?''

His scenario for a ''United Ireland Day'' is impressive, even if it has often
been painted before. The Republic could easily pacify Derry and Newry, while the
Protestant minority in Fermanagh and Tyrone would flee north- eastwards. In
Belfast, there would be tragedy. My correspondent pleads that Belfast is no
longer coloured orange or green but has developed patches of white - mixed areas
of ''common use'' near the centre where everyone can mix freely and defy the
sectarian ''godfathers''. All that whiteness would be drowned in red blood if
Ireland were united on terms pleasing to the IRA.

What I wrote was something else. I said, first, that the IRA seemed to be
winning by the mere fact of evidently not losing. Second, I suggested that more
Irish disunity, rather than unity, might be the path towards peace: more
regional identities and fewer political allegiances. Still, the Dublin reader's
letter is a version of what most people would expect from a radical ''troops
out'' decision by London. Fighting would break out as the British left. There
could well be a ''Protestant Gibraltar'', as some Loyalist paramilitaries and
Protestant refugees fell back into Antrim with their backs to the sea and rifles
in their hands. And in Belfast, the patchwork, there would be hell to pay as
both sides fought for the city.

Even the Troops Out Movement itself, which denounces the ''bloodbath myth'' as
British propaganda, can only argue that, because Catholic and Protestant live at
peace with one another in the Republic, they would live at peace in the North if
only the British would go. Perhaps they would, in the end. But this does not
answer the question - utterly justified - about the short- term cost in
bloodshed of immediate British withdrawal.

Those who can buy such a prospect - mostly people who live safely this side of
the water - argue that the fighting would be sharp but short, and that UN
peacekeeping troops in blue helmets would be on the scene in no time. A nasty
few weeks, and then an end to sectarian killings for ever. Maybe. I used to
think like that, a long time ago. Since then, there has been Beirut and Croatia.
In any case, there are several other approaches.

One is the ''gradual weaning'' line. Both the Anglo-Irish Agreement and Mr Peter
Brooke's efforts to resurrect a power-sharing Assembly are an attempt to wean
Northern Ireland from the British bosom. Both hope for ''incremental assent''
from Unionists to power-sharing and to recognising Dublin's legitimate interest
in the North. And both, finally, aim principally at eroding Unionism. Would this
road end in a united Ireland? Not necessarily, but Britain would certainly no
longer be responsible for Northern Ireland.

Another old idea is independence. ''Ulster Nationalism'' - an agreement between
Catholics and Protestants to hate Britain more than each other - would be quite
welcome in London. I remember talking about this to Andy Tyrie, capo dei capi of
the UDA, during the Ulster Workers' Strike nearly 20 years ago. He liked hinting
at an independent Ulster. I think he liked it mostly because it so terrified the
pallid Loyalist parliamentarians who used to queue to see him during the strike.
But Tyrie turned out to believe that the majority of the Catholic community was
secretly ready to renounce the cause of United Ireland at a signal from him. So
for ''independent Ulster'', read ''Ulster allowed to suppress Nationalists
without British restraint''.

Regionalism is a more tempting recipe. A ''Europe of the regions'' is
approaching, in which the nation-state is expected slowly to wither away.
Northern Ireland could then become a free- floating ''Euro-region'' linked
politically to Brussels and Strasbourg, and only ''culturally'' to London or
Dublin.

I fancy this recipe, dear to some clever people in Dublin. But there are three
large, black question-marks over it. Why should the Unionists want it? Why
should the Nationalist community want it (like the East Germans, they simply
want to live in a reunified country rather than in a second experiment in
unwanted partition)? And, third, when the British leave, why should Protestants
refrain from bullying Catholics because Northern Ireland had become a Community
region rather than a British province?

Troops out - yes, but not before an international settlement. Irish unity - yes,
but in an ''Ireland of regions'' in which the cultural and political identity of
Ulster Protestants can be respected. Nobody can get exactly what they want (not
even the British public, who for years have wanted out of Ireland). Immediate
withdrawal is out, unity with the Republic under its present constitution is
out, integration into the British state is out - and the status quo, which suits
only a few godfathers and sadists, is out as well.

There has to be a statement that British rule will end, but only if the
Nationalist camp (including Sinn Fein) accept a fraction of what they want and
agree to a period of transition. And that statement must also say that, if the
Nationalist side keep their word, the end will come whether the Unionist
community wish it or not.

An end not cruel or callous, but inexorable all the same. It will hurt, even
though I think the Protestant people of Northern Ireland (more than their
leaders) have learned much from the tragedies and disillusions of the past 20
years. It will hurt, but there is no reason why it should kill. It is an
invitation to leave a province and join a world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 20, 1992

FAMILIAR SECURITY OPTIONS THAT OFFER NO QUICK FIXES;
Owen Bowcott looks at the solutions to terrorist violence that bring their own
problems

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words


AFTER more than 20 years of political violence in Northern Ireland, government
officials are again reviewing an all too familiar list of security options.

By varying targets and locations, the IRA appears to have kept one step ahead of
the police and army this year. Its only military setback was the unearthing of
three arms and explosives dumps in West Belfast a week ago.

Ministers have learnt that there are no quick fixes in the conflict that has
intensified sharply in the past six months, leading up to the bomb attack at
Teebane on Friday in which seven men died. Good police work and intelligence do
create occasional breakthroughs.

Each proposed solution brings its own problems. More checkpoints, more patrols,
more emergency powers legislation may also heighten the sense of crisis the IRA
seeks to provoke.

Failure to curtail attacks, on the other hand, may encourage a ferocious
loyalist paramilitary backlash.

Internment Without Trial: Tried in the early 1970s and abandoned. Security
estimates suggest there are 500 active IRA members and 300 loyalist
paramilitaries.

Advocates, such as the Ulster Unionist Party, refer to it as "selective
internment," claiming that intelligence on the gunmen is more accurate than 20
years ago. Without a similar move in the republic, its effectiveness would be
reduced.

Sir Hugh Annesley, the Royal Ulster Constabulary Chief Constable, and Sir John
Wilsey, the Northern Ireland GOC, have said in recent months that events have
moved matters some way down the road towards this solution.

Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland Secretary, has said internment should remain
on the statute books as an option. "I would only consider using it in very
particular circumstances and for obvious reasons I will not predict what those
circumstances might be," he said last November.

The SAS: A pattern has been established in recent years of deploying the SAS in
operations to intercept experienced IRA men on active service and ambush them.

Such techniques - referred to by one officer as "deterrence" - have regularly
been used in areas of Co Tyrone near the scene of Friday night's bombing. The
SAS can only be used intermittently, depending on good intelligence or setting
up elaborate traps. More widespread use would arouse greater fury in the
nationalist community.

Improved border security: A regular Unionist demand, partially fuelled by
antagonism to Dublin but also by the knowledge that IRA supply lines come up
from the south.

Fresh fortifications are likely to be erected along the Fermanagh-Monaghan
border in the coming weeks. There are still many crossings with no permananent
checkpoints. Sceptics point out that such fixed positions are designed more to
reassure the local Protestant population. They also provide sitting targets for
IRA bomb and gun attacks. Six soldiers died in a co-ordinated "human-bomb"
onslaught in 1990.

More manpower: Bringing in extra troops, calling up Ulster Defence Regiment
part-timers and cancelling RUC leave all contribute to a higher security profile
and may discourage gunmen to embark on certain operations.

Sir Hugh has said that four out of five intended terrorist attacks are prevented
or detected by the security forces presence and intelligence.

Maintaining extra patrols for long periods is prohibitively expensive.

Democratic Unionist Party demands: Presented by the party's three MPs to the new
Stormont security minister, Dr Brian Mawhinney, last week.

It called for the border to be sealed off, a 50,000 strong citizens militia,
curfews in Catholic areas, capital punishment for terrorist crimes and the
introduction of identity cards for those over 14 backed up by computer system.
If that failed, internment might be necessary.

New legislation: The unqualified right to silence for the accused was abolished
several years ago following previous IRA bombings.

Powers to arrest and charge those who direct and profit from terrorism were
introduced last year.

More legislation to enable the police to improve their conviction rate is
unlikely before the next election.

Troops Out: Following the Teebane bombing, Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn
Fein, put out a statement declaring that it was "an horrific reminder of the
failure of British policy in Ireland. That tragic event underlines the urgent
need for an inclusive dialogue which can create a genuine peace process."

Opinion polls in Britain have long shown a majority in favour of withdrawal.
However, removing troops without a political settlement, most politicians fear,
would be a recipe for a civil war between loyalists and republicans.

The prospect of public talks involving Sinn Fein appears as remote as ever.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 21, 1992

Major pledges to hunt down the IRA bombers Scots troops sent to guard Belfast

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words


AN extra 1000 troops, including a battalion of Scottish soldiers, have arrived
in Northern Ireland to strengthen security.

The 1st Battalion the Royal Highland Fusiliers is being deployed mainly in the
Belfast area, where police and troops have been stretched to the limit with
round-the-clock patrolling and manning checkpoints.

News of the troop reinforcements came yesterday afternoon as the Prime Minister
finished a one-day morale-boosting visit to the province. Earlier Mr Major had
refused the resignation of his Northern Ireland Secretary.

Mr Peter Brooke had made the offer in the wake of the row over his singing on
Dublin TV after seven workers died in the IRA bus bombing on Friday night. Of
those responsible, Mr Major said they would be "hunted and hunted until the end
of their days."

The presence of the troops in Belfast is linked directly to the recent upsurge
in IRA bombings in the city, and the potential threat of loyalist retaliation.

Despite the reinforcement, it is believed the RUC Chief Constable, Sir Hugh
Annesley, would like to see even more military support. The new strength of the
regular Army there is 11,800 but there are also 6000 members of the Ulster
Defence Regiment.

A regiment from the Royal Artillery has also arrived and is being deployed along
the Irish border, where Army engineers have begun a major building operation to
protect further security force bases in County Fermanagh and to build new
permanent checkpoints.

Up to five additional border checkpoints will make it more difficult for
terrorists to transport arms and explosives from hiding places in the Republic.
At least 100 extra Irish troops have also moved into the border area to help
thwart the possibility of IRA attacks while the checkpoints are being
constructed.

In Belfast yesterday, the Prime Minister said those responsible for the County
Tyrone workmen's bus bombing would be "hunted and hunted until the end of their
days."

Mr Major reassured the people of Northern Ireland that they would not be
abandoned. He said they would not be bombed out of their way of life, nor would
the Government be bombed out of its policy. Of the IRA, Mr Major said they were
"criminals almost, I believe, beyond redemption."

He said: "While they are free there will be no place for them to hide. We will
hunt them, hunt them, and hunt them until they pay for their crimes. The IRA
will not be able to bomb itself on to the political agenda. Not now. Not ever."

Before he returned to London last night to meet a Unionist delegation, Mr Major
met one of the survivors of the bus bombing while on a visit to Musgrave Park
Hospital in South Belfast, itself a target for the IRA last autumn.

Six of the seven victims of the Tyrone bombing were buried yesterday amid
emotional scenes, particularly in Cookstown. Three funerals took place in the
County Tyrone town which was only eight miles from the scene of the IRA attack.
Other victims were buried at Magherafelt and County Antrim. The funeral of the
seventh victim will take place today.

One of the seven injured in Friday's blast was on a life support machine.

Mr Major's walk-about in Belfast city centre was met with a mixed reception.
While some onlookers applauded and welcomed him, others shouted abuse,
particularly about the TV appearance in Dublin of Mr Brooke.

Mr Major's decision not to accept the resignation was welcomed in Dublin, where
Mr Brooke's time at the Northern Ireland Office has been acknowledged as one of
the most positive periods since Britain assumed direct rule 20 years ago.

Irish Foreign Minister Gerry Collins, joint chairman with Mr Brooke of the UK
-Irish inter-governmental Northern Ireland Conference, said he was very glad he
was staying on.

The Republic's State-run broadcasting service, RTE, conceded in a statement that
the singing invitation to Mr Brooke had been an error and said the network
regretted any offence caused.

* A 21-year-old man was shot in the loyalist Shankill Road area of West Belfast
last night. The man was dragged into a side street by a paramilitary punishment
squad, held down, and shot in the leg. His condition was described as
satisfactory.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Peter Brooke, and thetelevision songJohn Major and Peter Brooke,
surrounded by RUC officers, go on walkabout to attempt to reassure the people of
Belfast of the continuing security.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 21, 1992, Tuesday

Call for troops poses a dilemma

BYLINE: By Michael Evans, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 375 words


THE demand for more troops for Northern Ireland will pose a dilemma for the
government in the long term once the ''options for change'' cuts in the armed
services begin to be introduced. The size of the trained army is to reduced from
140,000 to 104,000.

There is no allowance for any reinforcement of Northern Ireland written into the
new-style army for the 1990s, other than short-term emergency deployments.
Thebulk of the army will be committed to the new allied rapid-reaction corps,
the multnational force for which Britain is to provide an armoured division
based in Germany and a lighter armed division based in South-East England.

A sudden requirement for more troops to back up the security forces in Ulster
during heightened IRA bombing campaigns will have to be met from the pool of
soldiers available either in Germany or elsewhere in the United Kingdom. By the
time the army manpower cuts have been implemented, however, the pool will be
significantly reduced. The result will be that soldiers may be forced to serve
in Ulster far more frequently than they do at present.

The planned rapid-reaction corps will begin to take shape y October.  Soldiers
serving in the corps will have to be triple-hatted: they will be available for
the Nato corps, as well as the putative Western European Union rapid-reaction
force (the same soldiers but with a different mission), and for Northern
Ireland.

There are about 11,100 regular troops on duty in Ulster, including the extra 500
soldiers from the 1st battalion of The Royal Highland Fusiliers, and about 6,000
full-time and part-time members of the Ulster Defence Regiment. Two part-time
UDR battalions, based in Belfast, are on full-time duty because of the security
demands. That is the largest number of troops in Ulster since the early 1980s.

The judgment in Belfast is that the extra 500 soldiers posted to the province on
an emergency tour after the start of the latest outbreak of IRA bombings and
killings are not enough. There are even suggestions that additional troops
should be sent on a more permanent basis.

The government however is unlikely to agree to that, knowing that any long-term
reinforcements could make the proposed smaller army unworkable.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 22, 1992

UN DEMANDS PAN AM SUSPECTS;
Libya told to hand over two men for trial, Jane Rosen reports

BYLINE: JANE ROSEN

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 537 words


THE United Nations Security Council last night demanded that Libya hand over for
trial the two men allegedly responsible for the bombing of Pan Am flight 102
over Lockerbie in 1988, which killed 270 people.

In a unanimous resolution the UN has for the first time asked a member state to
hand over two of its nationals for trial by another UN state - either the US or
Britain.

Unless Libya complies within a short period, the US and Britain will begin
pressing for economic sanctions to be applied.

The resolution also urges Libya to co-operate with a French investigation into
the destruction of the French UTA airliner over Niger in 1989 which killed 177
people.

Although it avoids any direct accusations against Libya, the resolution means in
effect that the council supports the British, French and American charges of
Libyan complicity in the bombings of the airliners.

Relations of some of the Pan Am victims, who held a vigil outside the UN,
expressed disappointment that it contained no provisions for punishment.

But determination to pursue the matter is evident in a clause which declares
that the council "decides to remain seized of the matter" - diplomatic language
for a warning that unless Libya complies the council will consider new action.

Britain, France and the US have already said they will press for a ban on all
commercial airline traffic to and from Libya and on the sale of planes, spare
parts and airline services.

Judging by yesterday's debate, they will have difficulty persuading the council
to adopt sanctions. Initially Morocco, India, Cape Verde and Zimbabwe opposed
action on the ground that the UN was becoming too involved in what used to be
considered domestic matters.

In the end the non-aligned members were persuaded to support the resolution
because it represented an effort to deal with international terrorism.

It urges Libya "to provide a full and effective response" to the British,
American and French demands for the accused Libyan agents to be handed over and
for compensation "so as to contribute to the elimination of international
terrorism".

Libya tried to fend off the resolution by promising to put the agents on trial.
"The two defendants [allegedly Libyan intelligence agents] will be sent to court
to decide if there is enough evidence against them," the Libyan delegate said.

"If they were to be convicted, they will be punished according to the Libyan
[laws] which are tougher than those provided for in most modern criminal
legislation."

The Arab League praised Libya's "co-operative spirit" and asked the council to
allow it to proceed with the trials.

But the British ambassador, Sir David Hannay, said: "It must be clear to all
that the state which is itself implicated in the acts of terrorism cannot try
its own officials. This was a mass murder and one in which we have good reason
to believe the organs of a state member of the UN were implicated."

The Western powers intend to give Libya a week or two to respond. The US
ambassador, Thomas Pickering, said: "If further action should be necessary, we
are convinced that the council is ready to face up to its full
responsibilities."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 23, 1992

IRA unit had hit-list, court told

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words


AN IRA active service unit planning a campaign of murder and bombing in mainland
Britain had a hit-list including top politicians and Army officers, the Old
Bailey was told yesterday.

It narrowly escaped an armed police ambush at the Hampshire home of one of its
targets, leading businessman Sir Charles Tidbury, when the make of their car was
mistaken.

The members of the unit escaped a second time when their car was correctly
identified by a police officer who did not have access to a telephone, said Mr
John Nutting, prosecuting. But they suffered a major setback when two members
were arrested at Stonehenge -- and were forced to abandon the operation after
the seizure of an arsenal and the arrest of William McKane, 24.

Police discovered the huge cache of Semtex explosives, six guns, five car bombs,
and a massive "rucksack" bomb in a Lada car parked near flats where McKane, a
bricklayer, lived in north London, said Mr Nutting.

The car also contained false identity documents, tools, and balaclavas.

"There was a list of targets, including politicians and many members of the
armed services and businessmen," said Mr Nutting.

"There was also a well-thumbed copy of Who's Who."

Names on the hit-list, which was wrapped in a bin-liner in the boot of the car,
included former Northern Ireland Secretaries Lord Prior and Lord Mason.

Mr Nutting named the two gang members arrested at Stonehenge as Nessan
Quinlivan, 29, and Pearse McAuley, 26, who escaped from Brixton prison last
summer.

McAuley's fingerprints were found on the Who's Who page listing Sir Geoffrey
Howe, while Quinlivan's palm print appeared on the page listing Foreign
Secretary Douglas Hurd.

McKane, of Sidmouth Court, Willesden, north west London, denies plotting with
Quinlivan and McAuley and conspiring with them to murder Sir Charles and other
persons, and to cause explosions. He also denies possession of six firearms.

Mr Nutting described the dramatic events at the farmhouse -- home of Sir
Charles, the former chairman of Whitbread, -- that occurred between Wickham and
Fareham on the night of September 15-16, 1990.

Sir Charles, also chairman of the William and Mary Tercentenary Trust which had
close links with Northern Ireland, was already receiving police protection.

He and his wife were at the farmhouse where armed police, in radio contact with
their control room in Winchester, were on duty.

"At 2.20am a policeman on duty heard a sound as if someone was trying to turn a
door handle at the back of the house," said Mr Nutting.

"Within a few seconds he heard a sound associated with someone walking on
gravel. He saw a man walking towards the garages.

"Within a second or two, another man appeared, walking in the same direction."

Both intruders were armed and wearing combat jackets and dark woollen hats, said
Mr Nutting.

"The policeman in the house alerted his colleagues and they cocked their
firearms. One of them made his way to the front door of the house preparing to
challenge the two men."

The terrorists disappeared briefly inside the garage just after the sound of the
policemen's guns -- then came out and disappeared into the shrubbery at the
side, he told the jury.

Reinforcements were summoned, including a police dog handler who was approaching
the house when he saw a car coming towards him. He made a note of the
registration number -- A162 KNG.

That was the number of a Ford Sierra allegedly being used by Quinlivan and
McAuley -- the car they were in when they were eventually arrested at Stonehenge
on October 2, 1990.

He passed the number to his control room in Winchester but mistakenly identified
the car as a Renault Fuego, said Mr Nutting.

Police discovered Quinlivan and McAuley in the car parked at Stonehenge.

"The Sierra was kept under constant observation for several hours," Mr Nutting
told the jury.

Police moved in when McAuley began to drive off and both men were arrested at
gunpoint under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 24, 1992

Birdwatcher 'saw terror suspects'

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 524 words


A BIRDWATCHER told yesterday how on three occasions he came face to face with
two of Britain's most wanted men at a lonely nature spot.

Trevor Bartlett told an Old Bailey jury how he became suspicious and
increasingly nervous of the pair, believed to be

IRA suspects Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McCauley.

They escaped from Brixton jail in July last year while awaiting trial for
alleged terrorist offences.

Mr Bartlett said he

saw Mr Quinlivan and a second man pose as birdwatchers near the Royal Marines
endurance training course at Bicton, Devon, more than a year before the armed
escape from Brixton.

He first came across them on June 22, 1990, while preparing to show a party of
schoolchildren around Bicton Common.

Mr Bartlett was giving evidence at the trial of William McKane, 24, alleged to
have been "inextricably" linked to an IRA active service unit which included Mr
Quinlivan, 29, and 26-year-old Mr McCauley.

"I meet a large number of birdwatchers and the type of binoculars these men had
are not used by experienced birdwatchers. I casually passed the time of day with
them. I got very little response.

"I referred to various species of bird but they did not seem very interested,"
added the naturalist.

Mr Bartlett saw the men again four days later in an area where birdlife was
negligible after an extensive heath fire. They asked him where the Marines
trained.

He came across them a third time on June 28: "I was very, very nervous because
they looked agitated and I was carrying a camera which was quite a complicated
piece of equipment and they kept their eyes fixed on it."

Mr Bartlett telephoned the security officer at the Royal Marines depot at
Lympstone.

Mr John Nutting, prosecuting Mr McKane, said the men escaped on that occasion.

They were arrested in October 1990 at gunpoint in a blue Ford Sierra at
Stonehenge, Wiltshire. Mr McKane was arrested in London three weeks later.

The jury also heard yesterday how Mr Quinlivan and Mr McCauley were spotted on a
country

road at Wolverton, Hampshire, in September 1990, while allegedly reconnoitring
murder targets.

Motorist Michael Giddings saw the same Sierra parked at the entrance to a field
at 7.15am, Mr Nutting said.

In a statement read to the jury, Mr Giddings described making eye contact with
the man in the front passenger seat who answers Mr Quinlivan's description.

The driver of the car, who appeared to be taking binoculars from the boot,
looked similar to Mr McCauley, Mr Giddings said.

The jury has heard that, two days later, two men escaped in the car after police
foiled an attempt on the life of former Whitbread chairman Sir Charles Tidbury
at his farmhouse near Fareham, Hants.

The prosecution alleges the group was actively planning bomb attacks and murders
during 1990.

Mr McKane, a bricklayer, of Sidmouth Court, Willesden, north London, denies
conspiring with

Mr Quinlivan and Mr McCauley to murder Sir Charles Tidbury and others, to cause
explosions in Britain, and unlawful possession of six firearms.

The trial was adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                                January 24, 1992

SURVEY: Northern Ireland: Quality, Not Quantity - Long-term, high quality jobs
are needed for the Ulster economy to revive

BYLINE: By DAVID THAME

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 1023 words


'To some extent we have gone full circle at the Industrial Development Board. At
one stage, presentations took care to mention security, and the feedback was
that we were spending too much time apologising for ourselves. Then we said too
little, which did little for our credibility. Now we have come back round
again.'

For Maynard Mawhinney and his colleagues at the IDB, selling Northern Ireland
abroad is a matter of balancing the hype and the horror stories. No matter how
often they repeat the province's advantages - a plentiful and highly educated
workforce (around 20 per cent have 2 or more 'A' levels), low occupancy costs,
low staff costs and the lowest rate of serious crime anywhere in the UK - they
find the television image of terrorist attacks and continual violence has got
there first.


And as the European single market moves nearer, one word rings in the ears of
the province's marketing executives: peripherality. At the far north-western
corner of the EC, Northern Ireland will have to work hard just to stand still.

The IDB can claim some success; 209 non-UK companies are already based in
Northern Ireland; 1989-90 brought inward investment of pounds 115m; in 1990-91
Northern Ireland companies won orders amounting to pounds 120m as the result of
IDB-assisted initiatives. Among the success stories, the French company
Montupet, now based in Dunmurry, west Belfast, supplies cylinder heads and
wheels for Ford's motorplant at Bridgend. Canyon is supplying the European
market for aerosol nozzles from a base in the province.

Jean-Jacques Pezet, Montupet's external relations manager, is full of enthusiasm
for the former 75 acre De Lorean car plant the company now occupies. 'The
building was available immediately, labour was available, and there are two very
good universities in the province. In our first year we took five graduate
trainees,' he says.

Montupet, which plans a total investment of pounds 90m, was not frightened away
by the images of violence. 'Sometimes the media exaggerates,' says Pezet
phlegmatically. As yet Montupet's aluminium foundry, which employs 350 men and
women, is not working at full strength. In three or four years time, when the
company is fully established, it will have a total workforce of over 1,000
people.

Investment in the manufacturing sector is not the only target. With advances in
the province's telecommunications infrastructure, the IDB has launched a
programme to attract tradeable services, like data-pro-cessing work.

Central to the drive for back-office relocations will be the new STAR fibre
optic cable network. Funded to the tune of 12m ecu by the European social and
regional funds, the province's telecommunications network will be a generation
ahead of that in mainland Britain.

Professor Ray Kinsella, professor of banking and financial services at the
University of Ulster, stresses the importance of the STAR programme. 'With fibre
optic technology there is no reason why a Europe-wide processing centre could
not work from here.'

For North American as well as British and European firms, Northern Ireland could
be a real option for back-office relocations. The costs of locating in the US
Mid-west are not dissimilar to those of Northern Ireland or Eire, says Kinsella.

The relocation of government operations has so far been conspic-uously
successful, with the Inland Revenue and the Department of Social Security
recently opening facilities in Belfast. Fur-ther government relocations are
thought to be in the pipeline, with the Child Support Agency taking space in
Glenbank's 115,000sq ft Great Northern Centre.

British Telecom brought 200 new jobs to Portadown when its directory enquiries
service relocated to Northern Ireland. The IDB claims to have created over 1,000
new back-office jobs over the last twelve months, without offering so much as a
penny of financial assistance.

Attracting investment into Belfast is one thing. Coaxing new firms into the
province's high-unemployment areas - Newry, Strabane or Derry - is quite
another. There have been some recent successes. The US textile giant, Fruit of
the Loom, has set up shop in Derry, part of a pounds 60m investment, and the
Customs & Excise VAT administration has gone to Newry. But the IDB has an upward
struggle to attract investment into the province's hinterland.

Changing attitudes

If it does not succeed it will not be for want of trying. The IDB has 9 offices
throughout the world and is about to open its tenth. Hiroshi Osawa has been
working from Brussels since April last year with the aim of making contact with
influential Japanese subsidiaries based in Europe.

Attitudes are changing at the IDB and there is now an increased emphasis on the
quality of investment as well as its quantity. The government has often been
regarded as a soft touch for financial help. Desperate to have some good news to
announce, it seems to have been keen to fund almost anything. The massively
embarrassing De Lorean failure appeared to prove the point.

The IDB's forward strategy is intended to mesh into the government's overall
economic policy statement 'Competing in the 1990s: the Key to Growth'.

The emphasis is on quality and international competitiveness. Although the board
proudly points to the declining rate of selective assistance offered to
newcomers - falling from 50 per cent of a total investment of pounds 160m in
1983/84 to only 21 per cent of pounds 440m in 1989/90 - there is still work to
be done.

On average, jobs created with the help of selective assistance last only seven
or eight years. Although the government, through agencies like the IDB, the
Local Enterprise Development Unit (LEDU) and the Training & Employment Agency,
is keen to help it does not want to replace initiative and good management.

In particular, the IDB will be focusing attention on specific obstacles - other
than commercial risk - to competitiveness and growth. The aim, it says, is to
get better value for the taxpayers' money. At present each new job costs around
pounds 18,000 in selective assistance grants.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 1992 Financial Times Business

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 25, 1992, Saturday

Leading Article: Reading the Irish tea leaves

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 761 words


OVER the past seven days, Britons have been very conscious of what Bernard Shaw
called ''John Bull's other island''. The IRA bomb that killed eight construction
workers in Ulster had the side-effect of wrecking the political career of Peter
Brooke, the Northern Ireland Secretary. Mr Brooke offered his resignation after
singing on a Dublin chat- show a few hours after the blast. It was refused, but
his chances of restarting talks on the political future of Northern Ireland were
reduced to near zero. The Ulster Unionist reaction to Mr Brooke's apology was
unforgiving and unchristian enough to make them yet more deeply disliked.

South of the border, the credibility of Charles Haughey, the Taoiseach, was once
again at issue over the tapping of journalists' telephones in 1982. It proved to
be one scandal too many, and Mr Haughey has apparently promised to quit next
week. There are those who believe his departure will have a positive effect on
developments in Northern Ireland. Mr Haughey, they argue, was the most
republican member of his own Cabinet, and regarded by Ulster Unionists as the
midwife of the Provisional IRA. None of his potential successors is tarred with
the same brush, and they come from a generation less shaped by historic hatreds.
Just as the Labour Party suffered when Mrs Thatcher resigned, so the Ulster
Unionists will be weakened by the loss of their favourite bogeyman in Dublin -
or so it is hoped.

The counter-view is that Mr Haughey was, in his own way, a man of stature. The
nature of his views could eventually have enabled him to win republican
acceptance for the revision of Articles 2 and 3 of the Irish constitution,
embodying the republic's territorial claims to the six counties of Ulster, much
as Yitzhak Shamir is, arguably, better placed than an Israeli dove to do a deal
(should he want one) over the occupied territories. Furthermore, Mr Haughey was
deeply concerned with Northern Ireland, from where his mother came and which he
knew as a child. His potential successors may have more amenable views. But they
may well lack Mr Haughey's readiness to be involved, as well as his clout. The
frontrunner, Albert Reynolds, is a parochial figure.

Until it becomes clear which view is correct, it is hard to predict the effect
of Mr Haughey's resignation on relations between London and Dublin. Another
imponderable factor is the effect that the possibility, let alone the reality,
of a hung House of Commons might have on the status of the 13 Ulster Unionist
MPs. All but one, the independent James Kilfedder, seem certain to be returned.
Even assuming that the three SDLP MPs from the province always vote against
them, their support could be important in the statistically unlikely event of a
hung parliament.

It may therefore be tempting for the Conservatives to attempt to do a deal with
them. The Unionist shopping list would doubtless include an end to the
Anglo-Irish Agreement, which gives the Irish government a say in the province;
fresh pressure on Dublin to change the republic's constitution; and tougher
security. To his credit, Paddy Ashdown, the Liberal Democrat leader, has made it
clear that his party would not want to be involved in any deal of that sort.

The effects of such a pact with the Unionists would indeed be disastrous. The
IRA would rejoice: what clearer evidence could it want of the cynicism of London
politicians and their contempt for the Catholic minority in Northern Ireland? In
Britain, the rigidity of the Unionists' veteran political leaders is seen as a
substantial contributory factor in prolonging Ulster's agony. To favour the
likes of James Molyneaux and Ian Paisley at the expense of Dublin would also be
short- sighted: Ireland is a factor internationally, in the United States and
particularly within the European Community.

It is regrettable that because there is no devolved government in Northern
Ireland promising and moderate young Unionists who might have replaced or
diluted the old guard have had no political jobs in which to cut their teeth. In
the late Eighties they gave up and moved into other professions. The older
generation lives in the past, rarely venturing into the republic, and unaware of
the extent to which its cities have been Europeanised. The liberalisation of
social policy is likely to continue under Mr Haughey's successor; he himself was
aware that he owed his support to rural folk of fairly medieval views. A period
of quiet flux seems to be at hand. It is up to the politicians to ensure that it
is used constructively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 7, 1992

KILLINGS PUT SQUEEZE ON ULSTER'S MAN IN THE MIDDLE;
'It's tragic but it's not out of control,' insisted the RUC Chief Constable, Sir
Hugh Annesley, after the latest terrorist murders brought this year's death toll
to 26. 'It is impossible to place policemen on every street corner and in every
shop.' Owen Bowcott on the man trying to provide the stability to allow talks

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 948 words


NEARLY three years into his time as Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, Sir Hugh Annesley is running into a security crisis some are
comparing to the grim days of the 1970s.

With ever more vicious rounds of sectarian killings coming on top of the
destruction to property caused by a series of huge car bombs, Sir Hugh is under
intense pressure to stifle terrorist activity.

His immediate response has been more vehicle checkpoints, more police officers
and more troops. Good police work may have uncovered a string of IRA arms caches
but even those breakthroughs, he knows, will have a limited impact. The
resurgence of random killings by loyalist paramilitaries is putting extra strain
on detectives.

Running the RUC is one of the most testing police jobs in Europe. There is
little that does not draw ferocious criticism from one side or another of
Northern Ireland's divided society.

Unionists blame him for failing to root out the IRA at a stroke. Nationalists
attack him for presiding over a police force which is at least 90 per cent
Protestant and, in their eyes, sectarian. The IRA would like to assassinate him.

Although he had not served in the RUC before his appointment, Sir Hugh's
background, that of a Dublin-born Protestant, provided him with a firm basis for
understanding the Troubles. His Irish connection - a Northern father and a
Southern mother - is considered one of the key reasons for his appointment.

Since his arrival in Belfast in 1989, the former Scotland Yard Assistant
Commissioner's calm but low profile approach has not always pleased his own
officers. At one stage his reputation within the force as a desk-bound
bureaucrat earned him the nickname "the eternal flame" because, it was joked, he
never went out.

Such accusations were easy to direct against an outsider and he has largely
succeeded in disarming them. Shortly after arriving in Belfast he appeared on
the Falls Road during the policing of a large republican parade and he has
always made a point of visiting wounded officers and the widows of those killed
by the IRA.

Unlike some of his predecessors, and certain past army commanders, he is under
no illusion that the security services alone can defeat terrorism. He has been a
constant supporter of the talks initiative of Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland
Secretary. "All the forces of law and order can do is to provide stability while
the politicians talk," he said in a confident performance on the BBC programme
The Stand last year.

He has attempted a few organisational improvements. Conscious of the
under-representation of Roman Catholics in the RUC, he launched a recruitment
drive last year which saw the number of Catholic applicants rising from nine to
19 a month.

Soon after taking over the new chief constable, then aged 49, was confronted
with allegations of collusion between the security forces and loyalists.He acted
quickly, calling in an outside officer - John Stevens, the deputy chief
constable of Cambridgeshire - to investigate.

The Stevens report did not result in any police officers being charged, but a
number of loyalists and Ulster Defence Regiment soldiers were prosecuted. For
the nationalist community the investigation did not go far enough, but neither
did it end in the welter of alleged cover-ups that characterised the Stalker
inquiry.

"I have never come across a man about whom opinions differ so greatly," said an
experienced observer of the police in Britain. "Some officers say he [Annesley]
is the most intelligent they have come across and a great leader.  Others
suggest he can be indecisive."

Sir Hugh, who is married with two children, admitted to his early ambitions in
an interview with Police Beat magazine last year: "As a very young man - as a
cadet and as a constable - my one ambition, in addition to being very interested
practically in the whole range of operational matters, was to take promotion at
an early stage."

He left the Republic of Ireland at the age of 18 and in 1958 joined the
Metropolitan Police. Within a few years he was placed on an accelerated
promotion programme. He became an assistant commissioner in 1985 and was put in
charge of the Anti-Terrorism Squad and other specialist units.

His deliberate, almost cautious style - with a preference for management by
consensus - stands in stark contrast to that of his autocratic predecessor, Sir
John Hermon.

The present chief constable has not, however, endeared himself to civil
liberties groups. He has refused to allow tape or video recording of interviews
with terrorist suspects in Castlereagh holding centre despite allegations of
maltreatment, accepting detectives' advice that this might dry up the flow of
information.

His recent pronouncements on internment have been slightly puzzling. He gave
warning that the deteriorating security situation had moved events further down
the road towards internment, but also stated that it might increase support for
the paramilitaries.

Sam Beattie, chairman of the Northern Ireland Police Federation, said: "He is
approachable and a very professional policeman. His dealings with us are sincere
rather than perfunctory."

Some, however, suggest he is highly selective about whom he thinks it worth
talking to. "It's a question of whether he has the ability to listen to those
who tell him things which are unpleasant," one observer said.

A recent survey found that only 38 per cent of Northern Ireland Catholics
believe that the RUC acts fairly. Despite his efforts, Sir Hugh still has a long
way to go to convince the minority community of the police's impartiality.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1992

BELLOW MIGHTIER THAN BOMBS;
Points of Order

BYLINE: IAN AITKEN

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 684 words


ONE of the many paradoxes of Ulster politics is that the most serious threat to
the survival of the union between Britain and Northern Ireland is not so much
the IRA and Sinn Fein as the behaviour of the province's Unionist politicians.

IRA bombs like those in Whitehall yesterday are unlikely to bring an end to the
union any closer, but the perpetual bellowing of Ulster Unionist MPs complaining
that London isn't doing enough about terrorism could very easily cause English
voters to lose patience.

One thing which has contributed to this mood is the knowledge that many
so-called Unionists aren't so much for the union with Britain as against a union
with the Republic. Some have been known to talk about independence as preferable
to letting the South have a hand in Northern affairs.

This doesn't apply to the vast majority of ordinary Ulster Protestants, who
genuinely regard themselves as British and want to stay that way, but in the
past few days there has been a renewal of independence talk among some of the UU
hardliners.

The trigger has been the recent surge of support for Scottish independence.
This has moved a few of the aforementioned hard men among the Unionists to start
talking about some kind of joint "independence in Europe" in partnership with
Scotland.

It's crazy, of course. Quite apart from anything else, what would happen to the
UK equivalent of the Black Sea fleet? But the idea is certainly worth discussing
publicly. If nothing else, it provides a compelling reason for Scots to reject
independence. Just think of it: independence, and Ian Paisley, too.

RUMOURS persist that John Major intends to take an axe to his present Cabinet if
he wins the election. His aim is variously said to be a reduction in its size
from the present 22 to 15 or even 12.

We have been here before. Successive prime ministers, including Harold Wilson
and Edward Heath, began their periods of office with similar ambitions. None
managed it, and the trend has been upwards rather than downwards.

The trouble is that a lot of politics is old-fashioned patronage, and there are
always too many debts to be paid. A seat at the cabinet table is the ultimate
prime ministerial goodie.

But if scepticism is in order, it remains possible that Mr Major's aspirations
could be assisted by the voters. Even if his party manages to hang on to office,
several of his colleagues may drop off the perch in their dodgy constituencies.
If things go badly in Scotland then Ian Lang and Malcolm Rifkind are at risk,
while Chris Patten is also vulnerable in Bath.

So that's three who may not need their Downing Street passes again. But quite a
few others, even if they survive the election, will have to get the push if Mr
Major's aim is to be achieved. One may be Norman Lamont, although his office
will necessarily survive.

On the other hand, will Trade and Industry survive its present incumbent, the
likeable but insignificant Peter Lilley? And can the Treasury really justify two
seats at the top table in a slimline Cabinet?

THERE is indignation in Southampton's Labour-controlled council. Believing that
Mr Major's visit to their fair city had something to do with their magnificent
dockside regeneration schemes, they provided a comprehensive itinerary.

Careful arrangements were made. But when Mr Major finally confirmed his trip for
today, it turned out that he was actually visiting the privatised docks company,
treating the council to what George Brown would have called a total ignoral.

ASELF-STYLED "leading international makeup artist" is circularising MPs,
offering to keep their appearance "fresh at all times" in spite of the wear and
tear of the campaign trail. John Woodbridge, of London and Los Angeles, claims
that his skills will enable MPs to present their image and policies "at face
value".

This may not meet the needs of potential customers seeking to sell these items
at rather more than face value, but Mr Woodbridge also claims to be able to
combat allergies. This could prove useful to MPs allergic to pork pies.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 14, 1992

Man cleared in IRA bomb plot case

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 208 words


A MAN was cleared at the Old Bailey yesterday of plotting with Brixton prison
escapees Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McAuley to carry out a wave of IRA bombings
in mainland Britain.

At the end of a three-week trial, Mr William McKane, 25, from Strabane, County
Tyrone, was found not guilty of conspiring with the two fugitives -- now among
Britain's most wanted men -- to cause explosions likely to endanger life.

Mr McKane, a farmer's son who is married with a young child, was also acquitted
of possessing six firearms, including a Kalashnikov rifle, with intent to
endanger life.

The jury took 12 hours to reach the verdicts.

On Wednesday, it acquitted Mr McKane of conspiring with Mr Quinlivan and Mr
McAuley to murder Sir Charles Tidbury, former chairman of Whitbread, and other
people in a campaign of assassinations during 1990.

Mr McKane said he had been duped by Mr McAuley, who also came from Strabane, and
with whom he had worked on London building sites.

Mr McKane told the jury: "If I had been part of that conspiracy I would have
escaped with them."

As he was freed, Mr McKane hugged his wife Siobhan and said: "I was acquitted
because I am an innocent man."

He said he intended staying in England.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 14, 1992, Friday

Building worker cleared of IRA bomb plot charges

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 478 words


AN IRISHMAN accused of involvement in a bombing campaign with the IRA suspects
Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McAuley was cleared by an Old Bailey jury yesterday.

After a three-week trial, William McKane, 25, a bricklayer, from Strabane,
Northern Ireland, was acquitted of conspiracy to cause explosions and possession
of firearms. The verdicts came on the second day of the jury's retirement. On
Wednesday, Mr McKane had been cleared of conspiracy with both men to murder Sir
Charles Tidbury, a businessman, and other unnamed people.

Quinlivan and McAuley, who faced similar charges, escaped from Brixton prison
last July.

After the verdict, Mr McKane said: ''I was in the wrong place at the wrong time
and I was acquitted because I am an innocent man. I got up and told the truth.
That is why they have found me not guilty. I believe in British justice.'' He
added that he intended staying in England.

The case is the third recent prosecution in which the jury has acquitted
defendants of IRA terrorism charges. In March last year, Kevin O'Donnell, 20, an
agricultural student, was acquitted of possessing a firearm with intent to
endanger life but convicted of the less serious charge of possession. In
October, Dessie Ellis, who admitted helping to make bombs in southern Ireland,
was acquitted of involvement in a bombing campaign in Britain in the early
1980s, after the jury was told that he had already served a sentence in the
Irish Republic. Both were re-arrested and excluded under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.

Quinlivan and McAuley were arrested at Stonehenge in October 1990, after two
armed men were sighted at the Hampshire home of Sir Charles Tidbury, chairman of
the William and Mary Tercentenary Trust. Inquiries led to Mr McKane, an
acquaintance of McAuley.

In his wife's handbag, police found the keys to a Lada car, parked outside his
home. In the boot were bomb-making and terrorist equipment, Semtex, six firearms
and a hit list of politicians and senior army officers. Mr McKane's fingerprints
were on a plastic bag containing some of the equipment and on maps at his home,
which coincided with addresses on the hit list.

He also had keys to a safe flat used by the two men, where traces of Semtex were
found, and which the prosecution claimed had been cleared by Mr McKane and
others after their arrest.

Giving evidence, Mr McKane rejected the IRA and terrorism, criticised McAuley
for involving him and said he did not suspect him of involvement in terrorism.
He said the keys had been entrusted to him when both men left London looking for
work, and that he could have left fingerprints on the bag when he had visited
their flat. He admitted driving the Lada, but did not look in the boot.

Mrs McKane was also arrested and charged with conspiracy to cause explosions,
but the charges were dropped after four months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 18, 1992

Key IRA unit wiped out in ambush

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words


THE undercover ambush of terrorists in County Tyrone has virtually wiped out one
of the IRA's key units in the area, it emerged yesterday. Three of the four men
shot dead near Coalisland, possibly by the SAS, had known IRA links.

They were caught red-handed after attacking a heavily protected RUC base in the
centre of Coalisland village, just over a mile from where they were killed in a
church car park.

A surveillance operation, using undercover troops and police, was in place as
the gang returned from attacking the RUC base and were transferring to getaway
cars.

Government officials in Belfast have denied any shift in security policy and
rejected claims from Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, that a new "shoot to
kill" strategy is in force.

The Ulster Security Minister, Dr Brian Mawhinney, said yesterday that those
killed had gone out with "murder in their hearts". He said the grieving
relatives of the dead should ask themselves what these men were doing with so
many weapons. "What good could ever come out of the barrel of a heavy duty gun?
" said Dr Mawhinney, referring to the armour-piercing machine gun mounted on the
back of a quarry lorry and used to fire on the police base.

The lorry with its gun in place was yesterday still at the car park outside St
Patrick's Roman Catholic Church at Clonoe.

Witnesses have described what happened around 11pm on Sunday in and around the
car park. They have spoken of flares in the sky and of intense gunfire from
which, said one, "nobody could have lived".

The four who died were Kevin Barry O'Donnell, a 21-year-old student, Sean
O'Farrell, also 21, and Peter Clancy, all from Coalisland, and Patrick Daniel
Vincent from Dungannon, four miles away.

Police said that only Vincent had no known IRA connection in their records. Two
other men were arrested. One is in hospital suffering from gunshot wounds and
the other is being questioned at a security base in County Armagh.

Although the ambush is being viewed as a blow to the IRA, it is also known that
several men escaped from the scene. Their getaway car was found burned out.

As many as 20 IRA terrorists have now been killed in undercover SAS-style
security operations in recent years. Three men died last June at Coagh, a few
miles from Coalisland, and in 1987 seven IRA men were killed attempting to
attack a police station at Loughgall in County Armagh. They, too, came from the
East Tyrone brigade of the IRA, which is known as one of the most ruthless and
active in Northern Ireland.

Its members were also behind the bomb attack on a workmen's bus at Teebane last
month, in which eight Protestants were killed returning from a security base.

The RUC, in its statement on the Coalisland ambush, said the British soldiers
involved were in uniform, but this conflicts with the views of witnesses, who
claim that those involved were either wearing civilian dress, including training
shoes, or were only partially in uniform. One man said that some of the soldiers
were wearing peaked caps which he took to be linked to the SAS.

A priest who delivered last rites at the scene also said that some of the
security forces were not dressed conventionally.

One man was killed in the cab of the quarry lorry, two were found lying on a
grass verge, and the fourth body was in a car which had crashed into a ditch.
People living nearby spoke of "awful screaming" coming from the scene but said
they could not be sure whether it was from the victims of the soldiers.

In the hail of gunfire, the roof of St Patrick's Church was set on fire and the
building was severely damaged.

Kevin Barry O'Donnell was found not guilty by an Old Bailey jury last March of
possessing two loaded rifles with intent.

He was found guilty of having the weapons under suspicious circumstances and was
sentenced to nine months' youth custody. However, he had already served that
period awaiting his court appearance, and was therefore set free.

He had been arrested after a car chase in London in May 1990. O'Donnell denied
any knowledge of the two Kalashnikov rifles found in the vehicle. He was a
student at Harper Adams Agricultural College in Shropshire, but was banned from
Britain and returned to Northern Ireland.

Since then, he and another of the ambush victims, O'Farrell, had been arrested
but later freed when charges of possessing a rifle, ammunition, and a rocket
warhead were dropped.

Ulster Unionists have welcomed the ambush, which came at a time when the
security forces have been under pressure to thwart an upsurge in IRA and
Loyalist violence.

Dr Mawhinney said yesterday that a "pro-active security policy" was in
operation.

Additional troops have been sent to Northern Ireland this year bringing the Army
strength to its highest since the 1970s.

In Dublin, Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds cited the Tyrone killings as
further proof of the need for a fresh political initiative by the British and
Irish Governments.

Mr Reynolds said that the killings reinforced his determination to pursue a
political settlement with Mr Major, whom he plans to meet within the next few
weeks.

"I am looking foward to sitting down with John Major to see if we can find any
new approaches or initiative which will lead us on to the path of peace," he
said.

Earlier the Irish Government sought a detailed report about the circumstances of
the shootout through the UK-Irish inter-governmental secretariate which is based
in Belfast.

Speaking on Irish radio the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr David Andrews,
described the killings as another illustration of "the mindless futility in that
part of the island".

Last night in London Church leaders met Mr Major and condemned the recent wave
of sectarian killings.

Mr Major met the Primate of All Ireland, Dr Robin Eames, and the Archbishop of
Canterbury, Dr George Carey, for an hour at No. 10. After

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Known terrorists: Peter Clancy, Kevin O'Donnell, and Sean O'Farrell

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 19, 1992

World Fair pavilion destroyed by fire

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 118 words


Madrid, Tuesday.

THE Age of Discovery Pavilion, the symbol of the Expo 92 World Fair in Seville
which opens in two months time, was destroyed by fire today.

Flames gutted part of the 12,000 square metre, six storey high glass and steel
pavilion and the facade was destroyed. Officials said the pavilion could not be
rebuilt during the six months that Expo 92, which opens on April 20, will last.

The government denied that the fire was the result of a Basque terrorist attack.

The fire was the third at the Expo site where a record 112 countries are
finishing their pavilions. Britain's is the size of Westminster Abbey and down
one side is the world's biggest man made wall of water.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          February 19, 1992, Wednesday

'Shoot to kill' in Ulster and Israel

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 283 words


From Dr Laurence Kennedy

Sir, One of the terrorists killed at Coalisland had, under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, been expelled from Great Britain, but could roam free in the
other part of the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland.

This ''internal exile'' protects the people of England, Scotland and Wales while
exposing the long-suffering Northern Irish, currently denied the weapon of
internment, to a greater terrorist threat. Perhaps people on ''the mainland''
should think about this before loftily dismissing internment as draconian.

It is sometimes said that internment would be unacceptable to Catholics in
Northern Ireland. This incident illustrates the sad reality that if IRA
terrorism is to be defeated without internment there will be many more young
Catholic (and Protestant) people killed, with all the attendant grief that will
bring. Had there been internment, it is quite possible that the families of the
four terrorists would not now be mourning their loss.

Your leader today says that in Ulster ''a periodic shoot-to-kill incident may be
tactically preferable to internment''. Whether or not there is internment, the
government must be prepared to meet force with appropriate force, as was the
case in Coalisland. Use of the term ''shoot-to-kill'' is not only emotive but
misleading, in implying that ''shoot-not-to-kill'' can be a practicable option
for policemen or soldiers confronting armed terrorists. The only realistic
options in such a situation surely are to shoot or not to shoot.

Yours faithfully,

LAURENCE KENNEDY

(Prospective parliamentary

candidate for North Down

(Conservative)),

3 My Lady's Mile,

Holywood, Co Down.

February 18.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 25, 1992, Tuesday

LABOUR 'SOFT ON TERROR"

BYLINE: John Deans,Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1187 words


LABOUR was branded 'soft and flabby' on crime and terrorism as it tried to
reduce police powers yesterday.

Roy Hattersley led a failed Commons attempt to overturn tough laws against the
IRA.

The stand was roundly condemned not only by Tories but by police chiefs, who
would be on a collision course with a Neil Kinnock government.

It was the tenth year running Labour had voted against renewing the Prevention
of Terrorism Act - brought in by Labour ministers in 1974 - which gives police
special powers to detain, arrest and expel suspects.

Shadow Home Secretary Mr Hattersley claimed the act infringed civil liberties
and called instead for an all-party committee to be set up to consider moves
against the IRA.

But Home Secretary Kenneth Baker poured scorn on the idea. He said: 'You don't
fight terrorism with agendas and you don't reduce terrorist activity with
minutes or disrupt it with composite resolutions.

'Nor do you do it by talking tough and acting soft. What the public wants is the
prevention of terrorism, not a convention on terrorism.'

He emphasised the IRA's determination to wage a killing campaign on the mainland
as well as Ulster, and told the Commons: 'We are dealing with fanatics who stop
at nothing. We must respond to them with appropriate measures.'

As MPs debated, chief constables and anti-terrorist detectives gave their
support to the legislation they regard as a major weapon against the IRA in
mainland Britain.

They pointed out that without the Act, terrorist gunman Kevin Barry O'Donnell -
one of the IRA men killed in an SAS ambush in Ulster last week - could not have
been thrown out of Britain last year.

The president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Lancashire Chief
Constable Brian Johnson, said: 'The Act is the most effective weapon we have and
acts as a major deterrent.'

Scotland Yard Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Howley, in charge of both the
Special Branch and Anti-Terrorist Branch, said: 'The present powers are vital to
the fight against terrorism. Were the Act to be repealed police would be
severely handicapped.'

MPs eventually voted by 300 to 115 to renew the Act.

Even before the Commons debate, Mr Baker had widened the attack to cover crime
in general.

He declared: 'Labour is soft-headed and flabby on an issue which requires
toughness.

'We have placed the highest priority on properly resourcing our police and
backing them in a difficult job. We have passed tough new measures such as the
'Joyriding Bill'.

'But Labour gives no priority to the police. Its policies are aimed at fettering
their professional discretion by putting them under political control.

'As for crime, Labour wrings its hands, blames everyone but the criminal and
tries to water down virtually every tough measure we propose.'

He cited Mr Kinnock's pledges to repeal many Tory laws, including the
introduction of automatic life sentences for murder.

'The few policies Labour does possess are both dangerous and irresponsible,'
said Mr Baker. 'They would leave the police without the powers they need and the
public without the protection they deserve.'

Mr Baker said spending on law and order had risen by 87 per cent in real terms
under the Tories.

A major prison building programme was under way and there were now 16,000 more
police officers and 12,000 more civilians working for the police.

When Labour last left office the force was 8,000 officers under strength, he
claimed.

Mr Baker said: 'Labour has proved it cannot be trusted on this issue. We have
proved that we can.'

He produced a Harris poll showing only 3 per cent of voters support Labour on
crime, while 60 per cent back

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 25, 1992

PARA-MINISTER IN FANATICAL FORM;
Sketch

BYLINE: ANDREW RAWNSLEY

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 617 words


KENNETH Baker cannot be as insincere as he looks, and yesterday he seemed to be
making a special effort to be taken seriously.

After appearing on the BBC to warn the British people to brace themselves for an
April election, the Home Secretary came to the House of Commons to deliver this
frightening warning to the country: "We should be under no doubt about what it
is we face . . . A ruthless campaign . . . A campaign conducted regardless of
the risk to innocent people . . . by fanatics committed to their misguided
causes . . . fanatics who will stop at nothing."

We had already guessed that the Tories were planning to make this general
election campaign very rough, but this seemed a remarkably honest description of
their plans from a former chairman of the Conservative Party.

After a while it emerged that the Home Secretary was actually introducing the
annual renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, but a similar confusion
continued throughout his speech. While Mr Baker was supposed to be at the
Despatch Box to present a judicious review of the most effective way of
defeating the IRA, it was really an excuse for terrorising the country with the
idea of a Labour government, and especially Roy Hattersley becoming Home
Secretary.

Mr Baker conducted this ruthless campaign regardless of the risk to innocent
facts, because he is a fanatic who will stop at nothing to get re-elected.

For appearance's sake he began his speech by posing as a respectable,
law-abiding Home Secretary, who had come to the Commons to offer a statesmanly
review of the operation of the act and express the whole House's condemnation of
terrorism.

"There was no let-up in the terrorist campaign last year," he said, mentioning
the explosion at Victoria railway station and the mortar bomb attack on Downing
Street. "Last year I reported that there had been more terrorist incidents in
mainland Great Britain than at any time since 1975. I regret that I have to
report the same again this year."

This might make it at least arguable that the Prevention of Terrorism Act isn't
doing a very good job of preventing terrorism, but Labour's commitment to review
and reform the legislation was Mr Baker's excuse to abandon his veneer of
statesmanship. Casting aside any pretence of being Home Secretary, he revealed
himself as another ruthless para-minister committing atrocities for Tory Central
Office.

"Highly irresponsible," "hugely unpopular", "pathetic", "weasel words", he began
to wage his campaign of verbal outrages against Roy Hattersley in particular.

"Talking tough and acting soft." There were particularly high casualties among
the cliches.

Then the Home Secretary accused his shadow of "all the irresponsibility that
comes from absence of experience and of high office".

Mr Hattersley could no longer keep a straight face. "The Right Honourable
Gentleman is smirking!" exploded Mr Baker. This was just too much. It was to be
expected that Kenneth Baker, under whom IRA suspects broke out of Brixton
prison, would deliver lectures on terrorism. It was predictable that Kenneth
Baker, who has presided over a record increase in crime, would play the
law-and-order card.

But for him to attack somebody else for smirking! Kenneth Baker - the
unacceptable face of smirking, the man who smirks like the cat who has swallowed
the Brylcreem, the man who put the irk into smirk - that was just ridiculous.

When Mr Hattersley rose to the Despatch Box he adopted a lofty contempt for Mr
Baker. "Party conference sub-rhetoric," he scoffed. "I shall not reply in
similar terms."

Except to say that he was "the cheapest Home Secretary this century".

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 25, 1992

Baker ridicules Labour plans in election battle on law and order

BYLINE: Stuart Trotter,Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 836 words


THE pre-election party battle on law and order spilled over into the Commons
yesterday as Home Secretary Kenneth Baker accused Labour of being " soft on
terrorism", and his Labour Shadow Roy Hattersley describing him as being "the
cheapest Home Secretary this century."

The Government had a huge 185 majority -- 300 to 115 -- approving the order
extending for another year the Prevention of Terrorism Act which allows the
Government to take action against suspected terrorists outside the normal scope
of the law.

Mr Baker, replying to Mr Tam Dalyell (Linlithgow -- Lab.) denied there was any
row between Mrs Stella Rimington -- who takes up her post as head of MI5 today
-- and senior Home Office and police officials on how the terrorist threat
should be handled in future.

Labour again opposed renewal of the Act, although Mr Hattersley indicated that
if he became Home Secretary he would call an all-party conference to consider
how the law could be amended.

Mr Baker decribed the idea of a review committee as "pathetic", saying: "You
don't deal with terrorist by composite motions. You don't do it by talking tough
and acting soft. What the public wants is the prevention of terrorism, not a
convention on terrorism."

He said that without the Act he would not have been unable to exclude from
mainland Britain Kevin O'Donnell, recently killed in a shoot-out with the
security forces in Northern Ireland, after he was acquitted of carrying weapons
for the IRA.

He said there had been a national concensus on the special measures needed to
deal with terrorism after the Act was introduced by Labour Home Secretary Roy
Jenkins in 1974 until 1983. He blamed Mr Hattersley for then switching his
party's policy from supporting the Act.

Mr Hattersley said he believed the extension of detention orders should be
approved not by the Home Secretary but by a tribunal or a single Judge sitting
in chambers.

He called for the taping of all interviews of detained persons, which, he said,
would make conviction more likely if they were charged later.

At present, he said, the fact that the protection given by the Criminal Evidence
Act was not available to detainees was making juries reluctant to convict.

Exclusion orders, by which the Home Secretary can restrict the subject to a
single part of the UK, were "wrong in principle and counter-productive in
practice."

He added: "It is offensive to Northern Ireland to be used as a dumping ground
for terrorists."

Sir John Wheeler (Con.), chairman of the Commons Select Committe on Home
Affairs, said tape-recording and videos of interviews with suspects were
thoroughly desirable but warned that if used in court "they could put in
jeopardy the lives of peopel who are fighting terrorism or would -be
informants."

Ms Clare Short (Lab.) said the Act engendered fear that innocent Irish people
would be arrested. It helped to create a sense of alienation from justice and
confidence in the security forces, which helped the terrorists.

Mr Ivor Stanbrook (Con.) said Labour's opposition to the Act was "absolutely
contemptible". He added: "What they are doing is aiding enemies of this
country."

Home Office Minister John Patten said a Judge or tribunal extending detention
orders would be acting alone as there would be no representation for the person
involved because of the extreme sensitivity of the information. So they would be
in exactly the same position as the Home Secretary.

The suggested alternative to exclusion orders of surveillance of those affected,
with 91 people currently excluded, would divert security resources from dealing
with terrorist activities.

Winding up for the Opposition, Mr Barry Sheerman said Labour detested terrorists
and terrorism, but the Government was asking his party to suspend the rules of
normal political discourse.

Labour was asking for "a more effective effort against terrorism, and we have
asked the Home Secretary to meet us, to sit round the table, and discuss how to
be more effective. It is not on our side empty rhetoric".

Earlier, Mr Baker launched the fifteeenth in the Conservative Party's "You can't
trust Labour" news conferences. The theme was "Labour's soft on crime." He said
Labour was "soft-headed and flabby" on the issue. Its policies would fetter the
police by putting them under political control.

"As for crime, Labour wrings its hands, blames everyone but the criminal and
tries to water down virtually every tough measure we propose."

Mr Hattersley, on the BBC Radio 4 programme The World At One, said: "Mr Baker
wants to talk about the imagined shortcomings of the Labour Party because he is
terrified of discussing the 13-year record of failure, the doubling of recorded
crime from 2.5 million to more than 5 million.".

Labour's counter-attack comes today at a news conference on the theme "Crime
without prevention" in which it says it will highlight areas where Government
failure has been most dramatic.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Mr Baker gives the Tory view on Labour's stance as he unveils a party
poster in London yesterday.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                           February 28, 1992, Friday

ATHLETES PUT UNDER GUARD

SECTION: Pg. 69

LENGTH: 587 words


ATHLETES in Genoa for the European Indoor Championships are under 24-hour
protection following a terrorist threat to carry out a 'criminal act' at the
event.

The 31-strong UK team, along with the 450 other athletes, are being housed in
two 'hotel' ferries in the Italian sea port.

Armed police and frogmen were called in and four helicopters brought in for
surveillance after local police received a telephone call from a Palestinian
terror group.

The local police chief fears the threat is connected with the participation of
two Israeli athletes at the event.

Still sensitive about the notorious hijack of the cruise liner Achille Lauro in
Genoa by four Palestinian terrorists in 1985, police have called in 800 officers
from the anti-terrorist division Digos to patrol the two ships and the
surrounding waters.

The British camp was left unaware of the threat as the athletes concentrated on
bringing home medals from probably the weakest field in the event's 22-year
history.

With almost all of Europe's leading athletes absent, preferring to concentrate
on their Olympic preparations, the three strongest teams from Britain, Germany
and the fragmented Commonwealth of Independent States all looked like
second-string outfits.

But Jason Livingston, the small sprinter with the giant talent, was plotting his
campaign to succeed Linford Christie as king of the indoor boards in the 60
metres tomorrow - and threatening to enter world-record territory in the
process.

'I am going onto the track these days thinking that no-one can beat me,' said
the 20-year-old, favoured to beat CIS rival Vitaly Savin for the title.

And, commenting on American Andre Cason's recent new world record of 6.41
seconds, he added boldly: 'I've done 6.51, which is the European best - and if I
was to race him now, he would have to run another world record to beat me.'

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 28, 1992, Friday

WE WON'T GIVE IN TO TERRORISTS, PLEDGES BAKER

BYLINE:  Joe Quinn, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 258 words


The Government will not give in to terrorists, Home Secretary Kenneth Baker
pledged again today.  Mr Baker, told of the London Bridge bomb while on a day of
engagements in Scotland, said: "I was shocked and concerned to hear of yet
another bomb outrage perpetrated by the IRA in a London station." He offered
sympathy to the injured and their families and said: "This is a callous attack
and shows the complete indifference of the IRA to the victims - innocent
passengers, bystanders and civilians.  "They do not care a damn who they attack,
injure or kill." Mr Baker added: "I want to make it absolutely clear we will not
tolerate such terrorist attacks. We will not give in to the views of terrorists.
"They are not going to win any support from such actions." It was "ironic", said
Mr Baker, that the attack took place on the day the House of Lords debates the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.  "There must be no reduction in the powers
available to Government to resist and overcome terrorism," he told an Edinburgh
news conference.
    Home Office minister Lord Ferrers was visiting the scene of the bombing
later today.

Mr Baker said he hoped the blast was not intended to coincide with the
pre-general election period.  "An election campaign is all about persuading
people about ideas, principles and policies - it is not using bombs and bullets
in order to try to win the political argument," he said on BBC Radio 4's The
World at One.  "These terrorists do not understand the spirit and character of
the people of Britain."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 29, 1992

IRA RETAINS INITIATIVE WITH EXPORTED TACTICS WHICH STRETCH SECURITY

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words


ON A normal day early last month, motorists entering the centre of Belfast had
to negotiate three police and army checkpoints. Even that did not stop the
bombers - they merely switched their operations to Londonderry.

Any plan to impose total security, the Royal Ulster Constabulary knows, is a
mirage. Armed police, if the resources existed, on every street corner would be
politically unacceptable.

Like the RUC, police in Britain appear to accept that increased manpower on the
streets would not provide a long-term solution. Army checkpoints in Whitehall or
at mainline stations would give the IRA a considerable publicity coup. The
Provisionals, who have also attacked regimental barracks, military bands, MPs,
recruiting offices and private clubs in Britain, would simply move on to another
target.

The IRA knows this and has grown increasingly skilful in playing on police
reactions. In a message after the bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton in
1984, the IRA bragged that the Government had to be lucky with its security
measures every time - the Provisionals only had to be lucky once.

The consequence of that boast has been a process of varying and extending the
range of so-called legitimate targets, leaving the security forces with too many
premises to protect effectively.

By switching their objectives in Britain, they have managed to maintain the
initiative and largely avoid detection. At the same time, the Provisionals'
mainland campaign for the past 18 months has been distinguished by use of
methods developed recently in Northern Ireland.

Arson attacks, which have not been used on such a large scale since the early
1970s, caused damage worth tens of millions of pounds to commercial premises in
and around Belfast last year. That was followed by arson attacks in London and
Manchester.

Bombing of the centre of Belfast, which devastated several office blocks and hit
some shopping areas, has been matched by a concentration of IRA devices in
Whitehall.

But the IRA's attacks on transport have caused the most disruption. First the
main railway line between Dublin and Belfast became a target, then road traffic
was brought to a standstill by fleets of hijacked and abandoned cars in Belfast.

That tactic was soon exported and led to bomb attacks on stations in London,
which snarled up the capital.

Explosive devices do not have to be placed every time. The mere threat is enough
to bring havoc.

The IRA's intention in attacking commercial premises and causing traffic
disruption is that maintaining the union with Northern Ireland will come to be
seen as too costly a burden.

However, there has been virtually no intelligence penetration of the
Provisionals' active service units in Britain. So police may have few options
other than increasing security measures.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 29, 1992

THIS WEEK: BANK GLOOM, TRANSITION IN COURT AND A BOMB

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 655 words


TWENTY NINE people were injured by an IRA bomb at London Bridge Station during
yesterday morning's rush hour.

The attack came at the end of a week during which the economy and pre-election
fencing dominated the news at home.

A sharp fall in exports sent the UK trade deficit to just short of pounds 800
million - its highest for a year. The opposition said the Government should help
industry rather than cut taxes in the March 10 Budget. But half those questioned
in a Daily Mail poll believed recovery would come with tax cuts. The ICM poll
gave Labour 41 per cent, Conservatives 38 per cent and Liberal Democrats 17 per
cent, a greater lead than in a Daily Telegraph poll today.

It emerged that the big banks face bad debts of pounds 5.6 billion, but the Bank
of England rallied to their defence, saying that competition since deregulation
had been a boon for customers. National Westminster and Barclays reported
sharply reduced profits. Midland surprised the City with a pounds 36 million
profit. Insurance companies moved deeply into the red - Royal's losses doubled
to pounds 373 million. In contrast, British Gas recorded a profit of pounds 1.5
billion.

It was an up-and-down week for justice. Lord Justice Taylor, aged 61 and an
Appeal Court judge since 1988, was appointed Lord Chief Justice in succession to
Lord Lane, aged 73, who is to retire early in April. The appointment was seen as
heralding reform.

Yesterday, Jacqueline Fletcher, aged 27, who was jailed for in 1988 for drowning
her son, was cleared by the Appeal Court. Her case is the latest of a series in
which vulnerable people have been convicted after making disputed confessions.

Michael Sams, aged 50, was charged with kidnapping estate agent Stephanie
Slater. In an unusual move his solicitor made a statement on Monday denying Sams
was guilty of the murder last July of Julie Dart, aged 18, from Leeds. But on
Wednesday he was charged with the murder.

Through the week, Australia's constitutional relationship with Britain grew into
a mounting controversy in the wake of the Queen's visit. Paul Keating, the prime
minister, launched a spirited defence of Australian nationalism and criticised
Britain's second world war record.

In Ireland, a girl aged 14 was given permission to travel abroad to seek an
abortion after the Irish Supreme Court overturned a High Court ruling. The
family of the girl, who claimed she was raped by the father of a family friend,
had appealed against last week's ruling preventing her from going abroad for
nine months. She is 12 weeks pregnant.

In the United States, the Bush administration signalled that it supported a
Labour victory in Israel's forthcoming general election. Washington said $ 10
billion ( pounds 5.6 billion) in loan guarantees will not be made available to
the present Likud government unless it halts all settlement activity in
territories seized during the 1967 war.

In the presidential primaries, George Bush ran unopposed in the South Dakota
primary but was rocked by a 31 per cent vote for the "uncommitted" slate.
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska boosted his bid for the Democratic presidential
nomination with a victory. The Democrat, Paul Tsongas, winner of last week's New
Hampshire primary, narrowly beat Jerry Brown, the former California governor, in
the Maine presidential caucuses.

The conflict in the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh escalated after
Armenian and Azerbaijani forces ignored a ceasefire on Thursday. Reports
suggested casualties could run into the hundreds. Each side blamed the other for
the renewed fighting.

Today, leap day, provides a double opportunity for women aboard a world cruise
with P&O's Sea Princess liner, sailing from Sydney to San Francisco. They will
be able to propose on the island of Tonga today and again the following day -
still February 29 - after crossing the International Date Line.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             March 2, 1992, Monday

WHY THE IRA CANNOT WIN;
THIRD BOMBING ATTEMPT IN THREE DAYS, BUT BRITAIN CARRIES ON WITH ITS RAINY
SUNDAY AFTERNOON OUT

BYLINE: Peter Burden,Chris Brooke

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words


FOR the third time in as many days, the IRA took its murderous campaign to the
heart of London yesterday.

And for the third time it failed to terrorise the British public.

Yesterday the statement of defiance came from nearly 30,000 soccer supporters.
On a wet and miserable afternoon, when they could have stayed at home and
watched the Spurs-Nottingham Forest Rumbelows Cup semi-final live on television,
they turned up to see the match only hours after a bomb was found near
Tottenham's North London ground.

A coded telephone warning of a second device inside the ground delayed the
kick-off by more than an hour while police made a thorough search. The fans
queued patiently in the rain, many of them singing We Shall Not Be Moved and
shouting anti-IRA slogans.

It was the clearest possible message to the men of the bomb and the bullet.

Last night the IRA admitted responsibility for the attempt to blow up White Hart
Lane railway station, and for the explosion at offices of the Crown Prosecution
Service in Furnival Street, central London, on Saturday night.

It had already admitted planting the bomb which ripped through a platform at
London Bridge station on Friday, injuring 28.

In its statement last night the IRA pledged to step up its mainland campaign in
the run-up to the General Election. Crowing at reaching 'the very heart of the
British capital', it said the attacks 'signalled its determination and resolve'
to focus the Government's attention on the 'war in Ireland'.

Home Secretary Kenneth Baker condemned the IRA's threat to bomb its way on to
the election agenda.

'It is because the IRA have lost the argument and cannot win it that they resort
to violence and the threat of indiscriminate murder,' he said. 'The voice of
democracy will not be drowned out by the sound of bombs.

'Thousands of people going to a football match on a Sunday afternoon are not a
military or political target. I pay tribute to the fans and supporters for the
way they behaved and the fact that they stayed to watch the delayed match.'

Mr Baker supported proposals to change the law which requires the addresses of
election candidates to be published.

'I have had clear advice that terrorists should be denied easy access to
information of this sort,' he said.

Yesterday's small device, thought to have been in a plastic bag, was spotted by
a man waiting for a train at White Hart Lane station shortly before 9.30am. A
few hours later the station would have been thronged with fans - six football
trains carrying a total of 7,000 fans were due to arrive before the scheduled
3.25pm kick-off.

The man went to a pay phone near the ticket office and dialled 999. Police
arrived within minutes and started to evacuate the area. At 10.09am a warning
call thought to be from the IRA was made to St Pancras Hospital. By this time
the police operation was well under way, and the bomb was made safe at about
10.40am.

With their third attempt of the weekend to cause mayhem and death in disarray,
the terrorists made a second call, at 12.45, claiming a bomb was due to explode
in the stadium within an hour. Fans had started arriving for the 3.25 kick-off,
but they had to wait until 4.30. Forest won 2-1.

Anti-Terrorist Squad chief Commander George Churchill-Coleman said: 'Thanks to a
member of the public's vigilance, a terrorist attack was nipped in the bud. With
help from London citizens like this, half the battle is won.'

ITV stations were swamped with protest calls after the St David's Day edition of
Highway with Sir Harry Secombe was dropped because of the delayed kick-off.

* Two IRA men jailed in France for arms smuggling five years ago were being
questioned by police in Dublin yesterday after being released. James Doherty,
47, and James Coll, 40, were quizzed about IRA arms consignments from Libya.

The match - Pages 46-48

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PLAYING ON: TOTTENHAM'S GARY LINEKER IS BRIEFED BY A POLICEMAN AS HE
ARRIVES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 2, 1992, Monday
                              Correction Appended

IRA bombers hope to disrupt election; Target is 'British political agenda' as
alert rail passenger foils attack on football fans

BYLINE: By CHARLES OULTON and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 650 words


THE IRA served notice yesterday that it would try to disrupt the coming general
election by maintaining its bombing campaign in Britain. The organisation
boasted that it had managed to plant bombs ''in the very heart of the British
capital''.

Two bombs were planted in London yesterday. One, on railway track near White
Hart Lane station in north London, was found only a few hours before 30,000
people were due to watch a Rumbelows Cup semi-final at Tottenham Hotspur's
ground 400 yards away. The second was found in a telephone box off Whitehall.

The Home Secretary condemned the IRA's threat to bomb its way on to the election
agenda. ''It is because the IRA have lost the argument that they resort to the
threat of indiscriminate murder,'' Kenneth Baker said. ''People going to a
football match on a Sunday afternoon are not a military or political target.''

The IRA statement added: ''These attacks signal our determination and resolve to
focus the Government's attention on their war in Ireland.''

The IRA's public warning will place increased pressure on the security forces.
The police now face the task of safeguarding several thousand politicians
involved in the election. The IRA statement declared: ''As they face into a
general election, our volunteers will continue to force the occupation of part
of our country on to the British political agenda.''

Ministers are consulting opposition parties over amending the Representation of
the People Act before the election so as to drop the requirement to publish the
addresses of candidates. Mr Baker said: ''I have had clear advice that
terrorists should be denied easy access to information of that sort - I trust
there will be all-party support for this measure.''

Both the bombs found yesterday were made safe. The bomb at the station was
spotted by a passenger. The one in the telephone box was found by a police
officer searching the area after a telephone warning.

The passenger saw what was described as a small device at 9.20am, and it was
made safe by explosives officers half an hour before St Pancras Hospital
received a warning call at 10.09.

Later, the match between Tottenham and Nottingham Forest was delayed for more
than an hour after another telephone warning that a device had been planted in
the stadium.

Commander George Churchill- Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, praised the man who reported the device on the railway track. ''We are
really pleased that, thanks to a member of the public's vigilance, the anti-
terrorist squad was able to nip in the bud a potential terrorist attack. With
help from London citizens like this, half the battle is won,'' he said.

Mr Churchill-Coleman said those responsible for the device planted in the
telephone box, were ''utterly cynical.'' It was concealed in a small black
wooden box, and the warning, to Thames Television, was ''deliberately vague and
lacking in detail'', he said. ''The likelihood of causing deaths and injuries to
the public was high.'' There had been no admission of responsibility, but the
device bore all the hallmarks of the IRA, he said.

The current London campaign started with a bomb at London Bridge station on
Friday morning when 28 people were injured, four seriously. It continued on
Saturday night when a device, containing 2lb of Semtex, exploded outside offices
of the Crown Prosecution Service in High Holborn, slightly injuring a passer-by
and smashing many windows.

Forensic scientists will today continue investigating whether a ''suspect
object'', found last night in a telephone box near High Street, Kensington tube
station in west London, and blown up in a controlled explosion by police, was a
bomb.

Controlled explosions being used yesterday to demolish a redundant power station
in Deptford, south London, prompted calls to the police from people thinking it
was a terrorist attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 1992, Tuesday

CORRECTION: Yesterday's page one report on terrorist attacks in London stated
that a bomb had been planted on Sunday in a telephone box in Whitehall. This was
incorrect; only one bomb was found on Sunday, near White Hart Lane station in
north London.

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 3, 1992, Tuesday

Leading Article: Better delays than deaths

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 562 words


FEW decisions can be more difficult than those called for by an IRA bomb
warning. If the IRA succeeds in stepping up its campaign in the run-up to the
election, as promised, plenty more such decisions will have to be taken. In each
case the authorities will have to tread a fine line between protecting the
public and not giving the terrorists the satisfaction of causing widespread,
prolonged and costly disruption.

With hindsight, last Friday's lengthy closure of all London railway stations,
including the Underground's, looks overcautious, making it an apparent victory
for the IRA. The first warning was vague, indicating only that bombs were due to
go off at unspecified railway stations. One did so in a public lavatory at
London Bridge station, injuring 28 people, four seriously. There was another
warning soon afterwards mentioning two stations. All such messages are sifted to
screen out hoaxes and to quantify the level of risk.

In the event, the railway network remained closed until early afternoon. There
were no further explosions at stations; but on Saturday a bomb went off in High
Holborn, slightly injuring a passer-by; and yesterday another was discovered
intact, causing a football match at White Hart Lane stadium to be delayed. In
such instances, the police and British Rail are right to err on the side of
caution. To invoke the Second World War and the spirit of the blitz is tempting
but irrelevant. Britain is not at war, and it would be a victory for IRA
terrorism to suggest otherwise. A majority of Londoners would no doubt welcome
swifter searches and less disruption after an IRA warning: but surviving victims
and relatives of those killed in any subsequent blast would have good cause for
grievance, and probably for legal redress, if deaths and injuries could be
attributed to a skimped or negligent search.

With its usual hypocrisy, the IRA said in its Sunday statement: ''As they the
Government face into a general election, our volunteers will continue to force
the occupation of part of our country on to the British political agenda.'' The
IRA knows that Northern Ireland is already high on that agenda, thanks partly to
the change of prime ministers in Dublin. Talks on the future of the province
between the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Peter Brooke, and leaders
of the four constitutional parties may resume shortly. The IRA is aware that its
policy of violence debars its own political wing, Sinn Fein, from all such
dialogue. It must know, too, that every bomb in Ulster or on the mainland makes
it harder for British troops to leave the province.

The tragic reality is that the IRA has become wedded to violence, which gives
the Provos their relevance. If they suspended it, they would shrink into
insignificance and Sinn Fein's 11 per cent vote would drop. Everyone outside the
IRA recognises that violence is getting nowhere, but its perpetrators prefer
being isolated to being ignored. The medium has become the message. The present
campaign in London has not lasted long. The public remains torn between full
understanding for what may seem like unduly cautious reactions and irritation at
the delays, inconvenience and loss of income that they may cause. Interaction
between public sentiment and the police will doubtless produce the right
compromise, should the campaign regrettably continue.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 4, 1992, Wednesday

Ulster: an issue suppressed; The defective election: Northern Ireland is a key
question in British politics. We should be allowed to vote on it, argues Neil
Lyndon

BYLINE: By NEIL LYNDON

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 1072 words


Twenty-two years have passed since the present troubles in Northern Ireland got
started in the Bogside and the Creggan in those August nights of street-fighting
between Catholics and B-Specials.

Throughout the whole of that period, through three changes of the party in
government, no divisions of opinion have been allowed in the House of Commons on
the main purposes of the executive. For the best part of a quarter of a century
- all my adult life - the British electorate has been presented with a unified
and undifferentiated line from Downing Street and the Palace of Westminster,
which declares, at root, ''We agree: you pay.''

It is worth looking back at the moment when the Cabinet determined the policy
that we have been unable to oppose ever since.

Richard Crossman noted the occasion in his diary for Tuesday 19 August 1969:
''The only thing I need really record has been the big Cabinet meeting where the
main subject was Northern Ireland . . . Harold and Jim had really committed the
Cabinet to putting the troops in and once they were there they couldn't be taken
out again, so we had to ratify what had been done . . . There wasn't any
tremendous disagreement . . . It was a case where in a sense our mind was made
up by events . . . It wasn't so much deciding what policy to have as being able
to excuse it.''

Successive governments have felt obliged to assume the attitudes of the Cabinet
that Richard Crossman attended: they have been required to excuse and to defend
the status quo that Harold Wilson and James Callaghan created in Northern
Ireland. They have not been asked to consider with an independent mind the most
intractable political problem that has existed for two and a half decades within
the borders of a nation in the Western world. They have seen that their
straightforward duty was to resist terrorism and to defend the rule of law.

The leaderships of Her Majesty's Oppositions have marched in close order with
governments of the day and the House of Commons has, broadly, trodden in their
leaders' footprints. Seeing that they had no choice - ''our mind was made up by
events'', as Crossman said - they have given the electors no choice.

The single voice they utter is courageous and noble. It is also sympathetic and
understandable. When Mr Major spoke to the House of Commons after he became the
second successive British prime minister to feel upon his own person the shock
of an IRA atrocity, he dismissed with contempt the mortar attack on Downing
Street and declared that assassins would not budge the Government from its
policy, an attitude that Neil Kinnock and Paddy Ashdown followed, supported and
endorsed.

The ghosts of about 3,000 people are mustered behind those declarations. In the
front rank of that army of the murdered stand Lord Mountbatten, Airey Neave and
Ian Gow. To keep faith with those who have died so foully, our political leaders
sense that they must resist terrorism, must refuse to give an inch. They are
cornered by a brutal logic and by lines of loyalty.

In consequence, the citizens and voters of Great Britain have been
disenfranchised. The electorate has been powerless to express an opinion on the
expenditure of its taxes in Northern Ireland. Anybody who wished to vote for a
party that might form a government was required to vote for the status quo in
Ulster. Succeeding governments have not known what the electorate truly thinks
or feels.

The voters may feel grudging about the cost to the United Kingdom of garrisoning
and policing Northern Ireland, variously calculated at present at between pounds
650m and pounds 1bn a year. They may feel that the duty to protect barbarian
mobs of religious primitives from each other is a post-imperial legacy which
they would be happy to hand on to a United Nations peace-keeping force or to
renounce outright. They may be sorely pressed to see any benefit returning to
the nation as a whole from Ulster which might be worth the inconvenience of a
train delay, still less the life of an innocent commuter.

Citizens may express these views to each other. They may not express them in
their votes. They may feel that democracy is, arrogantly and wrongly as Mrs
Thatcher blazed over Europe, not heeding or representing their opinions. On the
question of Ulster, they may be right.

The orthodox account of government policy towards Northern Ireland is to say
that the constitutional rights of the loyalist majority must be defended. Under
the terms of logic of a parliamentary democracy, therefore, it seems that the
British government has an unavoidable duty towards that majority. But the most
curious and striking aspect of government policy towards Northern Ireland in the
last 22 years is the extent to which it has been determined by a fractional
minority of the electorate, as a whole.

The population of Northern Ireland is about the same as a big county in England.
It comprises roughly 2.5 per cent of the entire population of the United
Kingdom. The Protestant majority in Northern Ireland, about one million people
in all, represents less than 2 per cent of the total population of these
islands.

The interests of this minute minority of the population are thus determining
policy for the entire nation. Our leaders courageously say that they will not be
budged by terrorist outrages because they will not submit to an extremist
minority; but the uncomfortable truth is that British policy has been hijacked
by an extremist minority: the loyalist majority in Ulster, which may not command
the sympathies of the whole electorate.

In their resistance to terrorism, in their refusal to give an inch, the probity
and personal courage of members of the executive have been proved repeatedly.
The doubt is not about their motives, the doubt is about their mandate. It would
require courage of a different order to ask the electorate for its opinion; but
the question might produce an answer that would relieve the Government of its
irresolvable dilemmas. Weary of paying for nothing and of sacrificing the lives
of innocent citizens, the electorate of the UK might wish to turn its back on
Northern Ireland, in which case, the Government would be obliged to do its duty.

A referendum would do the trick nicely.

- This article originally appeared in 'The Spectator'.

- The defective election: on Monday William Rees-Mogg puts the key economic
question that the parties will not discuss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 12, 1992

In shadow of terror threat

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 177 words


THE election campaign will be fought under the shadow of a threatened IRA terror
campaign.

The Prime Minister, key Cabinet colleagues, and senior MPs will be criss
-crossing Britain in a high profile programme which will place huge pressures on
security.

The IRA put politicians and the police on notice of their plans earlier this
month after three bomb attacks in three days.

It warned: "As they (the Government) face into a General Election, our
volunteers will continue to force their occupation of part of our country on to
the British political agenda."

Home Secretary Kenneth Baker has condemned the terrorist threat. "An election
campaign is all about persuading people about ideas, principles and policies --
it is not using bombs and bullets in order to win the political argument."

The terrorists' tactics of striking at the heart of government in Whitehall,
with three attacks in a year, and at the rail network, has given a foretaste of
the IRA's determination to cause maximum disruption and grab international
headlines.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             March 16, 1992, Monday

How Britain keeps ticking over while politicians do battle

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 563 words


AS THE prime minister and his cabinet head off to campaign around the country
for a fourth Tory term, Whitehall's mandarins will assume what some regard as
their rightful place.

Sir Robin Butler, cabinet secretary, will mastermind a group of permanent
secretaries who will effectively take charge of the day-to-day running of the
country's business.

While John Major is still technically prime minister and the cabinet are still
serving ministers until a new government assumes office, civil servants will
take over most of the work during the three and a half weeks of the general
election campaign.

There will no longer be any MPs, although the former members will be paid until
polling day. Members seeking re-election are merely candidates with no special
rights or privileges and will not be allowed into the Palace of Westminster even
to collect their mail.

Payment of the MPs' Pounds 10,786 ''living away from home'' allowance is
stopped, and their free travel rights will be limited to one warrant from
Westminster to their constituency.

Ministers remain in post until a new government is appointed but lead double
lives, surrendering perks when electioneering but allowed to use official cars
for Whitehall duties. They keep their departmental offices and continue to make
executive decisions. New spending programmes cannot be announced, although
ministers can promise as Tory politicians what they will do if Mr Major wins.

The red boxes of ministerial homework will still circulate but will be lighter
because they will contain no new policy initiatives.

Each department has to arrange for a minister to be available for urgent matters
at all times, at least by telephone. Secretaries of state will be called in
should there be any significant international or domestic event such as a
terrorist attack while Gus O'Donnell, the prime minister's press secretary, will
be in daily contact with Mr Major.

Senior civil servants will work closely with any ministers not standing at the
next election such as John Wakeham, the energy secretary, Alan Clark, the
defence minister, and peers who hold ministerial positions. These include Lord
Caithness, the Foreign Office minister and Earl Ferrers, a Home Office minister.

Peers may continue to use the Palace of Westminster, but without their Pounds 29
daily subsistence allowance. Lord Caithness, who will be travelling to Helsinki
for European security talks and to Luxembourg for the Foreign Affairs Council,
said yesterday he would be working with exactly the same team that he dealt with
during the 1987 election campaign.

Then he was working at the Home Office with Douglas Hurd as home secretary and
Edward Bickham, Mr Hurd's private secretary, who moved to the Foreign Office
with him.

Several other people will be on hand should events in Iraq or Libya escalate.
Stephen Wall, John Major's foreign policy adviser, will be in constant touch
with the prime minister and Sir David Hannay, British ambassador to the UN, will
be closely involved in any international events.

Sir John Kerr, Britain's representative to the European Commission, will handle
affairs in this area. If Gatt talks on trade policy reach a conclusion during a
general election campaign Peter Lilley, the trade and industry secretary and
John Gummer, the minister of agriculture, would be called in.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 17, 1992, Tuesday

Police raid foiled IRA's plan for human bomb

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 333 words


IT HAS emerged that the IRA tried unsuccessfully to mark the opening of the
election campaign in Northern Ireland with a massive ''human bomb'' attack
designed to kill a large number of security force members.

The attack was foiled when police in the Irish Republic seized a huge primed
bomb in a remote part of Co Donegal last Tuesday. One source said the IRA
operation was interrupted only 10 minutes before the device was due to be moved.

It is thought the bomb was to be used against a security force installation,
most likely an Army border post. The device contained up to 4,000lb of home made
explosives, making it one of the largest bombs they have assembled.

Forensic examination of the Ford Transit van which was to carry the bomb has
revealed that the driver's door had been booby-trapped so as to set it off when
opened. This is seen as a clear indication that the intention was to stage a
human bomb attack. Such attacks involve forcing civilians who work for the
security forces to deliver the bombs.

The revival of the tactic seems to suggest that the IRA is not prepared to
tailor its violence to the needs of its political wing, Sinn Fein, which is
fielding 14 candidates in the election and which will be hoping to alienate as
few potential voters as possible.

The planned attack has emphasised that the IRA will try to disrupt the campaign.
The IRA has already said that operations involving major political events in
Britain ''do carry the added bonus of forcing the Irish war on to the British
political agenda'' - a clear signal that the terrorists hope to keep up their
activities in Britain.

The Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams, who is campaigning to hold his seat in West
Belfast, yesterday entered the election fray with a declaration that ''a vote
for Sinn Fein is a vote for peace''.

He argued that the Brooke talks, which involved the constitutional parties but
excluded Sinn Fein, amounted to cynical electioneering and empty posturing.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 21, 1992, Saturday

Adams clashes with Hume on TV

BYLINE: By Edward Gorman, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 521 words


Ulster - FOR the first time in four years, Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president,
yesterday debated publicly with John Hume, leader of the SDLP, the best way to
achieve peace in Northern Ireland.

Taking advantage of the relaxation of broadcasting restrictions during the
election, BBC radio and television stations broadcast exchanges between the two
men in Belfast. The discussion, the first since secret talks between their
parties in 1988, was at times volatile underlining the distrust and disagreement
within the nationalist community.

Mr Adams seemed determined to take advantage of his first opportunity since
1988, when the broadcasting of Sinn Fein interviews was banned, to display his
distaste for the SDLP's constitutional nationalism. He repeatedly tried to
interrupt Mr Hume. While both men said that they wanted peace in Ireland, they
differed greatly on how it could be achieved. Mr Adams said that IRA violence
and all other violence in Northern Ireland was a sympton not a cause of the
problem. He said that the IRA could not lay down its weapons until the root
causes of injustice in Ireland, the British presence upholding a divisive
''apartheid'' state, had been removed.

He argued that Sinn Fein (which at the last election received 11 per cent of the
nationalist vote) already had a democratic mandate and should be involved in an
''inclusive dialogue''. He said that the United Nations and the European
Community should be called in to help to find a solution.

John Hume said that there was not a single injustice in Northern Ireland that
justified the taking of a single life. He said 3,000 people had died, and
Northern Ireland was being starved of investment because of the violence.
British troops were only on the streets because of violence which was
exacerbating division, not healing it.

Mr Hume argued that Britain now formally accepted that Irish unity was there for
the taking if those Irish people who wanted it could persuade those who did not,
that it was the way forward.

He said that Mr Adams should recognise that the talks process offered an
historic opportunity. For the first time everyone involved, the two governments,
the SDLP and the Unionists, recognised that all aspects of the problem were up
for discussion.

''What I would like to see and I have said this time out of number would be a
complete cessation of the IRA campaign and then Sinn Fein can take their place
like any other party that has a democratic mandate, around the table,'' Mr Hume
said.

The debate, in which Mr Adams argued ultimately for a unilateral British
withdrawal, demonstrated that his party and the IRA are still publicly at least
not contemplating either a ceasefire or a compromise.

Mr Hume, while being repeatedly interrupted, said that the one thing he never
wanted to see was a British government leaving Ireland on a unilateral basis.
''If the British government withdraws before agreement is reached among the
people here, everyone knows that there is a very high risk of perpetual violence
like Beirut on our streets. I am not prepared to take that risk.''

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 22, 1992, Sunday

BOOK REVIEW / Fascists first, Jews second

BYLINE: By MICHAEL DIBDIN

SECTION: THE SUNDAY REVIEW PAGE; Page 28

LENGTH: 796 words


LEO ROSTEN tells a joke about the elderly Jew who appears at Nazi police
headquarters in response to an appeal for young, blonde, blue-eyed six-foot
would-be storm troopers. ''I just want to tell you,'' he says, ''that on me you
shouldn't depend.'' The whole point of the gag, of course, is that virulent
anti-Semitism was such a basic element of the Nazi creed that it was as
unthinkable for a German Jew to join the party as it was that he would be
accepted if he had applied.

In Italy, by contrast, large numbers of Jews went out of their way to tell
Mussolini that on them he could and should depend. By 1938, after 16 years of
fascist rule, over 10,000 Italian Jews, amounting to about a third of all Jewish
adults, were party members. Giorgio Bassani, author of The Garden of the
Finzi-Continis, claims he cannot recall a single Jew in Ferrara before the war
who was not a fascist. While a significant proportion of the leading
anti-fascist intelligentsia was Jewish, a much larger number of Italian Jews saw
Mussolini's ideology as the legitimate heir of the risorgimentale nationalism
which had freed them from the ghettos to which they had been confined as late as
1870.

Despite localised outbursts of anti-Semitism by fringe elements, race was not an
issue in Italian politics until the Italian-German Alliance of 1938. The Italian
government went out of its way to welcome Jewish refugees fleeing Hitler, and
Mussolini's own pronouncements on the subject could hardly have been more
reassuring: ''Nothing will ever make me believe that biologically pure races can
be shown to exist today. National pride has no need of the delirium of race.''

Ironically enough, if Mussolini had been the autocratic ideologue he wished to
appear, the Jews would have been safe. Unfortunately, he was just another
Italian politician, governed by expediency, opportunism and the need to protect
his power base. When his imperial ambitions led to conflict with Britain and
France, he allied himself with Germany and promptly did an about-turn,
announcing that, ''The time has come for Italians frankly to proclaim themselves
racists.'' Jews were dismissed from state jobs, expelled from schools and
universities and forced to sell their property.

Incredible as it may seem, many Jewish fascists continued to support the regime.
Ettore Ovazza of Turin went so far as to carry out a terrorist attack against
the offices of a Zionist newspaper in hopes of proving to the regime that he and
his colleagues were ''fascists first and Jews second''. Most Jews just kept
their heads down and waited for things to improve. Even after 1938, life was not
intolerable, given the lack of widespread anti- Semitism and the fact that, as
always in Italy, the theoretical rigour of the laws was tempered by
inefficiency, connivance and corruption. Alexander Stille's interviewees make it
clear that they knew what the Nazis were doing in Germany, but believed that
''it could never happen here''.

What upset their calculations was the cowardice and incompetence of Marshal
Badoglio, who improved on his war crimes in Ethiopia by allowing the Germans to
move troops into the country after the overthrow of Mussolini in 1943. During
the next two years, the Nazis took time off from fighting the painfully slow
Allied advance up the peninsula to carry out a series of Judenaktionen which
resulted in the deaths of over 7,000 men, women and children, most of whom were
deported to concentration camps.

In this account of the personal dramas of five families ranging from the upper
levels of the Turin bourgeoisie to the humblest Roman ghetto- dwellers,
Alexander Stille recreates the ambiguities, paradoxes and inconsistencies of
this tragic period without falling either into bewildering anecdotalism or
facile generalisation. His narrative, based largely on interviews with the

survivors, is authentic and compelling, with enough characters and incident to
fill half a dozen novels, but Stille's unobtrusive control ensures that even the
most bizarre details take on a wider significance. Thus the vehement protests of
the Christian romana who had lived in the ghetto for so long that everyone
assumed she was Jewish - ''I swear on the sepherim that I go to mass! I swear on
a scroll of the Torah!'' - are an emblem of the complex cross-cultural realities
which the Nazis set out to reduce to the lowest common denominator of data and
statistics.

Stille's gripping and ultimately inspiring book performs the reverse operation,
bringing victims and collaborators, traitors and heroes, back to life in all
their quirky, unpredictable, bloody-minded individuality. A stunning portrait of
a terrible moment, it is also a humbling reminder of how much we have been
spared.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 26, 1992, Thursday

Tripoli hardens stance on Lockerbie suspects

BYLINE: By PATRICK COCKBURN, Middle East Editor

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 512 words


LIBYA HAS told the Arab League mission to Tripoli that it will hand over two men
accused of blowing up Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie only on condition that
they are not handed over to the United States and Britain, sources close to the
League said yesterday in Cairo.

Arab diplomats said Muammar Gaddafi, Libya's leader, and his second-in-command,
Abdel-Salam Jalloud, told the mission at a meeting in Tripoli that statements by
their ambassador to the UN had been ''inaccurate''.

The tougher Libyan stance contradicts reports earlier in the week saying that
Libya was now willing to hand over Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and al-Amin
Khalifa Fhimah to the League as a face-saving device.

The diplomats said Colonel Gaddafi and Mr Jalloud told the mission Libya was
ready to deliver the suspects to the League, but subject to conditions which
clearly meant they could not be sent immediately for trial in the West. The
Libyans' behaviour seemed likely to harden Western suspicions that they are
playing for time and encourage the US, Britain and France to move ahead with UN
sanctions against Libya.

The United Nations on Monday delayed voting on a US, British, and French
proposal to impose an air traffic and arms embargo and reduce diplomatic
representation after Libya apparently agreed to the two men's extradition.

The Libyan ambassador said Tripoli had agreed with Boutros Boutros Ghali, the UN
Secretary-General, to hand over the two suspects to the League. Diplomatic
sources said they would then be extradited to the US or Britain.

Meanwhile, in London, ABC television said it will hand over videotaped
interviews with Mr Megrahi and Mr Fhimah which were conducted by Pierre
Salinger, ABC's chief correspondent, in November, after a request for the tapes
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act was upheld by the High Court. Mr Salinger
said ABC had decided not to appeal to a higher court.

Only a small portion of the interviews with the two Libyans was broadcast, but
in December Mr Salinger had declined to show the remainder of the tapes to
police officers from the Lockerbie Incident Control Centre, who visited the ABC
News offices in London.

In March, a court in London ordered Mr Salinger to hand over the video tapes and
several documents under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. During the High Court
hearing yesterday, the court was told that the Scottish police were ''very
eager'' to receive ''the important information'' contained in the Salinger
tapes.

Meanwhile, Alan Rodgers, Scotland's Solicitor-General, flies to The Hague
tomorrow to defend Britain against claims that it has harassed Libya over the
Lockerbie bombing.

In the midst of the tussle over the fate of two men wanted by the UK and US
authorities in connection with the terrorist attack on Pan Am Flight 103, Libya
has launched legal action against both countries, claiming breaches of
international law. Tripoli is asking the International Court of Justice in The
Hague to settle the dispute over the two accused in the Lockerbie case.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 27, 1992

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 994 words


Lockerbie bomb suspects

'must face Scottish court'

The Hague, Thursday

THE Government today demanded that the guilt or innocence of two Libyans wanted
over the Lockerbie bombing be decided by a Scottish jury of "ordinary men and
women".

The Solicitor-General of Scotland, Alan Rodger QC, told the International Court
of Justice in The Hague there could be no justice in Colonel Gaddafi's courts
over the case.

He rejected Libya's claims that the two men had already been pre-judged as
guilty by the British and American authorities, but said there was sufficient
evidence to justify them being surrendered to the authorities in the West to
face trial.

The case was brought to the court -- which describes itself as acting as a
"world court" -- by Libya, which accused both Britain and the US of "illegal and
arbitrary blackmail".

The 15-Judge court, the legal arm of the United Nations, is being asked to rule
that Britain and the US are in breach of an international convention on aviation
terrorism by pressuring Libya to hand over the two men.

Libya insists it alone has the right to try the men, but its ambassador to
Belgium, Mr Mohamed Sharaf Edin al-Faituri, told the court his country was not
convinced the two were guilty of any crime.

"Libya sees no reason why it should give in to illegal and arbitrary blackmail,"
he said.

"Libya is not responsible -- directly or indirectly -- for the hideous crime in
which it is alleged to be implicated."

In his submission to the court, Mr Rodger said that after three years of
painstaking inquiries in the wake of the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over
Lockerbie on December 21, 1988, the authorities had enough evidence to issue
arrest warrants in November 1991 for the two Libyan nationals.

Both were senior officials in the Libyan intelligence service, he said, which
was closely related to Libya's criminal justice system.

It had been established that one of the people involved in obtaining bomb timers
of the type used in the Pan Am disaster had held senior positions in the
criminal justice system, including the post of Minister of Justice.

"These serious allegations are not based on rumour and speculation but as a
result of an investigation based on painstaking and time consuming inquiries,"
Mr Rodger told the court.

"The United Kingdom insists that there can be no question of the demands of
justice being met by any trial of this matter in Libya."

He said the Libyan government's involvement in terrorism was not isolated and
singled out the murder of policewoman Yvonne Fletcher in London in 1984 and
public expressions of support for the IRA by Colonel Gaddafi as evidence.

All efforts to persuade Libya to hand over the two men had been rejected, and
the latest efforts in the last few days to arrange a handover to the Arab League
in Cairo had fallen by the wayside.

"The only conclusion is that Libya will say anything, however inconsistent,
which will postpone the day when it will have to accept responsibility for its
actions. That, I fear, is the true purpose of this court hearing," said Mr
Rodger.

"We have sufficient evidence to justify the charges against these two men. If
they are handed over their guilt or innocence could be determined not by the UK
Government but by a jury of 15 ordinary men and women," he said.

British barrister Ian Brownlie QC, representing Libya, said there was clear
evidence of a joint strategy between London and Washington amounting to threats
of violence against Libya if it refused to surrender the men.

"The conduct of the US and UK presents a challenge to the principle of a
peaceful settlement in disputes and has serious implications for international
public order," he said.

In his emotional speech Mr al-Faituri asked the court for an urgent injunction
to prevent the United States and Britain putting pressure on it to surrender the
suspects, arguing that American air raids on Tripoli in 1986 showed the West was
threatening to use military force.

Faituri told the court the raid had been made in retaliation for a guerrilla
bombing of a German discotheque which later proved not to have involved Libya.
"Force was therefore used without the slightest justification," he said.

Libya has also asked the court to rule that it has been correct, under a 1971
Montreal Convention on terrorist attacks on civil airliners, to propose trying
the suspects itself.

Tonight, the UN Security Council planned to hold private talks on a sanctions
resolution to force Libya to surrender the two suspects despite a reported new
offer from Tripoli.

Several members of the 15-nation council said they expected to proceed to a vote
on Monday, rather than tomorrow, because of continuing negotiations on the
wording of the draft, sponsored by the United States, Britain and France.

A United States diplomat brushed aside a report from Tunisia quoting senior
North African diplomats as saying Libya had agreed to hand over the suspects to
the United Nations provided they were interrogated outside the United States or
Britain.

"The council will go ahead until these guys (the suspects) are here (in the
United States) or in the United Kingdom," he said.

He saw the latest reported Libyan move as another delaying tactic, similar to an
offer this week to hand over the suspects to the Arab League.

The sanctions resolution cites the mandatory provisions of Chapter VII of the UN
Charter, also invoked when the council adopted a series of punitive measures
against Iraq after its August 1990 invasion of Kuwait.

The Western draft would bar all airline traffic and arms deals with Libya, and
reduce the size and level of Libyan diplomatic staffs abroad, until Tripoli
hands over the two men.

France is also demanding Libya's co-operation in the investigation of a mid-air
bombing of French UTA flight 772 over Niger, on September 19,

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Court appeal: Libya's ambassador to Belgium Mohamed Sharaf Edin
al-Faituri listens to Ian Brownlie, QC, who represented Libya at the
hearing.Alan Rodger,QC

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                             March 30, 1992, Monday

This conspiracy of silence over Europe;
'Don't tell the electors we intend to take away their right to decide at a
General Election how they are to be governed'

BYLINE: Enoch Powell

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1240 words


AT THE heart of all the relentless electioneering which has already bored the
pants of most of the public, there is a deafening silence. This is very
disturbing because politicians are by nature and propensity very voluble
creatures. So when they remain silent, we should all be deeply concerned.

What is it that, in the middle - or near the end of near the beginning,
according to taste - of a whacking great recession, every sector of the
electorate would dearly like to see? Why, a good stiff reduction in the ruling
rate of interest to put a stopper on the recession.

So why has no party promised it to them? John Smith's budget came and went, but
never a whisper about lowering interest rates. Ditto John Major and Conservative
Central Office: all silent there. Event the self-advertised candour of the
Liberal Democrats seems to be suffering from the same inhibition. So what is
wrong?

It may be rather startling to suggest that politicians can be motivated by
shame; but shame it is to which their unnatural silence , on so hot a subject,
is attributable. The fact is that Britain is not allowed to reduce the rate of
interest. It is prevented by being tethered hand and foot to the German mark
through membership of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.

The politicians know this; and they know that any spokesman who promised to cut
interest rates would be screamed at like blue murder. 'But your party demanded
that Mrs Thatcher should swallow her pride and go into the ERM'.

Remember all those spokesman, political and non-political, who were hollering
out less than three years ago for Britain to be locked up in the European
Exchange Rate Mechanism? Now they just cannot face having their words thrown
back in their teeth. So they say nuffin but tiptoe silently past that seductive
electoral bribe as if it were a primed IRA car bomb.

Thick as thieves, all the political parties are linked in a conspiracy of which
this particular silence is but one symptom. It is the conspiracy to keep Europe
and the European Community off the election agenda. 'Don't tell the electors',
they whisper, 'that we intend to take away their right to decide at a General
Election how they are going to be governed! Don't tell them we are all committed
to dump that right, in the lap of a politically and economically united Europe!'

Mrs Thatcher herself is not above playing along with this game. It was she who
at Bruges in September 1988 announced that Britain - and the other European
countries, too, for good measure - ought to remain a parliamentary
self-governing nation. That, she has surely not forgotten, is the reason why the
Eurocrats assassinated her and smuggled John Major into Downing Street in her
place. Yet she had the gall to announce that 'John Major is following, I
believe, the policies I created and put into practice.' Not the policy she
announced at Bruges for Britain to be an independent nation ! I call that
putting party above country, politics above patriotism.

The conspiracy of silence among the political parties goes further still.

The Common Market casts a long shadow . What caused the recession in the first
place and made it severer here than elsewhere? Why, inflation, of course. So the
shadow boxers bang on about inflation, and the Government prematurely announces
the end of it. One question, however, one damaging question, nobody ever puts to
the Goverment: why, then, did you cause the inflation, anyhow? That is a dead
cat, in all these months of rowdy dispute, that has never been flung at the
Government's head.

Why is the Opposition so restrained? Why does it pull this punch? Why forgo the
deadly and obvious taunt: 'You made the inflation; you caused the

recession; don't come gibbering now about recovery and fighting inflation!'
There is a reason why the question is never asked. The political parties know
the answer, and they don't like it. Because they remember, when the Government
was wobbling over going into the ERM, they whooped it up and and cemented it
into their own party's policies.

They also know all too well that Nigel Lawson created inflation with his eyes
wide open because he wanted to keep the exchange rate of the pound sterling
steady against the dollar and against the German Mark. So the question would
confront them with the fact that a country which loses control over the exchange
rate of its currency loses control of its economy and is headed for disaster.

At all costs the electorate must be prevented from voting on the matter of
Britain's independence, political and economic. Talk instead about education;
talk instead about the health service; talk instead about taxation. For heaven's
sake don't ask the electors if they still want to be the masters in their own
house. Keep quiet about European unity; keep quiet about what happened at
Maastricht. Don't let the cat out of the bag and disclose that, as soon as the
election is over, Parliament will be forced by the party whips to enable the
Maastricht Treaty to be ratified by amending the law of the UK and transferring
a whole new chunk of decision-making to the Community.

It is when political opponents conspire to keep silent that democracy is most in
danger. Let the electorate be warned.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 1, 1992

UN votes for sanctions against Libya

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 451 words


THE United Nations Security Council yesterday voted to impose sanctions against
Libya to force it to hand over two men accused of the Lockerbie bombing.

The vote on the sanctions resolution, sponsored by the United States, Britain,
and France, was 10 in favour and none against, with five abstentions. Nine votes
-- and the absence of a veto by any of the five permanent members -- are needed
to win adoption.

A total of 270 people were killed, including 11 on the ground, when the PanAm
Boeing 747 blew up on December 21, 1988, about half an hour after taking off
from London en route to New York.

The resolution also requires Libya to co-operate in the investigation into the
mid-air bombing of a French UTA airliner over Niger in 1989, which killed 171.

The sanctions will include a trade and arms embargo, and come into effect
automatically on April 15 after a two-week grace period.

They require all countries to sever air links and arms dealings with Libya, and
to reduce the size of Libyan diplomatic and consular missions.

The resolution demands from Libya a pledge to cease all forms of terrorism or
support for terrorist groups and to demonstrate this by concrete actions.

The resolution is a tough follow-up to one adopted unanimously on January 21
deploring Libya's failure to comply with the demands of the United States,
Britain, and France.

Yesterday, Mr John Major condemned as "intolerable" moves to refuse exit visas
to British nationals in Libya. He said the Government's paramount concern was to
make sure that the security of Britons was absolute and that they were free to
leave the country.

"We shall watch the situation and make sure the security of our people is
absolute and that they can get out," the Prime Minister said. "We know Gadaffi's
record over many years. He has been running a terrorist state, an unpleasant
state," he added.

The Foreign Office confirmed it had received complaints from a number of British
nationals saying they were denied exit visas, but said the situation was still
confused.

Western diplomats in Tripoli said there was an "unusual slowing down" in issuing
exit visas but said it was not a general measure so far.

One diplomat said about 25 foreigners who applied for exit visas had been unable
to leave. There are about 5000 British ex-patriates in Libya.

Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said the Security Council resolution was an
important victory for all in the international community who sought to combat
international terrorism.

"We have," he said, "worked hard and successfully to achieve this resolution.
We look to Colonel Gaddafi to hand over the two suspects promptly."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 1, 1992, Wednesday

UN votes to impose sanctions on Libya

BYLINE: From LEONARD DOYLE in New York

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 473 words


LIBYA, abandoned by virtually all its allies in the Non-aligned Movement and
outmanoeuvred by skilful diplomatic footwork by the US, Britain and France, was
unable to prevent the United Nations Security Council from imposing stringent
sanctions against it yesterday.

The sanctions were triggered by Libya's failure to hand over suspects charged
with planting the bomb on the Pan Am jet which blew up over Lockerbie in 1988,
killing 270 people, and to co-operate with a French inquiry into the UTA
airliner bombing a year later.

The Council has effectively branded the country as a sponsor of state terrorism,
and, by adopting mandatory sanctions, has added a new and potent weapon to the
arsenal used to fight the problem. The Council declared that ''the suppression
of acts of international terrorism . . . is essential for the maintenance of
international peace and security'' and ordered Libya to demonstrate its
renunciation of terrorism by ''concrete measures''.

This section of the resolution is the opening shot in what is expected to be a
long campaign to end Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's 22-year history of financing,
training and arming international revolutionaries. The resolution gives the US
and Britain leverage for future moves to ensure that Libya ends its support for
the Abu Nidal organisation, as well as for other groups ranging from the
Philippines to Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa. Britain is also expected
to use the resolution to pursue Libya for supplying arms and Semtex explosives
to the IRA.

The sanctions, which will take effect on 15 April unless Libya accedes to
Western demands, will forbid countries to allow planes bound for or coming from
Libya to take off from, land in or overfly their territory. The only exception
is for individual flights approved ''on grounds of special humanitarian need''
by a committee of the Security Council.

The Council also bans Libya from receiving spare parts or maintenance servicing
for its aircraft and forbids insurers from providing coverage or paying new
claims for Libyan aircraft. In another move the Council has also imposed a total
arms embargo on Tripoli and ordered countries to withdraw all military advisers
from Libya. Countries must also ''significantly reduce'' the number of Libyan
staff at overseas embassies and expel any Libyans suspected of being involved in
terrorist acts.

A veto by China would have halted the resolution in its tracks, and the US is
understood to have leaned heavily on Peking by threatening to withdraw its
most-favoured trading partner status, to ensure that this did not happen. Other
Third World countries on the Council had their arms twisted in similar fashion.
The result was that there were no votes against. Five countries abstained:
China, Morocco, Zimbabwe, India and Cape Verde.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 3, 1992

LIBYA WARNED OVER ATTACKS ON MISSIONS

BYLINE: JANE ROSEN IN NEW YORK AND MICHAEL SIMMONS

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 537 words


AFTER a day of attacks on foreign embassies in Libya in which at least one was
said to have been burnt out, the United Nations Security Council last night
demanded that the Gadafy regime take immediate measures to protect all
diplomatic personnel in the country from what it described as further "acts of
terrorism".

In one of several attacks, about 200 protesters forced their way into the
Venezuelan embassy, ransacked it, destroyed furniture, files and equipment as
well as living quarters. Vehicles parked outside were set on fire.

Council members were incensed after the Libyan ambassador to the UN, Ali Ahmed
Elhouderi, declared that the violence was directed not at Venezuela but at the
council itself. The Libyan people, he said, were reacting to the resolution the
council adopted last Tuesday, when Venezuela held the council presidency,
imposing sanctions over Colonel Muammar Gadafy's refusal to extradite to
Scotland or the United States two of his intelligence agents indicted for
alleged involvement in the Lockerbie bombing.

Last night, the council said in a statement that the fact that Libya was linking
the attacks to actions taken by the council was "extremely serious and totally
unacceptable". It demanded that Libya make full compensation to Venezuela.

The attacks, which were coupled with warnings to diplomats and their families to
evacuate their missions for their own safety, were directed at embassies of
countries that supported Tuesday's decision by the council to impose sanctions.

The Libyan news agency, Jana, said dozens of people were injured in clashes with
the police, but independent eyewitnesses said no one was hurt. They added that
demonstrators, who arrived by bus, were watched and in some cases apparently
directed by plainclothes police officials.

The demonstrators set fire to US and British flags outside the Belgian and
Italian embassies, which respectively look after American and British interests.
Windows at the Austrian embassy were smashed. The Russian embassy was also
attacked and an attempt to raid the French embassy was foiled by security
guards.

The sanctions imposed an arms embargo against Libya and a ban on air traffic, to
take effect on April 15, for not surrendering the two Lockerbie suspected and
four others said to have been involved in sabotaging a French airliner over west
Africa the following year. A total of 441 people died in the two disasters.

Voting for sanctions with the US, Britain, France and Russia - all with veto
power - were Austria, Belgium, Ecuador, Japan, Hungary and Venezuela. China and
India led the abstainers with Cape Verde, Morocco and Zimbabwe.

At the Tripoli embassies of India and Morocco demonstrators came armed with
flowers.

The protests came hours after Col Gadafy had warned his people in a radio
broadcast that "warplanes will come to us from beyond the seas."

The UN resolution demands that Libya halt all training for terrorist groups and
should supply - to Britain - information on Libyan aid to the IRA.

There were doubts last night on the timing of the visit of the UN
under-secretary-general, Vladimir Petrovsky, who has orders to brief Libyan
leaders.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 3, 1992, Friday

UN condemns Tripoli over attack on embassy

BYLINE: By LEONARD DOYLE in New York and ANNIKA SAVILL in London

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 533 words


THE UNITED Nations Security Council issued a harsh condemnation of Libya
yesterday for permitting the destruction of Venezuela's embassy in Tripoli and
warned that attacks on embassies and diplomats were ''inadmissible acts of
terrorism''.

Libya's UN ambassador, Ali Ahmed al-Houdari, made matters worse for his country
when he told the UN that the attack was not directed against Venezuela, but was
merely a reaction to sanctions approved on Tuesday while Venezuela was president
of the Security Council.

British diplomats in Tripoli confirmed that cars had been burnt outside the
Venezuelan embassy and that the embassy's offices were ransacked ''in a fairly
wholesale way''. The staff sought refuge in the Spanish embassy near by.
Demonstrators chanted outside the Italian embassy, which houses the British
Interests Section. Missions of countries that did not vote for sanctions against
Libya were ''visited and presented with flowers by demonstrators'', British
diplomats said.

The Security Council's move to issue a statement rather than vote on a
resolution was a tacit acknowledgement by the US and Britain of deep unease in
the Council about the sanctions policy. The air and arms embargo resolution was
adopted with the slimmest of majorities on Tuesday with five of the 15 Council
members abstaining. The sanctions against Libya have also caused grave disquiet
in the Arab world.

Yesterday's events in Tripoli marked a sharp break with Libya's policy since the
indictment last November of two of its nationals over the Lockerbie bombing. The
Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi, has hitherto emphasised his desire to stick to
the letter of the law in dealing with the two suspects.

One Western diplomat cautioned that ''in Libya it is sometimes very difficult to
tell what is a spontaneous demonstration and what is orchestrated by the
government, though not necessarily by Gaddafi himself''. The Libyan leader may
have concluded that his moderation over the past five months has failed and made
him appear weak in the eyes of the West. In the past, Libyan officials have
provoked crises by apparently exceeding their orders.

A British diplomat yesterday described the situation in Tripoli as ''serious,
particularly serious for the Venezuelans'', but pointed out that as there were
no reports of injuries, there was ''no call to go over the top about it''.

There was no independent confirmation of a report from the Libyan news agency,
Jana, that dozens of people had been hurt in running battles with riot police.
The Foreign Office said that contrary to another Jana report, it was not aware
of any Libyan request that diplomats evacuate their embassies for their own
safety.

Mr Houdari apologised to the UN for what he described as a ''deplorable
incident'', and assured the Council that Tripoli had taken steps to restrain the
mobs and protect foreign diplomats.

In an interview with The Independent, the ambassador said: ''It was the work of
an angry mob and it's now under control . . . We used tear gas to break up the
demonstrations, which we normally never use. It's just unfortunate that things
got out of hand, but it's under control now.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1992

EUROPE'S SMART WAR ON WANT;
Laurence Pollock questions the effectiveness of a state-of-the-art assault on
poverty in north Armagh

BYLINE: LAURENCE POLLOCK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1262 words


THE GAGGLE of school children clus tered around the burger van in Lega hory
centre are patronising almost the only hot food outlet in Brownlow. There are
few other facilities in this community in rural north Armagh, home to 11,000.

Brownlow, a focus of the European Community's third poverty programme, is
reeling from a vicious double blow. The cluster of housing estates is a remnant
of a sixties new town - Craigavon - that was a planning disaster from the start
and left uncompleted and unloved. And in December, the Irish Republican Army
detonated a 2,000lb no-warning bomb, demolishing the police station, gutting the
showpiece health centre and damaging or destroying 500 homes. Amazingly, no one
was killed.

The day-to-day problems are manifold and chronic. And they are replicated in
many parts of the United Kingdom: only 27 per cent of household heads have
full-time jobs, there is a high incidence of single

parenthood, inadequate transport to neighbouring urban centres, and enduring
environmental eyesores and other health hazards.

There are too many roundabouts and too many main roads without footpaths. The
recent murder of a security guard protecting a building site from theft has
added to the atmosphere of trauma created by the bomb blast.

This interconnection of deprivations, the blending of cause and effect, has been
critical to the design of Poverty III's strategy. Brownlow is one of three
"model actions" in Britain, out of 27 throughout the European Community. Each
project seeks a multi-dimensional approach, developing partnership between local
groups, business and statutory bodies and involving participation by the most
marginalised of its people.

Along with Toxteth on Merseyside and Pilton, in Edinburgh, Brownlow is being
studied and evaluated by British and European analysts. They are looking for
evidence that Poverty III's state-of-the-art assault on deprivation can work and
produce transferable methods appropriate at other times and in other cultures.

But are these communities guinea pigs or new Jerusalems, testing grounds for
social theory or living embryos of economic and social regeneration? For those
who must remain there after the programmes have been completed in 1994, the
answer is crucial.

The European Community's engine of implementation in County Armagh is Brownlow
Community Trust (BCT), set up in 1990 with a pounds 2.5 million grant. Its
management board has a majority of local people.

The critical test will be the ability of projects to survive after 1994. This
depends on whether they realise Poverty III's central strategy of affecting
policy making and thus attracting resources into the area. For instance, six lay
health workers have been recruited to establish links between lifestyle and
health. The continuation of this scheme after June 1994 depends on Northern
Ireland's South Health and Social Services Board (SHSSB) offering a contract for
the service.

The chair of BCT's board of management, Denis Preston, is a crucial link to the
world outside Brownlow, working as a unit general manager with the SHSSB. He
knows the ropes even if he cannot pull the strings. He believes there is a good
possibility that a contract will be awarded but emphasised that SHSSB would only
buy the service if it fitted into regional and local strategies.

BCT's interim report is a bulging inventory of schemes, groups and plans for
increasing participation. Work on unemployment includes a pilot project on debt
with the Credit Union. There is environmental renovation, open learning, the lay
health workers, and service and health facility users.

But BCT director Roisin McDonough is careful about what can be achieved. "We are
not going to solve poverty in Brownlow." Her goal is to see the area's
population more involved in decision making.

This analytical approach has already caused some friction. The trust's criteria
for giving grant aid to local groups has been tightened. "We had to say to some
applicants: 'No this is not part of our strategy'. We are not just a grant
dispersal scheme - there is any amount of worthwhile causes in Brownlow, but
some people inevitably respond by saying: 'Its our bloody money'.  Inevitably,
some analysts express scepticism that poverty policy, not backed by a massive
shift in resources and economic power, can be effective. John Ditch, of York
University's Social Policy Research Unit, said Poverty III provided only limited
evidence and experience which was gathered by a small group of people informed
on policy issues.

He was not hopeful that projects stimulated by BCT can survive after 1994, and
expressed doubt about whether the methods devised were transferable. "These
small projects in small localities are hidebound by culture and history, and
shot through with local and regional politics, and, in some cases, with language
difficulties."

Ruth Lister, Bradford University's professor of applied social policy and former
director of the Child Poverty Action Group, was also cautious. "The aim of
impacting on public policy is very important. Whether this kind of demonstration

project can achieve anything is another thing.

"Much depends on how the EC itself reacts and whether the feedback gets through
to member governments. The lay health workers are a positive development but
ultimately the roots of poverty will only be tackled by national governments'
economic policies."

Theresa Watson, now training as one of the lay health workers, is not holding
her breath for the new Jerusalem but she is no candidate for guinea pig status
either. Yet she will have to face the disappointment if Poverty III and BCT
succeed in making no lasting impression.

"In our experience in Brownlow, you can't believe that someone is actually
offering you something. It remains to be seen whether these policies have any
effect," she said.

She and her husband have three children, all born in Brownlow. They moved from
Belfast 12 years ago to find accommodation but job prospects have been bleak. A
natural activist, she admits to exasperation when trying to push different
authorities to clean up graffiti, clear a rubbish strewn stream or mend paths.
She is deeply involved in the health users' group and thanks, ironically, to the
bomb, they have a fresh chance to influence the new design.

The future for Legahory, at any rate, seems assured - despite the bomb. It is
the site of a pounds 1.5 million village square development, which was first
planned three years ago and financed by the American-based International Fund
for Ireland. The aim is to give the Brownlow area a "centre" and construction
work is imminent.

It was the absence of any accompanying social programmes that first prompted
pleas for Brownlow to be considered for inclusion by Povery III and its eventual
selection as one of the model actions.

BCT is clearly making an impact on the area and seeking to offer innovative
paths to development for those who have few resources and are unsure how to push
for more. The hope is that if the strategy works, local people will learn to
identify their needs, devise solutions that meet them, evaluate pilot projects
and present proposals to the boards and councils that control the resources.

There are many hoops to jump through to get, say, a play scheme up and running.
But if the final answer is still "no, the cupboard is bare" a legacy of profound
cynicism will be the only lasting vestige of Brownlow's brush with European
social engineering.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 9, 1992, Thursday

Reviews follow a series of intelligence failures

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 532 words


THE LATEST reviews of Britain's defences against the IRA follow a five-year
period in which it has become clear that the intelligence services have
performed poorly in the field of counter-terrorism, write Terry Kirby and

David McKittrick.

The agencies have had some successes, but there has been a series of incidents
revealing a failure to penetrate the IRA at the highest levels, and very often
to anticipate the terrorists' next moves.

The first and probably most damaging came during 1985-86 when none of the
intelligence agencies uncovered the IRA's renewed links with Libya, and the
terrorists were able to smuggle a huge arsenal into Ireland.

The new IRA armoury included Semtex plastic explosive, which has since been one
of the mainstays of their British campaign, and clearly meant that the IRA posed
a much greater threat than previously supposed.

Incidents in England and Wales during 1987 showed the IRA intent on re-starting
its campaign in Britain, although the authorities may have concluded the pattern
would be one of sporadic attacks.

The following year police discovered a list of 100 VIPs, including Cabinet
ministers, judges and other senior legal and political figures, in an IRA bomb
factory at Clapham, south London.

Yet most efforts appeared directed towards strengthening the defences of
military establishments and personnel rather than VIP protection. Defence
estimates showed an extra pounds 126m was allocated for security measures at
military bases in Britain and Germany.

At this point it was clear that the RUC and the Northern Ireland-based military
intelligence units also achieved little or no penetration of IRA sections
targeted at Britain, while there were few signs that the Gardai in the Irish
Republic had done any better.

By early 1990, further finds of IRA material yielded more target lists; that
summer and autumn brought a series of attacks on VIPs, including Lord McAlpine,
Lord Armstrong, Sir Peter Terry, and the murder of the Conservative MP, Sir Ian
Gow.

Subsequent wide-ranging reviews exposed gaps and conflicts: Gow rejected local
Special Branch protection but apparently failed to look underneath his car; Sir
Peter had not informed local police of his new address; when they became aware,
he was not given advice on protection. Reviews led to a major step-up in
surveillance and protection activities costing hundreds of millions.

The Home Office has established a central unit to take over responsibility for
advice to potential targets not enjoying personal protection, increasing its
role as analyst of intelligence material and taking over functions from local
Special Branches.

Commander George Churchill- Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch, has been
appointed national co-ordinator of anti-terrorism investigations, reporting to a
sub-committee of the Association of Chief Police Officers in order to smooth any
ruffled feathers among provincial forces.

Since then there have been wide-ranging, nationally co- ordinated surveillance
operations on certain targets. Of those eventually charged, two escaped from
Brixton prison and the third was cleared by a jury.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 11, 1992, Saturday

Two killed and 70 injured as bomb blasts hit London

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, KATHY MARKS, BARRIE CLEMENT, NICHOLAS TIMMINS, DEAN
NELSON and MICHAEL DURHAM

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 651 words


TWO PEOPLE were killed and 70 injured as a massive explosion - believed to be an
IRA bomb hidden in a parked van - exploded in the heart of the City of London
last night. The police said that a telephoned warning had deliberately given
them the wrong location.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, said at the scene: ''It was at least 100lb of high explosive. It caused
very considerable damage over an area of half a mile.'' The size of the bomb,
believed to be Semtex, makes it almost certainly the biggest the IRA has
deployed in Britain in the current campaign.

Almost four hours later, just after 1am, another massive bang shook London as a
second bomb exploded in the north-western suburbs, eight miles from the first
blast. The Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker, was visiting the scene of the first
explosion in the City when the sound of the new bomb was heard, and he was
whisked away by police.

The fresh explosion was at Staples Corner, close to the Brent Cross shopping
centre and near the southern end of the M1 motorway. First reports said that
only one person was slightly hurt. Scotland Yard said a warning was given to the
Portadown telephone exchange in Northern Ireland, 45 minutes before the blast,
and the area was evacuated.

The night's first explosion hit an area packed with City workers celebrating the
Conservatives' general election victory. There was pandemonium as the bomb
exploded outside the Baltic Exchange in St Mary's Axe, a street leading off
Leadenhall Street. Many were cut down by flying glass, and the scene dissolved
into chaos as police and ambulance officers tried to clear the area's streets.
Some ceilings in nearby buildings collapsed.

To add to the confusion, the force of the bomb, channelling through the narrow
streets and shattering windows in City office buildings, made it appear that
there had been several explosions.

One officer helping to clear Liverpool Street station and Bank tube station
moments after the blast said: ''They're going off all over the place. There are
suspect incidents going on all over. They are back with a vengeance.''

However, within an hour senior police officers were briefing journalists that
there had been only one bomb, which exploded at about 9.20pm. The bang was heard
several miles away, and a fleet of ambulances went to the scene to take the dead
and injured to hospital.

One 26-year-old woman, working on the seventeenth floor of the Hong Kong and
Shanghai Bank in Bishopsgate, was hurt when a plate glass window blew in and a
6in shard was embedded in the back of her head. ''The windows were blown out on
every floor,'' said a colleague, who had removed the glass and taken her to St
Bartholomew's Hospital. Thirty-nine others arrived at Barts, and about 20 were
detained overnight. One man was undergoing emergency surgery last night.
Fourteen more injured were taken to Guy's Hospital, including two children, one
with a serious eye injury.

A warning call, with code word, was made to British Rail at Waterloo station at
about 8.55pm by a man with an Irish accent, who said a bomb would go off in 20
minutes. The caller was reported to have spoken of a white Transit van, and to
have mentioned the Stock Exchange. The police were trying to clear people away
from the area around the Stock Exchange when the bomb exploded - some 300 yards
away. Inspector Bob Ayers, of City of London Police, said at the scene: ''It was
a calculated and deliberate attempt to mislead.''

Hundreds of bewildered office workers, many of whom had been packing local pubs,
were herded around the streets as police tried to clear a way for fire engines
and ambulances.

The explosions came at the end of an election campaign that security sources had
feared would come under sustained attack from the IRA.

Further reports, photographs, page 2


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 11, 1992, Saturday

City terrorism fear realised

BYLINE: By Richard Duce

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 283 words


IRA threats to disrupt the election campaign have been uppermost in the minds of
security forces for the past three weeks. Last night their fears were realised
when a van bomb brought carnage to the heart of the Establishment and the
constituency of Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland secretary.

The most alarming aspect of the attack was the return of the random car bomb,
not seen on mainland Britain since the 1983 bombing outside Harrods that killed
six people and injured 91. The bomb was undoubtedly timed to coincide with the
close of the general election campaign, but it is less certain whether it was
linked to the defeat of Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams: the logistics of such an
operation suggest that the bombing had been planned for some time.

The City has been a target for the IRA before. In 1990, a bomb exploded in the
Stock Exchange after eight telephone warnings. No one was injured. Soon
afterwards, the Conservative MP Ian Gow was killed by a device under his car and
a week later, a bomb was planted under another car in an attempt to murder the
former Cabinet secretary Lord Armstrong.

The IRA threat to disrupt the election campaign had apparently failed to
materialise. The only incident in the campaign was a small bomb in Soho earlier
this week, which shattered windows but caused minimal disruption and no
casualties. Anti-terrorist squad detectives said the device was ''typical'' of
the Provisional IRA.

Recent attacks have focused on London's rail and Underground network.  In March,
there were three bombs in three days, including one spotted next to railway
track near Tottenham football club hours before thousands of supporters arrived
for a match.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 12, 1992, Sunday

Blown to pieces;
 (1) GIRL, 15, DIES IN CITY BOMB ATTACK - AS TERROR CAMPAIGN TAKES TO THE ROADS
(2) Blast marks change of tactic for the IRA

BYLINE: Chester Stern,Kim Willsher,

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1027 words


THIS was the scene of devastation yesterday in the wake of the second of two IRA
bomb blasts in London.

The explosion blew away two sides of a B&Q store by one of the capital's busiest
road junctions, hurling DIY goods out of the building.

The bombing marked an apparent shift of the IRA's campaign to disrupt Britain's
transport system from the railways to the roads.

The estimated 100 lb bomb knocked down steel struts supporting a flyover when it
exploded early yesterday at the edge of the Staples Corner roundabout where the
M1 joins the North Circular.

Crater

It left a crater 15ft wide and 4ft deep and lifted up a stretch of the road's
surface like an earthquake.

The junction may have to be closed for months while structural damage is made
safe.

Two policemen had a narrow escape when they stopped to check the van which
contained the bomb.

Traffic PCs Bill Stewart, 46, and Simon Barnes, 41, had parked behind the white
transit van when a radio message was flashed to them warning that there was a
bomb at the roundabout.

They sped off and were halting traffic only 200 yards away when the van blew up.

The men suffered back injuries in the blast.

A week ago police installed a traffic-monitoring camera above the junction and
this may have recorded the van's arrival.

Meanwhile, Scotland Yard revealed that two of the three people killed in the
bomb blast in the City on Friday evening were a man in his early 20s and
15-year-old Daniella Carter, whose eight-year-old sister Christina underwent
surgery to remove glass from her face.

The girls were with their father who was delivering a car to the Baltic
Exchange.

Daniella had stepped on to the pavement before transferring to a car driven by a
family friend when the bomb went off.

Yesterday surgeons at Guy's Hospital fought to save the sight of Christina's
friend Sara Saddoo, 7, who was with the family and was critically injured.

Police are studying the possibility that the bomb, which injured 91, was a
'come-on' designed to trap dozens of officers as they converged on the scene.

Some detectives believe that the message which sent them racing to the Stock
Exchange half a mile from the explosion outside the Baltic Exchange was misheard
on the telephone, inadvertently saving the lives of police officers.

Track

Last night RUC Special Branch detectives were drawing up a strategy with
Scotland Yard in a bid to track down the bombers before they strike again.

RUC chiefs believe the latest onslaught had originally been planned for the
run-up to polling day, but the IRA vetoed the blitz until the election results.

A senior security force in Belfast said: 'Gerry Adams's defeat and the Tory
victory were the green light for the bombing.'

At St Bartholomew's Hospital, two victims of the blast were still in intensive
care yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  (1) DESTRUCTION: The B&Q store which was wrecked in the explosion at
one of London's busiest road junctions (2) DAMAGE: A building hit by the bomb
blast in the City

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 13, 1992, Monday

A Cabinet for the nineties

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 867 words


THE Cabinet reshuffle by the Prime Minister was not only inevitable but
essential.

In losing long-serving colleagues, such as Kenneth Baker, Tom King and Lord
Waddington, Mr Major was able to bring in new blood. But he was wise to keep
Norman Lamont at the Treasury. The Chancellor may not have sparkled at the
hustings but his ingenious tax-cutting budget did outmanoeuvre Labour and
provide a solid foundation for Tory victory.

Michael Heseltine, whose dazzling TV performances redeemed a lacklustre Tory
campaign, is rightly rewarded with the Trade and Industry Department he craved.

There, as an ardent European who cannot be accused of narrow nationalism, he
should prove the ideal minister to foil President Jacques Delors' efforts to
extend the powers of the Brussels Commission at Britain's expense.

Kenneth Clarke, another election star, who introduced much-needed, but bitterly
fought, reforms into both Education and the National Health Service, moves up to
Home Secretary.

He will need all his legendary toughness to deal with a raft of problems
including rising crime, drugs, immigration, and reform of prisons and police.
Michael Howard, another doughty campaigner, takes over at Environment.

It is only proper that, after the Tory party's bounce back in Scotland, two of
the Cabinet's canny Scots have been promoted, Malcolm Rifkind to Defence and
John MacGregor to Transport. Rising younger talent is recognised by the
appoointment of David Mellor to rule National Heritage, where he will have to
deal with the BBC's future.

William Waldegrave's youth may have saved his Cabinet place and given him
another chance as the guardian of the Citizen's Charter.

The energetic John Patten becomes Education supremo, while Michael Portillo - at
39 the youngest Cabinet member - comes in as Chief Secretary of the Treasury and
chief curber of Government expenditure.

Overdue is the entry of two capable women into the Cabinet. Mrs Shephard becomes
Employment Secretary and Mrs Bottomley rises from Minister of Health to
Secretary of State.

This is a very competent Tory team. It should measure up well to the challenges
of the nineties.

London defiant

A SCENE more like Beirut than the City of London. Windows gape, and everywhere
there is debris and carpets of glass. This is where three people, including two
young girls, were killed and 91 injured. Our deepest sympathy goes out to the
bereaved and the other victims of this cowardly IRA bomb.

Those who planted it aimed to terrorise ordinary workers into calling for the
withdrawal of our troops from Northern Ireland.

They grossly underestimate the people they are dealing with. From the
headquarters of Commercial Union, which suffered the worst damage has come a
defiant statement. It says that despite the explosion there will be business as
usual on Monday. And it added: 'We won't make a drama out of a crisis'.

That about says it all.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                             April 13, 1992, Monday

TALKING WILL NOT STOP THE BOMBS

BYLINE: Andrew Gimson

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1547 words


ON FRIDAY night, the IRA murdered three people in the City of London, including
a 15-year-old girl, and wounded more than 90 others. This monstrous crime will
inspire both fear and anger among Londoners, but mostly the latter, I hope.

Fear is an understandable reaction to what happened. Friday's outrage reminded
us that anyone who goes about our streets might be blown up by an IRA bomb. But
this very thought should enrage us, too.

Do these terrorists imagine that by coming to our capital and murdering people
at random they are going to make us change our minds? Hitler and Goering
supposed they could bomb us into submission, and instead found they had
strengthened our determination to defeat them. The IRA's strategists need to
realise that bombing London doesn't work. Indeed, bombing Belfast doesn't work
either.

Why has this simple message failed to get through? Because we are amazingly hard
to provoke, and the IRA has mistaken our moderation for weakness. The first
instinct of the English, when faced by a political problem, is to seek a
compromise. In the 1930s, we tried to compromise with Hitler, and today we wish
we could compromise with an organisation as trivial - compared to the Nazis - as
the IRA.

We cannot. However much we might like to do a deal with the IRA, we shall always
find that a deal is a logical impossibility. Either terrorists win or we do.
This is the central fact about the situation in Northern Ireland, and the one
which English politicians have spent the last 20 years trying to ignore.

A majority of the people in the province, including a large number of
middle-class Roman Catholics, want it to remain part of the United Kingdom,
while a minority, including the IRA, want it to join the Irish Republic. We
cannot satisfy both aspirations.

The vital task facing the new Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, is
to make this clear. We cannot appease the Irish nationalists in Ulster by giving
them what they want, and if we pretend that we can, we shall deceive ourselves
and disappoint them.

Any inhabitant of Northern Ireland has, of course, a perfect right to be a
nationalist, and to campaign by every legal means for Irish unity, but we should
not hold out false hopes to the constitutional nationalists, for these false
hopes also sustain the IRA.

As one of the Government's law officers, Sir Patrick showed commendable
toughness when handling extradition cases with Dublin. He is well-versed in
Irish affairs, having family links with the South, and he wanted the job of
Northern Ireland Secretary.

We must hope he does not repeat the errors of his predecessor, Peter Brooke, who
also has family connections in Ireland and also wanted the job, but who made the
fatal error of thinking that the way forward was to hold 'talks'.

Mr Brooke spent several years getting nowhere with his ridiculous 'talks'. He is
an outstandingly nice man, but niceness is not the quality needed to defeat
terrorists, as Friday's carnage in the City shows. The outstanding political
need is to show the IRA that they cannot win.

In performing this task, Sir Patrick should be able to mobilise an impressive
amount of support. During the recent election campaign, the Prime Minister, John
Major, displayed a forthright belief in the future of the UK as a political
entity. He did this with reference to Scotland, where he rightly sees that
setting up a devolved parliament would create new problems rather than solve old
ones. How much more true this is of Northern Ireland.

But apart from his own Prime MInister, there is a more unexpected quarter in
which Sir Patrick must consider how to mobilise support. The truth is that
Dublin is desperately anxious for Northern Ireland to remain London's
responsibility.

Sir Patrick cannot put it quite like that, but one need not spend long in Dublin
to realise it is true. People in the Irish Republic have a strong emotional
attachment to the idea of unification and still lay claim to the whole of
Ireland in their constitution. But they would be appalled if London ever
announced it was going to withdraw.

If Westminster washed its hand of Ulster, the province would be engulfed by a
bloodbath which the Republic would be powerless to stop. Northern Ireland would
descend into the anarchy seen in places like Lebanon and Yugoslavia, with rival
militias fighting for power and countless non-combatants on both sides being
killed.

This spectacle would be intolerable enough for Britain (and is a major reason
why it will not, in fact, leave), but it would be catastrophic for the Republic.
Dublin is far more frightened of the havoc the IRA can cause than London is, and
with good reason.

Which is not to say that in London, we have no reason to worry. I sometimes
wonder how many more of us will have to be blown up before we develop the
political determination to show the IRA it can never win. In 1984, the IRA
almost managed to murder Margaret Thatcher, by blowing up the Grand Hotel in
Brighton, but a year later she signed the Anglo-Irish Agreement: yet another
futile attempt to bridge the unbridgeable gap between the two sides in Ulster.

Since the agreement was reached, the terrorism has got much worse, because each
side feels it has everything to play for. Why was Mrs Thatcher party to such a
pernicious fudging of the issue?

The Irish Prime Minister who signed the Agreement, Garret FitzGerald, has
recently published his memoirs, in which he recalls persuading her that 'doing
nothing' about Northern Ireland would be worse than 'attempting an initiative,
however risky'. This argument appealed to her activist temperament. She decided
to do something - and inadvertently did great harm.

I implore Sir Patrick not to make the same mistake. No initiative can 'solve'
the Irish problem. It is insoluble, because there is no way of pleasing both
sides. His duty to the dead, including the dead of Friday night, and to the
living, is to declare that he will not try to please both sides. For it is only
by denying any hope of victory to the IRA that one day the terrorists will be
forced to give in.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION IN THE CITY - BUT THE IRA CANNOT WIN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 13, 1992

'UNINTENDED' CITY BOMB VICTIMS NAMED

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN, MARK MILNER AND JOHN WILLCOCK

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 623 words


SURVEYORS said yesterday that at least two buildings in the City of London will
have to be demolished after the IRA attack in which the terrorists exploded the
two biggest bombs to hit the mainland since the second world war.

Three people died and 91 were injured after a 100lb Semtex device in a Ford
Transit van exploded in the Square Mile late on Friday as revellers nearby were
celebrating the Conservatives' election victory. Damage is estimated at several
hundred millions of pounds.

They were named last night as Danielle Carter, aged 15, Paul Butt, a 29-year-old
securities dealer from Essex, and Thomas Casey, aged 49, a door keeper at the
Baltic Exchange, from Barking in Essex. Danielle's eight-year-old sister was one
of two girls still in hospital following eye operations.

The other 100lb van bomb severely damaged roads at Staples Corner, north London,
one of the capital's busiest junctions, and police anticipate traffic chaos
there for up to a year. Both bombs were five times the size of the device which
blasted the Grand Hotel in Brighton eight years ago.

The terrorists, accused by Scotland Yard of giving deliberately imprecise
instructions about the location of the City bomb, said in a statement they had
not intended to kill. As the clean-up operation continued yesterday, forensic
experts and construction workers were wearing hard hats to protect themselves
from glass still falling from shattered buildings.

With Ted Hartill, the City of London surveyor, suggesting two buildings faced
demolition, the IRA has achieved its most successful strike yet in Britain's
business heartland.

The Baltic Exchange and the Chamber of Shipping in St Mary Axe were said to be
beyond repair and another 24 buildings require extensive renovation. Every
window in Commercial Union's 23-storey building was shattered.

But Brian Jenkins, Lord Mayor of London, said at least 30 of the estimated 35
businesses affected would be successfully relocated today.

Richard Owen, director of Commercial Union, said that the company's 650 head
office staff would be redirected to other offices, some as far away as Brighton
and Ipswich.

The main problem was organising communications for the City offices'
multinational insurance business.

Some foreign exchange dealing rooms face disruption this morning but the London
market as a whole is unlikely to be seriously affected, according to official
sources. The main difficulties will concern deals done on Thursday and Friday
which have not yet been settled.

The second bomb devastated the Staples Corner road junction at the foot of the
M1. In comments backed by officials at the Department of Transport, an AA
spokesman said: "It is going to be utter chaos for several months at the least."

But it looked last night as though the flyover on the A5, which has been closed
as a result of the explosion beneath it, would not be demolished, as at first
had been feared.

A second flyover, the A406 North Circular Road, above the A5, remains open but
traffic diversions involving "hundreds of thousands" of vehicles each day will
create serious rush hour jams, the AA said.

The Rumbelows Cup Final between Nottingham Forest and Manchester United at
Wembley Stadium led to 10-mile tailbacks as frustrated fans abandoned cars and
coaches and walked to the match.

Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary, who is to study new proposals aimed at
giving MI5 a greater say in anti-terrorist operations, is calling for full
details on the police evacuation.

At Staples Corner two traffic policemen narrowly escaped injury as the bomb
exploded while they were approaching the van almost 50 minutes after the IRA
telephoned its warning.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 13, 1992, Monday

Jury has still to return verdict on EBRD

BYLINE: By PETER TORDAY

SECTION: BUSINESS AND CITY PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 1226 words


ONE of the casualties of Friday's IRA bomb attack was the Leadenhall Street
headquarters of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

Most of the staff will have been in Budapest, where the bank today begins its
first annual meeting. But what might normally be an occasion for celebration has
clearly suffered a symbolic blow.

Born in controversy, the EBRD next week celebrates its first year of operations
with a qualified stamp of approval.

The bank was launched by the main industrial countries last April with the task
of helping the economies of Central and Eastern Europe to make the transition to
a free-market economy.

Today its president, Jacques Attali, says the bank ''is alive and well and
working in London''. That view is shared partially by the shareholders, but with
strong qualifications. And it is clear that the jury on the EBRD has yet to
return a verdict.

Even before the official inauguration, there were misgivings among the main
shareholders - the Group of Seven leading industrial countries - over Mr
Attali's leadership. And only months after it began operations, the EBRD's remit
was extended to the quarrelling republics that replaced the Soviet Union.

Doubts gave way to alarm as Mr Attali appeared increasingly to use the bank as a
platform for his political ideas - such as pressing for Mikhail Gorbachev's
attendance at the G7 summit last July, proposing the swapping of Soviet foreign
debt for nuclear weapons, and calling on the European Community to open up a
continental common market stretching from Britain to the Siberian east. It
prompted the shareholders to set up an expensive London-based board of directors
to monitor closely the bank's operations.

Questions have also been raised about the EBRD's links with the City. The
Treasury fought a long, hard battle with the French government to secure the
bank for London. If the EBRD was located in London, the Treasury argued, it
would be able to take advantage of the wealth of experience in the City and
build strong links with local institutions, which could well emerge as the
EBRD's principal co-financing partners. It was a powerful argument. It was also
made in the full knowledge that if the Treasury won its case, over fierce
continental competition, it would weaken Britain's case for London as the site
for a future European central bank.

But months after his arrival, Mr Attali began to complain that he never received
invitations to dinner in London. Some of the social ice may have melted away
since then, and investment bankers believe it is still too early to judge how
well the EBRD will integrate with the City.

But it is already noteworthy that the wealth of City experience in privatisation
and in Eastern Europe has not counted in London's favour. Indeed, the EBRD has
appeared to spurn London banks in favour of continental, sometimes French,
counterparts. Bankers report that contacts with the EBRD are erratic: sometimes
friendly, but sometimes brusque.

''They are the Johnny-come-lately to Eastern Europe, not us,'' asserts a leading
City banker. This view is not confined to the City. Some powerful bankers in
Frankfurt argue that their experience in the East makes them better partners for
the emerging democracies than the EBRD. And they have an indifferent attitude to
EBRD expertise.

There is also concern that the bank's political aspirations for the Commonwealth
of Independent States have not been matched by action. The bank's reputation in
the former Soviet Union is not good, according to advisers to the Russian
government. Private advice has been preferable to EBRD advice in some areas of
economic reforms.

Meanwhile, the recent efforts of the G7, the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank to assemble a $ 24bn financial assistance package for Russia have
placed the bank and its president in stark perspective; the EBRD is essentially
a small institution capable of making a marginal difference, but little more
than that.

Nevertheless, there is general agreement that the EBRD has got off to a
reasonable start, much better than some had expected. It has lent some 621m ecu
in loans and equity investments, which have catalysed three times that much in
private investment in the East.

Mr Attali hopes to lift EBRD investment in the East to 1bn ecu this year, and to
catalyse between four and five times that amount in private investment.

''Considering the relatively short time, things have gone better than
expected,'' says a German financial official. Fears that Mr Attali's political
ambitions for the bank would undermine its work have proved without foundation.
''He doesn't hinder the bank and he keeps it in the headlines,'' the official
says.

Other members of G7 - the bank's main shareholders - are less ebullient. But the
persistent sniping at Mr Attali by US officials has ceased. Antipathy has given
way to resignation, according to a G7 official.

The fact that the shareholders have learnt to live with Jacques Attali was
perhaps best illustrated by their reaction to a recent EBRD deal. A joint
investment in the Czech airline by the bank and Air France annoyed at least one
G7 government, because Air France is run by the EBRD president's twin brother,
Bernard Attali. However, the government failed to raise any support for its
protest, and the issue was dropped.

Despite the upheavals involved in launching the bank, some shareholders have
been struck favourably by Mr Attali's statements on Russian reforms and Western
financing. Some of his ideas for helping the CIS are eminently sensible and
far-sighted. For months he has proposed a payments union to settle
intra-republican trade, and trade between the CIS, Eastern Europe and the
European Community. But Mr Attali acknowledges that this scheme would depend on
increased free trade with the EC, another political aspiration he presses for
constantly.

It is plain that all concerned - the shareholders, the Eastern European and CIS
clients and the private sector - are ready to suspend their judgment on the bank
for at least a year or two longer. By then, it is hoped, the positive signs that
have emerged will translate eventually into an institution making a tangible
difference in helping the transition to free markets.

But a question mark remains over the bank's long-term future. This week, at its
first annual meeting in Budapest, there will be no formal talk of a capital
increase, which need not be finalised for another four years. Although the bank
was originally capitalised at 10bn ecu, internal pressures for more capital are
already building up after only one year of operations.

Few shareholders are yet ready to contemplate a future capital increase, even in
private. Much will depend on how the EBRD performs, but even more important will
be the budgetary pressures of the main shareholders. It has taken two years to
push a $ 50bn capital increase for the IMF through shareholders' parliaments.
Even today, it is uncertain whether the US Congress will approve the US stake in
the increase.

With budget deficits ballooning in the industrial world, the next few years will
be bad for foreign aid. That means the EBRD will have to work very hard to win
the funds it needs to become an important financing force.

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 14, 1992, Tuesday

Sterling given boost in ERM

BYLINE: By ROBERT CHOTE

SECTION: BUSINESS AND CITY PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 446 words


POST-ELECTION optimism in Britain and political uncertainty in Russia yesterday
lifted the pound off the bottom of the European exchange rate mechanism for the
first time in five months, writes Robert Chote.

Sterling rose by 2.82 pfennigs to close at DM2.9089, its highest level since
mid-November. The pound was replaced by the Danish kroner as the weakest
currency in the ERM.

''There is genuine optimism towards the pound. It should continue to be
strong,'' said Steve Barrow, economist at Chemical Bank. David Simmonds, of
Midland Montagu, said sterling's rise had been limited by profit-taking.

The stock market also continued its post-election climb. The FT-SE index of 100
leading London shares rose to its highest level since mid-October, adding 18.4
points to Friday's 136.2 point surge to close at 2,591.

The money market was cautiously optimistic on interest rates. The three- month
interbank rate, which tracks City expectations for base rates, eased by 1 16 of
a percentage point to close at 105 15 , below the current base rate of 101 2 per
cent. This suggests that the market believes the next move in rates will be down
rather than up, but that it may be some time coming.

Analysts believe that the Government will sacrifice a quick base rate cut to
establish credibility for a move to narrow bands in the ERM, in which currencies
can vary by up to 2.25 per cent from their central rates against each other.
Sterling - like the peseta and the escudo - currently has 6 per cent bands, but
is now trading above what would be its narrow band floor of DM2.8850.

Conscious that the markets might be disrupted in the aftermath of Friday's IRA
bomb blast, the Bank of England gave an early signal that a base rate cut was
not imminent.

A rush of maturing loans and big payments to the Exchequer left the money market
with a record shortage of liquidity initially estimated at pounds 2.35bn. The
Bank met most of this in early intervention, buying both long and short-dated
bills at existing rates. The shortage was later revised to a record pounds
2.75bn.

Sterling was in demand as an oasis of relative political stability in the ERM,
with the Conservatives apparently secure for a full term in office. But the
pound also gained, with the dollar, as concern over political instability in
Russia depressed the German mark.

The dollar gained more than 2.3 pfennigs to close at DM1.6495, while the pound
dropped 0.7 cents to $ 1.7650. The mark fell sharply on news that the Russian
government had offered to resign in arguments over the pace of economic reform,
but was also depressed by continuing fears about the German economy.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 14, 1992, Tuesday

'WE MUST MATCH ULSTER'S BRAVERY'

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 330 words


The people of Britain will have to face terrorist attacks with the same
resilience, stoicism and bravery shown by the people of Northern Ireland for
more than 20 years, new Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew said today.
Speaking after hearing that the soldier shot in Derby yesterday had died - an
attack claimed by the Irish National Liberation Army - he said: "This is another
example of the callous, injustice and inhumanity of terrorism. The Government's
over-riding objective is the defeat and elimination of terrorism." He added:
"The people of Great Britain know they are faced by the evil of terrorism, as
the people of Northern Ireland have been faced these past 20 years or more.
"They will show the same resilience and stoicism and bravery that the people of
Northern Ireland have shown and will be quite prepared to accept whatever
measures are reasonably thought to be necessary to cope." Sir Patrick refused to
be drawn on the implications of a second republican terrorist group like the
INLA being loose on the mainland.  "All terrorism, from whatever quarter, is
abominable and it is treated absolutely equally by the security forces," he
said.  He insisted that in the end terrorism would be defeated "because the
people of these islands will not tolerate it".

He was speaking while on a walkabout to win the hearts and minds of the people
of Belfast.  He spent more than an hour in the city centre, introducing himself
to shoppers and shopkeepers.  "Patrick Mayhew, good morning", he repeated as he
moved through the crowds, shaking hands.  He told everyone - housewives,
security guards, children, a pavement artist and even a nun he encountered in
Royal Avenue: "We are determined to get on top of terrorism." Unusually for a
Secretary of State on the streets of Northern Ireland, visible security around
him was minimal. Not a single word was raised against him by anyone he
encountered.  "I hope you bring us peace," was the often-heard plea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           April 15, 1992, Wednesday

YARD FOILS AN EASTER BOMB PLOT;
Anti-terrorist detectives quiz IRA suspects

BYLINE: Peter Burden, David Williams , Tracey Harrison

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2280 words


DETECTIVES believe they have smashed an IRA gang plotting a major Easter terror
campaign.

They unearthed a massive explosives arsenal yesterday and made a series of
arrests after spying on a meeting of suspects in a London pub.

Weeks of surveillance work reached a climax as undercover officers posed as
customers in the Firefly Tavern in Northolt, West London, on Monday night.  The
group were unknown to other customers or staff.

Rifles After time was called, the suspects were followed and, as a man and woman
reached the gateway of a suburban bungalow, 20 officers carrying machine guns
and revolvers moved in. The couple were spreadeagled on the pavement and police
took possession of a revolver.

Hours later, anti-terrorist officers forced open the door of a garage about a
mile away. Inside was one of the biggest arsenals of guns and explosives ever
discovered on the mainland - more than 100lbs of Semtex explosive, 12 rifles,
including Russian-made Kalashnikovs, loaded handguns and other bomb-making
equipment.

Several other men were held in raids which continued throughout the day.

They were being questioned last night at the top security police station at
Paddington Green, West London.

Detectives were concentrating their questioning on a series of attacks which
have brought chaos and carnage to thousands of commuters during the the IRA's
campaign against the London rail network over the past 18 months.

These included the rush-hour bombing of

Victoria Station in February last year, in which one man was killed and 43
people were injured, and the bombs at signal boxes near Clapham Junction and
London Bridge.

Inquiries also centred on Christmas firebomb attacks on pubs and shops which
caused hundreds of millions of pounds worth of damage, the foiled attempt in
June last year to bomb an Army band concert at the Alfred Beck Theatre in Hayes,
West London, and the bungled November attack on an Army band in St Albans Civic
Centre, when two bombers were killed planting their device.

The group were also being questioned about Britain's biggest ever mainland
bombing, which killed three people and injured 91 in the City of London on
Friday night, and the van bomb which exploded four hours later under the flyover
at Staples Corner, North West London.

Police, who have always believed more than one IRA 'active service unit' is in
hiding on the mainland, hoped clues uncovered yesterday would lead to the gang
which planted the City bomb. But despite hailing 'a major success' against the
IRA, Scotland Yard chiefs repeated warnings for vigilance, pointing out that
there are believed to be several more bomb factories and arms dumps in and
around London.

They do not believe at this stage that there are any links between those held
and the Irish National Liberation Army, which yesterday admitted gunning down an
Army careers officer in Derby on Monday night.

Documents

The arrests came only hours after senior anti-terrorist officers, led by
Commander George Churchill-Coleman, briefed new Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke
about the fight against terrorism.

A large number of documents seized by police were being studied last night while
forensic experts carried out detailed examinations of a number of North London
addresses.

The operation had centred for weeks on an anonymous bungalow in Islip Gardens,
Northolt, used by the arrested couple. Close to both the M25 motorway and a
London Underground station, it is typical of the locations used by the IRA in
the past.

Police, who had placed armed officers inside the house, had hoped to keep the
arrests secret. But when news leaked out from astonished neighbours they were
forced to seal off the immediate area. Last 3 snight the neighbours recounted
the extraordinary scenes they witnessed from their bedroom windows shortly
before midnight on Monday.

George Mezzitelli said police forced the couple onto the ground with guns
levelled at their heads.

'I was woken up by screaming and shouting in the street and when I looked out of
the window I saw that the police had been waiting out there for them.'

He told how officers placed plastic covers over the couple, apparently to
preserve potential forensic evidence.

Accents

'Two men wearing white overalls put plastic bags on their hands and then made
them get into white overalls.'

Little appeared to be known about the couple. Neighbours knew them as Jimmy, or
'wee Jim', and Audrey. Both were said to be about 5ft 5in tall, in their forties
and spoke with Scottish accents.

They had many visitors at their smart semi-detached bungalow, said Mr
Mezzitelli. 'There was always someone around.

'Yesterday morning he was building a wall in their garden with a friend.  The
friend was even more strange than him. I went up and said Hello and the friend
turned his back on me but Jimmy said Hello to me.'

Other neighbours said Audrey had owned a greengrocery with her former husband in
Hayes, Middlesex, for about 20 years. The store was sold when they split up two
years ago.

Another neighbour, cleaner Gloria Ebank, said the first she knew of their
arrests was when she was woken by shouting. 'I looked out of the window with my
husband and saw policemen with guns. There were about 20 of them. We could see
someone on the pavement lying face down, then I realised it was Jimmy from next
door.

Speed

'They had guns pointed at him. We saw them put them in white overalls and bags
on his hands and feet.

'Then they put handcuffs on him and put him in a car. At one point one of the
policemen said, 'shut up' and was holding Jimmy's arm down.

'They were out there a good half hour. Then the woman got off the pavement as
well and they gave her the same treatment.'

The couple were driven off at speed in separate vehicles.

Friends said the couple had met shortly after the break-up of her marriage. She
was on a trip to Scotland and returned with him 18 months ago.  He would
regularly travel about the country.

In his first major speech last night, the new Northern Ireland Secretary
declared that mainland Britons would face the reality of terrorism with the same
resilience shown by the people of Northern Ireland.

Sir Patrick Mayhew said the Derby murder was 'another example of the inhumanity
and injustice of terrorism'.

Defuse

'The people of Great Britain know they are faced by the evil of terrorism, as
the people of Northern Ireland have been faced these past 20 years or more,' he
said.

'They will show the same resilience and stoicism and bravery that the people of
Northern Ireland have shown and will be quite prepared to accept whatever
measures are reasonably thought to be necessary to cope.'

Sir Patrick, on a walkabout in Belfast, refused to be drawn on the implications
of a second Republican terrorist group like the INLA becoming active on the
mainland.

He spent more than an hour in the city centre, introducing himself to shoppers
and shopkeepers, housewives, security guards, children, a pavement artist and
even a nun.

Army experts foiled a bid to blow up soldiers in County Londonderry last night.
Police believe a series of telephone warnings were intended to lure members of
the security forces to a powerful Semtex bomb hidden under scrap metal in a
builder's yard at Maghera. A disposal team managed to defuse the device.

Police are inviting City of London workers and office security staff to special
security briefings in the wake of the weekend attack to raise their awareness of
the risks.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 15, 1992

RUTHLESS KILLERS OF NEAVE ADD TO SECURITY HEADACHE;
Owen Bowcott on the fringe republican terror group with a reputation for
recklessness

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 418 words


THE Irish National Liberation Army, which has unexpectedly relaunched a mainland
campaign by claiming responsibility for the Derby shooting, is a fringe
republican paramilitary organisation renowned for the ruthlessness of its
operations.

Its most famous victim was Airey Neave, the Conservative MP and Northern Ireland
spokesman, who was killed by a car bomb as he drove out of the House of Commons
in 1979.

The INLA last organised attacks in Britain in the mid-1980s. The revival of its
campaign will cause further headaches for the intelligence services who are
already struggling to penetrate IRA operations in England.

Formed from a breakaway faction of the Official IRA in the mid-1970s, the INLA
rapidly acquired a reputation for recklessness. One Belfast bombing killed two
young boys as well as a soldier.

In 1982 the INLA alone was responsible for nearly 30 deaths in Northern Ireland,
including the blast at the Dropping Well pub disco at Ballykelly, County
Londonderry. Seventeen people were killed, 11 of them soldiers from a nearby
Army base and the others local youngsters.

The machine-gunning of a Protestant congregation at Darkley Pentecostal Church
in County Armagh in 1983, in which three men died, indirectly involved INLA
gunmen.

Many of the organisation's leading members had nicknames to match their
reputations. Dominic "Mad Dog" McGlinchey, was for several years the INLA's
chief of staff. Dessie O'Hare, killed in a shoot-out in the Republic, was known
as the "Border Fox".

Another of the organsation's gunmen was Gerard "Dr Death" Steenson, at one time
the INLA's Belfast operations director, described by some colleagues as
"psychopathic killer".

In the late 1980s the INLA was depleted by a series of supergrass trials and a
bloody internal split which left 12 people dead.

One faction tried to close the organisation down, saying it had degenerated into
criminal activities.

The feud eventually resulted in the formation of the Irish People's Liberation
Organisation, which has been responsible for mainly sectarian attacks on
Protestants. Last weekend the IPLO threatened to kill the Arsenal and Ireland
footballer David O'Leary, alleging that he was a supporter of the Conservative
Party.

By early 1991 the INLA was drifting into relative inactivity, reduced to handful
of gunmen, but last year, against a background of rising sectarian tensions and
growing unemployment, the organisation began to show signs of a revival.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 15, 1992

ARMY DEATH REVEALS INLA BACK IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words


A SECOND Irish republican group is operating an active service unit on the
mainland, it emerged yesterday as a soldier died from a single gunshot to the
head.

Sergeant Michael Newman, aged 34, of the Royal Signals, was shot at point-blank
range with a handgun as he walked from an army careers office in Derby to his
car.

He died yesterday in the town's Royal Infirmary, 17 hours after three men
carried out the attack.

A few hours before his death the Irish National Liberation Army, a republican
splinter group, claimed responsibility.

In a statement released in Belfast last night the INLA warned it was ready to
mount further attacks.

It said: "Whilst the British continue to occupy our country and pursue a policy
of repression against our people, we reserve the right to attack those who
actively participate in the British war machine.

"Army recruiting officers have a vital role to play . . . Their highly
sophisticated propaganda campaign is aimed at the thousands of unemployed youths
offering them a chance to travel and see the world with the British army whereas
in reality they are recruited to be used as cannon fodder on the streets of
Belfast and Derry against the Irish working class".

The INLA attack marks an escalation in armed republican activity on the
mainland. Police believe the Provisional IRA has at least two active service
cells operating.

The INLA's last fatal victim on the mainland was the Northern Ireland Secretary,
Airey Neave, killed by a car bomb in 1979 at the House of Commons.

Its most recent action was the planting of two crude 40lb bombs outside Chelsea
Barracks in 1985.

Detectives are looking at possible links with earlier terrorist incidents in the
region, including the bombing of the Derby army careers office 19 months ago,
the shooting dead of a soldier at Lichfield railway station, and an attack on
Sir Peter Terry, the former governor of Gibraltar. All three incidents were
claimed by the IRA.

Sgt Newman's attackers escaped in a gold-coloured Ford Granada car, which was
abandoned a few minutes after the attack.

The three men were all described as white, slim, about 5ft 10in and in their
late teens or early 20s. They wore dark baseball caps and one had stubble on his
chin, another a moustache.

An army spokesman said Sgt Newman, from Chaddesden, Derby, enlisted in August
1974 at the Derby careers office, where he had been working for 10 days at the
time of his murder.

At 4.25pm yesterday, wearing plain clothes, he left the office by a rear door.

Police believe two of the killers approached him 30 yards from his car.

A brief conversation took place before one of the men drew a gun and fired a
single shot into his head.

Sgt Newman was separated from his wife and was the father of an eight-year-old
daughter.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 15, 1992

Girlfriend and mother talk of the 'animals' who murdered sergeant

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 626 words


THE mother and girlfriend of murdered Army recruitment sergeant Michael Newman
last night spoke of the "animals" who had robbed them of their loved one.

The 34-year-old soldier was shot in the head at point-blank range as he walked
from the Army Careers Office in the centre of Derby on Monday evening to his car
parked 150 yards away. He died in hospital yesterday morning.

His mother Joyce, 58, said: "I used to tell him: 'Be careful, son,' and he would
say: 'Don't whistle, mother -- I am always careful.' Now he has gone, and I am
just gone. I keep asking myself over and over again -- why?

"It is all so unnecessary. If there is anyone out there who can help the police
find those responsible, please come forward and help."

His girlfriend Elizabeth Broadhurst, a 28-year-old hospital worker, who had
lived with Sergeant Newman for five years after he separated from his wife,
said: "It is so sick to think he walked out of the house on Monday morning for
work and now that person has been wiped out of my life because someone walked up
to him and shot him.

"It hasn't achieved anything. They are not human beings, let's face it, they are
just animals. They just don't care about people and the devastation they have
caused.

"It doesn't enter their heads. Last night they were probably laughing and joking
and saying: 'We have just shot someone dead, ha, ha'."

Ms Broadhurst, who was with the soldier when he died in hospital, went on: "He
was not a pretty sight. I wouldn't wish that on anyone else."

She said they had planned to get married after his divorce came through. She
added: "I have got to get on with my life on my own now."

A hunt for his three killers intensified throughout Britain and Europe
yesterday. The Irish National Liberation Army has claimed responsibility for the
attack.

Sergeant Newman's father, Eric, 58, who suffers from angina, was taken ill when
he was told that his son had been shot.

But Mrs Newman said her husband's condition had improved yesterday and he was
being cared for by neighbours after being seen by his doctor.

Sergeant Newman, who enlisted in 1974, had been working in the Derby Army
Careers Office for only 10 days when he was attacked.

Police believe the assassins could have had the building under surveillance for
some time and might even have posed as potential recruits.

Wearing plain clothes, Sergeant Newman left the building at 4.25pm on Monday and
walked through an underpass to his car.

Two men, one described as having a baby face, approached him and, after a brief
conversation, one pulled a gun and shot him in the head.

They ran to a waiting car, driven by a third man, and made their escape.

Yesterday afternoon, a post-mortem examination was carried out on Sergeant
Newman's body with the aim of recovering the bullet which detectives hope will
provide clues to the make and calibre of the murder weapon, and whether it was
used in other terrorist attacks.

The getaway car, a gold Ford Granada, believed to have been bought locally
recently, was subjected to extensive forensic tests.

The men were described as white, slim, about 5ft 10in and in their late teens or
early 20s. They wore dark baseball caps and one had stubble on his chin, another
a moustache.

Police have also set up a phone hot-line and appealed for help from people who
were in the area at the time.

Derbyshire's Assistant Chief Constable, Mr Don Doverston, said: "This was a
cold-blooded killing of a serving British soldier which has all the hallmarks of
a terrorist attack. Information from the public is paramount to the way this
investigation develops and how we tackle terrorism in this country. The public
hold the key."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Police officers prepare to make a detailed search yesterday at the
scene of the murder of Sergeant Michael Newman near the Army Careers Office in
the centre of Derby

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 15, 1992

Britain will 'face Irish terror with resilience and bravery'

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 505 words


THE people of Britain will have to face terrorist attacks with the same
resilience, stoicism, and bravery shown by the people of Northern Ireland for
more than 20 years, the new Ulster Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, said
yesterday.

Speaking after learning that the soldier shot in Derby on Monday had died -- an
attack claimed by the Irish National Liberation Army -- he said: "This is
another example of the callous injustice and inhumanity of terrorism. The
Government's overriding objective is the defeat and elimination of terrorism."

He added: "The people of Great Britain know they are faced by the evil of
terrorism, as the people of Northern Ireland have been faced these past 20 years
or more.

"They will show the same resilience and stoicism and bravery that the people of
Northern Ireland have shown and will be quite prepared to accept whatever
measures are reasonably thought to be necessary to cope."

Sir Patrick refused to be drawn on the implications of a second republican
terrorist group such as the INLA being loose on the mainland.

"All terrorism, from whatever quarter, is abominable and it is treated
absolutely equally by the security forces," he said.

He insisted that in the end terrorism would be defeated "because the people of
these islands will not tolerate it".

He was speaking during a walkabout to win the hearts and minds of the people of
Belfast.

He spent more than an hour in the city centre, introducing himself to shoppers
and shopkeepers.

"Patrick Mayhew, good morning," he repeated as he moved through the crowds,
shaking hands.

He told everyone -- security guards, children, a pavement artist, and a nun he
encountered in Royal Avenue: "We are determined to get on top of terrorism."

Unusually for a Secretary of State on the streets of Northern Ireland, visible
security around him was minimal. Not a single word was raised against him by
anyone he encountered.

"I hope you bring us peace," was an often-heard remark.

Meanwhile, the battle lines were clearly drawn last night when Prime Minister
John Major sent a second hardliner to Northern Ireland to combat terrorism -- on
the day a second republican terror group warned of a continuing campaign in
mainland Britain.

Mr Michael Mates, the most outspoken anti-IRA back bencher in the Conservative
Party, was given the post of Minister of State in the Northern Ireland Office
after Sir Patrick's appointment.

The two former Army officers will spearhead the fight against terrorism which
Sir Patrick has said Mr Major has made his top priority.

The moves come in the wake of last Friday's huge IRA bomb blasts in London and
the soldier's murder in Derby.

Mr Mates is a former Lieutenant Colonel who served in Northern Ireland and has
continuously demanded ever-increasing Government action to destroy terrorism.

Also joining the Northern Ireland Office is Mr Robert Atkins, the former Sports
Minister, who lists Northern Ireland as one of his special interests.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 15, 1992

Police question Scots couple after Semtex discovery

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 640 words


AS a Scots couple were being questioned by anti-terrorist officers over bomb
explosions in London, detectives yesterday were said to have discovered a huge
hoard of Semtex explosives in a garage near the bungalow in which they lived.

The pair are not suspected of causing Friday night's City of London carnage in
which three people died and more than 90 were injured.

But the detectives were said to be "cock-a-hoop".

They believed that the IRA had suffered a blow. The terrorits could well have
lost an important bomb maker, according to one Scotland Yard source.

The woman had lived at the address in Northolt for many years, and the man had
appeared in the past two years. Neighours knew him as Jimmy.

While he is a Scot, police know that he spent some considerable time in Ireland.

Police are concerned about .the nationality of the suspects.

They point out that a couple who died in St Albans while placing an IRA bomb
could have been mistaken for being English, and Kevin O'Donnell, freed by an Old
Bailey jury and killed by undercover servicemen in Northern Ireland, had a
plausible middle class background.

They are convinced that the IRA is planting bomb makers in mainland Britain who
cannot easily be identified with Northern Ireland and the bombings.

There is no question that the pair arrested on Monday night are Scots. The woman
had lived in the house for about nine years and the man for about two.

The house in Northolt, North London, was last night being searched by forensic
scientists investigating IRA atrocities in London over many years.

They were paying particular attention to a garage near the bungalow where the
couple lived, and where a large amount of Semtex was said to have been
recovered.

Although the couple are not suspected of being involved in the explosion in the
City of London, they are being questioned about a number of terrorist activities
in England over many years.

Neighbours spoke of how armed police went to on a bungalow in Northolt on Monday
night to arrest the couple, whom they described as "quiet and ordinary".

The couple were made to lie face down on the pavement before being driven away.
They were known as Audrey, who had lived at the address for about nine years,
and Jimmy, who had been there about two years. Both were said to have Scottish
accents.

One woman told reporters: "We got up and looked out of the window and saw police
were gathering by the minute -- loads of them with rifles and guns. We got quite
frightened.

"My husband came out to see what was wrong and a very authoritative voice
shouted: 'Get back inside, please, immediately, right inside and close the
door'."

Other neighbours spoke of activity, sometimes late at night, and of seeing two
Transit vans parked nearby.

It is understood the arrests followed months of inquiries by anti-terrorist
detectives, including surveillance operations in the capital.

The couple can be held for 48 hours under the Prevention of Terrorism Act
without charge. They can be detained a further five days with the permission of
the Home Secretary, Mr Kenneth Clarke.

At least 30 armed officers raided the bungalow in Islip Gardens, Northolt, about
11.30pm on Monday.

Neighbours thought the man worked for a minicab company.

The woman was said to be in her early fifties and ran a local greengrocers until
two years ago.

She had parted from a previous male friend, neighbours said.

Mrs Gloria Ebanks said she and her husband watched the police raid.

"We saw they had the man on the floor," she said. "We saw the policeman with
rifles and one told him to shut up and was holding his arm down.

"They then put both of them into white overalls and put plastic over their hands
and feet. They were taken away in separate cars."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           April 15, 1992, Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 980 words


timed about 1926, to make 2nd par read... "A man and a woman were arrested at
gunpoint at their bungalow in Northolt, west London, on Monday night and a third
person was held hours later."

Detectives were tonight questioning three people in connection with IRA terror
attacks in mainland Britain.  A man and a woman were arrested at gunpoint at
their bungalow in Hotholt, west London, on Monday night and a third person was
held hours later.  The moves followed a seven-week surveillance operation during
which anti-terrorist police posed as customers in the Firefly Tavern, a pub
close to the scene of the Northolt arrests.  After the couple under surveillance
left the pub, they were tailed by armed undercover officers and arrested at
their front gate. Police later found a handgun in their bungalow.  Then in a
nearby lock-up garage, they disovered an arms and explosives cache which
included about 70lb of Semtex plastic explosives, a dozen weapons, including
Kalashnikov automatic rifles, and bomb-making paraphernalia.  All three are
being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act at London's high-security
Paddington Green police station.  They are believed to be being questioned about
recent IRA attacks - including the small bomb which exploded in Soho, on April
6, causing damage but no injuries, and the device discovered and defused last
June outside the Alfred Beck's Theatre in Hayes, west London.  It was timed to
go off during a concert of the Blues and Royals military band. They are
apparently not being questioned about Friday's bombings in the City of London -
which left three dead and 91 injured - and Staples Corner, north-west London.
The historic Baltic Exchange, devastated by the City blast, will take at least
three years to rebuild, its chairman Peter Tudball said today.  But after
praising the resolve of staff and brokers, who were all up and running at 9am on
Monday morning, he said: "This instance has probably cemented the exchange's
future. It has shown the great comradeship in the City." The Prime Minister
today warned that media coverage of the City bombing might help the IRA "gain
heart".  Mr Major told Cabinet colleagues the concentration on physical damage
caused last Friday "overshadowed the appalling damage to the wounded or killed".

IRA attacks understood to feature in the questioning include the small bomb
which exploded in Soho, central London, on April 6, causing damage but no
injuries, and the bomb discovered and defused last June outside the Alfred
Beck's Theatre in Hayes, west London.  That device was timed to go off during a
concert of the Blues and Royals military band.  Under the Act suspects can be
held for 48 hours without charge. If the police want to continuing questioning
they must apply to the Home Secretary for permission to detain suspects for up
to a further five days.

The weeks of surveillance work which led to the Northolt arrests reached their
climax when undercover officers posed as customers in a local pub, the Firefly
Tavern.  Detectives followed the couple when they left after time was called
and, as they reached the gateway of their bungalow, 20 officers carrying machine
guns and revolvers moved in.  The arrests came hours after the head of the
anti-terrorist squad, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, briefed the new Home
Secretary Kenneth Clarke about their investigations.  Police appealed to the
public to maintain extreme vigilance as they believed there were several more
arms and explosives dumps hidden in and around the capital.  Lock-up garages are
a favourite hiding place. Last November an off-duty policeman challenged a man
in Wanstead, east London, who fled, dropping a bag with two loaded handguns. He
was never caught but it led police to a nearby garage where they discovered
Semtex and other bomb-making equipment.  Anti-terrorist sources stressed they
believe at least two IRA active service units are operating on the mainland and
an intensive hunt is still being carried out for those responsible for the
weekend blasts and other attacks, including those on the rail and Underground
networks and the firebombing campaign.

In Derby, armed police investigating the murder of Army recruiting sergeant
Michael Newman, 34, raided four houses in the Peartree district early today.
Don Dovaston, Derbyshire's Assistant Chief Constable, who is leading the search
for the killers, said although no weapons or explosives were found "items" were
recovered and sent for forensic tests. No arrests were made.  Detectives amended
their descriptions of the three wanted men, who got away by car, quickly
abandoned, after shooting Sgt Newman in the head at point-blank range on Monday.
He died later in hospital.  The killers were seen running down a side street,
two of them shouting at the third who was lagging behind.  All three are white
and aged between 20 and 26. Two have strong Irish accents and the third a soft
Irish accent.  One has short light brown receding hair, a round face and tanned
complexion. He has an athletic build, broad shoulders, is clean-shaven and wore
a baseball cap.  The second man, taller than the others, has a slim to medium
build with short dark hair and a ruddy complexion. The letter F is tattooed on a
forearm and he has a Mexican-type moustache.  The third man is slimly built with
a fair complexion, blue eyes and receding fair hair.  The Irish National
Liberation Army said it carried out the shooting.


    City of London police today urgently asked for anyone who was in the
immediate area of St Mary Axe between 8pm and 9.20pm on the evening the bomb
exploded who has not come forward to do so.  "We want especially to speak to any
person driving or parking a commercial van and taxi drivers in the area during
that time," a spokesman said.  Anyone with any information should call 071 601
2668/2677.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE:  April 15, 1992, Wednesday

CORRECTION: ,timed about 1926, read 2nd par... "A man and a woman were arrested
at gunpoint at their bungalow in Northolt, west London, on Monday night and a
third person was held hours later." (substituting Northolt for Hotholt).

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           April 15, 1992, Wednesday

Breakaway group may be recruiting young activists

BYLINE: Michael Horsnell and Peter Victor

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 511 words


Michael Horsnell and Peter Victor report on the paramilitary group that even the
IRA regards as a maverick

THE small Irish National Liberation Army, which yesterday admitted shooting
Michael Newman, has frequently been written off as a serious security threat,
especially in mainland Britain.

The group first earned notoriety in 1979 with the booby-trap killing of Airey
Neave, Conservative spokesman for Northern Ireland, but by 1987 feuding had
split the group into the INLA and the Irish People's Liberation Organisation.

The IPLO has remained more active in Northern Ireland. little has been heard of
the INLA there, but obituary notices for this most unpredictable of republican
groups have proved to be premature. Only last November it came close to
assassinating Laurence Kennedy, leader of the Conservative Party in Northern
Ireland.

Security sources in Northern Ireland decline to give any estimate of how many
people are in the INLA, and it is thought unlikely that it numbers more than 20
activists. Reports that two of the three men in the Derby killing appear to be
teenagers suggest that it is still attracting young recruits and trying to get
itself back on the map.

The INLA was formed in 1975 after the official IRA declare a ceasefire that
angered many of its younger members. The group's origins can also be linked to
the formation in 1975 of the small Trotskyite Irish Republican Socialist Party
by Seamus Costello, a republican who was later murdered by rivals in Dublin.

In 1982 the INLA was responsible for the murder of 11 off-duty soldiers and six
civilians with a 5lb bomb that brought down the concrete roof of the crowded
Droppin' Well Inn disco at Ballykelly. A year later it killed three worshippers
in an attack on a church hall in co. Armagh, but by 1987 it appeared to fragment
into murderous factions, culminating in the murder of Mary McGlinchey, 32, who
was the wife of an INLA founder-member.

Many of the INLA's members were jailed during the supergrass trials in the late
1980s and although some were released on appeal the police had gained vital
intelligence that has kept the group largely on the sidelines ever since.

The group has rarely struck on the mainland, although a year after Airey Neave's
murder it admitted planting two bombs at an Army camp at Netheravon, Wiltshire,
which injured two soldiers.

In November 1985, the INLA claimed it had planted the two 40lb bombs, packed
with iron bolts and nuts, which were discovered and defused outside Chelsea
Barracks in London. Police sources described the weapons as crudely designed and
doubted the group had the capability to mount a sustained campaign on the
mainland. A year later, Patrick McLaughlin was sentenced to life for the bomb
plot.

The INLA has always been regarded as rather more wild and reckless than the
Provisional IRA, which has long regarded the group as a threat to its own
security.

The groups were briefly united during the 1981 H block hunger strikes, when two
INLA members were among the ten who died.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           April 15, 1992, Wednesday

Time to get tough in Ulster

BYLINE: Conor Cruise O'Brien

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 888 words


The replacement of Peter Brooke as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland looks
like signalling a change of priorities in the province.  Throughout his tenure,
Peter Brooke put the quest for a political solution first and security second.
The right priority is the other way round, as Mr Major may have been persuaded
by the IRA bombs in London just after his electoral victory.

The political solution Mr Brooke so diligently sought a compromise between
Unionist and Nationalist parliamentarians is almost certainly unattainable, and
certainly incapable, if temporarily attained, either of providing Northern
Ireland with stable government, or of ending or even reducing the violence.
Remember that the Anglo-Irish Agreement was supposed to bring about ''the
isolation of the men of violence'', yet after more than six years under the
agreement, there is a higher level of violence than there was before 1985. The
IRA is now more capable than it was before of striking repeated blows at the
heart of London, and the blows are getting heavier: one of last week's bombs was
reported to be the heaviest ever exploded by the IRA. The kind of agreement
Peter Brooke was looking for would have had no more beneficial effect than the
Anglo-Irish Agreement has had.

Sir Patrick Mayhew is best known in Ireland for obdurate replies to various
nationalist demands in the security field. The Dublin press registered ''deep
dismay'' at his appointment, but Sir Patrcpopuity with the Nationalists will
ensure for him a measure of popularity with the Unionists.  And after all, in
Northern Ireland last week, 56 per cent voted for parties supporting the Union
(including the Conservative candidates), whereas only 33 per cent voted for the
Nationalists (SDLP and Sinn Fein).

I believe John Major really wishes to strengthen the Union between Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, and that he has appointed Sir Patrick Mayhew for that
purpose. If so, Sir Patrick's first year as Secre

tary of State should run something like this. On arrival, he will make a speech
expressing the government's determination to uphold the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, and to defeat terrorist conspiracies of all
descriptions.

Asked about the Anglo-Irish Agreement, he will say that it remains in being, and
that he hopes shortly to attend a meeting of the Anglo-Irish intergovernmental
conference. Asked about the ''Brooke talks'', he will say that he will be happy
to preside over a continuation of these, assuming that all constitutional
parties so wish. He will make it clear that whether the talks are to succeed or
not is a matter for the parties themselves. If they succeed, well and good. If
they fail, he will continue to govern Northern Ireland as before, but with
enhanced emphasis on security.

As his first important initiative, he will place on the agenda of the
intergovernmental conference the Irish Supreme Court's insistence that
''reintegration of the national territory'' is a constitutional imperative.
John Major will then privately let Albert Reynolds know that unless the Republic
abandons this stance, the Anglo-Irish Agreement may not survive.That intimation
will probably be enough to bring about a referendum amending the offending
articles of the Republic's constitution.

Such moves will tend to dissipate the widespread impression that Britain is
really anxious to disengage from Northern Ireland. That impression more than
anything else boosts IRA morale and incites the terrorists to keep up the
killing.

In the field of security, Sir Patrick will make known to the security forces
that the government has in mind, for certain contingencies, the introduction of
selective internment, on an even-handed basis for both sets of paramilitary
godfathers, and that the security forces are to be ready to apply internment at
short notice. Internment could then follow immediately on the next major
escalation of paramilitary violence.

The SDLP will not be happy about the new course. But the Secretary of State can
make two things clear to them. First, that he is bound to resist all attempts at
progress towards their ultimate objective: the dissolution of the Union. Second,
that as long as they remain at best neutral between the security forces and a
particular group of terrorists, the extent to which the Secretary of State can
be guided by their advice on security matters is limited.

If things move that way, as I hope, a lot will be done to stabilise the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Stability is in the interest not
only of Unionists, but of all the peoples of these islands. For the
disintegration of the Union would be accompanied by civil war in Ireland similar
to the Serb-Croat conflict, beginning in Northern Ireland nd spreading to the
Republic. Mainland Britain would also suffer from that conflagration on its
doorstep.

However things work out under Sir Patrick Mayhew, the change of tack and of
priorities is already clear. Interviewed as he arrived in Belfast on Monday, he
said that the government was determined ''first and foremost'' to defeat the
terrorists. He also emphasised that Northern Ireland is part of the United
Kingdom at the wish of the majority of its inhabitants. These are newnotes, both
welcome and salutary.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 16, 1992, Thursday

Expo opening will confound doubters

BYLINE: By ADELA GOOCH

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 13

LENGTH: 818 words


''OF COURSE it's a risk,'' Emilio Cassinello admits. ''But it's a
computer-calculated risk.'' As the man responsible for presenting the public
face of Expo 92, Mr Cassinello, a career diplomat, has had to draw on all his
skills to counter the scepticism generated by the very concept of a universal
exhibition in recession-hit times.

Confounding the doubters, Expo will open on schedule on Easter Monday, as a
six-month-long celebration of the 500th anniversary of Columbus' first voyage to
the Americas. It expects to attract 18 million visitors.

On the other hand, about one in ten of the pavilions will be unfinished; huge
queues will form at the automatic entry booths, which are supposed to identify
pass-holders by their fingerprints and will fail to do so; visitors will sizzle
in the summer sun and many of them will leave Seville considerably poorer thanks
to the attentions of pickpockets. In addition, there are serious doubts about
the adequacy of hospital facilities and terrorist attacks are an ever-present
threat.

But, for all these drawbacks, it would be churlish not to acknowledge the
achievements: the construction of an entirely new city adjacent to Seville, the
overhaul of the region's decaying infrastructure and the recruitment of 110
foreign countries and several multinationals to help them do it.

Expo City has something to attract and repel everyone: 4,000 pesetas (pounds 22)
may be a lot to pay to have a version of Jumping Jack Flash piped at you all day
long, but the exhibition is not aimed at aesthetes, and even they can find
solace in the brand-new opera house, provided they can get hold of a ticket.

The 1,310-acre site on the banks of the Guadalquivir houses four theme pavilions
exploring ''the age of discoveries'' (a fifth was burnt down) and 100 country
pavilions.

Contrary to the organisers' hype, Expo is not an opportunity for instant
acquaintance with the best of each participant's history and achievements. What
it does present is the largely mythical view each country would like you to have
of it. In Japan's pavilion there is no mention of sponsorship or draconian
corporate practice and barely a whiff of technology. Instead you are regaled
with centuries-old kimonos and displays of traditional arts.

Down the road in Britain's pavilion, however, tradition is a bit of a dirty
word. A steel-box structure, designed by Nicholas Grimshaw, its contents are a
tribute to Margaret Thatcher's vision of Britain. She decided that Britain would
participate, allocating pounds 25m for the purpose. The displays concentrate on
technological achievements, while a video depicts the British as open,
affectionate and forward-looking. Other countries have brought over works of
art, first editions, a copy of the Bill of Rights. But not Britain. ''You can't
do everything,'' the Department of Trade and Industry official in charge
comments. ''We commissioned a survey which revealed that Spaniards thought
Britain backward-looking, unemotional and uninterested in technology. We wanted
to change that.''

Quite what the Prince of Wales will make of it when he visits on 21 May remains
to be seen. Architecturally the site is a mishmash of styles which do not form a
composite whole, but some of the permanent structures are strikingly successful.
The new bridges linking Seville to Expo City - previously a derelict area of
abandoned railway lines and sidings enclosed by a wall that hid them from view -
are the best example.

Expo's greatest beneficiary and rival is the city of Seville. It has undergone
an overhaul, and its centuries-old elegance contrasts with Expo's temporal
tawdriness. Relations between the city and Expo have been strained: there was
resentment of outsiders brought in to ensure the exhibition happened; prices
have rocketed and the sleepy Sevillanos have been dragged kicking and screaming
into the 20th century - which is the only justification for the project.

The official figure for the Spanish government's investment in Expo is 200,000m
pesetas (pounds 1bn). That does not include the regional infrastructural
improvements throughout Andalucia: road and rail links and a new airport add a
further 1bn pesetas. It is an awful lot to spend on a party, but as the
Transport Minister, Jose Borrell, admitted at the inauguration of the new
high-speed rail link between Seville and Madrid: ''You don't judge a project
like this by the ticket sales. The test is whether it serves to jump-start the
economy of a whole region that was in danger of dying.''

SOME 500 private security guards at Expo 92 staged the first of several planned
intermittent strikes yesterday, five days before the exposition's opening, AP
reports. Spanish police manned entry and exit points at 7am when the guards
began the first of several four-hour stoppages planned for yesterday and today.

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 19, 1992

THIS WEEK: LIFE AFTER ELECTIONITIS

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER DODD

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 525 words


BRITAIN awoke from election stupor to find that there is real life out there.
Andrew Lloyd Webber, the composer who threatened to emigrate if the Tories lost,
paid a record pounds 10.12 million at Christie's for a Canaletto, The Old Horse
Guards, to ensure that it, too, stays in Britain. "Although Canaletto is
Italian, this is a quintessentially British painting," he said. It will be put
on show at the Tate.

The Princess Royal started legal proceedings for an undefended divorce from
Captain Mark Phillips. Michael Manley, former prime minister of Jamaica, married
for the fifth time, to Glynne Ewart.

A soldier died after being shot in the head at close range near the army
recruitment office where he worked in Derby.

Joseph Canning and Ethel Audrey Lamb were detained in Northolt, west London,
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, and charged with possessing Semtex and
assault rifles. Canning was also charged with causing an explosion in Soho two
weeks ago. Preliminary estimates for the cost of last week's car bomb which
caused widespread damage in the City, including the listed Baltic Exchange, were
put at pounds 1.5 billion. Damage to the A5 flyover at Staples Corner, where the
second IRA bomb went off, caused traffic chaos.

UN sanctions against Libya for refusing to hand over the men suspected of the
Lockerbie bombing came into effect. Libya retaliated by expelling foreign
diplomats. Italian fighters forced a Libyan airliner to turn away from Italian
airspace.

A ceasefire in Bosnia-Herzegovina arranged by European Community mediators
between the Serbs, Croatians, and Muslims failed. Gun battles raged in the
capital Sarajevo and elsewhere. Yugoslav army units moved in from Serbia, and
the United Nations announced that 100 military observers would be sent in to
discourage ethnic fighting. The US told Serbia's president, Slobodan Milosevic,
that Serbia would not be recognised unless his campaign to carve up Bosnia was
called off.

Lieutenant-Colonel Lois Lodge was put in command of the British field ambulance
unit being sent to Yugoslavia as part of the UN peacekeeping force.

The president of Afghanistan, Mohammed Najibullah, resigned in the face of the
advance on Kabul by mojahedin and defecting government forces.

Four ringleaders of the Strangeways prison riot were jailed after a three-month
trial. Paul Taylor, described by the judge as having acted as "judge, jury, and
executioner", received the maximum 10-year sentence.

Liverpool reached the FA Cup Final against Sunderland on May 9 after a penalty
shoot-out with Portsmouth. Airdrie meet Rangers in the Scottish Cup Final.
Manchester United beat Nottingham Forest 1-0 in the Rumbelows Cup final and
regained the First Division lead.

Britain's Ian Woosnam relinquished the US Masters golf title to Fred Couples of
the US, and Rugby Union changed its laws to make a try worth 5 points. County
cricket prepared to embrace the four-day game.

The Parachute Regiment expressed alarm at the army's proposals to train them at
the same base as Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps.

CHRISTOPHER DODD

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 19, 1992, Sunday

Bombers vs Bunglers

BYLINE: James Adams, Liam Clarke and Michael Prescott

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 2241 words


He stood alone in the middle of the bomb-shattered City street, murmuring into a
mobile phone and directing rescue vehicles with his free hand. All around him
hell had broken out; but he stood his ground, solid and dependable. George
Churchill-Coleman, the coppers' cop and human face of counter-terrorism, was at
the battlefront again.

But will he be there for much longer? Colleagues say that even before the IRA's
post-election outrage tore open the City of London, the commander of the
''anti-terrorist squad'' was looking for a way out of one of the highest-profile
but least satisfying jobs in the British police, though the force officially
denies it.

At midnight on April 10, as he faced the cameras and the press yet again,
stolidly going through his ritual appeal for the public to act as his eyes and
ears, the usually impassive face failed to disguise the fatuousness of it all.

Churchill-Coleman, regarded by fellow policemen as one of the best of his
generation, knows that he is becoming a scapegoat for something not of his own
making: the pretence that Britain has a national strategy for combating the
mainland activities of the IRA. It has not. What it does have is a labyrinth of
competing police forces and agencies, riven by jealousies and crippled by a
vacuum of command.

Even the anti-terrorist squad is nothing of the sort; it is a team of highly
skilled officers trained not to prevent terrorism but to gather the scientific
evidence that might, just might, put inside some of the low-level figures who
plant the bombs.

The IRA, nowadays perhaps the most skilled terrorist organisation in the world,
must be laughing. It has been blamed for more than 40 attacks and 17 deaths on
the British mainland since its present bombing campaign began in 1988. Yet, to
many in this country, its image remains that of a group of Irish bunglers.
Typical was the reaction of a very senior City figure in the wake of the
post-election blast. He was asked why the IRA had bombed the Baltic Exchange
rather than the Stock Exchange, where it said its bomb was.  Well, he brayed, it
was not the first time that an Irishman had lost his way.  Who's stupid now?

LAST Saturday every military base in Britain received a signal from the Ministry
of Defence ordering the imposition of security state Orange, which meant that
another IRA attack was likely. By Thursday the threat level had been reduced to
the normal Bikini Black Alpha.

''That was absolutely bloody typical,'' said a senior military officer with
extensive experience of counter-terrorism. ''We always put our security state up
after an attack, when what we should be doing is predicting events.''

This frustration is shared by policemen, intelligence agents and policy-makers.
It was particularly acute last week as the police responded to public outrage
with a flurry of arrests to counterbalance the failures that allowed the two
biggest IRA bomb explosions ever in England.

The arrests appeared to have the hallmark of an effort to counter the previous
week's failures: a case of PR-policing. One group of suspects had been under
surveillance for seven weeks, and information about the terrorists believed
responsible for killing Sergeant Michael Newman in Derby was also in police
hands before the shooting. In both cases the police hoped that if low-level
minnowswere left at large, they would lead their watchers to bigger fish. But
either the police were watching the wrong minnows or the sharks slipped through
the net.

Intelligence sources say there may be as many as five terrorist units operating
in Britain. One has been planting incendiary devices in pubs, clubs and shops;
the second has planted devices in railway stations; the third carried out the
post-election attacks in London; the fourth, from the Irish National Liberation
Army, killed the soldier in Derby. There is evidence of a fifth team that has
not yet been activated.

''The trouble with all these theories is that some people may be living here
while others are part of a group of strolling players who come in for a period
and then head back to the Irish republic or to Northern Ireland,'' said one
intelligence source.

''The IRA seems to get two or three attacks out of every unit they send to
England before they are withdrawn. Our success rate has been so low that there
is no shortage of volunteers. What they don't have to do is operate under
pressure. They can go and have their Easter holidays and then come back in the
summer and start again.''

The fact is that few people, even in the IRA itself, really know how it
functions in this country. It is in a permanent state of evolution and has
organised itself into a complex and virtually watertight cell structure; it
carefully analyses its operations in order to learn from them; and, as it
follows a strategy of a long war, it develops its plans slowly and carefully.
It is believed to have placed ''ghosts'' in this country agents who are
officially dead and are therefore on no security files when they are
reactivated.

The groups operating in Britain have access to information gathered by a
reconnaissance cell, to arms dumped by a logistics cell, and to a network of
safe houses prepared by yet another cell. None of the cells knows the others;
nor do the terrorists working in different cells. The days when a single arrest
meant the rolling-up of a whole network are long gone.

Virtually all of those carrying out the terror campaign roam free. Nobody has
been convicted for any of the main terrorist crimes carried out since the IRA
resumed its present British campaign with the Mill Hill barracks bombing in
north London in 1988.

But while the IRA has refined its methods after more than 20 years of modern
terrorism, the forces fighting it have not.

WHEN the IRA first began its campaign in Northern Ireland in 1969, the British
authorities believed that it could be dealt with quite quickly. They were wrong,
and a strange mixture of stoicism, cynicism and complacency permeates British
public attitudes to the terrorists even now.

''To be totally cynical, the British public will accept the sort of thing that
happened in the City as long as it doesn't affect them too much,'' said one
intelligence source. ''As a result, there is little public pressure for change,
the politicians sit on their hands, and the whole thing is dealt with as if it
were just another Whitehall issue. There is no strategy, no urgency.''

With no sense of urgency, the relatively simple business of countering the
bombers and the assassins in Britain has faltered on the entrenched positions of
the organisations involved in counter-intelligence. The principal bodies with an
interest include:

Special Branch (SB). This was formed on St Patrick's day 1883 to counter Fenian
bomb attacks in England, and it remains responsible for countering the
Provisional IRA in Britain.

The Security Service (MI5). This gathers intelligence on Protestant terrorism in
Britain and on the IRA abroad and in the Irish republic.

The Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC). This counters Protestant and Catholic
terrorism in Northern Ireland.

The army. This runs its own intelligence organisation, and recruits and runs
agents in Europe and in Northern Ireland.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad (SO13). The squad, headed by
Churchill-Coleman, responds to attacks and runs the subsequent investigation.

The Association of Chief Police Officers. The ACPO has a counter-terrorism
committee that acts as a national co-ordinator.

The Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC). This advises the prime minister and is
at the pinnacle of the intelligence structure.

Added to this are the 51 mainland police forces with their own special branches,
of which an RUC source said last week: ''They range from very good in areas like
Strathclyde to bloody awful in some places.''

It is easy to see why the same officer added: ''If you were devising an
anti-terrorist strategy from the ground up, there is no way you would arrive at
the present structures. The whole thing has grown like Topsy; bits are bolted on
in an ad hoc manner.''

AS THE public face of the fight against terrorism, it is Churchill-Coleman who
has had to bear much of the criticism in recent months. ''George is a good
old-fashioned policeman,'' said one senior colleague. ''But he is typical of
that type. He has an ingrained suspicion of the security services, the military
and all foreigners.''

His job is to react to attacks, however, and the aim of the counter-terrorist
effort is to prevent attacks taking place.

The core of the problem is the lack of timely and reliable intelligence. In
theory there is regular liaison and exchange of intelligence between the rival
forces through lots of co-ordinating commitees. In practice, in a business where
information is power and sources are the valued currency, there is a reluctance
to share everything, particularly when there is no overarching policy to which
everybody subscribes.

One senior police of Norn Ireland is candid about the way intelligence-sharing
can fail. The RUC and Garda special branches feed information to British forces
via Scotland Yard. But, says the source: ''When the Yard disseminated it to the
other forces, they didn't send the precise information that we gave them. They
put their own spin on it and condensed it as they saw fit.''

In the end the RUC passed its intelligence directly to provincial British police
forces, bypassing the Met: ''They got the best intelligence we had, and they got
it unadulterated.''

Another intelligence source said of the Met Special Branch: ''They are supposed
to have this strong network of people on the ground. But actually they are thin
on the ground and their people are low grade.''

Whitehall has now reacted. After years of debate, a report on mainland
counter-terrorist organisation was completed earlier this year by an Burns, an
under-secretary at the Home Office. Not that this will get an overall welcome in
the secret world. One senior counter-intelligence source who knows Burns
described him last week as ''a very opiniated individual, a theoretician and an
academic who doesn't know one end of a terrorist from another''.

His report is in the hands of Kenneth Clarke, the new home secretary, who will
discuss it with the prime minister within the next month. It proposes ending
Special Branch's leading role in mainland anti-terrorist intelligence-gathering,
and giving MI5 supremacy. This has sparked discussion about whether MI5 is
ccountable enough to be given the job, and whether its staff appreciates the
high quality of evidence needed for a successful prosecution.

Even now no decision has been taken, however, and carrying out its
recommendations will no doubt take months, perhaps years. Moreover, instead of a
streamlined structure emerging from this change, the report suggests that a new
network of ''liaison groups'' is established to make sure that lines between MI5
and the Special Branch do not get crossed.

Some critics would like to see an operation here similar to that in Northern
Ireland, where the army and the police developed a vast network of
information-gathering in the 1970s, using front companies like video stores and
laundries or concealed observation posts to produce thousands of pieces of
information about the whole population. Intelligence computers contained details
on families, streets, traffic patterns even the particular videos favoured by
one house in one street. The idea was to detect intelligence about terrorist
operations. Now, however, the RUC depends more on electronic intelligence and on
trying to penetrate the IRA with agents. It also believes it has an advantage
over mainland policing in having a single Special Branch command.

''What we need is the commitment to gathering the high-grade intelligence in
Britain and in the Irish republic where many terrorists live and plan their
attacks,'' said one intelligence source. ''At the same time we need a plan for
the collection of low-level information with computer back-up to analyse the
material.''

Invasive tactics would have obvious implications for civil liberties.
Churchill-Coleman himself made nt ntly: ''We've got to keep a measured view.
It's all very well to adopt draconian measures, but what do we move to some sort
of police state?''

But there is no danger of that: a new National Criminal Intelligence Service
started work this month with its own ''supercomputer''. But it does not cover
terrorism and the forces that do fight terrorism do not have matching computers.

So there is mounting pressure for a single, national force that would cut
through the present inertia. It would be run on the lines of the FBI or the
anti-terrorist forces of Germany and Italy, where 1970s terrorism was crushed by
central counter-terrorist chieftains with powers to dictate tactics.

Prof Paul Wilkinson, a terrorism expert at St Andrew's University, wants ''the
existing specialist agencies, with all their knowledge, incorporated into a
nationwide counter-terrorism agency. I see this as a major test of the new Home
Secretary.''

Each of the different agencies involved in the British counter-terrorist fight
privately arees on the merits of such a scheme, but all balk at being forced to
sacrifice his (or in MI5's case, her) piece of the present pie.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  IRA in Britain; Focus

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 22, 1992

Police concern at leaked IRA report

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 558 words


SCOTLAND Yard said last night it was concerned that a confidential police
report, said to discuss intelligence on IRA gangs in mainland Britain, had been
leaked in Ireland.

The document is reported in the Irish Times to reveal that the Metropolitan
police had "little" intelligence on the IRA cells said to be behind the recent
bombing campaign.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "It is a matter of concern that the Irish
Times has obtained access to an internal Metropolitan Police document and this
issue will be pursued.

"The report quotes the minutes of a routine meeting between senior officers at
which they were updating each other on current events affecting London.

"We are not prepared to discuss the matter further."

According to the newspaper, the minutes reported "the PIRA (Provisional IRA)
threat level remained high and an attempt at a 'spectacular' incident could not
be discounted".

A report to the meeting of the Metropolitan Police Service policy committee on
December 10 last year by the assistant commissioner in charge of specialist
operations said: "The recent incendiary devices in Manchester and Blackpool,
although home-made, were proving to be effective.

"Three things were needed to combat the terrorist threat: intelligence (on which
there was little at this stage); awareness by the public and the retail trade
(shopkeepers had been given a great deal more information); more examples of
terrorists being 'caught in the act', as recently, when an off-duty officer
challenged a man in Wanstead, leading to a major discovery of explosives."

The leak is bound to cause embarrassment to the Government, not least because of
the inevitable doubts raised about the internal security of Britain's leading
police force.

In addition, the indication that there is little in the way of hard information
about the men behind recent terrorist outrages comes at a time of pressure to
pass much of the intelligence work to MI5.

* The British and Irish Governments are clearing the way for the resumption of
multi-party talks on the future of Northern Ireland.

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew is expected to meet Irish Foreign
Minister David Andrews in London next week when a gap of at least two months in
further UK-Irish Conference meetings is due to be announced.

This delay will allow the restart of talks between Northern Ireland political
leaders in a new attempt to reach some settlement.

Discussions involving the Unionist leaders James Molyneaux and Ian Paisley, Mr
John Hume, of the SDLP, and Dr John Alderdice, of the non-sectarian Alliance
Party, could begin at Stormont as early as next Wednesday.

Sir Patrick and one of his ministerial team, Mr Jeremy Hanley, will be at the
opening session.

All sides agreed on a resumption once the election was over but there could be
an early problem. Unionists will oppose any attempt to raise the Government of
Ireland Act.

However, Unionist MP David Trimble (Upper Bann) said yesterday that he did not
believe it would delay progress.

Sir Patrick's meeting with Mr Andrews will be his first since taking over from
his predecessor, Mr Peter Brooke, who brought the parties together last year.

He met some of Northern Ireland's front-line troops yesterday on a visit to
military bases.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 22, 1992, Wednesday

Yard anger at leak of IRA report

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 441 words


SCOTLAND YARD said last night that it was concerned that a confidential police
report - said to discuss intelligence on IRA active service units in Britain -
had been leaked in Ireland.

The document is reported in the Irish Times to reveal that the Metropolitan
police had ''little'' intelligence on IRA active service units said to be behind
the recent bombing campaign.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: ''It is a matter of concern that the Irish
Times has obtained access to an internal Metropolitan Police document and this
issue will be pursued. The report quotes the minutes of a routine meeting
between senior officers at which they were updating each other on current events
affecting London. We are not prepared to discuss the matter further.''

According to the newspaper, the minutes reported ''the PIRA Provisional IRA
threat level remained high and an attempt at a 'spectacular' incident could not
be discounted''.

A report to the meeting of the Metropolitan Police Service Policy Committee on
10 December last year by the assistant commissioner in charge of specialist
operations said: ''The recent incendiary devices in Manchester and Blackpool,
although home-made, were proving to be effective.

''Three things were needed to combat the terrorist threat: intelligence (on
which there was little at this stage); awareness by the public and the retail
trade (shopkeepers had been given a great deal more information); more examples
of terrorists being 'caught in the act', as recently, when an off- duty officer
challenged a man in Wanstead, leading to a major discovery of explosives.''

- A key witness who suffered a heart attack when she saw terrorists shoot an
Army recruiting sergeant was believed to be under guard in hospital last night.

The 50-year-old Scottish woman, who was visiting Derby on Monday last week, was
understood to have been standing in a car park when she saw two men approach Sgt
Michael Newman, 34, and shoot him in the head at point-blank range. She
collapsed and was taken to hospital.

The international hunt for three named suspects - Joseph Magee, 26, Declan
Duffy, 19, known as ''Wacko'', and Anthony Gorman, 22, nicknamed ''Fanta'' -
continued, with 1,500 calls from the public responding to police appeals for
information.

- The fiancee of Magee was jailed for six weeks yesterday by magistrates in
Guernsey, in the Channel Islands, after admitting wasting police time. Catherine
Ogle, 22, of the Chane Hotel, Guernsey, made telephone calls to police in Derby,
telling them that the men they wanted to interview were in Guernsey, the
magistrates were told.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1992

YARD PLAYS DOWN IRA LEAK

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL, RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR AND OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 506 words


THE STRUGGLE between the police Special Branch and MI5 over the control of
counter-terrorism intensified last night, after the leaking of a Metropolitan
Police document suggesting the police had little intelligence on IRA members
active on the mainland.

As an investigation was launched into the leak to the Irish Times, Scotland Yard
made copies of the document available to journalists to debunk any suggestion
that there had been a security leak.

The dispute between the two rival intelligence-gathering forces is likely to
come to a head next week when John Major and Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary,
are expected to give MI5 overall responsibility for counter-intelligence on
mainland Britain.

A report recommending this expanded role for MI5 was sent to the Cabinet Office
Joint Intelligence Committee earlier this month by Ian Burns, a deputy secretary
at the Home Office. It amounts to the biggest shake-up in the campaign against
Irish-based terrorism for over 100 years.

The Burns report is part of a wider review of the post-cold war role of the
security and intelligence services ordered by Mr Major after pressure from
senior officials, including Stella Rimington, MI5's new director-general.

The leaked document was passed to Jim Cusack, the Irish Times's security
correspondent. He would not speculate on its source. It has been in the
possession of the newspaper for more than a week. There was inevitable
speculation in London of the involvement of MI5.

Police sources were conceding that the leak was embarrassing but were adamant
that the document contained nothing that was not already in the public domain.
"This is not a security coup for anyone," said a Scotland Yard spokesman.

The 12-page document, minutes of the meeting of the Metropolitan Police's policy
committee on December 10 last year, was shown to journalists "to debunk a very
juvenile farce".

The items in it which caused controversy were attributed to Assistant
Commissioner (Specialist Operations) Bill Taylor, who is quoted as suggesting:
"The PIRA [Provisional IRA] threat level remained high and an attempt at a
'spectacular' incident could not be discounted.

"The recent incendiary devices in Manchester and Blackpool although home-made,
were proving to be effective. Three things were needed to combat the terrorist
threat: intelligence (of which there was little at this stage); awareness by the
public and the retail trade (shopkeepers had been given a great deal of
information); more examples of terrorists 'caught in the act', as recently when
an off-duty police officer challenged a man in Wanstead [east London], leading
to a major discovery of explosives."

In themselves, the statements say little that had not already been acknowleged
either tacitly or openly by the police. Anti-terrorist sources say that any
sensitive information in the policy committee meetings would never be minuted in
any case.

Leak will test Yard's pledge of candour, page 2; Leader comment, page 22

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1992

INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS ACCUSE EACH OTHER IN HIDDEN WAR

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words


"YOU can tell a man from the Met," one senior Royal Ulster Constabulary officer
is often recalled to have remarked, "but you can't tell him much."

That saying reflects a commonly held view among certain RUC officers that while
the Metropolitan Police enjoys extensive resources its record on catching IRA
bombers is distinctly unimpressive.

A close acquaintance with the workings of republican and loyalist paramilitaries
has long bred a contempt for those from outside Northern Ireland who do not
understand the complexities of their hidden war.

The Chief Constable, Sir Hugh Annesley, who came from the Metropolitan Police,
is a noticeable exception to that view. He has publicly praised the work of
Commander George Churchill-Coleman, who is in charge of Scotland Yard's
Anti-Terrorist squad.

Some of the Met's occasional successes in preventing attacks or arresting IRA
units in England have undoubtedly been due to information being passed on by the
RUC's Special Branch.

Through surveillance it has noted when certain individuals are absent from their
homes in Northern Ireland. At other times its agents and informers have been
able to obtain scraps of information about mainland movements.

The fact that Scotland Yard appears to have had less success in its
anti-terrorist operations in recent years may well be connected to fresh
problems which the RUC is facing in Northern Ireland.

The IRA is believed to have overhauled the way in which it conducts its attacks
in Britain and abroad. It has restricted the internal flow of information about
such operations and that has made it more difficult for informers.

At the same time, IRA officers in charge of sending units to England, thought to
operate out of Dublin, have chosen relatively unknown volunteers to carry out
attacks.

Given these difficulties there was no surprise in Belfast at the contents of the
leaked Metropolitan Police report which confessed that there was "little"
intelligence about IRA movements in England.

Nor was there much excitement about the row between Special Branch and MI5 in
London. Any change is not expected to have much of an impact in Northern
Ireland.

More MI5 officers have been sent to Belfast to help in the intelligence war but
there are indications of continued disagreement.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1992

THREE CONVICTED OF TERRORIST ACTS FROM 500 HELD UNDER PTA

BYLINE: ANDREW VERITY

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words


OVER the past three years there have been 72 incidents on the British mainland,
but despite detaining more than 500 people under the Prevention of Terrorism Act
police have obtained only three convictions for serious acts of terrorism.

Last year, 153 people were detained under the act, and 30 were kept for more
than 48 hours.

Charges were laid against seven, but there were no convictions. Ten people were
removed from Britain - three of them to the Republic of Ireland.

In 1990 Liam O'Dhuibhir and Damien McComb were convicted of conspiring to cause
explosions, and Nicholas Mullen was convicted for helping to prepare a bombing
campaign in 1988. Fifteen people were removed from the mainland, out of the 193
detained during the year.

In 1989, 181 were detained and 18 charged. Nine were removed and none convicted.

Most of those held under the act are not charged at all. Of those that are
charged, Home Office records show that nearly half are charged under the act.

Between 1984 and 1991, 63 people were found guilty under the act: one of
withholding information; two of giving money or property for use in acts of
terrorism; 11 of failing to comply with exclusion orders; and 49 of failing to
co-operate with searches when passing through ports.

Since 1984, out of those held under the act but later charged with other
offences, three were found guilty of murder, one of attempted murder, and 18 of
conspiracy to cause explosions.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                              May 1, 1992, Friday

£1bn bill for London insurers

BYLINE: Patricia Tehan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 360 words


THE LONDON insurance market is bracing itself for its share of an estimated
£1.12 billion flood of claims following the worst race riots in America for 27
years.

US domestic insurers are likely to pick up the bulk of the losses, but Lloyd's
of London syndicates and company insurers in Britain will have reinsured the
Americans' risks.

In some cases, where they have given American agents the binding authority to
underwrite risks on small premises for them, they will have directly insured LA
properties against fire and other risks including riots and looting.

London insurance brokers say it still too early to calculate the London
exposure.

The cost compares with the £22 million suffered by insurers following the Watts
riots in LA in 1965.

A hefty American loss is the last thing London insurers need. They are still
counting the cost of the IRA bomb in the City on 10 April.

Some have already issued warnings that insurance premiums could rise by as much
as a third as a result of that blast.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 3, 1992, Sunday

Stores see no sign of upturn

BYLINE: Rufus Olins

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 958 words


THERE were very few customers at Paul Smith, the designer-menswear shop in
Covent Garden on Friday morning. Even fewer were spending any money. ''I'd like
to get a new suit,'' said one of the browsers. ''But I guess it will have to
wait.''

This attitude is echoed up and down the high streets of Britain: self-denial is
the country's newest virtue, as shoppers try to rid themselves of the debts that
post-election euphoria has done nothing to sweep away.

Some store chiefs are putting a brave face on it, but privately many admit they
are struggling. ''A lot of retailers are continuing to hold their breath,'' says
Richard Hyman, head of Verdict Research. Further redundancies and closures in
the sector are widely expected.

In the past week stockbrokers have downgraded Burton, the fashion retailer,
Kingfisher, the Woolworth-to-B&Q group, and Sears, the giant stores group that
owns Selfridges tio raised by a brief post-election sending spree, have been
dashed in the wake of mixed Easter trading.

''There isn't any upturn ... nothing,'' says Geoffrey Maitland Smith, chirman of
Sears.

Shoppers do not feel liberated. They remain worried about their mortgages, their
debts and their jobs. This depresing news follows one of the toughest years for
the nation's shopkeepers. After the expansion of the 1980s they find themselves
trapped in the pincers of, on one side, high rates and rents, and on the other,
sluggish sales.

This Thursday Sears is expected to announce a 26% fall in profits, from Pounds
86.1m to Pounds 64m, for the year to January 1992. County NatWest, the broker,
predicts: ''The figures will be awful.'' Profits from footwear sales are
forecast to reach less than Pounds 11m compared with a peak of Pounds 106m four
years ago.

The Confederation of British Industry reported year-on-year retail sales down in
March, but it does not yet have any post-election figures. The CBI's findings
are distorted, however, by the fact that last year the Easter holiday fell in
March and was followed by an increase in value-added tax on April 1.

What is clear is that the psychological change that businessmen hoped for after
the defeat of the Labour party has not yet brought any tangible response by
shoppers. Poor weather has not helped, and London, in particular, has been badly
affected by the recent terrorist attacks, which have kept people away.

The much-vaunted consumer recovery appears to be stalling nationwide. Even Marks
& Spencer, supplier of the country's underwear, says customers are holding back.

Sir Richard Greenbury, M&S chairman, told the CBI on April 24: ''The recession
has hit all of us and in spite of some encouraging noises this month it is still
with us. However, we do at least have a more stable situation after the
pre-election jitters. But in the high street there is no real sign yet of an
upturn in consumer confidence.''

Many store chiefs report growing signs of panic among rivals. Prodip Guha,
deputy chairman of Littlewoods, the retail and football-pools group, says some
chains have resorted to discounts that are simply unsustainable.  Tourists in
London's Oxford Street could be forgiven for hinking that, in Britain, the sales
season lasts all year.

''The high street is behaving very irresponsibly,'' says Guha. ''It's like the
travel companies in the past, where they cut prices because of overcapacity.

''People have got themselves stuck upmarket with a lot of expensive clothes and
too much stock and they are slashing prices. There are people who are
continually reducing prices by 20% to 50%. When you have that scenario, it is
incredibly difficult to get back to normal. It doesn't help anybody.''

Guha warns that reports of sales increases should be viewed with caution because
they are being won at the expense of profit margins. Last Monday Littlewoods
reported a marginal increase in pre-tax profits for 1991, from Pounds 94.8m to
Pounds 97m. But the company described March as ''awful'' and has embarked on a
short-term cost-cutting programme.

Managers at Littlewoods' 124 stores have been asked to trim costs wherever they
can. In some cases this is likely to mean reduced opening hours, in others
redundancies.

At the bottom end of the clothing market, competition is fiercer than ever.
Amber Day, which has 42 discount stores, has already spawned an imitator from
the struggling Burton group, called IS (Incredible Savings).

Philip Green, head of Amber Day, says: ''Importers and manufacturers are ringing
incessantly with offers of stock which is no longer needed by many of the
multiple retailers.'' Many chains seem to have stopped buying stock for several
weeks, as they are finding it difficult to sell what they already have.

One of the few bright spots is food retailing. Although the supermarket groups
are relatively immune to recesion, Sir Ian MacLaurin, chairman of Tesco,
recently reported ''there is clearly a recovery''.

At Asda, which embraces Allied Maples, the furniture chain, as well as the
eponymous supermarkets, executives are less bullish. Like those in the
do-it-yourself and white goods markets they are anxiously hoping for a new lease
of life in housing.

For that to happen, many argue, there needs to be a cut in interest rates.
''Half a per cent would show a willingness to move in the right direction.  But
it needs to be more,'' says Maitland Smith. ''It would put things right in a
flash.''

At present, however, the future remains uncertain for retailers. ''Everyone is
saying the recovery will come in the second half of the year,'' says John
Richards, retail analyst at County NatWest.

''What one worries about is that we all said the same thing last year,'' he
adds.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                   FT Energy Newsletters - EC Energy Monthly

                                  May 4, 1992

Greenpeace opposes Japan's plutonium import plan

SOURCE: EC Energy Monthly

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 561 words


Greenpeace International and other environmental interest groups are pressuring
the government on its plan to import plutonium from France and Britain, starting
later this year.

In early April, Greenpeace released a report that claims Japan cannot fully
ensure safe transport of the highly toxic plutonium by ship.

However, the government claims it is taking steps that will ensure safe sea
transport of the plutonium. The initial shipment of about one ton will depart
from France this autumn, with the exact date a secret for security reasons.
Japan's Power Reactor and Nuclear Fuel Development Corp. (PNC) will use the
plutonium to fuel the Monju experimental fast-breeder reactor, in Tsuruga, Fukui
Prefecture.

Also it early April, a ceremony was held at a Tokyo wharf to mark the transfer
of the Shikishima, a 6,500-ton escort ship to be operated by the Japan's Coast
Guard. The Shikishima is 150 meters in length, carries two helicopters and a
variety of machine-guns.

Among concerns raised by Greenpeace is the possibility of terrorist attack on
the vessel carrying the plutonium, which could be used to produce more than 100
crude bombs. Greenpeace has stated that it will attempt to publicise details of
the shipment. The Japanese would prefer to keep such details secret.

Many sectors of the government are involved in seeing that the shipment is a
success. In addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Science and
Technology Agency is one of the main concerned parties because it serves as the
parent organization of PNC, which will utilise the plutonium.

Other critical papers were presented at an early April symposium of the Japan
Atomic Industrial Forum (JAIF), staged in Yokohama. JAIF is the nation's main
pro-nuclear industry support organization. It has altered its mission to include
discussions with anti-nuclear activists.

One paper questioned the ability of the specially built plutonium-carrying casks
to withstand ship-board fires. However, Japan says it is fully conforming to the
transport regulations established by the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). Still, the critics asserted that the IAEA regulations are not
sufficiently rigorous.

Critics have also pointed out that Japan is the only country that is actively
making use of plutonium, now that the US and former Soviet Union are shunning it
for weapons. Criticism of Japan's plan to start plutonium shipments from France
and Britain even include a few US congressmen, who have expressed scepticism
about the total preparations to ship the radioactive load in a completely safe
way. The US is an interested party in the Europe-Japan shipments, because the
original uranium was enriched in that country. France and Britain hold the
plutonium because they have reprocessed Japanese spent fuel.

Kansai Electric, which suffered the triggering of an emergency core-cooling
system at its Mihama-2 PWR in February 1991, has amassed such expertise in
dealing with anti-nuclear activists that is it even advising the Chinese about
ways to cope with activists. Specifically, Kansai in mid-April sent a small team
of specialists to Guangdong Province to offer advice on safety techniques and
other technical matters for the Daya Bay nuclear power plant, and among the
advice offered was that of ways to deal with anti-nuclear protesters.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newsletter

                Copyright 1992 Financial Times Business Limited

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 7, 1992, Thursday

Letter: LA riots: cost, critics and cause

BYLINE: From MR BRIAN L. MCELANEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 28

LENGTH: 301 words


Sir: As an American living abroad, I am devastated by the events in Los Angeles.
I am, however, deeply disturbed as well by the response to this tragedy abroad.

How fascinating that your readers and other enlightened Britons find the wanton
death and destruction in my country ''understandable''. It is all too much: the
petulant Manchester lecturer and other fools peddling their stereotypical
notions of ''White America'', the buffoonery of the Labour petition to our
embassy, the abysmally stupid comparison of America to South Africa. Europeans
are once again displaying their unrivalled ability to pontificate upon problems
in the US while blithely ignoring similarities in their own society and history.

Who are you kidding, people? Do you think we Americans never venture abroad and
see your slums and the rampant xenophobia in modern Europe? Would you have us
think Brixton was nothing more than a friendly spat between old friends?

As much as the rabid pseudo- intellectual forces of multiculturalism would have
us believe otherwise, racism neither originated in, nor is unique to, the United
States (nor, for that matter, is it the monopoly of the white race). We
Americans will, as we always have, work with the problems inherent in a
heterogenous society. In the meantime, we would be most appreciative if
outsiders refrained from extolling the virtues of random violence as a
legitimate form of social protest in our country (just as I assume the average
Briton would refrain from considering as such the death doled out to his
countrymen by IRA bombs).

Perhaps, in fact, if your readers devoted as much energy to their own country's
problems as they do to mine, Britain might be a brighter place.

Yours sincerely,

BRIAN McELANEY

Stuttgart, Germany

4 May


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 9, 1992

IRISH POLICE RELEASE PRIEST

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 163 words


THE terrorism suspect and dismissed Catholic priest, Father Patrick Ryan, was
freed by police in the Irish Republic yesterday after interrogation about a
range of offences, including one involving firearms.

He was held for the maximum 48-hour period permitted by Irish anti-terrorist law
before suspects have to be charged or set free.

He was arrested near Dublin, but was transferred to Clonmel, Co Tipperary, to be
questioned by detectives.

Father Ryan, aged 62, the subject of failed British extradition applications to
both Ireland and Belgium four years ago in connection with IRA bombings in
Britain, was detained on Wednesday, days after police raided a house in Co
Tipperary where he had been staying.

He later claimed that police attempted to link him to a pounds 2.5 million bank
robbery in Co Waterford earlier this year, believed to be an IRA fund-raising
mission.

Father Ryan was dismissed from the Pallottine religious community in 1988.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 9, 1992

MI5 to take the lead in fight against terrorism

BYLINE: Stephen Mcgregor,Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words


THE intelligence service MI5 is to be given the leading role

in combating Irish republican terrorism on mainland Britain, Home Secretary
Kenneth Clarke announced yesterday.

In his first statement since

his post-election appointment, Mr Clarke told MPs he was switching the main
responsibility for intelligence gathering away from the Metropolitan Police
Special Branch.

He made clear that the police would continue to play an indispensible part in
intelligence work against the IRA and other organisations.

The change follows a behind-the-scenes review carried out by senior Home Office
official Ian Burns and represents a triumph for Mrs Stella Rimington, the new
director general of the security service, whose background is in counter
-terrorism.

In an unprecedented move, Mrs Rimington issued a public statement welcoming the
Government's decision. She said: "We look forward to strengthening still further
our already close co-operation with the police service and combining our skills
even more effectively with theirs to help them bring terrorists to justice."

Former Home Secretary Kenneth Baker ordered the review following a series of IRA
attacks on the mainland, including the near-miss mortar attack on a Cabinet
meeting in Downing Street.

Signs that the pressure for change was growing came only a few weeks ago with
the leaking of a report which said that the Met's anti-terrorist branch had
"little intelligence" about IRA mainland operations.

Mr Clarke's announcement is bound to be seen as a blow to Commander George
Churchill-Coleman, the much-publicised head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
unit, but the Home Secretary was anxious yesterday to emphasise that Special
Branch expertise would not be lost as it would continue to work closely with the
security services.

The police are reported to have argued strongly for retaining their traditional
primacy and among the serious points they raised was a question mark over MI5's
public accountability -- a point later taken up by Labour's Home Affairs
spokesman Barry Sheerman.

In his statement to the House, Mr Clarke said the purpose of the change was to
enable the security service to use to the full the counter-terrorism skills and
expertise they had developed over the years.

"The need for effective action against terrorism speaks for itself," he said.
"It calls for the best use of all the skills and experience available within the
law to the Government.

"The decision I have announced today is designed to strengthen still further the
effective intelligence work already being done against Irish republican
terrorism in Great Britain."

Mr Sheerman said his party had many concerns about MI5 being given the lead role
in this area. He told the House: "There is, centrally, the issue of
accountability. In addition, MI5 has no operational function, no power of
arrest. It does not have the experience of preparing evidence that will stand up
in court -- something we know to our cost."

The Labour spokesman also raised the issue of whether MI5 agents who were active
within the IRA would be given immunity from prosecution.

Mr Clarke told him: "Both the security service and the Special Branch of the Met
will continue to make a substantial effort but giving the lead to the security
service will get the best out of both and it does put the lead in the hands of
those whose speciality is the collection and use of intelligence of this kind."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 9, 1992, Saturday

MI5 stays outside scrutiny of MPs

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT, PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 704 words


KENNETH CLARKE, the Home Secretary, yesterday rejected calls for parliamentary
scrutiny of the Security Service following an announcement that MI5 will lead
the fight against IRA terrorism in Britain.

The decision to remove control of intelligence gathering on IRA terrorists
attacking targets in Britain from the Metropolitan Police Special Branch to MI5
was criticised in Northern Ireland. Both republican and Unionist sourcesopposed
the move.

One Unionist MP, Ken Maginnis, said it was a step away from the doctrine of
police primacy, while a Social Democratic and Labour Party MP, Seamus Mallon,
said it was a move away from public accountability.

Martin McGuinness, vice-president of Sinn Fein, declared: ''There must be a
strong suspicion that MI5's brief will be to extend Britain's dirty war in
Ireland and Britain, with more state-organised political assassinations becoming
likely.''

The move was, however, welcomed by Stella Rimington, head of MI5, who broke the
usual blanket of silence imposed by the security services.

''We look forward to strengthening still further our already close co-operation
with the police service, and combining our skills even more effectively with
theirs to help them bring terrorists to justice,'' she said.

Announcing the decision in the Commons, Mr Clarke said there would be no
conflict between intelligence gathering by MI5 and the police, whose operational
role would be unaffected. Both MI5 and Special Branch are intelligence gathering
agencies, but only Special Branch officers have the power of arrest, or
experience of gathering evidence for court.

Mr Clarke said MI5 was accountable through the director- general to him under
the 1989 Security Service Act, which also provides redress for complaints.

But Mr Clarke made it clear that security service accountability would not be
extended to parliamentary committee scrutiny, a position which Barry Sheerman,
Labour home affairs spokesman, predicted would be widely resented.

Mr Clarke's announcement follows a Home Office report by Ian Burns, deputy
under-secretary, in the wake of mainland offensives by the IRA, including the
mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. Mr Burns's review followed behind-
the-scenes lobbying for the change waged by senior MI5 officers and Mrs
Rimington. Two earlier reports by Sir Christopher Curwen, the former head of
MI6, had recommended that MI5 have only a limited role.

Special Branch was created more than a century ago to combat the Fenians. Until
now it has worked in collaboration with MI5, the RUC, the Army and the police in
Britain and Ireland.

Assistant Commissioner Bill Taylor, of Scotland Yard, said yesterday that the
force had been fully consulted and was ''entirely happy that the arrangements
set in place will enhance the co-operation and co-ordination of intelligence
more effectively.'' He emphasised that the police retained responsibility for
preventing crime, arresting terrorists and gathering evidence against them.

''The most important task we all face is to ensure the best intelligence is
gathered to counter Irish Republican terrorism,'' he said.

Scotland Yard had argued strongly against change, arguing that the existing
system worked well and any new system was an untried gamble. It said MI5 was not
accountable publicly and did not understand the practical problems of gathering
evidence for the courts.

Its case was harmed by the leak of an internal Yard report admitting it had
''little'' intelligence on the IRA's campaign of firebombing of stores at the
end of last year. Privately, Yard sources admitted the decision was a blow to
the status and pride of Special Branch. ''We have argued for the status quo but
the decision has been made and the argument is now over. There has been rivalry
but people will get on with the job.''

Working alongside the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Army, MI5 already has a
key role in anti-terrorist work in Northern Ireland and has the lead role for
all other intelligence work against terrorism. But the end of the cold war and
the decline of communism prompted a quest for a new purpose.

Intense rivalry, page 2

New focus for MI6, page 11


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 12, 1992

Booksellers support Rushdie

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 315 words


THE president of both the Booksellers' Association and the Publishers'
Association spoke out in Glasgow yesterday in support of the writer Salman
Rushdie.

At the Booksellers' Association annual conference, outgoing BA president Malcolm
Gibson criticised Government inaction on the issue.

Mr Paul Scherer, Publishers' Association president, praised booksellers and
publishers for continuing to sell copies of The Satanic Verses despite the
continued threat of violence from Muslim extremists.

Both speakers called for an end to the fatwa -- death sentence -- on the author.

Mr Gibson told delegates at the opening session: "We at the BA are not the only
people who feel the Foreign Office is not treating the human rights issue in a
proper manner."

He added: "It would be farcical -- if it were not so serious -- that in Britain
today we should have to be so concerned over publishing and selling a book that
does not break the law of the land; and that the author of that book, a British
subject, should have to live in constant fear of his life."

Mr Scherer welcomed the recent publication of a paperback edition of the book by
a publishing consortium.

"This availability completes the normal publishing cycle thwarted hitherto by
terrorist threat, in a way which is entirely appropriate since the burden is
being shared in relative anoniminity so that no single organisation can be
isolated by the men of violence."

He paid tribute to the wholesalers and booksellers who were, he said, "very
directly in the firing line in defence of freedom of expression".

He added: "We all hope that 1992 will see the fatwa lifted and moderate counsels
prevail in those Muslim circles whose response to perceived offence was to
espouse threats of violence."

The conference, at Glasgow's Hospitality Inn, runs for three days and is open to
trade delegates only.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 15, 1992

Libya holds firm on Lockerbie suspects

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 259 words


Tripoli, Thursday.

LIBYA said today it was renouncing terrorism but refused to comply with the key
demand of the United States and Britain to hand over two bombing suspects or
face more reprisals.

A foreign ministry statement referred only to the second part of the UN Security
Council's Resolution 731 calling on Tripoli to cut all links to terrorist
groups.

Libyan Foreign Minister Ibrahim Mohamed Beshari, in Indonesia for a non-aligned
meeting, said his country's laws prevented the extradition of the two suspects.

Britain rejected the Libyan move, saying Tripoli must comply fully with all and
not just some of the UN-backed Western demands.

"The resolutions aren't a menu from which the Libyans can pick and choose," a
British official said.

The sanctions are designed to force Libya to turn over the two men suspected of
planting a bomb which blew up PanAm Flight 103 over Lockerbie in 1988, killing
270 people.

Tripoli's failure to comply led to the imposition on April 15 of sanctions which
cut its international air flights, imposed an embargo on arms sales and set a
scaling down of diplomatic representation.

Tripoli's statement was delivered to UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali
after a meeting between his envoy and Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi.

Gaddafi had previously condemned terrorism, offering to cut links to the IRA.

In its annual report on global terrorism released on April 30, the US State
Department kept Libya on the list of states it says support terrorism.--Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 15, 1992, Friday

Libyans offer to help fight terrorism

BYLINE: By PATRICK COCKBURN

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 12

LENGTH: 337 words


LIBYA said yesterday it would accept an inspection team from the United Nations
to see that no camps used by terrorists were on Libyan territory, writes Patrick
Cockburn and agencies.

At the same time Tripoli said it would not comply with the key demand that it
hand over the two Libyans accused of organising the Lockerbie bombing.

The Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi, had previously condemned terrorism, offering
to cut links to the IRA. But this was the first time Libya used the word
''renunciation'', an admission it was involved in terrorism, Middle East
political experts said.

The statement issued by Jana, the Libyan news agency, said Libya was taking
three steps to counter terrorism. First it would cut all links with groups and
organisations involved in international terrorism, including the IRA. It would
also confirm there are no camps to train terrorists or terrorist groups on
Libyan territory and invite any UN committee to verify that.

Third, Libya would not allow its territory, citizens and institutions to be used
for terrorist acts whether directly or indirectly. It is also ready to punish
severely anyone convicted of terrorism.

The Libyan offer was immediately rejected as inadequate by Britain. A British
official said: ''What we want to see is the Libyans complying in full with
United Nations Security Council resolutions. The resolutions aren't a menu from
which the Libyans can pick and choose.''

Colonel Gaddafi is asking Libyan ''people's committees'' to decide whether to
extradite the two Lockerbie suspects, the UN's special envoy, Vladimir
Petrovsky, said yesterday. ''They said the committees are considering that, so
this is a matter of four or five weeks,'' he said.

WASHINGTON - The US dismissed Libya's claim that it was renouncing terrorism,
saying it wanted proof in deeds, not words, Reuter reports. ''This is not the
first time that we have heard Gaddafi make these type of statements,'' said
Margaret Tutwiler, the White House spokeswoman.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 17, 1992, Sunday;
                              Correction Appended

Gateway to terror

BYLINE: By Cal Mccrystal

SECTION: THE SUNDAY REVIEW PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 2616 words


JAMES McDAID was in charge of Ireland's armed forces no more than a few hours.
That was all the time it took to make the Donegal doctor a demon figure to
politicians in Dublin, Belfast and London, and a hero to the people of
Letterkenny.

When Charles Haughey nominated him as the country's new minister for defence
last November, such was the anger and dismay that Dr McDaid was forced to step
down immediately. The debacle not only helped unseat the Taoiseach: it brought
into sharp focus for the first time the alleged pro-IRA sympathies of Dr
McDaid's isolated constituency. Letterkenny, County Donegal's chief town, was
appalled. Having waited 18 years for ministerial representation in the Irish
government, now it found itself smarting from allegations that it was a haven
for terrorists.

The attack on Dr McDaid was prompted specifically by his alleged links with
James Pius Clarke, a convicted IRA man. Clarke had escaped in 1983 from the Maze
Prison in Northern Ireland, where he was doing time for the attempted murder of
a soldier. The Letterkenny doctor described the allegations linking him with the
terrorist as ''totally false''. Despite published photographs showing him in the
company of Clarke, Dr McDaid protested that he had not known the latter to have
been involved in ''any organisation'', though he had been in his company during
a Donegal stag night in 1977, the year of Clarke's murder bid.

The damage, however, was done - not only to Dr McDaid's ministerial hopes, but
to the reputation of the town. Ivor Stanbrook, chairman of the Conservative
Northern Ireland Committee in the House of Commons, said the appointment ''could
endanger the lives of British soldiers in the north''. One Irish opposition MP
described the Donegal man as ''a fellow- traveller of the IRA''.

Dr McDaid's withdrawal - ''in the broader interests of the nation'', he said -
was a severe blow to Donegal, to a large extent cut off from Irish mainstream
politics. But on his return to Letterkenny afterwards, the doctor was left in no
doubt where his constituents' sympathies lay. He was greeted by more than a
thousand cheering townspeople. As a result of the affair, he was believed to
have boosted his electoral support by at least 5 per cent. He was a hero.

Letterkenny is in the most northern and isolated county of the Irish Republic,
surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean and three counties of Northern Ireland -
Londonderry, Tyrone and Fermanagh. The town straggles across the hillside from
which it takes its Gaelic name - Leitir Ceannain, or ''white-streaked hill
face'' - and has one of the longest main streets in the republic. That
thoroughfare begins at a bridge over the river Swilly, rises upwards towards a
modern Gothic Roman Catholic cathedral and curves westwards, to be lost in
Donegal's wild and beautiful bogs and hills. Letterkenny wasn't even on the map
until Scottish families settled there in the early seventeenth century. But it
has distinguished itself recently in two ways: first, by quadrupling its
population to 12,000 within 20 years; second, by becoming principal gateway to a
''terrorist island'' in which the Provisional IRA finds sanctuary, stores arms
and bombs, and plots atrocities against Northern Ireland.

A country road, southwards off Main Street, winds through rocky fields and
forest into high ground swept by chilling breezes from the distant surrounding
mountains. Hedges of yellow gorse overhang ditches containing household rubbish,
broken furniture and rusting electrical appliances. At a bend four miles along
the sparsely populated road, a farm track cuts up through a steep field in which
sheep graze. By climbing two iron gates, one may proceed up the track to a shed
constructed of breeze blocks, its door covered by a section of corrugated iron.
From here, there is a splendid view of the Derryveagh Mountains to the west and
the Sperrin Mountains of Co Tyrone to the south-east. Just below lies a large
quarry.

To find explosives at the quarry would surprise no one. Finding them in the hay
shed overlooking it, as the Irish police did in March, came as something of a
shock: 4,200lb of the stuff packed in oil drums, along with bomb- making
equipment, guns and ammunition, a portable generator and mortar tubes - enough
to blow up the centre of Derry City 20 miles away, probably the proposed target.

I pulled back the corrugated iron. Inside, broken bales of hay were strewn on
the floor from the thorough police search, conducted after a tip-off. I looked
down the rough fields of stunted trees and brambles. Less than a mile away, in a
field covered in thick scrub, the police also unearthed arms wrapped in black
plastic bags. They included a machine-gun and its tripod, an AK-47 rifle and
ammunition. In the past year, there have been other significant finds in the
county: bombs, guns and rocket- launchers, quantities of Semtex and revolvers,
an arms dump on open mountainside, and an articulated lorry containing 3,420lb
of explosives (and fitted with extra steel plating in case of attack by the
security forces).

Two of the men on board the Eksund, the ship seized while attempting to ferry
arms from Libya to Ireland in 1987, were from Donegal. Little wonder that
Senator Patrick McGowan, a Letterkenny politician, was moved to declare in
April: ''My county has been made an island - the most desolate and peripheral
part of Europe - by the Provisional IRA . . . There is an unstoppable campaign
by paramilitaries and by the godfathers who keep it going . . . They are giving
the impression it is a place not to touch.''

Throughout the Troubles, certain Irish border areas became specially known for
harbouring terrorists. Crossmaglen in South Armagh was the heart of ''bandit
country''. Dundalk in the republic endured the nickname ''Dodge City''. The
Bogside area of Derry remains an IRA stronghold, as do sections of Newry in Co
Down. Until recent months, Letterkenny had managed, by and large, to avoid
damaging publicity.

Yet its present notoriety should not be altogether surprising. History suggests
that militant republicanism would find a hold there. In 1650, when Cromwell's
army routed Irish forces two miles west of Letterkenny, his commander, Sir
Charles Coote, promised safe conduct for the survivors, but massacred the lot.
In a Letterkenny churchyard lie the bodies of a dispossessed Irish nobleman and
his seven sons who harried English forces in the seventeenth century and remain
to this day romantic figures to the people of Donegal. The boundary commission
that partitioned Ireland separated Donegal (and Monaghan and Cavan) from its
natural province of Ulster, allowing only a thin coastal strip to connect it
with non-British Ireland. Donegal has clung to the Gaelic language as has no
other Irish county (a fifth of the 130,000 population regard it as their first
language), and guarded its folklore jealously. On Letterkenny's Main Street, I
heard Gaelic spoken in conversation.

More important, Donegal has sheltered thousands of Catholics fleeing the
Troubles in the north. Many of these have married natives and settled
permanently. Some are prominent members of the IRA and its political wing, Sinn
Fein. It is their activities which have so alarmed the likes of Senator McGowan
and driven the Irish police into a frenzy of searches for ''subversives''. Most
men questioned as a result of these arms-cache discoveries are natives of
Northern Ireland. A few other local suspects have relatives in Derry and Tyrone.

At the same time, with Donegal's unemployment at 27 per cent, large numbers of
natives travel to Britain for work (one group from the island of Aranmore,
working on the Channel Tunnel, have been nicknamed ''the Tunnel Tigers''). In
1990, the EC commissioner for regional policy reported: ''Almost every indicator
of low economic development could be applied to Donegal . . . Many people
migrate on a temporary basis but continue to be based in the county.'' There is
no rail service into or out of Donegal. Goods shipped to Dublin are carried by
road through Northern Ireland. Companies exporting to Britain are compelled to
use the port of Larne in Co Antrim or the airport in Belfast. An ''international
airport'' near Letterkenny was closed down after a couple of years due to lack
of demand.

Suffering has also followed through two-way terrorism. Loyalist paramilitaries
crossed the border to bomb a building on Main Street a couple of years ago. Last
year, a similar gang from Northern Ireland sledge-hammered their way into a
house east of the town and shot dead Eddie Fullerton, a Sinn Fein councillor.
Being close to Northern Ireland has many advantages, but the threat of
cross-border reprisals from Protestant terrorists is omnipresent, given
perceived, though hardly widespread support for the IRA in and around
Letterkenny.

The road from Derry to Letterkenny passes through a heavily guarded checkpoint
and a concrete ''stile'' which no sane motorist would attempt to negotiate at
more than 5mph. There are also customs posts. But unapproved roads offer
terrorists alternative access, despite frequent patrols on either side of the
border. There is also Lough Foyle, a long, wide estuary separating Co
Londonderry from Donegal's Inishowen Peninsula, a rugged territory bounded on
its western rim by Lough Swilly. Irish police believe the killers of Eddie
Fullerton made their getaway by boat across Lough Foyle to avoid border
checkpoints.

But on Saturday nights, busloads of people arrive in Letterkenny from Derry by
orthodox routes for an evening's binge. It is not a recent practice, but it has
grown over the years since the outbreak of the Troubles prompted hundreds of
Derry refugees to crowd into Letterkenny's ballroom - not for romance, but for
protection from loyalist intimidation in their native city. To the annoyance of
the Donegal traders, the Saturday night visitors bring in their own alcohol (it
is more expensive in the republic) and paint the town green, if not red. Many
have appeared in Letterkenny court accused of ''brawling'', much of it coloured
by pro-IRA slogans and fist-clenching.

At Easter, a traditional time for extolling the IRA struggle, they also annoy
many natives by ''donning military-style jumpers, white shirts, black ties and
berets and marching up and down, playing to the gallery'', said a local
journalist. ''The Derry people regard this as their country, operating in
Donegal as though it was like Derry or Tyrone. But Donegal isn't like that at
all, even if people's names and accents are very similar. At this year's Easter
parade, everyone marching was from the north, as were all the bands. Few of the
actual IRA men are local; they're people who can't live in Northern Ireland, and
on the evidence of the latest arms finds, it's concluded that they must have
some sort of operational units here.''

Yet among the locals the terrorists have many eyes and ears. In 1987 a member of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary with relations in Donegal came to visit his
girlfriend. He was spotted in a hotel and shot dead.

One of the area's solid citizens is James Ferry, a Sinn Fein member who replaced
Fullerton on the urban district council. He arrived from Derry in 1971 to escape
internment and was jailed five years later by the Irish authorities on a weapons
charge. Over a cup of coffee in the council offices in Lifford, 20 miles south
of Letterkenny, he told me that the media had ''demonised'' Sinn Fein to such an
extent that ''people are frightened to be seen buying the IRA newspaper, An
Phoblacht, lest they come under Garda police surveillance.

''Some time ago we sent out a questionnaire to 8,000 people. Most of the replies
agreed with what we were doing, but didn't want to be openly associated with us.
Every Sunday, the priests tell the congregations not to buy An Phoblacht,
because to do so is supporting violence. But they know very well that Donegal is
fiercely republican, even if people don't belong to Sinn Fein. I agree mistakes
have been made, but if your cause is just, you must keep going on. You take
precautions, but if anyone is going to shoot you . . . it's a risk you take.''

He stared at me thoughtfully for some moments. ''The discovery of the arms dumps
has scared people away,'' he said. ''But war is war and it's usually the
innocent who suffer. The Garda are responding to the pressure of the Anglo-Irish
Agreement in a sinister way. If a young man applies for a job in a local
factory, the employer cannot ask what his politics are. But he can phone the
Garda to find out if he has a criminal record, which means republicanism, and
consequently no job.''

Statistically, Sinn Fein appears weak in the area, with only three members among
the nine UDC councillors. But if Sinn Fein membership is regarded as a handicap
in seeking jobs, Donegal republicans may find another voice in Independent
Fianna Fail, formed in the early Seventies by the local MP Neil Blaney, who
found the mainstream Fianna Fail too unrepublican for his taste. The
''Blaneyites'' have four UDC councillors, including the MP's brother, Harry,
whom I also met in Lifford. He was, if anything, more forceful than Ferry.

''There will be no peace until there's a British declaration of withdrawal from
the north,'' he said. ''Otherwise this thing is going to go on and on. I'm not
saying that blowing up Strabane is the right way of doing it, but it ill-
behoves any of us to condemn those who would take that line without doing
anything else about it. What do we have at the moment but civil war?''

I told him I'd got a distinct impression from many natives of Letterkenny that
there was little active support for the IRA, which was only succeeding in
damaging the town's image and economic prospects.

He said: ''I don't think people are fed up. People are just afraid to say or do
anything. They're not afraid of the IRA, but of the Irish security forces.

''I've had my house raided a few years ago.

I've given 35 years of voluntary service to this county, yet a Fianna Fail
government ordered a raid on my house. They came at eight o'clock in the morning
and surrounded my home and questioned me. I had nothing to hide. They searched
the house and the outhouse, setting up their machine-guns for two or three
hours, trained on the field below where I live because one of the men caught on
the Eksund was my next-door neighbour. He wasn't a native. He was a Six County
man.

''I'm not saying the people of Letterkenny are not republican, but there are
quite a number of 'blow-ins' from the Six Counties as well as from the 26
counties. Letterkenny isn't as close-knit as it used to be. It's the same as a
city where you might not know who your next-door neighbour is.''

Blaney is vice-chairman of the local anti- extradition committee (the chairman
is a Sinn Feiner). The group, campaigning against the extradition to the United
Kingdom of terrorist suspects, appears to come under close Garda scrutiny. ''
Police squad cars surround our meetings and we would be stopped on the way
home,'' he said. ''The Garda continually harass our members.''

As summer approaches and hordes of visitors cross the Donegal border, pausing in
Letterkenny's Main Street pubs and cafes for refreshment on their way to the
mountains and rugged coastal resorts, the police will have a harder time
distinguishing tourist from terrorist. They cannot afford to be over-zealous,
for the economy of the whole county depends on not drawing too much attention to
the black shadow across the ''white-streaked hill face''.

(Photographs omitted)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 1992, Sunday

CORRECTION:  Our attention has been drawn by readers in Letterkenny, Co Donegal,
to speculation in the introduction to last week's article, Gateway to Terror,
that bombs which recently killed three people in the City of London may have
originated in Letterkenny. We accept that, although caches of bombs and bomb-
making equipment had been unearthed outside Letterkenny earlier, the City bombs
could have come from any of a number of places, inside or outside Ireland.

The article also contained a number of inaccuracies, among them that there are
three Sinn Fein councillors on Letterkenny urban district council (there is
none) and that Easter marches by Northern Ireland republicans had taken place in
the town (rather than outside it). We note that residents of Letterkenny who
have no connection with Sinn Fein or the IRA found the tone of the article
unacceptable; we regret having caused them distress.


--------------

CAL McCRYSTAL's article ''Gateway to terror'' (The Sunday Review, 17 May) has
caused extreme distress to the residents of Letterkenny. The totally unfounded
allegations have done untold damage to the town.

I would like to outline some of the inaccuracies.

1 The headline saying that the IRA bomb in the City of London may have come from
Letterkenny remains unsubstantiated in the article.

2 The town is described as ''the principle gateway'' to a ''terrorist island''.
How can it be when it is not located on the border?

3 Several incidents referred to occurred in areas other than Letterkenny.

4 Sinn Fein councillor Eddie Fullerton was shot in Buncrana over 30 miles away
from Letterkenny.

5 Letterkenny UDC has nine councillors. None represents Sinn Fein.

Last year thousands of English tourists enjoyed a fabulous holiday in
Letterkenny, many of whom wrote to us saying that they felt privileged to have
been here in such a relaxed and friendly atmosphere. Those who come will find an
area of wild scenic beauty and a people who will be delighted to welcome them
into their community. We look forward to meeting them.

Henry McCahey

President, Letterkenny Chamber of

Commerce and Industry,

Co Donegal

- We regret the errors both in the article and its presentation, and apologise
for the offence they caused in Letterkenny - Ed.

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 20, 1992

Rifkind defends 'brave US pilots'

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words


THE Defence Secretary, Mr Malcolm Rifkind, yesterday described the two pilots
involved in the friendly fire incident which claimed nine British lives, as
"courageous".

It is likely to cause increased resentment among families of the dead soldiers,
three of them Scots, who are convinced the Ministry of Defence and the US
Defence Department are involved in a cover-up.

The Prime Minister in the Commons sympathised with the families, but also spoke
of the pilots risking their lives.

Last night the Pentagon continued to stonewall over the affair and made it clear
the pilots would not be coming to Britain to take part in any further
investigation. The two pilots involved remain unnamed.

At a Washington news conference, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said: "We do
consider it closed. For our part, the US Government has gone to extraordinary
lengths to co-operate with the British investigation."

Mr Rifkind's defence of the pilots came in an angry exchange in the Commons
during an emergency debate with Mr Dennis Skinner, Labour MP for Bolsover.

The Oxford inquest jury's verdict had been one of unlawful killing.

However, it became increasingly clear last night that under English and Scottish
law the American A-10 pilots cannot be brought to this country to stand trial.
Under international law, it would seem Iraq has more powers to call the pilots
to book, because the nine young soldiers were killed on that country's soil.

In the debate, Mr Skinner had said it was not so long ago both Governments were
demanding two Libyans be brought to either Scotland or the US to stand trial,
now parents were demanding the same treatment for the Americans.

To Tory cheers, Mr Rifkind said Mr Skinner was descending to a new level of
repugnance in seeking to draw any comparison between "an act of terrorism, which
had led to the loss of lives of hundreds of people in a civil airliner, and a
tragic incident by courageous pilots in the middle of the Gulf war".

Despite Mr Rifkind's comment, solicitors for the families have taken an opposing
view. Mr Mark Stephens, lawyer for all the families, has declared the two pilots
to be cowards because of their refusal to come to Britain to give evidence.

Mr Rifkind had earlier told the House: "We are working closely with our allies
to develop new procedures and training to ensure that in any future operation,
the risk of troops firing on their comrades is minimised."

The US Ambassador, Mr David Seitz, was in the Commons to hear Mr Rifkind's
remarks.

Earlier the Prime Minister was repeatedly pressed by Opposition leader Neil
Kinnock to use his authority to reveal the full truth about incident.

Mr Major sympathised with the anguish of the families, but insisted that a great
deal of information had come out at the Oxford inquest and he was not in a
position to add any more.

He said: "The sad fact is that in war terrible accidents of this sort do
sometimes occur. What we clearly have to do is learn the lessons of that for the
future."

He added: "I hope we don't lose sight of the fact that those were American
pilots, risking their lives, alongside our troops in a battle against a common
enemy and to liberate Kuwait.

The arguments in the Commons followed a statement from Mrs Barbara Mills, the
Director of Public Prosecutions.

It said she had called in all relevant papers on the incident both from the
Oxford inquest and the Ministry of Defence.

Mrs Mills said she would consider all the circumstances of the case.

However, it also became clear last night that even if the DPP found there was a
criminal case to answer -- and that seemed unlikely despite the inquest jury's
verdict -- Mrs Mills has no power to bring the two pilots to this country to
stand trial.

It is equally true that although three Scots lost their lives in the incident,
the Scottish legal authorities have no more powers than their English
counterpart in this matter.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 21, 1992

LONDONER ON LESS THAN CAPITAL FORM;
'Perhaps Doris Lessing is tired of language, having used it with such vivacity
for so long. Perhaps she is weary of stories, preferring a washy amalgam of
reality and fiction. Or maybe she's tired of her readers.'

BYLINE: LAURA CUMMING

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 812 words


London Observed, by Doris Lessing (Harper Collins pounds 14.99)

DORIS Lessing sits in a traffic jam in Hampstead. In front of her a line of
vehicles is immobilised by an incident further ahead - two motorists engaged in
a confrontation, each refusing to give way to the other in the narrow passage of
the road. Everyone waits. The reader waits. No one moves. The moral of Lessing's
four-page account, ponderously entitled "Principles", is that if two drivers
refuse to waive their citizens' rights on the public highway, then everyone
suffers. End of story.

This is the literary equivalent of the "why, oh why" letter to the press,
restating the commonplace obvious with the added irritant of a short homily.
Several of the stories and articles collected in London Observed follow this
convention, which invariably gets its fulminatory energy not just from stating a
case, but by assuming some full-scale opposition. Thus Lessing, in a "defiant
admission" of fondness for the Underground, proposes that we cherish these
"travelling rooms" where you can now read poems by Tennyson (reprinted here in
full) and watch your fellow passengers deep in their Penguin Classics. She
explains why local cafes are valuable, offering as they do a "real-life soap
opera". She argues that London is a grand multi-ethnic theatre which deserves an
audience.

Some of these pieces shed the homily in favour of simple highlights from that
theatre. A mother and daughter who always argue meet by chance in the Regent's
Park rose garden. "How are you?" "Oh, mustn't complain". They briefly discuss
the roses, then argue some more. That's that. An ex-DHSS worker gives money to a
girl whose dole cheque has been delayed by a DHSS strike. She insults him. He
gives her more. She insults him again. End of another story.

Londoners, and even a couple of passing Yorkshire girls, share the same absurdly
rendered demotic, smacking more of Ealing and the War Effort than modern
Britain: "It takes all sorts", "We're all in the same boat here". Easily the
most incongruous example is the cry of male MPs at a party Lessing attends -
"Must go, the Whips'll have our heads!"

Implausibility has infected her fiction for some time. In Lessing's acclaimed
novel The Good Terrorist, the youthful comrades tune into a particularly
spurious news bulletin about a terrorist bomb: "This monstrous and callous crime
illustrates yet again the total lack of ordinary feeling by the IRA."
Broadcasting may sometimes seem biased, but it doesn't yet talk like Peter
Brooke used to. Call it cavilling, but this kind of anomaly really does for
suspended disbelief, not to speak of Lessing's famed contemporary realism.

London Observed is riddled with this kind of solecism - the pregnant schoolgirl
who gives birth in a shed, deposits the baby in a telephone box, downs a shandy
and then returns to the suburbs in time to catch television pictures of her
abandoned infant being tended by nurses. The pathos and pain of the birth are
ruptured in the telling. In another piece, Stephen the social worker visits the
Khan family in their tower block, hoping to persuade Mrs Khan to allow her
educationally subnormal daughter into a special school. Mrs Khan insists that
her daughter can read, then vanishes next door into private distress. Obviously
upset. Obviously unwilling to acknowledge the problem. Not obviously enough for
Lessing, however. She leads Stephen out of the building and into a melodramatic
revelation, as if he had skipped up there utterly ignorant of family pride.
"And then Stephen understood. Suddenly. Just like that. But he couldn't believe
it. But he had to believe it. No it wasn't impossible. . . Not impossible. . .
" The phrases run to seed like summer weeds. Perhaps Lessing is tired of
language, having used it with such asperity and vivacity for so long. Here she
seems content to describe women in terms of their hair colouring and couture, to
adhere to some ancient fallacy that character can be evoked by class, and class
by name alone - Myra and Mildred for frayed suburban middle age, Debbie and
Julie for the juvenile underprivileged.

Or perhaps she is weary of stories, preferring a washy amalgam of reality and
fiction provided by those real-life soap operas. In "Womb Ward", a roll-call of
female characters conveniently assembled in a gynaecology ward, Lessing lists
the emotional and physical complaints that keep her women awake. Just as the
fear of loneliness, of abortion or hysterectomy is beginning to permeate the
scene, in comes Nurse Lessing with a massive dose of analgesic - "soon they were
all in their own worlds, fast asleep." Characters and story tucked up in one,
all quiet on the ward. If this is enough for Lessing, then maybe she's just
tired of her readers.

Laura Cumming is the former literary editor of the Listener.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 21, 1992

BYLINE: Ian Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 907 words


ACCIDENTAL death in war is an ever-present risk. But to attribute the killing of
nine British servicemen and more than 30 of their American counterparts to
"friendly fire" in the Gulf is a gross trivialisation of tragedy and an insult
to their families.

Everyone who enlists in the armed forces does so in the knowledge that there is
a possibility that he or she may be called upon to go into harm's way at some
stage, with all the incumbent dangers of death or injury that must entail.

Military cynics always claim, "If you can't take a joke, then you shouldn't have
joined". It is a basic and understandable philosophy that cannot be faulted in
sentiment, but leaves much to be desired in terms of expression.

The euphemism that accompanies death in action is an international phenomenon.
The British describe such incidents as a "blue-on-blue" encounter, relating to
the colours assigned to units playing good guys and bad guys on exercise. Blue
are friendlies, and Orange are the hostiles.

In Northern Ireland, premature explosion of IRA bombs which take out the bombers
are known as "own goals". Particularly bad British incidents -- usually
involving rival intelligence agencies -- come under the same generic heading.

During the Falklands war there were at least three occasions where UK forces
fired on other UK forces. In the worst of them, four Royal Marines from 45
Commando were killed by members of their own unit.

In another, even the SAS failed to live up to their infallible reputation when
they shot and killed a member of the Marines' own elite Special Boat Squadron.

The third involved a patrol from 3 Para, the unit now at the centre of
controversy in Northern Ireland, which was mortared, machine-gunned, and shelled
when it became lost in the dark in featureless terrain on return from a night
patrol. Nine men were wounded, several critically, and the survivors opened fire
on their own comrades out of rage when they left their own lines to investigate.

Yet there was no public outcry, no call for disclosure of the facts, and no
demand for the public exposure of those responsible. All were accidents of war,
perpetrated by fallible soldiers on other fallible soldiers, all equally afraid
and on the knife-edge of existence in a combat zone.

Like the American pilots who "took out" two Warrior personnel carriers in the
Iraqi desert, the men who squeezed the triggers in the South Atlantic have to
face up to the moral responsibility of their mistakes for the rest of their
lives. That, for any human being, must go beyond any penalty which a court could
seek to impose.

The bottom line for relatives and dependents is that their husbands, sons,
fathers, or lovers are dead, and will not be coming home. Who killed them is, at
that point, largely irrelevant. Only the window dressing remains to be served up
for public consumption. Better to die bravely in action against the enemy than
to be obliterated senselessly by one's own side.

Both the Pentagon and Britain's own Ministry of Defence would have been well
advised to listen to the words of General Norman Schwarzkopf, the supreme allied
commander during the Gulf war. After the first couple of incidents in which
American servicemen were killed or injured by US aircraft, he declared that it
was "critical" to report bad news immediately to ensure that there could be no
claims of cover-ups and so that credibility could be maintained.  Schwartzkopf
is a man well versed in the subject. In Vietnam his own unit was bombed by the
US Air Force.

The whole issue of a coroner's inquiry in England could have been avoided if his
advice had been heeded. A swift admission of responsibility might have spared
relatives needless grief and focused their attention on picking up the pieces of
their shattered lives rather than on the quest to apportion blame.

Doubt breeds resentment. No matter whether the RAF ground controllers, or the
pilots or a combination of bad luck, garbled radio transmissions, and the
general cock-up conditions which prevail in war was the ultimate culprit, the
men are gone forever.

It would have surely not been beyond even the MoD's usual cack-handed approach
to human problems to cut through red tape for once, press the Pentagon for an
after-action report and end the agony for all concerned. Instead, Whitehall
chose its usual paling-stab-up-the-backside stance by supporting the RAF ground
personnel involved while not blaming its US allies or issuing a definitive
account of the action in which the men died.

The issue was perhaps brought into sharper focus than during any other war by
the fact that television coverage was available. The sight of fire-blackened
British vehicles, struck by allied missiles, and a cairn of discarded helmets at
the scene pushed the question into the forum of the living room.

It was all the more tragic and ironic that it happened on the very eve of
victory in a war in which more allied servicemen had died in traffic accidents
than had been killed on the battlefield.

It would be entirely inappropriate that two US pilots should appear in a foreign
court to answer for actions taken half a world away in the midst of the most
intensive aerial war the world has yet seen. It would, however, be a
widely-appreciated gesture of condolence if the Pentagon allocated generous
financial compensation as a matter of urgency.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 26, 1992, Tuesday

Row grows over lifting of checks at borders

BYLINE: By ANTHONY BEVINS, Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 592 words


A DISPUTE over counter-terrorist controls is emerging as the Government
campaigns against EC plans to lift frontier checks from the start of next year.

Sir Edward Heath told the Commons last week that it was extraordinary that there
were no frontier immigration checks between the United Kingdom and the Irish
Republic, yet ministers were insisting on checks being maintained at Channel
ports.

''Germany has got on top of its terrorists, and so have France and Italy,'' he
said. ''We have not got on top of our terrorists, and we have some open doors.
That hardly seems logical.''

But senior Home Office officials dispute the statement by Sir Edward, whose view
is shared by Brussels.

They argue that the relative weakness of frontier control arrangements on the
European mainland ''facilitated the terrorist attacks by the Provisional IRA
which took place in Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium between 1988 and
1990.''

The IRA killed two Australian tourists in the Dutch town of Roermond in May
1990, having mistaken them for British servicemen; they killed an RAF serviceman
and wounded two others in the same town two years before; and there were a
series of such shootings in towns as far apart as Ostend and Dortmund in the
three-year period.

As for the existing Common Travel Area between Britain, the island of Ireland,
the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands, the Home Office says that has worked
successfully because traffic volumes are manageable. Neither Ireland nor the
islands are major points of entry to Europe.

But officials also say that back- up controls given to Special Branch officers
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act have effectively curbed the movement of
terrorists and their arms and equipment between Britain and the island of
Ireland.

They have also pointed out that in 1990 alone, Special Branch officers made more
than 2,800 arrests for non-terrorist offences at ports and airports and
''facilitated'' arrests by uniformed police officers in at least another 1,100
cases, and it is argued that ''the majority of these arrests would probably not
have been made if there had been no police control''.

In private evidence to a Commons select committee, James Sharples, Chief
Constable of Merseyside and a member of the Association of Chief Police
Officers' terrorism committee, said: ''There is undeniably a deterrent aspect in
the existence of port controls for counter-terrorism.

''We can say with some authority that we know it poses considerable difficulties
for both Irish terrorist organisations and Palestinian and other terrorist
organisations.

''We have seen some of the IRA activities in Europe over the past three or four
years, where undeniably the fact that there were long land frontiers helped. We
saw where PIRA would station themselves in one country, for example Holland, but
would move into Germany and Belgium to carry out their attacks.''

While the Home Office and the police have welcomed proposals for an EC External
Frontiers Convention, setting up a register of ''inadmissible'' third country
nationals, officials have argued that it would be unrealistic to think that the
external frontier could ever be strengthened to the point at which internal
controls against the IRA could be lifted. The Home Office has warned: ''If port
controls under the Prevention of Terrorism Act were abolished, the introduction
of identity cards, coupled with new police powers to demand their production
away from the frontier, would not compensate for the loss.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 26, 1992, Tuesday

Letter: Britain's helping hand, India's human rights

BYLINE: From Dr ABHIJIT GUHA

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 366 words


Sir: I read with interest the article by John Grant (''Do not aid the hand that
tortures'', 21 May) on the Amnesty International report about police atrocities
in India. I do not want to ignore his criticisms by saying that they are totally
unfounded. But I would like to insist that history and context should not be
ignored (after all, two successive prime ministers have been assassinated
there).

The Indian police inherited the repressive instincts from the colonial regime.
General Dyer's ''successors'' did not have the chance to disown that inheritance
completely in a society afflicted with poverty, unemployment, religious tensions
and general frustration that he and his like left behind. Atrocities exist, but
will not go away one fine morning under British pressure or the written
directive of the Indian Prime Minister. For that, the society, including the
police, has to change as a whole - and this can happen only with the eradication
of poverty and the spread of education. If external aid is considered helpful to
accelerate that change, then India's suffering millions deserve far more than
they receive now.

Amnesty International should have given equal importance to the violation of
human rights by terrorist activities in India - anything less is tantamount to
supporting the routine butchery of innocent people. Peace can come only through
compassion, not through taking sides. (The British government, and indeed the
British public, are only too aware of the evils of organised terrorism. Police
measures against poll tax demonstrators in Britain also showed that repression
becomes the norm to tackle violence.)

Mr Grant could note the violation of human rights (even) in Indian hospitals for
lack of resources or, for example, on Calcutta's streets, where suffering dies
in hunger and is born again. India is trying to solve her problems and may well
do so without foreign help. But adopting the policy ''Do not aid the hand that
tortures'' can only go against those who suffer. It might save ''British
taxpayer's money'', but that is a separate issue.

Yours sincerely,

ABHIJIT GUHA

Gonville and Caius College

Cambridge

22 May


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 5, 1992

GERMANS CLEAR IRA MAN OF ARMY BOMBING

BYLINE: DAVID GOW IN DUSSELDORF

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 455 words


THE first German trial of suspected IRA terrorists, designed to prove Germany's
reliability to Britain, ended yesterday with the acquittal on the main charges
of the sole remaining accused.

Gerry Hanratty, aged 33, was sentenced to 21 2 years' prison for illegal import
of weapons, including two Kalashnikovs and three revolvers, but acquitted of the
attempted murder of British soldiers and a bomb attack on a military barracks.

The five judges in the state high court were convinced that Mr Hanratty was a
Provisional IRA member in an active service unit on the continent.

But they found no evidence to prove that he had taken part in the July 1988 bomb
attack on Glamorgan barracks, Duisburg.

Ten soldiers were injured by the bombing and, in a car chase, shots were fired
at police. At least one of the weapons with Mr Hanratty at his arrest was said
to have been used in the Duisburg raid. Another was used in the August 1988
murder at Ostend of Warrant Officer Richard Deakins.

Mr Hanratty, arrested in August 1988 and held in detention since, remains in
custody since his extradition is being sought by Belfast crown court on charges
of illegal possession of weapons with intent to cause serious injury. He has
appealed to the federal constitutional court against extradition, arguing that
he faces torture in Castlereagh detention centre.

Peter Morre, the prosecutor, who had demanded life imprisonment for Mr Hanratty
and his alleged accomplice, Gerry McGeough, extradited last month to the US, had
to listen to the presiding judge, Wolfgang Steffen, demolish his case.

At the core of this was the assertion that Mr Hanratty and Mr McGeough were
leaders of the sole active service unit operating on the continent. But, giving
sentence, Mr Steffen said even the RUC's most experienced experts were unable to
say how many units operated and who belonged to them.

Mr Hanratty could have joined his unit with Mr McGeough after the Duisburg
attack, which took place seven weeks before the two were arrested by customs
guards at the "green border" between the Netherlands and Germany.

Mr Steffen also disputed that the weapons in the stolen car could only have been
used by the two men. They could equally have been used previously by another
unit, he said.

Mr Hanratty faced a maximum sentence on the weapons charges of five years, but
the court said he had shown no resistance on arrest, and had grown up in a
staunchly republican area where he had learnt early the disadvantages of the
Roman Catholic minority.

The trial opened on August 16 1990 and lasted 130 sittings. Costing pounds 2.4
million, it took evidence from 180 witnesses and experts from several countries.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 5, 1992, Friday

Suspected IRA men held in California

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 427 words


TWO MEN suspected of being on the run since the mass republican break-out from
the Maze prison, Northern Ireland, in 1983 have been apprehended by police in
California, it emerged yesterday.

The men are thought to be two of the 38 who broke out of the jail in what was
the biggest breach of prison security. They are being held for passport
offences.

They are believed to be Kevin Artt, 33, who was serving life for the murder of
the assistant governor of the Maze, and James Smyth, 47, who was sentenced to 20
years for the attempted murder of a prison officer. Both are originally from
Belfast.

It is believed they have been charged with making false statements to obtain a
passport. If their identity is confirmed, the British authorities can be
expected to initiate extradition proceedings.

The man thought to be Artt was arrested in San Diego, where he is believed to
have been working as a car salesman using the name of Kevin Keohane.

The man believed to be Smyth was arrested some 500 miles away in another part of
California.

Nineteen of the 38 men who broke out of the Maze were quickly recaptured. Of the
rest, four have since been extradited to Northern Ireland, two more were the
subject of unsuccessful extradition attempts and three have been killed in
terrorist incidents.

Some years ago a number of newspaper reports linked Artt to IRA activity in
Britain and on the Continent - a claim denied by both republican and security
force sources who said he had broken his links with the IRA and was thought to
be living in the US.

A German court yesterday sentenced Gerard Hanratty, a member of the IRA, to two
and a half years imprisonment for the illegal possession of firearms, writes
John Eisenhammer in Bonn.

The judge said that there was no doubt Hanratty was a member of the terrorist
organisation. The bulk of the prosecution's case, which had accused Hanratty of
attempted murder and participating in bomb attacks on British military
installations in Germany, had earlier been thrown out of court.

Although Hanratty has already spent nearly four years in detention, and
therefore will not serve any of yesterday's sentence, he remains in custody
pending a decision on a British extradition request to face charges of illegally
possessing firearms.

Hanratty and another Irishman, Terence McGeough, were arrested in 1988 near the
frontier with the Netherlands. The case against McGeough was dropped when he was
extradited last month to the US to face charges of illegal arms dealing 11 years
ago.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 5, 1992, Friday

Maze escape suspects held in US

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 270 words


First Edition

TWO MEN suspected of being on the run since the mass republican break-out from
the Maze prison, Northern Ireland, in 1983 have been apprehended by police in
California, it emerged yesterday.

The men are thought to be two of the 38 who broke out of the jail in what was
the biggest-ever breach of prison security. They are being held for passport
offences.

The two are thought to be Kevin Barry Artt, 33, who was serving life for the
murder of the assistant governor of the Maze, and James Joseph Smyth, 47, who
had been sentenced to 20 years for the attempted murder of a prison officer.
Both are originally from Belfast.

It is believed they have been charged with making false statements to obtain a
passport. If their identity is confirmed, the British authorities can be
expected to initiate extradition proceedings.

The man thought to be Artt was arrested in San Diego, where he is believed to
have been working as a car salesman using the name of Kevin Keohane.

The man believed to be Smyth was arrested some 500 miles away in another part of
California.

Nineteen of the 38 men who broke out of the Maze were quickly recaptured. Of the
rest, four have since been extradited to Northern Ireland, two more were the
subject of unsuccessful extradition attempts and three have been killed in
terrorist incidents.

Some years ago a number of newspaper reports linked Artt to IRA activity in
Britain and on the Continent - a claim denied by both republican and security
force sources who said he had broken his links with the IRA and was thought to
be living in the US.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 9, 1992

IRA SUSPECTS THOUGHT TO HAVE ELUDED NET;
Police alerted throughout country - New descriptions of murder hunt duo - Attack
'had all hallmarks of IRA'

BYLINE: MARTIN WAINWRIGHT AND DUNCAN CAMPBELL

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words


POLICE forces throughout Britain were yesterday alerted in the hunt for two
suspected IRA terrorists thought to be responsible for the murder of a special
constable.

Armed officers and heat-seeking army helicopters continued to search North
Yorkshire fields and woods near the spot where two unarmed policemen were gunned
down on Sunday morning.

Army and police explosives experts were yesterday deployed in the village of
Burton Salmon, near Leeds, and at the adjacent hamlet of Poole, where police
evacuated between 20 and 30 people while woodland was checked. Inspector Alan
Miller of North Yorkshire police said the teams were deployed as a precaution.
A police underwater search team was also called in.

More than 100 police, many armed, searched for a second day in Burton Salmon,
nearby Hillam and Brotherton and woods and fields between. Every house and
building has been visited, and police now accept that the men have almost
certainly fled.

Detectives believe the two men may have been involved in the small explosion at
the Royal Festival Hall, London, on Saturday night which caused limited damage.
Yesterday the IRA claimed responsibility for the attack.

Police have given more detailed descriptions of the two men. They are said to
have spoken briefly in soft, Irish accents to special constable Glenn Goodman
before shooting him with an automatic rifle at the Tadcaster junction on the A64
Leeds-York road.

Mr Goodman, aged 37 and father of a 10-month-old son, died in St James's
hospital, Leeds, several hours after the attack. His colleague, PC Sandy Kelly,
aged 32 and married with two children, was hit by four bullets but was said by
St James's to be out of danger after an operation yesterday.

Assistant Chief Constable John Giffard said the driver of the Sierra was white,
aged about 28, 5ft 9in tall, of medium build with short, mousey hair and a
mousey moustache. The other man was white, in his 40s with short, receding grey
hair brushed back. He was slim, 5ft 8in tall, clean-shaven, with a thinnish
face.

Police have traced ownership of the men's red Ford Sierra, registration C244
VPJ, up to 11 May but appealed for information about its whereabouts since then.
The car was abandoned and set on fire by the men at Burton Salmon after a second
police patrol car, alerted by a radio call from PC Kelly, had been fired on
nearby.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist squad, yesterday
said the attacks had all the hallmarks of the Provisional IRA. Officers in the
second patrol car described the gunmen as having an automatic rifle like a
Kalashnikov, a weapon often used by the IRA. Forensic experts are examining
bullets and casing from the scenes.

Detectives yesterday interviewed and eliminated from their inquiries a publican
from Sherburn in Elmet, close to the search area, who was approached outside his
pub on Sunday afternoon by two men with Irish accents, who offered to buy his
car. Patrick Pinkney was reported missing by his parents shortly afterwards.

Mr Giffard said he was as satisfied as he could be that Mr Pinkney, aged 33 and
a former soldier, and the Sherburn incident were not connected with the gunmen.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 9, 1992

TELEVISION: DOUBLE LIFE OF THE DEALER IN DEATH

BYLINE: HUGH HEBERT

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 787 words


JOURNALS kept by men whose lives have been dominated by deception always make me
feel cau tious. When the document has been written by an imprisoned double agent
who was working simultaneously for the terrorist wing of the Ulster Defence
Association and for British military intelligence, all the geiger-counters start
clicking.

In Dirty War (Panorama, BBC1) John Ware and Geoffrey Seed, the reporter and
producer, revealed the journal of Brian Nelson, the double agent jailed for 10
years for his involvement in attempted murders committed by Loyalist terrorists.
It's presented as the first real corroboration of a lot of what has already been
written - by Ware and Seed among others - and alleged in other television
programmes about Nelson's activities. The central accusation, as reported in
yesterday's Guardian, is that in the mid-1980s British army intelligence in
Northern Ireland failed to pass on to the RUC information that Nelson provided
about Loyalist terrorist plans to target Republicans.  Negligence on the part of
the army spooks, or intent? Worse, there is evidence that military intelligence
passed information the other way, helping the Loyalist terrorists to carry out
attacks.

At Nelson's trial, Colonel "J" gave the impression that the double agent's
information had saved the lives of a couple of hundred people. Yet the 1989
Stevens inquiry into leaks from security forces to Loyalist paramilitaries
(which first identified Nelson's role) could find only two lives that he saved.

Alongside this you have to weigh the evidence in last autumn's Dispatches (C4)
report alleging systematic collusion between the security forces and a tightly
knit circle of Loyalist paramilitary leaders and businessmen. This inner circle
was said to have planted sympathisers to make sure the Stevens inquiry did not
learn the whole truth.

More recently, This Week (Thames) suggested that because the Stevens inquiry
fingered Nelson, the UDA/UFF/ UVF axis had become so alarmed by the possible
existence of other double agents that it overhauled its cell structure, allowing
a much more violent leadership to emerge. In the past few months, Loyalist
paramilitaries have killed more of their opponents than the IRA has.
Incidentally, government attempts to scare off investigations in this area by
taking court action against Dispatches last month have not worked. Panorama
stuck to its guns.

Nelson's sister Carol tells how, when he told her he was working for British
intelligence, "It actually salved my conscience, as it were, that he's not
actually a terrorist, he's working for something that's against terrorism, for a
higher moral authority, ie the British Army, Britain, our way of life."

And her brother was "hooked", as he puts it in his journal. "One becomes
enmeshed in a world of intrigue, conspiracy, confidences, danger . . . The power
of this phenomenon acts like a drug."

It's a romantic bit of prose. But who had the ultimate power over him? Of his
two sponsors did only British intelligence knew he was a double agent? If
British intelligence was prepared to allow and even encourage internecine
murder, can you believe that they would never put the screws on Nelson to remain
as he was: the potential instrument of remote control assassination of IRA
suspects? Higher moral authority?

Leave aside vanity, arrogance, infidelity and driving under the influence: the
crimes of Steven Vey, the smart barrister and judge-elect at the centre of The
Guilty (Central), are no more than common peccadillos like rape and conspiracy
to murder.

It may be open season on lawyers, and high time, but this is the kind of
unsportsmanship that gets you kicked in the butts. In part one, Michael Kitchen,
for whom the role was written, doesn't stand much chance. Drunk on success in a
high-profile libel action, he rapes his new secretary, has her dismissed, tries
to buy her off when she threatens to expose him, then offers a former tearaway
pounds 20,000 to make her disappear. What he doesn't know is that the tearaway
is his illegitimate son escaping his criminal past in Birmingham to confront his
dad in London; where he has accidentally met and fallen for - you guessed - the
raped secretary.

Thrillers could not exist without carefully schemed plots. But this one is so
schematic you can hear each piece being banged into place with a power hammer.
Simon Burke (who wrote Chancer) offers the odd smart line and obligatory social
concern - why rape victims avoid the police, why tearaways tearaway, who judges
the judges; all negated by the stunning implausibility of events. Still, there
is more to come tonight, so who knows . . . I could yet be wrong.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 10, 1992

BRITISH INTELLIGENCE ASSESSES INFORMATION FROM COL GADAFY ON WEAPONS SHIPPED TO
IRA BY LIBYANS

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 416 words


BRITISH intelligence was last night studying information provided by Colonel
Gadafy about Libyan support for the IRA, and in particular the quantities of
weapons and Semtex explosive shipped to Ireland in the 1980s.

The information was given orally at a two-hour meeting in Geneva between Edward
Chaplin, charge d'affaires at the British mission to the United Nations, and a
four-man team led by Tripoli's ambassador to Tunisia, Abdul-Atti al-Obeidi.

After the meeting, described as friendly by Mr Obeidi - a former Libyan foreign
minister said to be close to Col Gadafy - Mr Chaplin said: "I received some
information, I'm transmitting it to London and we shall study it."

Evidence of Libyan involvement with the IRA surfaced in October 1987 when French
customs seized an Irish-crewed freighter, the Eksund. It was carrying 165 to 220
tonnes of arms, including Kalashnikov assault rifles, ground-to-air SAM-7
missiles, a million rounds of ammunition, and more than two tonnes of Semtex
explosive.

The French court which tried the crew was told that this was the fifth journey
to Ireland from 1985 to 1987. British intelligence sources estimate that several
tonnes of Semtex - enough to make thousands of car bombs - were among more than
100 tonnes of weapons smuggled into Ireland from Libya in 1985 and 1986.

Earlier this year, Libya was given a list of questions drawn up by MI6 and MI5
about weapons and money supplied to the IRA.

Asked if he had provided information on the arms shipments, Mr Obeidi said: "We
exchanged a lot of information which is useful to the purposes of Security
Council Resolution 731." That resolution, passed last January, calls on Libya to
"contribute to the elimination of international terrorism".

It refers indirectly to requests by Britain, France and the United States that
Libya hand over suspects allegedly involved in the 1988 Lockerbie airliner
bombing, and the blowing up of a French airliner over Niger the same year, with
the combined loss of 441 lives. On March 31, the Security Council voted to
impose an air and arms embargo if Libya did not comply within 15 days.

Mr Chaplin would not say whether the Lockerbie bombing was discussed. A Foreign
Office spokesman said before the meeting: "If the Libyans provide a full
response to the questions we have asked about their links [with the IRA], this
would be an indication of good intention and a step towards complying with UN
Security Council resolutions."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 16, 1992

Libya's IRA information 'may help'

SECTION: Pg. 44

LENGTH: 245 words


INFORMATION on Libya's state-sponsored support of the IRA contained "elements
which may prove helpful", the Foreign Office said yesterday in its first public
comments on the content of material handed over by Libyan officials.

However, a spokesman would not say whether the information contained names of
IRA gunmen trained in Libya or details of arms shipments.

The comments follow a two-hour session on June 9 between Libyan and British
officials at the United Nations' European headquarters, where the Libyans
answered questions drawn up by British security and intelligence services.

Libya's refusal to extradite the Lockerbie suspects led to UN arms and
diplomatic sanctions from April 15.

On Sunday, a government-controlled Libyan newspaper

attacked a speech by the chairman of Libya's highest legislature opposing
surrender to the west of two suspects in the Lockerbie bombing.

Al-Jamahiriya said Saturday's speech by Abdel-Razek al-Sousa'a, secretary
-general of the General People's Congress, does not represent the views of the
Libyan people.

In the opening session, al-Sousa'a charged that the US, Britain, and France had
"manufactured" the bombing charges as a pretext for "an act of aggression"
against Libya.

The current session of the congress ostensibly is to decide the fate of the
Libyan pair charged in the US and Britain with planting the bomb that blew up
Pan Am Flight 103 in December 1988, killing 270 people.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 16, 1992

Scotland leads field in job prospects

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 672 words


JOB prospects in Scotland are predicted to remain good for the third quarter of
1992, according to a survey by Manpower, the leading employment services
company. The survey was carried out in May among 1950 employers, including the
majority of the top 100 companies in the UK. They say that 30% of employers in
Scotland anticipate increasing employment in the three months, against only 10%
predicting a decrease, which results in a balance of 20%.

This is a continued improvement on last quarter's balance of 14%, and only
marginally lower than at the same time last year, when the balance was 21%. The
result, says Manpower, means that Scotland remains away ahead of the national
average which registered +6 for the coming quarter.

Charting depths of Loch Ness

LOCH Ness may yield its secrets next month when Britain's top freshwater
scientists launch an intensive study. The last underwater survey -- in 1903 --
was carried out from a rowing boat using a lead weight and a long piece of piano
wire. This time the 150-ton MV Simrad, equipped with the most modern sonar
technology, will map the depths. The scientists have been brought together by
Project Urqhuart, named after Urqhuart Castle on the loch banks.

Tiniest baby making progress

THE world's tiniest baby, born two months prematurely, is now able to breathe on
his own. Tyler Davison, who measured just 6in and weighed 11ozs when he was born
a week ago, is in the baby care unit at Nottingham City Hospital with his twin
Stephen, who weighed 2lb 2oz. Their mother, Caterina Davison, 31, of Lincoln,
gave birth by Caesarean section.

Signing up for peace

A BID to get one million people throughout Ireland to sign a peace petition was
launched yesterday in Belfast. It is being spearheaded by the Peace Train
Organisation, a cross-border pressure group which has been demanding an end to
IRA bomb attacks on the Dublin-Belfast railway line. A special caravan tour has
been planned to gather support, and the declaration for peace is being sent to
schools, colleges, churches, and inter-denominational organisations all over
Ireland.

Firemen tackle forest blaze

A FOREST fire in Sutherland yesterday brought helicopter water-bombers and
firemen into action for the sixth time in two weeks. At one stage the main
Inverness to Wick trunk road was closed at Navidale as sixty firemen, from
Inverness, Wick, Helmsdale, Golspie, Dornoch, and Lairg, and volunteer beaters
helped by two water-bombing helicopters battled to bring the fire, burning deep
down in the peat under the trees of the privately-owned forest, under control.

Plea in disco death

DETECTIVES investigating the death of 29-year-old Mr David Watt, in Zanzi-Bars
disco, Motherwell, two weeks ago made a fresh appeal for help yesterday from the
public. In particular, police are anxious to trace a group of women who appeared
to be having an office night out at the disco. It is believed that they took
photographs which may prove invaluable.

Breakthrough on irradiation

SCOTS scientists have developed the first reliable test to determine whether
herbs and spices have been irradiated. The test is seen as an important step
towards public acceptance of irradiation which was permitted under the 1990 Food
Safety Act, and is the first to be recognised by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Fisheries, and Food for the irradiation of any type of food. One of the benefits
of irradiation is that it kills off bacteria in food thereby extending its
shelf-life. The thermoluminescene (TL) test was developed with funding from MAFF
at the Scottish Universities Research and Reactor Centre at East Kilbride.

Woman killed in road accident

MRS Joyce Wright, 51, of Tor Cottage, Calderglen Country Park, East Kilbride was
killed yesterday when her car was in collision with a lorry on the Strathaven to
East Kilbride road outside the park. Her daughter Emma, 12, was taken to
hospital suffering from shock but later released. The lorry driver was also
uninjured.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 1992, Wednesday

IRA hijacks taxi to plant London bomb with IRA bomb

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 482 words


TWO IRA terrorists carrying a Semtex bomb forced a mini-cab driver to cruise
around London's West End at gunpoint for nearly an hour, abandoning the device
in the car minutes before it exploded at midnight on Monday.

The driver, a Greek man of 35, who ran from the car and escaped unharmed, was
interviewed for most of yesterday by Anti-Terrorist Branch police from Scotland
Yard before being released. Police would not say whether he was in protective
custody.

The hijacking, which police said was ''clearly premeditated'', is the first by
the IRA in mainland Britain, although such incidents are common in Northern
Ireland.

Police have not yet issued a detailed description of the two men, who used
baseball caps and dark glasses to disguise their appearances. Both had Irish
accents and wore dark clothes. They were in their middle to late twenties and
about 5ft 7ins in height.

The incident began at about 10.30pm on Monday when the two men went to a
mini-cab office in Upper Holloway, north London. They told the mini-cab booker,
who had a restricted view of the men through a peephole, that they wanted to go
to the West End, several miles away. One of the men got into the front passenger
seat of the gold-coloured Mercedes and the other sat in the back. Each had a
rucksack.

According to Scotland Yard, when the car reached Shaftesbury Avenue about 30
minutes later, the man in the passenger seat pulled out a handgun and said to
the driver that they were the IRA and if he did what he was told, he would not
be hurt. At gunpoint, the driver obeyed their request to drive around and took
them through Trafalgar Square, Piccadilly and St James. Police said that it was
not clear whether the men were looking for a target or killing time. At one
point they asked the driver to stop while they examined the rucksacks, one of
which carried the bomb.

Just before midnight, they ordered him to drive into St Alban's Street, between
Regent Street and Haymarket near Piccadilly Circus, where he was asked to stop.
The men then told him that the bomb would go off in 15 minutes and ran away,
taking the car keys.

The driver also ran away and had flagged down a police car by the time the
device exploded. No one was injured but the car was destroyed and considerable
damage caused to buildings near by.

''The device contained two to three pounds of explosive and we are satisfied it
was the work of the Provisional IRA,'' a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said. No one
has yet claimed responsibility for the incident.

The incident is the third IRA attack in central London in eight days, in each
case using similar-sized bombs and without causing injuries. On 7 June, a bomb
exploded outside the Royal Albert Hall; three days later a bomb was planted in a
flower box in Victoria Street, near Scotland Yard and the Houses of Parliament.

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 22, 1992, Monday

Science: Handle with care: the tricky business of shipping plutonium

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CROSS

SECTION: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 1200 words


ALONGSIDE a wharf in Yokohama, Japan, lies a ship with no name and no flag. The
7,000-ton freighter, formerly the British- registered Pacific Crane, is awaiting
a new identity as the latest act of Japan's determination to bring home about 30
tons of its own property from Britain and France. On a secret date later this
year, the freighter will load at Cherbourg in Normandy, then, in company with a
specially-built armed escort ship, take a previously undisclosed non-stop route
to Japan. American warships, aircraft and satellites will watch it every mile of
the way.

The secrecy and surveillance are needed because the convoy's cargo will be
plutonium, best known as the raw material for nuclear bombs. It is part of a
stockpile that Europe's nuclear reprocessing plants, Sellafield in Cumbria and
its French equivalent at Cap de la Hague, Normandy, are extracting from spent
fuel brought there from Japanese nuclear power stations. The new reprocessing
plant at Sellafield, subject of the Greenpeace protest at the weekend, is partly
paid for by the Japanese.

Although this plutonium does not contain the concentration of fissile Pu-239
that professional bomb-makers prefer, it is nasty stuff. American experts
believe that as little as 8kg would make a nuclear bomb. Over the next 20 years
or so, shipments from Cherbourg and Barrow-in-Furness will carry about 30 tons
on the high seas. No one believes that the Japanese government, a leading
contributor to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), is setting up its
own Manhattan Project. The plutonium is destined for consumption in civil
reactors.

The next stage in this process, a plutonium-fuelled fast-breeder reactor called
Monju, in western Japan, is due to start up in March 1993. According to the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry in Tokyo, Monju will pave the way
for a new generation of reactors which will ''breed'' yet more plutonium,
freeing Japan from dependence on imported energy. But for campaigners against
nuclear power, the plutonium shipments could be the best thing since Jane Fonda.
Plutonium, because of its suitability for bomb-making, creates a link between
civil nuclear power and nuclear weapons - something the nuclear industry has
always struggled to avoid; the US abandoned civil plutonium in the late
Seventies.

This is a particularly sensitive issue in Japan, where suspicion of nuclear
weapons is a national preoccupation. Elsewhere in the world, the shipments raise
an equally emotive spectre: of resurgent Japanese militarism. This month, the
campaign against plutonium shipments fired its first international salvo. A
group known as Japanese Citizens Concerned About Plutonium took out a full-page
advertisement in the New York Times which accused Japan of ''spending billions
of dollars to build a stockpile of plutonium equal to that in the US and former
Soviet arsenals combined''. It urged readers to write in protest to the US and
Japanese governments. ''If we let plutonium spread now, hope vanishes for ever.
We will leave our children an unsolvable nuclear problem. They will never feel
secure,'' the advertisement said.

Campaigners say that plutonium cargoes will pose three types of danger. The
first is straightforward maritime mishap. According to a study by the US
environmentalist consultants ECO Engineering, a shipboard fire might easily
exceed the limits to which fuel casks are designed.

Neither would they withstand sinking in deep water. The report - which
Greenpeace commissioned - said that the convoy would have to make non-stop
voyages of up to 17,000 miles through some of the roughest seas in the world.
''The ship will also be carrying a disproportionate amount of fuel oil for a
vessel of its size which gives added concern for fires should that fuel be
ignited for any reason, including a ship collision or terrorist strike.''

Campaigners claim that an explosion could release up to 15 times the
radioactivity of the Chernobyl disaster. But the IAEA, which claims
responsibility for regulating nuclear shipments, says that no leak of
radioactivity has happened in 30 years of carrying nuclear fuels by sea.

The Japanese government says it is confident that the containers are safe.
Nevertheless the prospect of mishap, however remote, raises the question of
liability for accidents: hence the reflagging of the Pacific Crane, whose former
owner was a British-Japanese venture called Pacific Nuclear Transport Ltd.

The second risk is that terrorists or an unscrupulous government might attack or
hijack the cargo. This is the main concern of the US government, which has
jurisdiction over the shipments. In 1988, it gave permission for transport of
the waste on condition that Japan provide an armed escort. Because of its
pacifist constitution, Tokyo could not give the job to the Japanese navy - so it
spent nearly pounds 90m on a special coastguard ship to do the job. The
6,500-ton Shikishima, commissioned earlier this year, is armed with two pairs of
35mm cannon, two 20mm machine-guns and carries two unarmed helicopters.
Washington is urging Tokyo to provide a more powerful escort.

The final reason for concern is that bringing plutonium home will set a bad
example in a politically unstable part of the world. The country's most
prominent anti-nuclear activist, Dr Jinzaburo Takagi, says that Japan already
has a surplus of plutonium and that shipments from Europe will create ''an
enormous stockpile''. The prospect has already caused political embarrassment to
Tokyo.

Neighbouring North Korea, under IAEA investigation for allegedly setting up a
clandestine atomic bomb programme, earlier this year cited Japan's plutonium
programme as a reason to continue with its own ''peaceful'' nuclear research.
Another country that may have nuclear ambitions is Taiwan.

Further international embarrassments may be on their way this summer as the
campaign against the shipments gathers momentum. The large number of countries
potentially involved complicates the situation. Theoretically, the plutonium
convoys have a choice of four routes from Europe to Japan: via the Panama Canal,
around the Cape of Good Hope, around Cape Horn or through the Suez Canal.
Although the last is presumably unacceptable on security grounds, campaigners
are trying to stir up opposition in the 80 countries lying along all four
routes. They now believe that the Cape of Good Hope route is the most likely,
perhaps with the ships rounding Australia to avoid politically tense areas such
as the South China Sea.

So far, the Japanese government has shown no sign of backing down over the
shipments. Officials will reveal no details except that the shipments are
scheduled for this autumn.

Opponents, too, are coy about their next step. They also face a public relations
quandary: if plutonium cargoes are as dangerous as claimed, then physically
obstructing them would be the height of irresponsibility. ''Our intention is to
use purely political pressure,'' says Rebecca Johnson, of Greenpeace's
international nuclear weapons campaign. ''I'm not going to be drawn into
discussing any possibility of direct action.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 4, 1992

Security stepped up after bombings injure 21 in Belfast city centre

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 484 words


EXTRA security checks returned to Belfast city centre yesterday after two bombs
devastated property and injured 21 people.

Many businesses and offices were severely damaged by the IRA attacks early
yesterday but there was relief that no-one had been killed.

The casualties centred on a small restaurant, Larry's Piano Bar in Bedford
Street, where a 200lb car bomb exploded without warning while late-night diners
were inside.

Northern Ireland's Security Minister, Mr Michael Mates, later visited the scene
and declared that it was impossible to guard totally Belfast's central
precincts.

He said that to do so would require a level of security which would inhibit
everyday life. The aim was to balance the need for Belfast to enjoy a degree of
normality against the continuing risk of terrorist attacks.

The latest attacks occurred as traders and businessmen were just recovering from
the effects of IRA bombings in the same area earlier this year.

Many are still waiting for compensation from the previous bombings. Mr Mates
promised interim payments to help get businesses on the move again.

He condemned those responsible for the bombings, pointing out that a charity
centre had been destroyed and a restaurant targeted deliberately, despite the
fact that people were inside.

One of Belfast's landmarks, the Ulster Hall in Bedford Street, was also damaged
as was a theatre adjoining it. A summer drama scheme for teenagers from
different parts of the city has been cancelled at the theatre.

The area around Bedford Street was hit by an 800lb bomb last January and some of
the buildings are still in need of repair, including a multi-storey office block
which houses the Northern Ireland headquarters of the European Commission.

The bombings present a dilemma for the security forces who are anxious not to
have an unduly high profile in Belfast to enable the city to build up an image
of normality. IRA activity had been noticeably scaled down in recent weeks.

The RUC is known to have made significant arrests. It is believed that a man in
custody since last month was behind many of the earlier bombings in the Belfast
area.

Whether the IRA can sustain a new bombing campaign remains to be seen but police
sources have expressed some confidence recently that the terrorists' Belfast
brigade is under severe pressure from the security forces.

* The IRA has claimed responsibility for planting a series of firebombs in
Milton Keynes last week. A statement issued by the terrorist group in Dublin
yesterday said one of its units had placed the incendiary devices, which
exploded last Thursday, "causing damage to prime commercial property".

The statement accused police in Britain of adopting a policy of deliberately
ignoring IRA bomb warnings or failing to clear areas targeted in warnings.
Detectives later rejected the IRA's claims.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Devastation: passers-by survey the damage caused by the two car bombs
which wrecked offices and businesses in the heart of Belfast

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                           August 12, 1992, Wednesday

300LB IRA BOMB SEIZED BY YARD;
PLOT TO DEASTATE WEST END FOILED AS POLICE RAID HOMES

BYLINE: Adrian Shaw, Geoff Garvey, Patrick Mcgowan,Lynne Curry

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1467 words


AN IRA plot to explode a 300-pound bomb in London has been foiled by Scotland
Yard after a weeks-long undercover operation.

The bomb - half as big again as the one that devastated a large part of the City
when it went off outside the Baltic Exchange in April - is understood to have
been discovered in a van in London.

The news came as anti-terrorist squad officers arrested three men in a
co-ordinated series of midnight raids on houses at Hanwell and at Cheshunt in
Hertfordshire.

Anti-Terrorist Branch detectives believe the vehicle was due to have been left
in the West End on Saturday night. The bomb, the biggest ever on the mainland of
Britain, could have caused unimaginable carnage.

The van was one of three which had been kept under observation for several weeks
by surveillance teams. On Saturday one of the vans was 'lost' and Scotland Yard
then decided to impound the two remaining vehicles.

It was then that the bomb was discovered - and there is now the fear that the
missing van also contains explosives.

Said a police source: 'If the bomb had been detonated in the West End then
scores, if not hundreds, of people could have been killed and injured.'

After the discovery, armed police mounted today's huge operation in which the
three men were arrested.

Two were held after officers from Scotland Yard's PT17 firearms unit took up
positions with Heckler and Koch sub-machine guns outside a house in Cowper Road,
Hanwell, soon after midnight.

A third was arrested after police raided a council flat in Cheshunt. It is
believed an arms cache of guns and bomb-making equipment was recovered.

They were taken to top-security Paddington Green police station where they were
questioned about recent IRA bombings,

These include the Baltic Exchange attack the day after the general election in
which three people were killed and nearly a hundred injured. The same day, a
bomb went off at Staples Corner, bringing chaos to north London.

Scotland Yard refused to comment on today's arrests or any discoveries of bombs
or weapons. They said they were 'not prepared to discuss the situation'.

Police sources said the three men were also being questioned about the recent
firebombs placed at a shopping centre in Milton Keynes.

The Cheshunt raid involved more than 50 police, many of them armed, who swooped
on a second-floor flat in a council block in the town centre.

Housewife Yvonne Ireland said: 'There were loads and loads of police everywhere
with guns and dogs - about 50 or 60 of them. Then the bomb squad came and took
some bags of stuff away,' said mother-of-four Mrs Ireland, 43, who lives in a
neighbouring block.

''

Neighbours said the flat had been occupied for about a year by an Irish family.

'''

'

'

'

'''

'

''

The flat was empty when between 15 to 20 armed officers broke in.

Scott Wood, 16, said he saw armed officers run up to the flat. 'All the Old Bill
was belting up the stairs, booting the door down, and they had guns and
bullet-proof vests,' he said.

Another neighbour, Maria Felstead, 25, said of the occupants of the flat: 'They
were very nice people. The children were lovely. My daughter goes in to play
with them.'

She added that the woman took her children back home to their family in Ireland
at the beginning of the school holidays with her sister, who was visiting.

The man stayed in England, said Mrs Felstead, adding that she heard him next
door as recently as the weekend.

In the Hanwell raid, police searched the house and arrested two men nearby. A
neighbour told how two men were led away in handcuffs by police carrying machine
guns.

A trainee chartered accountant who lives three doors away was woken by the sound
of police dogs barking in the street outside.

'I looked out and the road was blocked with police vehicles,' he said.

Hanwell has a large, floating Irish population.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           August 12, 1992, Wednesday

Ministers resist calls to ban UDA on mainland

BYLINE: By Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 438 words


THE government is resisting demands from MPs to extend its ban on the Ulster
Defence Association to mainland Britain. Although there is support for the
outlawed organisation in Protestant areas of Scotland, Kenneth Clarke, the home
secretary, has decided that it does not pose a terrorist threat on the mainland.

Mr Clarke has consulted Ian Lang, the Scottish secretary, and Sir Patrick
Mayhew, Northern Ireland secretary, about outlawing the Loyalist paramilitary
group on the mainland but has decided that there are sufficient powers under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act to hinder its activities. Under the act, it is an
offence to raise money or accept funds to further terrorist activities or to
benefit proscribed organisations. The UDA was outlawed from midnight on Monday.

The banning order applies solely to Northern Ireland. The only paramilitary
organisations banned throughout the United Kingdom are the IRA and the Irish
National Liberation Army.

Scottish Labour MPs said yesterday that it would be logical to widen the ban on
the UDA to include Scotland, where rivalry between Protestants and Catholics
still existed, though without the violence that characterises the divisions in
Northern Ireland. Scotland has long been a source of support for the Loyalist
cause, both financially and, it is suspected, in the supply of arms. In 1989,
six Loyalists were jailed for 64 years for conspiring to support terrorism in
Northern Ireland by making and obtaining ammunition and explosives.

In 1979, Jim Hamilton, supreme commander of the UDA in Scotland, was jailed for
16 years for his part in a plot to supply arms to Northern Ireland. He was one
of 11 men sentenced to a total of 215 years. In 1987, two arms dealers were
jailed for 11 years by Bristol Crown Court for sending five anti-tank rockets to
Glasgow for the UDA.

Fundraising, and even contributing to funds, for the UDA is expected to be
outlawed in Britain. But fundraising for UDA prisoners' families would not be
illegal, according to Professor Steve Bruce, author of The Red Hand, Loyalist
Paramilitaries in Northern Ireland, to be published this month.  Sympathisers
could continue raising money simply by changing the name of their organisation
to, say, the Association for the Defence of Ulster, he added.

He said that fundraising was by far the most important activity for the UDA in
Scotland. Arms could be obtained more easily from overseas, from South Africa,
for instance. During the 1970s, however, a steady trickle of explosives found
their way from Scotland to Northern Ireland, mostly stolen from the mining
industry.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 13, 1992

Commercial Union all smiles as red ink disappears.  Dividend is maintained as
second quarter is in black

BYLINE: Andrew Wilson

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 653 words


COMMERCIAL Union had its tail up yesterday with chief executive Tony Brend
positively purring with satisfaction as Britain's most internationally
diversified insurance company came out with a second quarter profit.

Admittedly that was small beer at £2.3m. But it was struck after a totally
unexpected charge of £15m for IRA bombing which temporarily destroyed its City
of London headquarters -- the atrocity cost over £800m overall.

That has left the loss after six months reduced from £26.3m to £18.1m but the
interim dividend has been maintained at 9.25p a share. And there seems no risk
to the final so that the shares at 443p, up 8p, will yield 7.1% on the 23.65p
total dividend.

Mr Brend maintained that there are better conditions pertaining in the UK with
general insurance globally benefiting from higher premium rates.

In the domestic market, the motor side, perhaps the most high profile although
CU is a relatively minor player with just 600,000 private accounts -- and those
being largely the over 30's and named drivers, was little changed at just over
break-even despite soaring theft claims because of the recession. These have
risen by two thirds over the last two years.

That economic factor is also significant in industrial fire where arson is
increasingly involving the fraud squads. More positively, subsidence claims have
halved in the half year to £9m although the continuing dry weather in southern
England still poses a question over the longer term outlook for that account.

The underlying performance on the life side benefited from a 22% rise in
premiums although profits were held back by expansion costs overseas. The star
performance came from the somewhat unsung Delta Lloyd in Holland which is the
largest individual contributor to profits for a group which earns 60% of its
earnings beyond these shores.

That earnings weighting is reflected in the investment portfolio where over two
thirds of the equity holdings are overseas with the emphasis on Europe and
particularly Germany.

Finance director Tony Wyand reckons that Wall Street is overvalued -- the
dividend yield on the Standard and Poors index is just 2.6% -- while the
exposure to Tokyo in an insignificant £12m. Although Germany and France are
under pressure at present they represent good, medium term value. That view was
applauded by a leading fund manager who echoed the CU sentiment that the UK
equity market is possibly one to avoid at present with some of his more bearish
colleagues looking to the FTSE 100 dropping a couple of hundred points to 2100
or so.

Property exposure is some 25% of the portfolio but again largely overseas with
UK commercial development having being capped in terms of new projects in 1987
and what there is are largely regional city centres which have escaped the icy
chills of the London market. The overall UK property portfolio has been written
down by 13%.

Perhaps the biggest worry is the London market for marine and aviation through
the Institute of London Underwriters where losses have been running at roughly
£14m a quarter for the last year with no early amelioration in sight.

CU is the largest player in marine with a 15% share and has to watch the overall
deterioration in the global fleet because of recession while awaiting the
benefits from the much higher quality new vessels that will enter the fleet as
legislation tightens its safety grip.

It has been a long time since one has seen a company more confident than CU
which reckons that there is only one way for the insurance cycle to go at
present -- and that is upwards. It can be argued that CU is the best managed of
the composites, and detractors would have their work cut out.

Full year profits could well end up at around £20m compared with last year's
£69m loss and with the prospect of a significant reserve strengthening advance
next year.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 13, 1992

Undercover police foil IRA bid to bomb London

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 430 words


AN IRA plot to blow up London's West End with a 300lb car bomb was foiled by
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, according to reports last night.

The bomb, the biggest yet on mainland Britain, is thought to have been
discovered by detectives staking out a suspected IRA cell.

Senior officers think terrorists planned to detonate it on Saturday night, when
the West End would have been crowded with people going to theatres and cinemas.

The explosives were understood to have been packed in a van, one of three
vehicles tailed by undercover surveillance teams over the past few weeks.

Detectives reportedly decided to move in when one of the vans was "lost". They
impounded the two remaining vehicles -- one of which was said to be loaded with
the explosives.

The reports came after a day of frantic police activity with a series of raids
by anti-terrorist squad officers in London, Hertfordshire, and possibly
elsewhere, during which at least three men were understood to have been
arrested.

The suspects were believed to have been taken to London's Paddington Green
police station for questioning about recent IRA atrocities on the mainland.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, remained silent throughout about the operation, and again last night
refused to comment on latest reports of the plot.

Police sources said the operation was on-going and there were good operational
reasons for saying nothing.

Two men were understood to have been arrested early yesterday morning after a
raid at a house in Cowper Road, Hanwell, London, and a third following a raid at
a council maisonette in Coopers Walk, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire.

Questioning of the suspects in London was last night understood to have prompted
police inquiries in Dublin.

Sources in the Irish capital said one of those held in London was a Dubliner,
and the other two were from Monaghan and Cavan.

Meanwhile, a number of people were arrested in Northern Ireland last night after
gunmen exchanged fire with the security forces. An operation was mounted after a
series of incidents on the republican Ballycoleman estate in Strabane, County
Tyrone.

The father of a 22-year-old man branded the IRA as murdering liars last night
over its claims that his son had been a former member of the organisation and a
police informer.

The body of Robin Hill from Coalisland, Tyrone, was found bound and gagged with
a bullet wound in the head in an alleyway in the Beechmount area of west Belfast
earlier in the day.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 14, 1992

POLICE ON TRAIL OF IRA BOMB UNIT

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL, CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 449 words


POLICE were yesterday hunting members of what they believe to be an IRA active
service unit which was preparing to carry out car bomb explosions in London.

Anti-terrorist branch sources confirmed for the first time yesterday that a
number of people had been held following raids over the last three days and a
"substantial haul" of explosives and munitions have been seized.

The raids followed a tip-off from a member of the public and a continuing
anti-terrorist surveillance operation.

But sources dismissed as "ill-informed speculation" reports of a plan to place a
car bomb in the West End of London tomorrow night. They also denied reports that
a van packed with explosives had eluded capture or that any assembled bomb had
been on the streets of London.

"There was an active service unit here to place large devices on the streets of
London," said a source. "We do not know what their targets were. The
investigation is at an early stage and we are hopeful of its outcome."

Speculation about a West End bomb was completely unsubstantiated and had not
helped the operation. All the vehicles sought by police had been traced and at
no stage had the public been at risk from a bomb in a vehicle. No 300 lb bomb
had been found. It is understood that five people, believed to be three men and
two women, have been taken into police custody so far.

This follows three raids: in Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, on Monday, in Hanwell,
west London, on Tuesday, and in Southall, west London, on Wednesday. It is
believed that all five are being held at the top security Paddington Green
police station in west London.

Component parts of home-made explosives, not Semtex, had been found in more than
one location in London. The haul is believed to several hundred pounds of
bomb-making material. "Munitions" had also been found.

The operation, which anti-terrorist sources said was triggered off by a vigilant
member of the public, was continuing. It was still too early to say what its
conclusion might be.

No names, ages or genders of those held, or even the numbers of people detained,
were divulged by police, because, said the source, they did not want to give
vital information to the IRA about the operation.

In a statement yesterday, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, said: "A number of people have been arrested and are
being detained under the provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act."

He asked members of the public to continue to report suspicious incidents or
purchases of vehicles.

A total of 86 people have been detained in Britain under the PTA in the first
six months of this year.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                            August 18, 1992, Tuesday

Action against 'Baghdad bully' looms within days

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words


THE build-up for the biggest military operation since the Gulf War intensified
today as John Major prepared to join a new crackdown on Iraq.

Britain, America and France appeared only days away from action against Saddam
Hussein in the shape of a no-go zone for his warplanes in the skies above
southern Iraq.

The Prime Minister, breaking his holiday to deal with the emergencies in Iraq
and in Bosnia, called key ministers and defence chiefs to an emergency meeting
at Downing Street.

The meeting was dramatically interrupted by reports that an RAF relief plane had
come under anti-aircraft fire in Sarajevo. The attackers, according to a UN
source, locked on to the aircraft with target-seeking radar.

'The plane fired flares and chaff to evade fire but was locked onto again,' said
the source, who declined to be identified. 'As it was manoeuvring, the crew
think they were fired upon by 20mm anti-aircraft cannon.'

The authorities immediately ordered the airport to be closed. The incident
rammed home for ministers the high risk of intervening both in what was
Yugoslavia, and in the Gulf.

The aim, in Iraq, is to force the 'Baghdad bully', as President Bush branded him
yesterday, to halt his terror bombing of the population and of groups of Shia
Moslem rebels in the marshlands around the port of Basra.

Imposing a no-go air zone would mean that any Iraqi fixed-wing military aircraft
entering the area would risk being shot down.

The plan was backed today by both Labour and the Liberal Democrats.  Labour
foreign affairs spokesman George Robertson said that if such a zone was set up
under a UN resolution, then it was right that all the Gulf War allies should be
involved.

Mr Major was joined at Downing Street by Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd - also
interrupting his holiday - and Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind, plus other
ministers from the Treasury, the Foreign Office and the Trade and Industry
Department.

The meeting opened with a full briefing on the military options from Field
Marshal Sir Richard Vincent, the Chief of the Defence Staff.

Attorney General Sir Nicholas Lyell was also called in to advise on the terms of
any action, to enforce resolutions laid down by the United Nations.

The aim, by enforcing an air exclusion zone south of the 32nd parallel, would be
to provide the people in the south with the same kind of safe haven already
given to the Kurds under attack by Saddam in northern Iraq.

The main weight of any action will be borne by the US, led by fighters from
carriers in the Gulf.

The Bush administration continued strongly to deny that the new heat on Saddam
Hussein was a ploy to boost the President's chances of re-election.

Senior Republicans in Houston said that confrontation with Iraq is now 'two or
three weeks down the road'.

Today's Downing Street meeting was also looking at the other crisis on the
agenda and plans to send British planes and, possibly, troops to aid the relief
convoys to Bosnia.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 24, 1992

Allies give Saddam deadline for attack over 'no-fly' zone

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 301 words


Washington, Sunday

US officials today warned Baghdad that the Western allies were preparing to
shoot down military jets and helicopters over southern Iraq from Tuesday.

Officials of the Bush administration said the US, Britain, and France expected
to begin enforcing a "no-fly" military zone south of the 32nd parallel in Iraq
to prevent Iraqi warplanes from attacking Shi'ite Muslim dissidents.

A formal warning to Iraq from the United Nations to cease flying in the area and
to abide by the UN's Gulf War resolutions is also thought to be imminent.

The US State Department warned American travellers to avoid Jordan and cautioned
against travel in the Middle East, South Asia, and North Africa because of
mounting tensions with Iraq.

The Jordan warning cited "the increased risk of possible terrorist acts directed
against the US Government or US citizens in the area".

Despite vows from Baghdad that President Saddam Hussein would defy the flight
exclusion zone, like one now in effect protecting Kurds in northern Iraq, the
officials said Saddam will have to bow to force.

Shi'ite Muslims in southern Iraq were reported yesterday to be under a new
ground attack as Baghdad stepped up opposition to the proposed exclusion zone.

Saad Jabr, leader of the London-based Free Iraq Council, said residents both in
Iraq and across the border in Iran could hear an artillery bombardment of Iraq's
southern marshlands.

The Foreign Office in London said it had heard similar reports but had no
details.

Yesterday it was reported that six RAF Tornado reconnaissance aircraft and two
refuelling tankers were expected to leave for the Gulf by the middle of next
week. It has not been disclosed whether they will be based at Dharan in Saudi
Arabia or Bahrain.--Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 29, 1992, Saturday

Grim milestone of 3,000 Ulster killings

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 572 words


THERE used to be a saying in Belfast, in the early days of the Troubles, that
''things will get worse before they get better''. Many people subscribed to that
theory, yet no one believed that what lay ahead was more than two decades of
violence leading to this terrible milestone of 3,000 deaths.

Several political and other sources yesterday deplored the fact that the
casualty list had mounted to such a pitch, one Irish newspaper pointing out that
on a pro rata basis the 3,000 casualties represent the equivalent of almost
120,000 killings in Britain.

Sweeping changes may have taken place politically, economically and socially,
but the one constant has been the violence. In times of political inactivity,
paramilitary groups move in to fill the vacuum; and when progress appears
possible, they act to sabotage it.

Most people in Northern Ireland wish to see an end to the violence, but there
are substantial minorities, both Catholic and Protestant, who support the use of
force for political ends. There are many who will not use the word ''murder'' to
describe killings by their own side. A striking number of people from both
communities can give chapter and verse on the violence inflicted on their side,
but can talk for an hour without referring to the actions of their
co-religionists. Some Catholic priests and Protestant ministers have a
particular talent for doing this.

Such devices are obviously useful for transforming any sense of guilt into the
more desirable feeling of being a victim. When their side's misdeeds are pointed
out, the response is often to take refuge in ''what-aboutery''. Thus, a
republican pressed about IRA violence will often retort: ''What about the Army
and the Prods shooting people?'' A loyalist will respond with: ''What about the
IRA?''

Most people, however, tend not to dwell on the violence, preferring to take
refuge in what has been called the culture of escapism. Most people who can
afford it have moved out of the real trouble spots, which are today largely
concentrated in a few well-defined areas of Belfast, Armagh, Tyrone and
Londonderry.

These areas have suffered from an appalling concentration of violence. The
border village of Castlederg, for example, has been devastated by a republican
campaign against Protestants with security-force associations. The graveyard of
one little Presbyterian church contains the bodies of nine Protestants killed by
the IRA.

On a larger scale, the north Belfast area has experienced almost one-fifth of
all deaths during the Troubles. There are Catholics there who can reel off the
names of a dozen or more relatives and friends who have been killed. Such an
intensity of death creates much bitterness and, often, a desire for revenge.

The constant drip of death has brutalised many, to the point where they take
pleasure in hearing of the death of those they perceive as opponents. Their
hearts hardened to the point where their sorrow is reserved for their own side.
The deep sense of having been victimised and wronged, coupled with a lack of
appreciation that others have been victimised and wronged also, has been a
factor which has helped the death toll to mount.

That toll is an awful one: 3,000 people who should not have died, with a further
33,000 injured. And beyond them, no one knows how many lives and families have
been shattered beyond repair in this still unresolved conflict.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 9, 1992, Wednesday

Extending the hand of comfort

BYLINE: By ROBERT RODWELL

SECTION: LIVING PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 814 words


Nurses staffing the busy accident and emergency unit of Belfast's City Hospital
have, on their own initiative, set up a support service for the many bereaved
relatives suffering the trauma of a totally unexpected death in the family. And
in the process, they have found that they, too, have become better able to cope
with the stress of losing people in their care.

Their unit handled almost 56,000 casualties last year, ranging from from a
simple cut incurred in the kitchen to critical injuries suffered in a terrorist
bombing or gun attack.

''We felt we were not caring for the bereaved as we should, that we were shying
away from it and that we were inadequate,'' Senior Sister Doreen Patton says.
The upshot was the formation almost a year ago of the department's own
bereavement support group.

Its primary purpose is to help relatives to cope with the initial shock of
bereavement and to reach, through proper grief, an acceptance of the death.
Their initial research established that, in the UK, little work has been done in
this field: only two hospitals in mainland Britain are known to offer similar
help. Counsellors from Cruse, the

bereavement support service, advised the unit's staff on relatives' reactions to
sudden death.

''We were warned that there is often a lot of anger at the time of death, that
it could be directed towards us and that it was not to be taken personally,''
the sister says. ''And we were told how we could help people with the different
stages of grieving.

''Take a young man going to work at 8am. He says goodbye to his wife, but maybe
they've had a row and haven't yet made it up. Then he's killed on the way home.
That wife needs to know: did he suffer? Was he conscious when he came in? Did he
leave any message? Did he say anything?

''These are the questions that were being left unanswered: the details of what
happened here. Did they suffer - and what did we do? It's the sort of thing
which tends to stay in the mind and doesn't allow the bereaved to grieve.''

In the initial shock the immediate relatives are often unable to take anything
in. But later, in the quiet of her own home after the flood of mourners has
gone, a bereaved wife, say, has time to reflect and wonder what happened.

Relatives are now offered a telephone call or a home visit by a named nurse,
about a week to 10 days after the death, when such questions can be answered.
Normally two nurses are sent, but, if the contact call indicates that questions
of a medical nature may be asked, a nurse and junior doctor go out.

In only about one-third of cases is the offer of a home visit taken up, most
often in cases of the traumatic death of young and healthy people.

''With the old and ill, the bereaved tend not to request a visit,'' Sister
Patton says. ''They are more prepared. They knew their relative was ill, and
they more easily come to terms with sudden, even accidental, death.''

Before the group began to operate in October last year, costings were made of
all the deaths in the casualty department that year. The number, 18, was
suprisingly low for its huge intake and, because the hospital serves a
geographically tight catchment area, the predicted cost of the new service was
small in NHS terms.

''We estimated it at pounds 650 a year in travel costs and staff time,'' the
sister says. ''We told the board that we could cover it with efficiency savings,
so no new money was needed.''

A nurse is allocated to look after the bereaved the minute they arrive at the
unit, and often before the death has occurred. Relatives are strongly encouraged
to view the body. The nurse will accompany them, but leaves them alone to say
their goodbyes, an important factor in the acceptance of the unexpected death.
''It is also important that they should see and touch the body, and we never
cover up a body entirely, leaving an arm extended from the sheet so that they
can hold a hand,'' she says.

A staff member has donated a crib, which is used in the particularly traumatic
event of a baby's or young child's sudden death. ''If you leave a young child
lying on a big trolley it is so cold and clinical that it would stick in the
parents' minds for a long, long time,'' Sister Patton says. ''We use the crib in
such cases, and offer the relatives a photograph, which they usually accept.''

All the 50-plus nursing staff of the casualty unit are involved in the support
group's work. ''It is very, very important that we care for the carers, too,''
their senior sister says. ''We have confidential counselling, but we also put
big emphasis on group discussion, involving junior medical staff as well. Staff
find they can help each other by talking over how they feel about a death.

''And one thing that we make very clear is that there is no harm in crying. It
is not a sign of being a bad nurse.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                          September 15, 1992, Tuesday

SHINING PATH 'TO COME TO LONDON'

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 867 words


THE Shining Path, the violent revolutionary movement which has been waging
guerrilla ware in Peru, may be planning to switch its European headquarters to
London, it was revealed today.

The organisation had based its political front in Stockholm but the Swedish
authorities has recently taken action against it. Nineteen Peruvians have been
expelled from Sweden and 500 more will follow, the Peruvian embassy in London
said.

Since then speculation has been mounting that Shining Path, whose leader Abimael
Guzman was arrested by Peruvian military at the weekend, would move its
headquarters to London, though Paris is an option.

Adolpho Olaechea, the London spokesman for the Shining Path, otherwise known as
the official Communist Party of Peru, was putting a brave face on Guzman's
arrest. 'While the capture does constitute a set-back it does not in the least
affect the military situation,' he said. 'All revolutionary leaders, including
Chairman Mao, were at one point in the hands of the enemy.'

Sendero Luminoso is a Maoist-Leninist movement more lethal than the IRA or the
PLO. Nearly 30,000 people have died since it launched its armed struggle in
1980. In the last few months the killing has become more indiscriminate. Hardly
a week goes by without a car bomb going off, maiming scores of civilians.

In the light of such human rights abuses, some are calling for stronger action
to be taken against the organisation's supporters in England.

'They are a terrorist organisation which has caused untold suffering to the
people of Peru and caused great economic suffering,' said Tory MP John
Wilkinson.

'I just hope in the UK people will not be gullible and support their propaganda.
I think the British authorities, as they do not permit Sinn Feinn spokesmen in
support of terrorism, should be unwilling to accept as political refugees people
who have a track record of terrorism.'

It is a sentiment echoed by Dr Carlos Bolona, the Peruvian Economy and Finance
Minister, who was visiting Britain last week. 'Sendero has lost support
internationally because it has been condemned by the UN and the OAS,' he said.
'Much more can be done by the British government - I think they must ban Sendero
activity.'

Mr Olaechea's office is located in an anonymous basement flat in Homstead Road,
Fulham. Although not a member of Sendero, he set up a support group, the
Committee Sol Peru, in 1991 and has its tacit approval.

How many followers the Shining Path has in this country is hard to say.  It is
believed it draws a large part of its support from communist Turkish Kurds in
London.

On 17 October a large march is planned to leave Clapham Common, for a meeting in
Brixton Hall. The Peruvian embassy in London fears a backlash from Sendero in
the wake of Guzman's arrest.

Last May its embassy in Sloane Street was attacked at dawn by Sendero
sympathisers. An organiser of last weekend's Anglo-Latin American Festival in
Battersea Park - a charitable event to raise money for the children of Latin
America - returned to the office a few days ago to find an anonymous threatening
letter pinned on the door. 'We want dignity not charity,' it proclaimed.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 26, 1992, Saturday

'REFORM DICKENSIAN LEGAL SYSTEM' HATTERSLEY DEMANDS

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Press Association Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 789 words


Wholesale reforms of Britain's "Dickensian" judicial system were demanded today
by Roy Hattersley, former deputy leader of the Labour Party.  He told the Bar
Council's annual conference in London that the inadequacies to which Charles
Dickens drew attention 140 years ago - exhorbitant costs, excessive delays and
dubious judgments - still persisted to this day.  And he claimed that the
arrogance in some remote recesses of the legal profession was a major stumbling
block to reform.  Mr Hattersley said his remarks related generally to England
and Wales rather than the widely-praised Scottish system which set an example
which should be followed south of the border.  He spoke of the constant
revelation of wrongful conviction in celebrated cases like the Birmingham Six
and the Guildford Four.  "Hideous crimes had been committed and there was a
natural and national demand for justice. Tabloid newspapers translated that
demand into a cry for vengeance.  "And the courts - judges, juries, barristers
and solicitors - could not insulate themselves from that pressure. A conviction
was demanded and obtained." Mr Hattersley, an ex-shadow home secretary, said
that a breath of fresh air should blow through the appeals system. This could be
provided only by the addition of informed and responsible lay judgment to the
judges who make up the court of appeal.

Mr Hattersley went on: "Those in authority over these matters have shown
remarkably little sign of public repentence that their errors of judgment had
resulted in long custodial sentences after wrongful conviction.  "That attitude
convinced many people that the arrogance in some of the more remote recesses of
your profession is a major stumbling block to reform." Mr Hattersley also
attacked the Prevention of Terrorism Act, specifically designed to deny men and
women suspected of some offences the protection available to those charged with
other offences.  "Even were the act effective, I would be opposed to it. Since
it is not, it seems both a disgrace to our system of justice and a criticism of
those politicians who passed it to promote quite the wrong sort of public
relations." Mr Hattersley also called for the abolition of the mandatory life
sentence for murder.  He said that this was based on the false assumption that
all murders were equally heinous.  "There is agreement among civilised people
that a woman cruelly provoked by her husband who kills him in fear and anguish
should not be treated like a man who methodically poisons for financial gain."
Mr Hattersley also criticised some "distinguished members of your profession"
who conducted themselves in court as if they expected the jury not to deliver a
verdict but to hold up cards awarding marks for content and interpretation.  "It
does the profession no good."

A further call for reform - this time of the way suspects are treated before
they reach court and once they are in the dock - came from John Evans, Chief
Constable for Devon and Cornwall.  Mr Evans, who led an investigation into
police handling of the Birmingham Six case, called for the defendant's
traditional "right to silence" to be scrapped in some cases.  Mr Evans, who said
the police themselves were increasingly losing confidence in the criminal
justice system, also called for the previous records of defendants to be
revealed in court and for police to be allowed to adopt a tougher approach
towards interviewing suspects.  He told the conference that miscarriage of
justice was a wider issue than notorious cases such as the Birmingham Six, the
Guildford Four, the McGuire Seven and Judith Ward.  "It should not be forgotten
that for every voice clamouring on behalf of the accused there are a thousand
unheard appeals from the general public dissatisfied with the way in which the
guilty walk free and punishment does not seem to fit the crime," he said.  Mr
Evans said it could not be right if someone such as a child molester could
"avoid the consequences of their wickedness by legally protected silence".  It
may be that the loss of a right to silence should be restricted to certain
categories of cases, he added, but he did not think in cases such as murder,
terrorism and child abuse the law should "stand ponderously but powerlessly by".
On the question of whether a defendant's previous bad character should revealed
to a jury - it is not at present - he asked: "Is it not relevant that a man who
has lied before about similar matters may be lying again?" Warning about the
gravity of police losing confidence in the system they served, he said: "A
criminal justice process which seems to imply it is designed to oppose the
police and befriend the defendant is skewed in the wrong direction".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 1992, Monday

The Amsterdam Disaster: Jet's excellent safety record ends in flames

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR

SECTION: EUROPEAN NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 572 words


The Boeing 747 is the workhorse of the skies for both passengers and cargo.
There are about 800 of the four-engined planes, in 15 versions according to age
and type of use, in service around the world.

The safety record has generally been excellent although the sheer size of the
plane, which can carry up to 650 people, means that it has been involved in many
of the world's worst air disasters.

Last night's crash is likely to become the most deadly ever in terms of people
killed on the ground. In Britain's worst ever disaster, 11 people in Lockerbie
in Scotland were killed on the ground when a bomb exploded on a Pan Am 747 in
December 1988 also killing all 259 on board.

The plane which crashed last night was a 747-200F ''full freighter'' type which
has windows only on the upper deck and is used only for cargo. There are about
70 of this version, capable of carrying 200,000lbs of cargo, in use across the
world. The ill-fated plane was one of two cargo 747s owned by El Al.

Schiphol is the airline's main European cargo hub and the plane was used
generally for flights between Tel Aviv, Amsterdam and the United States. El Al
also owns seven passenger 747s. The plane was 13 years old, having been
delivered to El Al in March 1979.

Boeing first introduced the 747 airliner into service in 1970 and since then 22
have been lost in accidents, terrorist incidents and fires. Six were lost as a
result of terrorist and military operation, including most recently the ill-
fated British Airways flight which landed in Kuwait after the Iraqis had invaded
and was subsequently burnt out. Another five have been destroyed in fires or
other accidents on the ground or in the hangar. Eleven have been lost in
accidents, the most recent being a China Airlines Boeing 747-200 which crashed
in Taiwan last December.

The aircraft's American manufacturers claim that none of these accidents was due
to structural causes. However, Boeing paid damages to many of the victims of an
accident in Japan in 1985 when all but four of the 524 people on board were
killed in the worst accident involving only one aircraft. The plane had lost
part of its tail when a rear bulkhead collapsed, causing the loss of steering,
and the craft hit a mountain after several hours of aimless flight.

The world's worst air disaster occurred when a total of 583 people were killed
when a KLM Boeing 747 and a Pan Am 747 crashed into each other in fog at
Tenerife airport in the Canary Islands in March 1977.

The 747, popularly known as the jumbo jet, revolutionised air travel, enabling
more than 650 people to travel on a single plane at a speed of just over 600mph.
Boeing executives were tentative about launching the plane because they feared
that supersonic travel would become the norm. However, it has been an enormous
success and is still in production. The aircraft was built to a high safety
standard. All main systems in the aircraft are in triplicate and the main frame
is arranged to absorb stress if a part of it fails.

The crash in Amsterdam is the third major air disaster in just over a week. Last
Monday, 167 people were killed when a Pakistani Airlines Airbus 300 hit a
hillside as it came in to land at Kathmandu in Nepal.

And two days earlier, up to 163 people died when a Nigerian Air Force Hercules
C-130 plunged into a swamp about three minutes after leaving Lagos international
airport.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           October 10, 1992, Saturday

HIGH PRAISE AS SERGEANT SPOTS TERROR BOMB

BYLINE:  David Mason, Shenai Raif, Gavin Cordon and Tim Moynihan, Press
Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1797 words


An eagle-eyed sergeant who spotted a deadly IRA bomb in a telephone kiosk near a
top London police station was praised today by an anti-terrorist chief.  But
Commander George Churchill-Coleman attacked IRA bombers for sending "misleading"
warnings of their terrorist attacks, aimed at confusing the emergency services.
In today's bomb blast - the seventh in just four days in the IRA's latest
campaign in the capital - a man of 23 suffered slight head injuries and is being
kept in hospital for observation.  The alert police sergeant spotted the device
in a telephone box by high-security Paddington Green police station, where
terrorist suspects are held and interrogated.  He cleared the area minutes
before the blast destroyed the box and blew out nearby windows.  Minutes before
the blast - and after the device had been spotted - a warning was telephoned to
a telephone exchange that a bomb would go off in Paddington.  Six other people
have been injured, none seriously, in earlier blasts, which have caused limited
damage but considerable disruption to traffic.  There were two explosions in the
north of the capital on Friday night, when bombs were placed under cars at Arnos
Grove Underground station and in the car park of the Southgate Royal British
Legion Club about a mile away .  With emergency services on standby for a third
night of disruption, a coded warning was given for vague locations throughout
London.  About 120 people in the club narrowly escaped an horrific fate as they
were preparing to leave the club after the police telephoned them about the bomb
scare. Legion stewardess Jean Drayton, 49, said: "I told the customers to leave
but before they could it went off in the car park.  "It was fortunate I didn't
get them into the car park. If I had, God knows what would have happened." About
120 people were in the club when the bomb, under a red Cortina, exploded and
badly damaged the car.  Twelve minutes later the Arnos Grove bomb exploded,
under another car.  After this morning's blast at Paddington Green, the head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad Commander George Churchill-Coleman
declared: "The IRA have continued their war of attrition against Londoners this
week but have failed to disrupt the way of life, despite some minor
inconvenience.  "Miraculously, no one has been murdered or seriously maimed, but
it is no thanks to the IRA, whose cynical use of misleading and deliberately
imprecise coded warnings is designed to confuse the emergency services.  "The
IRA may change their tactics, but the people of the capital will not be
intimidated and must remain constantly alert and suspicious of unattended bags
and packages. Police should be informed without hesitation." Paying tribute to
the sergeant's alertness, Mr Churchill-Coleman said: "This proves that vigilance
pays off." Shopkeepers in the area held a meeting after the blast and decided to
sell stock at reduced prices from this week to stop the IRA "holding them to
ransom" in a Christmas bombing campaign.  The IRA admitted it had planted
today's bomb and the two in north London last night.  A statement issued in
Dublin warned: "British military and political leaders should... take this
signal of our intentions seriously." Police want to speak to two cyclists seen
riding away from Tooley Street, near London Bridge Station, just after a car
bomb exploded there on Thursday. They were said to have been wearing balaclava
helmets or woolly hats.  With warnings to the public to be extra vigilant,
Scotland Yard issued the following advice about dealing with a suspect package:
    Do not approach or tamper with it
    Ask nearby people if it belongs to them
    Warn members of the public to keep clear
    Alert police or other authorities, such as Underground staff, at once.  A
spokesman said people should not worry about wasting police time. "Please make
that 999 call, and if it turns out to be a false alarm we'll be delighted," he
said.

The victim of today's blast was discharged after treatment for minor head
injuries, said St Mary's hospital, Paddington.

Detectives were considering the implications of the IRA's sinister new move in
targetting suburbia on mainland Britain.  Since the first in the series of
bombings which began on Wednesday, injuries and damage have been slight but
disruption has been considerable.  A litter bin near Piccadilly Circus was the
holder for Wednesday's bomb. Later that day the West End was again the target
when a small device exploded near Centre Point, headquarters of the
Confederation of British Industry. The IRA claimed responsibility for both
bombs.  On Thursday a car bomb exploded in Tooley Street, near London Bridge
station, while another went off in nearby Melcombe Street.  Police are hunting
two cyclists seen riding away from Tooley Street just after the bomb exploded.
They were said to be wearing balaclava-style hats and one report said one may
have had a handgun.  Last night two bombs went off under cars, at Arnos Grove
tube station and in the car park of Southgate Royal British Legion Club.  About
120 people were in the club at the time and the car park bomb went off before a
police phone call to clear the premises could be acted upon.
    St Mary's Hospital said the man hurt today would be kept in for observation.
 Edgware Road Bakerloo line station later reopened.

Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, said it was a miracle no one had been killed in the latest wave of
bombings.  In a defiant statement, he said: "The IRA have continued their war of
attrition against Londoners this week but have failed to disrupt the way of
life, despite some minor inconvenience.  "Miraculously, no one has been murdered
or seriously maimed, but it is no thanks to the IRA, whose cynical use of
misleading and deliberately imprecise coded warnings is designed to confuse the
emergency services.  "The IRA may change their tactics, but the people of the
capital will not be intimidated and must remain constantly alert and suspicious
of unattended bags and packages. Police should be informed without hesitation.
"Thankfully, due to the alertness of the police officer this morning, the device
was discovered before any so-called warning was ever given. This proves that
vigilance pays off."

Later St Mary's Hospital, Paddington, two minutes from the scene, said one man
was treated for minor head injures after the blast.

The explosion happened as shops in the nearby Edgeware Road were opening.
Deborah Harris was going to work at a drugstore when the blast happened.  "There
was no mistaking it was a bomb. It was a big enough blast to make me jump," she
said.  Lisa Taboney was about to start work at a jeweller's shop. "I was just
about to open up and there was a big bang. I have never heard anything like it.
"There was a puff of smoke by the police station. I thought it was a bomb
because of all that has been going on over the rest of the week," she said.  The
AA warned of delays in the area as police closed major roads near the scene.
The A5 Edgware Road was closed between Marble Arch and Maida Vale, the A404
Harrow Road between Marylebone Road and Lord Hills Bridge (at Royal Oak) and the
A40M Westway between Marylebone Road and the northern roundabout near Shepherds
Bush.  Shopkeepers in the area held a meeting after the blast and decided to
sell Christmas stock at reduced prices from this week to stop the IRA "holding
them to ransom".  A spokesman for the Marble Arch Association, representing
about 400 shopkeepers between Marble Arch and Edgware Road, said: "We have this
every year and we can't afford it - shopkeepers are terrified of going out of
business.  "So we've decided to have Christmas in October, selling Christmas
stock early at sale prices. There will be discounts of 20 to 30%. The IRA are
prepared to have a go at us, so we are saying to the public 'You help us, and
we'll help you'. Why should the IRA hold us to ransom?"

The explosion at the British Legion Club car park happened shortly after
10.30pm, wrecking three cars.  Club stewardess Ms Jean Drayton, 49, said: "We
had a phone call from the police saying there was a bomb scare and asked us to
clear the club.  "I told the customers to leave but before they could it went
off in the car park.  "It was fortunate I didn't get them out into the car park.
If I had, God knows what would have happened." There were no reports of any
injuries though the club members said the blast, which was heard more than a
mile away, had considerable force.  A small fire was still burning in the
tangled wreckage of one of the cars an hour later.  Club members Graham and
Maureen Atkins walked through the car park with their poodle and entered the
club just 15 seconds before the blast.  "We were about 40 feet away from the
bomb. We were walking the dog. We've got a poodle. It blew us about a bit and
the dog got shaken up," said Mr Atkins.

Albert Case, 58, said as many as 80 people were drinking in the club when the
bomb exploded.  "Most of the people stayed calm but a couple of women were a bit
shaken up," he said.  "You don't get a lot of reaction from the men because most
of them are ex-servicemen, but nobody likes this sort of thing." Several streets
leading to the club were cordoned off.  British Transport Police said the
following underground stations were closed: Oxford Circus, Victoria, Piccadilly,
Westminster, Arnos Grove and Southgate.  Services on the Piccadilly line had
been suspended north of Wood Green, but trains were running though the closed
stations.

Witnesses reported seeing a car "wiped out" by the Arnos Grove blast and people
running in panic.  The explosion happened in the station car park just yards
from the Arnos Arms pub which was packed with customers.  Carpenter Martin Ali,
21, was telephoning his girlfriend, Janine, from a call-box opposite the station
when the blast happened.  Mr Ali, who lives a short distance from the station in
Palmers Road, said: "I had just got through to my girlfriend when there was this
huge bang behind me. I knew what it was straight away and I didn't hang around.
"I felt it go right through me. It totally wiped out one car and I think it must
have taken a few more with it." His friend Paul Tatchell, 26, was collecting
mail from the house he has just moved out of in Palmers Road when he heard the
explosion.  "I was walking away from my door, right opposite the station, when I
heard the bang. I didn't see it, but it knocked me back.  "It was a really heavy
vibration. There were lots of people screaming and running around in panic. A
lot of people were around at the time, I am sure somebody must have been hurt."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 11, 1992, Sunday

IRA bombers escaped police security net

BYLINE: by David Leppard and Nick Rufford

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 758 words


MEMBERS of the IRA gang thought to be behind the latest London bombing campaign
escaped a security dragnet earlier this year after a series of blunders by the
police and MI5.

The Sunday Times has learnt that the two biggest surveillance operations against
the IRA in the past six months missed their main targets. Critical mistakes in
planning and execution forewarned members of the IRA's active service unit,
allowing them to escape.

In one operation, bombers got away after two teams of anti-terrorist officers
found they could not talk to each other on police radios. In another, officers
accidentally tipped off gang members.

Details of the setbacks, involving nearly 200 officers and costing several
million pounds, emerged as Britain suffered its fourth successive day of
terrorist attacks yesterday.

One man was injured when a bomb exploded close to the high security Paddington
Green police station, west London. The device, wrapped in Christmas paper,
demolished a telephone kiosk near the blast-proof police station where IRA
suspects are routinely taken for questioning.

The IRA last night claimed responsibilty for all seven bombs which exploded in
the capital last week. No serious injuries have been inflicted and damage has
been limited.

Yesterday's target appeared to be a deliberate taunt at police after their
failure to trap the bombers. In August, during an elaborately planned undercover
operation, a critical error meant that a marked police van with more than a
dozen heavily armed firearms officers unwittingly stopped within feet of the
gang's car while it was being watched secretly by a surveillance team.

The mistake occurred because the senior officer directing the firearms team was
unable to talk to his counterpart in charge of surveillance, who was listening
on a different radio channel.

Seeing the police van draw up behind them the bombers drove off, evading their
followers. ''The major factor in the operation was the non-compatability of
radios,'' said one Scotland Yard officer. ''The firearms team were lvid.''

Scotland Yard nevertheless described the operation as a breakthrough.  Police
arrested five other IRA suspects in raids in London and the Home Counties. All
were later released without charge. Detectives did recover an estimated 13
tonnes of ANFO, a mixture of ammonium nitrate and fuel oil of the sort used in
April's City of London van blast in which three people died.

''You can't put the blame on anyone in particular,'' said one security source
close to the operation. ''It was a monumental lack of communication and a lot of
very unfortunate circumstances.''

The Sunday Times has also discovered that another long running police
surveillance operation against an IRA unit believed to be behind bombs at London
Bridge and other mainline stations earlier this year was compromised because
Special Branch officers accidentally tipped off their targets.

In April, officers approached the owner of a house in north London for
permission to set up an observation post. But they were not aware that the owner
of the house was friendly with the IRA suspects living opposite.  Detectives
later overheard the owner warning the suspects and were forced to raid the IRA
safe house prematurely.

A man and woman were arrested and charged shortly afterwards, and explosives
were recovered from a nearby garage. But police failed to trace other key gang
members.

In an effort to streamline Britain's counter-terrorist measures earlier this
year, Kenneth Clarke, the home secretary, put MI5 in overall charge of
intelligence gathering and surveillance on terrorist suspects. But security
sources say that the move simply exacerbated the problem of too many agencies
hunting the bombers.

At least four separate Scotland Yard security departments the anti-terrorist
branch, Special Branch, criminal intelligence and the firearms unit, each
reporting to different commanders are now involved in operations.  Officers from
MI5's ''A4'' surveillance team also work beside the police.

Some detectives want the creation of a dedicated national anti-terrorist task
force, based on American-style multi-agency units, which would permanently
comprise officers from the four Scotland Yard branches. It would use the same
radio communications network and be supported by a specialist weapons and bomb
disposal team.

Last night, security services were on standby in anticipation of further
terrorist attacks in the run-up to this week's Eurosummit in Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            October 12, 1992, Monday

Scotland Yard fears return to nightly bomb attacks by IRA

BYLINE: By Stewart Tendler, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 525 words


THE IRA has greeted MI5's new leading role in the fight against terrorism with
seven bombs in four days on the streets of London. The Security Service, which
took control of intelligence from Scotland Yard's special branch a week ago,
fears these attacks could be merely an hors d'oeuvre for something larger.

In August, a surveillance operation including MI5 teams uncovered what police
yesterday admitted was enough material for 15 tons of explosive. The seizure
indicated the scope of IRA ambitions and the latest attacks show active service
units are not short of supplies. The bombs last week used just 7lb.

A group of two or three men or women equipped with simple bombs comprising a
pound of explosive, a power pack and a one-hour timer of the sort used by
motorists to remind them about parking limits have taken London back to the days
of the 1970s, when the IRA attacked nightly. The seven bombs were small but they
could have killed passers-by or drivers. ''London has been extraordinarily lucky
in the past week,'' said one Yard source yesterday.

The task facing MI5, aided by the Yard, the RUC and the Garda Siochana in the
Irish republic, is to make sure that luck holds in a game played over months and
years rather than by daily arrests.

Theories about the sudden upsurge include speculation that the IRA wanted to
steal the thunder from the Conservative party conference or was tweaking
Scotland Yard's nose in the final few weeks of Commander George
Churchill-Coleman's role as head of the anti-terrorist branch. Saturday's bomb
in a phone box outside Paddington Green, the police station where terrorist
suspects are questioned, was seen as particularly audacious.

Since the new campaign began with an early morning attack on an army postal
depot in north London in August 1988, there have been between 90 and 100
incidents, resulting in the deaths of 16 servicemen, the murder of the leading
Conservative MP Ian Gow, a mortar attack on Downing Street, the shooting of a
policeman and three deaths in a bomb at the Baltic Exchange earlier this year.
The tactics have ranged from assassination attempts by gunmen to incendiary
devices, bombs left in vans or cars, special bombs attached to the cars of VIPs,
and others dumped on the street.

The mainland campaign has become an important pressure-point for the IRA because
the Ulster campaign, whose statistics dwarf anything in Britain, is not
achieving political results, and the campaign in Europe has stopped.  The IRA
has extended its attacks across London, despite 24-hour policing in Whitehall
and mobile vehicle checks, often backed by armed officers in other parts of
central London.

The ad hoc system of giving warnings with recognised code words has broken down.
The warnings are often false, imprecise or too late: that about Saturday's bomb
merely mentioned Paddington. Hoax calls also follow real attacks and subject the
police, emergency services and the public to hours of disruption.

The counter-attack is costly. Last year the Yard spent Pounds 59 million on
protection duties, with a large part for guarding VIPs against the IRA.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1992

IRA KEEPS UP THE PRESSURE WITH PUB BOMBING;
The terrorists are now seeking higher propaganda returns in strategy to cause
maximum disruption, write David Sharrock and Allan Murray in Belfast

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK AND ALLAN MURRAY IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 670 words


THE IRA's lunchtime bombing of a West End pub yesterday was a forceful reminder
of its weekend warning that politicians and security chiefs should take its
intentions seriously.

Eight bombs have exploded in London since Wednesday, the most sustained campaign
during a year in which the IRA has kept the pressure on intelligence and
security forces.

The pattern of attacks indicates a move towards prestigious targets, including
the offices of the Crown Prosecution Service and, on Saturday, the maximum
security Paddington Green police station where terrorist suspects are held.

Current IRA strategy is to cause maximum disruption and maximum embarrassment to
anti-terrorist agencies.

An IRA statement on Friday, linking the attacks to the Conservative Party
conference in Brighton, taunted the security forces for inability to prevent its
operations: "As yet another British colonial leader trotted out a well-worn
diatribe to a Tory conference predicting the demise of the IRA, our active
service volunteers were for the second time striking in the heart of London."

The higher level of bombing activity in London than in Belfast in recent months
underlines the propaganda rewards for aiming at the capital. Compared with the
500lb-2,000lb bombs being used in Northern Ireland, the London devices have been
small.

In April, the IRA attacked the City of London, detonating the largest bomb to
have exploded in mainland Britain since the second world war and killing three
people and injuring 91.

Although only one person has been seriously injured in the past week and damage
has been limited, the absence of fatalities owes more to luck than design.

Yesterday's attack on the Sussex public house close by Covent Garden, a reminder
of the 1970s when the IRA bombed pubs in Guildford, Woolwich, Birmingham,
Caterham and Maidstone, represents a determination to disregard the consequences
to civilians caught up in the bombing campaign. Pubs previously bombed by the
IRA had been used by soldiers; yesterday's attack appears to have been
indiscriminate.

The size of the device used may indicate that the IRA's mainland active service
units are short of explosives, police having seized 13 tonnes of home-made
explosives in August - a massive haul even by Northern Ireland standards.

Using commercial coffee grinders, IRA activists process raw fertiliser into an
explosive base. Fine particled icing sugar or a less preferred fuel base liquid
is added to the ground nitrate before a detonator and small length of cortex are
attached. A Special Branch analysis of present IRA armaments in Ireland suggests
caution is being exercised over the use of the odourless and more easily
concealed Semtex explosive supplied by Libya.

The IRA's ability to drive 13 tonnes of home-made explosives into London in
August confirms meticulous and longer term planning. The sudden height of
activity is probably the result of preparations stretching back to last year.

The current bombings come amid reports of blunders by the police and MI5 in
anti-IRA operations. Mistakes in planning and execution are said to have alerted
an active service unit. Although the summer operation forced the IRA to abandon
a plan to detonate five huge bombs simultaneously, its perpetrators got away.

Five people were held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act in August but were
released without charge.

Detectives fear at least two IRA cells are operating on the mainland.

Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary, moved to streamline anti-terrorist measures
in May, giving MI5 the lead role in intelligence gathering and surveillance on
terrorist suspects. Critics have suggested that this has compounded problems,
however, with too many agencies hunting the bombers.

At least four Scotland Yard security departments - the anti-terrorist branch,
Special Branch, criminal intelligence and the firearms unit - are involved in
operations, while MI5 contributes its "A4" surveillance team.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 13, 1992, Tuesday

IRA bombing at Covent Garden pub injures five

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WARD

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 431 words


AN IRA bomb which injured lunchtime drinkers in Covent Garden yesterday marked
the most blatant attack on civilians so far in the latest terrorist campaign in
central London.

It also brought back memories of attacks in Britain during the 1970s when pubs
in Guildford, Woolwich, Birmingham, Caterham and Maidstone were blown up -
although then there was loss of life.

Shoppers, tourists and office workers were walking in the sunshine in the narrow
streets around The Sussex pub in Long Acre, where the bomb had been planted.
Although it was half-empty yesterday, the bar which bore the brunt of the blast
is often packed.

One of the five victims, a middle-aged man, suffered serious facial and neck
injuries and later underwent prolonged surgery at University College Hospital.
None of the other victims, also middle-aged men, was seriously hurt.

A warning had been given at 1.13pm, just nine minutes before yesterday's
explosion next to Stringfellow's nightclub and 50 yards from West End theatres
and the Garrick Club where many MPs are members. The warning, telephoned with
the IRA codeword to a radio station, said only that the bomb was in ''the
Leicester Square area''.

After the explosion yesterday, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, said the bomb was a small device, but big
enough in the confined space to cause very serious injuries.

''This is now typical of the cynical disregard that the terrorist has for public
safety and life, indeed people in general,'' he said. He appealed to the public
to remain vigilant to help minimise the number of bombings, but added:
''Whatever you do, do not be deterred from going about your normal business -
that's what the terrorists want you to do.''

John Cracknell, 24, who was about 10 yards from the pub when the bomb went off,
said: ''There was glass all over the pavement and some smoke coming out of the
building. I ran in through the front door of the pub and downstairs to see if
anybody was injured. The stairs were strewn with rubble.''

An arts student, Sef Townsend, 44, said he had been about to enter the pub at
1.30, but had stopped to give a tourist directions. ''If I had been three
seconds earlier, I would have been in there,'' he said. ''I went in and saw the
carnage. The bar was completely destroyed and there was a man lying there. He
looked very ill.''

The blast, and the seven London bombings last week, have raised fears of a
prolonged autumn campaign on so-called ''soft'' targets in mainland Britain.

(Map omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 16, 1992

ENVIRONMENT: DEATH ON THE OCEAN WAVE;
When the Akatsuki Maru sets sail from Cherbourg for Japan its route, like so
many details this trial voyage, will be a secret. For the freighter will carry
the deadliest of cargoes: plutonium

BYLINE: DAVID FAIRHALL

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 830 words


BRITAIN and France are embarking on a new seaborne trade which promises to be
every bit as eventful as the great traditional trades in tea, grain, timber and
oil, but in a much more insidious way. For the new cargo is plutonium, a
substance whose most pertinent characteristic - a radioactive "half-life" of
more than 24,000 years - means that, for all practical purposes, it will always
be dangerous.

That is why the first trial plutonium shipment, shortly leaving Cherbourg for
Japan aboard a former British vessel (the Pacific Crane, now flying the Japanese
flag as the Akatsuki Maru), will be accompanied on its 15,000-17,000-mile voyage
by an armed Japanese coastgard cutter. The length of the trip can only be
roughly estimated. Because of the fear of terrorist attack, it is a closely kept
secret. The only outsiders in whom the Japanese have confided are the Americans,
who will be monitoring the consignment's progress by satellite. They have a
legal as well as a security interest, being the original suppliers of the
reactor fuel from which the plutonium was extracted.

The environmental group Greenpeace will also be trying to track the shipment,
although its efforts got off to an inauspicious start this week when members
were arrested protesting at the plutonium loading berth in Cherbourg. Other
interested parties are left to make their best guess from a couple of clues
dropped by Toichi Sakata, head of the Japanese Science and Technology Agency's
nuclear fuel division.

Wherever possible, he says, the plutonium freighter and her escort will try to
stay outside territorial waters, that is generally 200 miles offshore. She will
also avoid ocean trenches of more than 10,000 metres, the depth to which the
plutonium containers have been tested.

This seems to rule out the direct routes from Europe through the Panama Canal,
or through the Malacca Strait between Malaysia and Sumatra - which is notorious
for pirates, as is the South China Sea beyond. Rounding Cape Horn by a wide
margin would be possible but uncomfortable.

The most likely track, therefore, will give the Cape of Good Hope a wide berth,
head south east across the Indian Ocean, north through the Tasman Sea between
Australia and New Zealand, then north west to pass close by the Marianas trench
and through the Philippine Sea.

The Akatsuki Maru is believed to be able to carry about 1.7 tonnes of plutonium
powder in 10-kilogram steel flasks - each therefore containing enough to
construct a crude atomic weapon - stacked inside sealed containers. Details have
been kept secret, but there is talk of accommodation for armed guards and extra
fuel tanks to make refuelling stops unnecessary.

If this first shipment goes well, politically as well as navigationally, another
10 could quickly follow on this same route, which originates in the French
reactor fuel reprocessing plant at Cap de la Hague.

Next year, Sellafield is set to join the trade through the port of
Barrow-in-Furness, as its Thorp reprocessing plant becomes operational. British
Nuclear Fuels (BNFL) has a contract to reprocess 2,680 tonnes of Japanese
reactor fuel rods over the next 10 years, producing about 27 tonnes of plutonium
- perhaps 15 shiploads.

Other European trade routes will radiate from Cumbria as Sellafield handles fuel
for Germany (970 tonnes over 10 years), Switzerland (420 tonnes), Italy, Spain
and Sweden (all 140 tonnes) and Holland (50 tonnes). Some of the returning
plutonium will go by sea, some by rail and the Dover-Dunkirk rail ferry. BNFL
already uses this ferry to bring irradiated fuel rods into Sellafield, and the
French plant at Cap de la Hague has been quietly shunting plutonium along
continental railways for some time, its officials disclosed this week.

Expanding this trade across the oceans presupposes the continued support of the
British Government, the transit countries and the various environmental
authorities concerned. The crucial point is that since 1976, BNFL's reprocessing
contracts have included a provision that both the resulting nuclear waste and
the extracted plutonium should be returned to the customer nation.

The plutonium is deemed to be the property of the originating nuclear power
utility. It can be used again in fast breeder reactors. Indeed this was a
fundamental justification for Britain's investing billions of pounds in
reprocessing spent fuel. But breeder technology has been discredited, so that
only Japan and perhaps Russia seem inclined to press on. A worldwide surplus of
plutonium is fast appearing. So what else can it be used for?

Though no one likes to say so, one answer is bombs. It's true that plutonium
extracted from burnt-out reactor fuel is not of the highest purity. But there
are new ways of increasing the fissile content and there are many potential
customers who would not mind if a bomb were "dirty", or inefficient, so long as
it put the fear of God into their enemies.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 16, 1992

Scotland Yard was 'a target for IRA bomb'

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 381 words


THE IRA came within 24 hours of detonating a massive bomb at Scotland Yard, a
television documentary claimed last night.

The Metropolitan Police headquarters was one of five "prestige targets" singled
out by the IRA in what would have been its biggest blitz on mainland Britain,
according to This Week. The other targets were not specified.

In August, police seized 15 tonnes of home-made explosive -- 300 times the size
of the bomb which devastated the City of London in April -- but the bombers
escaped because of a miscalculation, said This Week.

The device was found in locations including a London lorry park, and a service
station on the M25.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Howley, over-all head of Special Branch and
the anti-terrorist squad, said on the programme: "The home-made explosive which
we recovered in that operation was much bigger than the bomb which did so much
damage in the City of London.

"But it was clearly not intended for one bomb, rather almost certainly for more
than one, several bombs. But even in several parcels, each could have caused
serious loss of life."

This Week said at one point all key members of the IRA team were together at the
lorry park in Brent, London, under armed police surveillance and could have been
arrested.

However, it was decided to continue surveillance, but the IRA team discovered
they were being watched, aborted the operation, and escaped to Ireland.

"It was one of those very delicate decisions the security services have to
make," said This Week editor Paul Woolwich.

"On reflection, some officers inside the Metropolitan Police have told us they
thought that the decision to let the IRA operation run, and not to grab them
then and there, was a miscalculation."

Police later found the explosive in a trailer at the lorry park and in a vehicle
at South Mimms service station on the M25 in Hertfordshire.

Five people who had been under surveillance in Hanwell, London, and Cheshunt,
Hertfordshire, were arrested, but later released without charge.

Mr Woolwich said the programme's information came from officers involved in the
operation, police in Northern Ireland, and the Irish Republic.

A Scotland Yard spokesman refused to discuss operational details.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 30, 1992

IRA KEEPS SECURITY TEAMS GUESSING;
Bomb warnings backed by bogus alerts spread confusion - Intelligence-gathering
split complicates detection

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT, DUNCAN CAMPBELL AND RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words


THERE are two theories within the security services as to how many IRA members
are carrying out the recent bomb attacks on the mainland.

Northern Ireland security sources believe that as many as 25 active service unit
members of the IRA have been operating.

But in London it is suggested that the recent bombs and attacks in England
involve a smaller number of people in two separate groups: those who come in,
carry out attacks and return to Ireland, and long-term "sleepers" who have lived
normal lives in England for many years and may only be used for one brief
campaign.

The new active service unit members are thought to include intelligent, educated
young people with no previous convictions, who are fully conscious of the risks
and aware of how to behave when arrested.

They have no shortage of material, including large quantities of Semtex supplied
a decade ago by Libya. Security sources say that the general headquarters staff
in Dublin is running the operation, rather than the increasingly-beleaguered
northern command in Belfast. The strategy of concentrating recent attacks in
London has been backed up with coded warnings known to the security services
which are followed up by three or four bogus warnings using the same code to
cause confusion.

The IRA has blamed the British authorities for failing to act swiftly enough in
response to bomb warnings, and has expressed regret at civilian casualties.

It has also suggested that one of the reasons for the vague warnings is that the
bombers have only a scanty knowledge of the geography of London.

Republican sources counter claims that its volunteers allow too short a period
for evacuations by alleging that the police distort details about when warning
calls were received.

Security services in London see the IRA as more efficient than for many years,
but also more vulnerable because of increased public alertness that has led to
two recent seizures of bomb equipment. They say they are deeply hypocritical in
their expression of regret at deaths and suggest they are in the realms of black
propaganda when they suggest that there is a slow response to bomb warnings. The
situation is complicated by the different groups now involved in combating
terrorism.

MI5 was given primacy in intelligence-gathering on the IRA by Home Secretary
Kenneth Clarke earlier this year (it will take over this role on January 1) and
it now works with the Scotland Yard-based Special Branch. The relationship is
officially described as "bedding down". Unofficially, it has continuing problems
because of mutual scepticism.

In Northern Ireland there is even greater scepticism amongst the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, who suggest the English may have failed to respond swiftly enough
to bomb warnings because of inexperience.

However, the different strands are now co-operating at a higher level than
before and the RUC has recently given additional information to the mainland
about IRA activists who go missing from their regular haunts.

The trawling for suspects continues: the arrests under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act in the year to June last year totalled 149, of whom 13 were
charged with an offence and nine were excluded or deported. The latest bombings
where civilian targets have been hit have antagonised some groups supporting
people who have been picked up under the act.

"The Irish community suffers when these bombs go off," said John Simmamce of the
Kilburn Defence Campaign which is backing the civil damages action of two women
arrested and held under the act two years ago, a case also backed by Liberty.

For once the activity on the mainland bears a closer resemblance to what is a
way of life in Northern Ireland. Four civilians have been killed by explosions
in Covent Garden and the City this year. Over the same period no one has died as
a result of bombs in the centre of Belfast. Whatever the cost in human lives,
the IRA's basic philosophy of "the long war" remains unchanged.

The Republican movement does not expect Britain to announce its withdrawal
imminently but believes that maintaining paramilitary pressure will eventually
wear down the will of the British people.

As a Sinn Fein spokesman admitted: "Actions in Britain are hardening British
opinion against us, but at least they are talking about Ireland in the media and
the streets."

Sinn Fein's exclusion from the inter-party talks and the continuing effect of
the broadcast ban have only added to the Republican movement's sense of anger
and isolation.

None of the IRA's recent statements have demonstrated any softening of the
political line. Nationalist critics of the IRA suggest that bombing has become
an end in itself rather than a means to a political objective.

Although there appears to be no shortage of volunteers there have been claims in
recent months that the IRA has had to resort to pressurising young people to
join its ranks in County Tyrone. The SAS have shot dead at least 20 members of
the organisation in the county in the past five years.

The key to the tactics of the recent mainland campaign has been continually
varying targets and methods, to stretch the security forces and catch them off
guard.

Thus incendiary devices, large van bombs, rail disruption, hoax warnings,
hijackings, guns and mortars have all been deployed in England within the last
two years. In Northern Ireland there seems to have been a return to softer,
commercial targets.

Causing bomb damage on the mainland that costs hundreds of millions of pounds -
as was the case with the explosion in the City immediately after the general
election - may be a means of forcing the Government to reassess the financial
cost of the link with the province. Alternatively, it may reflect increased
risks in attacking the army and police.

While a small bomb in London continues to generate larger headlines than a
massive blast in Belfast, it can be no suprise that the Provisionals place an
increasingly high priority on mainland attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 30, 1992

Man charged after Semtex found

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 308 words


SCOTLAND Yard last night declined to comment on a report that up to 1800lb of
Semtex was hidden in Britain in preparation for an IRA Christmas bombing
campaign centred on London.

The report, in the Evening Standard, follows the arrest of at least three people
who are being held at the top-security Paddington Green police station. One, Mr
Vincent Wood, 29, a sales representative, of Leytonstone, east London, will
appear in court today charged with possession of Semtex and conspiring to cause
an explosion.

The arrests followed the discovery of 77lb of Semtex on Wednesday.

If the report in the evening newspaper is anywhere near accurate, the amount of
explosives still unaccounted for could cost many lives.

In recent weeks the IRA has planted bombs containing only two pounds of
explosives. A 20lb bomb could cause devastation similar to that at the Grand
Hotel in Brighton.

The arrests and the material recovered suggest that the IRA had planned at least
five operations over Christmas. Politicians would be likeliest targets.

The operation was begun after the owner of a do-it-yourself store told a friend
in the Flying Squad that he was worried about a tea-chest that he had been asked
to look after.

It was found to contain Semtex and five timing devices, each of which had 10
-minute settings.

Officers from the anti-terrorist branch, supported by teams from the
Metropolitan Police's specialist firearms unit, SO19, raided addresses at
Goodmayes, Forest Gate, and Seven Kings in London.

Although police were saying little about the operation, it was obvious that
senior officers linked the find to fears about the run-up to Christmas.

The explosive devices seized resemble those used in the current IRA bombing
campaign in London. Fourteen devices have gone off over a period of 21 days.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            October 30, 1992, Friday

Why the IRA is losing its war of attrition

BYLINE: Edward Gorman and George Brock

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1279 words


As police seize more Semtex, Edward Gorman and George Brock consider a failing
terror campaign.

Twenty-three years after it revived its campaign of violence, the IRA resembles
a long-distance swimmer attempting to cross an ocean of indifference. Its
staying power cannot be denied, but it is no nearer its goal of breaking
Britain's connection with Ireland than it was in 1971 when it shot its first
British soldier, Gunner Robert Curtis.

The IRA's top activists insist that violence forces British politicians
constantly to review the possibility of withdrawing from Northern Ireland.
''Inexorably the Irish will come closer to freedom regardless of how tenaciously
the Brits cling to their last foothold in this country,'' a member of the IRA's
''headquarters staff'' said in Dublin recently.

Asked to specify the evidence of the government's weakening resolve, he pointed
to the 40 explosions which the IRA has detonated in mainland Britain since the
general election last April and which are leading the security forces' analysts
to predict further bombs this Christmas. ''How many more Staples Corners and
Baltic Exchanges can the British sustain?''

The past supplies a simple answer to this question: a great deal more.  Despite
multiple atrocities through the 1970s and 1980s in pubs in Birmingham and
Guildford, attacks on army buses, discos and bands, days of paralysed traffic
and trains in Belfast and London, harrowing fatalities from Enniskillen to
Harrods, British public opinion has hardly budged. Just over 3,000 deaths in the
Northern Ireland troubles and billions of pounds worth of damage have left the
British government sadder and wiser, but with its central resolve not to be
expelled from Ireland by force still intact.  As a political issue in the last
three general elections, Northern Ireland barely registers on the opinion
pollsters' lists.

The IRA can still operate and years of practice have perfected many of their
techniques. But the technical accomplishments and the occasional admiration of
the security forces only serve to highlight the emptiness of their secret
skills. The goal of breaking the British connection is further out of reach than
ever. Incessant predictions that the British political establishment would see
sense and pull out of an ungrateful, expensive, dangerous and little-known piece
of the United Kingdom have been slowly undermined.

A conversation with an IRA official drives home how difficult high-profile
violence has become to organise. Gun and bomb attacks inside Northern Ireland
itself are rarely reported in the mainland media. The succession of bombs in
London in recent weeks has been treated as almost routine. The chaos on the
capital's rail network earlier in the year was miserable, but relegated the IRA
in the public's eyes to the status of bad weather or disruptive railmen.  Even
the huge bomb at the Baltic Exchange on April 10 bought only 48 hours-worth of
wall-to-wall media coverage.

The organisation's leadership finds the suggestion that its violence is little
more than ''background noise'' in the life of these islands, particularly
annoying. ''Any objective recording of the facts would counter that picture,''
insisted a senior leader of the organisation in a recent interview.

The IRA is torn between two tactical aims now in conflict. Its active service
units can try, by attempting to murder Mrs Thatcher in the Grand Hotel or by
succeeding in killing Lord Mountbatten, to wear down the British political
class. But those spectacular attempts to terrify an establishment also alienate
ordinary people in both Ireland and Britain. To offset unpopularity, the IRA has
steadily refined its operations by reducing its list of so-called ''legitimate
targets''. It has turned away from no-warning bomb attacks designed to kill
large numbers of civilians to its present policy of issuing warnings. The
Provisional IRA can be seen more now as a ''designer terrorist'' organisation,
no longer as brutal and radical as it once was. The troubles in the 1990s are
more than ever a private underground war between dedicated but unseen rivals
which allows civilised life to continue almost oblivious to the battle being
fought in its midst.

Street protest and political activism have run out of steam. This decay is
evident in the fortunes of Sinn Fein which entered the political mainstream
riding high on the drama of the hunger strikes but has since subsided. The IRA's
political wing attracts around 10 per cent of the vote in the Province and
appears to be stuck there.

The IRA is claiming that the fortunes of Sinn Fein make no difference and are
not a realistic yardstick of its own future a striking change of tone from the
days of a strategy once described as a combination of the armalite and the
ballot box. Provisional leaders argue that it is not the size of their political
constituency which sustains them but the conditions in Northern Ireland which
make continued conflict inevitable. ''The six county statelet is so fatally and
fundamentally flawed, that it is that itself and this is what the British need
to understand which gives rise to the conditions for conflict,'' said the member
of the headquarters staff. ''It isn't the IRA and certainly not the IRA support
base. The conditions are the real recipe for conflict. So long as partition
remains, there will be opposition.''

But this incantation has less and less resonance in the Irish republic itself
where only 1.7 per cent of the electorate now votes Sinn Fein. More importantly,
the ''Green'' element within Fianna Fail which considers itself the guardian of
Irish nationalism in mainstream politics, is hardly the force it was in the
1970s and early 1980s. There was a time 10 years ago when a Fianna Fail prime
minister, Charles Haughey, could appeal to the unfulfilled ambition for Irish
unity among his party with talk of Northern Ireland as a ''failed political
entity''. Today, Mr Haughey's successor Albert Reynolds is seriously
contemplating toning down or even abandoning the venerated articles of the
constitution which lay claim to Northern Ireland. Old-style republicanism is out
in the cold.

Despite all of this, the IRA has no intention of giving up. It seems quite
capable of staring defeat in the face for many more years. ''It remains our
intention to meet the enemy wherever and whenever possible,'' said the IRA
commander, ''and it remains our firm intention to sustain our activity and where
possible to escalate it.'' The IRA can switch on a higher level of violence when
it chooses, but fresh escalations bring no new rewards. The central questions of
British security and political policy are now about an endgame. What is the most
effective way of closing the IRA down? Internment; new political structures
which will tempt them into constitutional politics; or an end to constitutional
tinkering as a terminal discouragement of IRA dreams of forcing change?

Although his remark was vigorously disowned, a senior Sinn Fein official
recently suggested that if Britain issued a declaration of intent to withdraw
from Northern Ireland, a prolonged period of peace would occur before Britain
actually left. This implausible proposal was, by the standards of previous IRA
irredentism, one of the most pragmatic concessions ever contemplated.

Two decades of bombing reveals that the modern republican cause and campaign are
running against the tide of history. The IRA's members are as single-minded,
well-equipped and unsentimental as they have ever been, but they are making no
progress. The swimmer has not yet drowned but is merely treading water.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 1992

CAR BOMB ROCKS NO 10

BYLINE: DAVID PALLISTER AND PAUL MYERS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 267 words


A CAR BOMB exploded in Whitehall outside Downing Street last night. Scotland
Yard disclosed that a minicab driver had been forced at gunpoint to take his car
to the spot.

There were no injuries, said Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the
anti-terrorist squad. He said two men hired the mini-cab in north London. They
fled after ordering the driver to leave the car near Downing Street. The driver
was then challenged by police, who began clearing the area.

Witnesses said a warning was given to security guards at the Cabinet Office. At
a pizza restaurant at the Trafalgar Square end of Whitehall police were ordering
the evacuation of customers when the bomb exploded.

As police sealed off the area the vehicle could be seen fiercely burning beside
the Cenotaph a few yards from the security gates protecting Downing Street. Mr
Major, who is living in Admiralty Arch because of refurbishment to No 10, was in
his Huntingdon constituency.

The bomb went off just after 9pm. Dozens of windows were blown out in the street
where the Cabinet Office, Foreign Office and Ministry of Defence are situated.

Hijacking vehicles for use in IRA bombings is common in Northern Ireland but
rare in mainland Britain. It was used in London on June 15 when two IRA men
hijacked a minicab and blew it up near Piccadilly Circus. No one was hurt.

It is the 15th bombing in London in the past three weeks. If by the IRA it will
be its most audacious penetration of central London security since the mortar
attack on Downing Street in February.

Forced to deliver bomb, page 3

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 2, 1992

Bomb blasts add force to calls for a united front

BYLINE: Christopher Dobson

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 862 words


Christopher Dobson

Britain's fragmented approach to anti-terrorism is making the country more
vulnerable to attack

THE solemn rumble of bombs in London, with the police seemingly unable to
prevent the bombers going about their business, has given added force to
proposals for the establishment of a national service to fight terrorism
throughout Britain.

If implemented, the proposals, now being considered at high level by the Home
Office and the Inspectorate of Constabulary, would involve the transfer to a new
organisation of all those experts now working for the disparate units which form
the present ramshackle structure of the anti-terrorist forces.

This structure has grown up higgledy-piggledy over the years. Special Branch,
the Anti-Terrorist Branch, MI5, MI6, Military Intelligence, the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, the protection groups, all take part, all jealously guarding their
various cuts of the pie.

In May, primary responsibility for the gathering of information about the IRA
was taken away from the police and given to MI5 which was looking for new
employment following the break-up of its old enemy, the Soviet empire.

At first it seemed that this might work well under the energetic and expert
leadership of Mrs Stella Rimington, and it was hailed as a success when a
surveillance operation led to the capture of 13 tonnes of bomb-making materials
in Hertfordshire in August.

It later emerged, however, that despite being watched by six round-the-clock
teams involving more than 200 officers from the Special Branch and the Anti
-Terror Branch all the terrorists escaped.

They got away largely because of a lack of communication between the units
involved. In a basic error nobody made sure that their radios were on the same
net. Nothing could better display the need for a co-ordinated organisation.

It also became apparent that while MI5 might be expert at gathering information
it could not be the ideal leader of the anti-terrorists because its officers
have no power of arrest and no experience of court procedure -- and certainly no
wish to appear in court.

In addition to these functional problems there are the geographical problems
caused by the division of the country into regions each policed by a force
jealous of its own fiefdom.

One of the main proponents of a new national force is Sir Hugh Annesley, chief
constable of the RUC. In a speech last July, which deserved more attention than
it received, he argued that the time was ripe for adopting a more realistic
approach even if it meant upsetting a few chief constables.

"The creation of a national anti-terrorist unit would provide a cohesive and
common approach to all terrorist activity -- we really must face a serious
threat with a realistic and professional response."

His suggestion that the new unit should be composed of men and women drawn from
MI5, MI6, the Special Branch, the Anti-Terrorist Branch and should have input
from the provincial forces, the military and Customs and Excise forms the basis
of the discussions now taking place in Whitehall.

What is emerging from those discussions is that the new unit must have
sufficient clout to be able to work alongside, but not subservient to, the
security services and the police.

This means that its commander would be of high rank, answerable directly to the
Home Secretary, and, like the heads of MI5 and MI6, would have direct access to
the Prime Minister.

Operationally it would be required to collect information, analyse and then act
on it. This would involve running informants and double agents, having access to
a powerful "thinking computer" and the use of highly trained explosives and
weapons officers.

It would also need communications officers, forensic experts, surveillance teams
and all those other support services needed to fight the modern terrorist.

It would also need a legal department to make sure it acted within the law and
that the cases it brought to court were watertight.

The unit would have the power to operate anywhere in the United Kingdom --
except in Northern Ireland where it is acknowledged that the RUC must play the
main role in fighting the IRA. The RUC's cynical reaction to attempts to
interfere with its intelligence-gathering activities has always been: "Only
Paddy can beat Paddy." It has always been proved right.

Sir Hugh Annesley made the point that the RUC was the main supplier of
intelligence to mainland Britain and any interference would have detrimental
consequences for security on the mainland.

It should also not be forgotten that while Middle Eastern terrorism is off the
boil at the moment, fresh dark forces are gathering in the remnants of the
Soviet empire and that narco-terrorism is spreading its tentacles from the Far
East and from Latin America to engulf Europe. The new unit would have
responsibility for fighting all forms of terrorism, not only the IRA.

There will be ferocious infighting in Whitehall and Scotland Yard before the new
unit comes into being, but with each bomb that rattles the windows of the House
of Commons that day comes closer.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 3, 1992, Tuesday

Annesley warns of major IRA attack in Britain

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 503 words


THE Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary yesterday criticised a
''void'' in Britain's anti-terrorist structure and warned that the IRA was
intent on causing ''mayhem and murder'' with a major attack in Britain.

Sir Hugh Annesley gave a sombre assessment of the threat from both republican
and loyalist groups, concluding that both were bent on maintaining their
campaigns of violence and if possible stepping them up.

Sir Hugh, who was speaking in a BBC Northern Ireland television interview, said
the IRA was well-armed and determined and remained the biggest single threat.

He warned: ''The threat to the mainland is particularly serious. I think the
small bombs that have been seen in London are only perhaps a foretaste of what
could have happened.

''The interruptions and the finds were enormously successful and obviously have
saved enormous damage and life.

''It would be naive to think, however, that the Provisionals are not planning a
major attack on the British mainland - they are intent on causing mayhem and
murder. They get enormous publicity from attacks on the mainland.''

His comments reinforce speculation that the IRA is hopeful of climaxing the
current wave of London bombings with a major ''spectacular'' designed to disrupt
Christmas shopping.

Some time ago Sir Hugh advocated the creation of a new national police unit to
oversee anti-terrorist activity in Britain, but his advice was not taken and
overall responsibility has now been vested in the security service, MI5.

Yesterday he declined to endorse this new arrangement, saying: ''Where I would
see it perhaps slightly differently is that in Northern Ireland whoever gains
the intelligence is in charge of the operation from that moment. I believe
that's the best way of doing it. That does not happen currently on the mainland
and, in my opinion from here, I think that that is a void that is yet to be
filled.''

Sir Hugh had few words of comfort for the general public either in Britain or in
Northern Ireland, though he told the IRA that they would never cow the people by
the use of violence.

He said he had little doubt that within the IRA there was a debate which ebbed
and flowed, but those who were intent on pursuing violence were probably in a
majority on the IRA army council.

''I believe that their determination to continue with violence is probably
marginally higher than the determination to look for some peaceful solution,''
he stated.

He said the RUC was doing an enormous amount of work to squeeze both republican
and loyalist terrorists, adding that the IRA was experiencing a shortage of
funds due to the activities of anti-racketeering agencies.

He believed the current round of political talks had probably been a great deal
more successful than many commentators had judged. Such talks could never be an
absolute panacea, he said, but they could create a climate in which more people
would actively and openly co-operate with the security forces.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 11, 1992

PARAS FACE TRIAL OVER ULSTER 'RAMPAGE';
Attacks followed severe bomb injuries to fellow soldier

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 469 words


SIX paratroops are to be tried on 16 charges of assault, disorderly behaviour
and damage to property, after an alleged rampage through Coalisland, County
Tyrone, in May.

The six, all from the 3rd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment, and including a
lieutenant, a sergeant and a corporal, are alleged to have attacked locals and
smashed furniture in a number of bars on May 12.

The day before, a member of the battalion was severely injured in an IRA bomb
attack at a nearby village. He later had both legs amputated.

Following the alleged rampage, the army announced that it had removed the
officer in charge and let it be known that the Parachute Regiment would no
longer patrol the area, which is a republican stronghold.

All six soldiers remained on duty after the incident and returned to Britain at
the end of their battalion's tour of duty in August. They will be brought before
a magistrates court shortly, the Northern Ireland Director of Public
Prosecutions announced.

The DPP is still considering further charges against other members of the
battalion following another incident a week later when paratroops opened fire on
a crowd. Three people suffered gunshot wounds.

A decision from the DPP on the latter incident is expected within a few weeks.

The latest charges mean that 16 British soldiers are now awaiting trial for
serious offences allegedly committed while on duty in Northern Ireland. Seven of
those are facing charges of murder or attempted murder.

Those charged include members of the Scots Guards and the Royal Marines.

Six members of 3 Para are due to go on trial soon over the killing of two
joyriders in West Belfast in 1990.

- Six months of inter-party talks on the future of Northern Ireland ended
yesterday with widespread expressions of hope that they would resume in some
form next year. The initiative by the former Northern Ireland secretary, Peter
Brooke, appears to have helped the politicians to define their differences.

For the first time all four participating parties sat at the same table with the
Irish government.

Its ministers regularly appeared at Stormont, and members of the Ulster Unionist
Party travelled to Dublin.

Announcing the end of the process, the independent chairman Sir Ninian Stephen,
declared: "The two governments are of the view that further dialogue is both
necessary and desirable.

The four Northern Ireland parties agree that they will enter into informal
consultations seeking a way forward."

For the Social Democratic and Labour Party, John Hume said he believed that
"deeper levels of understanding have been established".

James Molyneaux MP, leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, said: "We will
persevere in our efforts to achieve progress through informal consultations."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 13, 1992, Friday

LIBYA AND WEST LOCKED IN LOCKERBIE STALEMATE

BYLINE:  Sue Baker, Reuter

SECTION: OOO

LENGTH: 431 words


A year after Britain and the United States charged two Libyans with the
Lockerbie bombing Col Gaddafi's regime and the West are in a stalemate.  Tripoli
shows no signs of handing over the suspects despite international demands.
Charges against the two Libyan agents were issued on November 14 last year by
Scottish and US prosecutors, and they prompted a flurry of diplomatic activity
culminating six months later in UN sanctions to try to make Gaddafi surrender
the men for trial.  But after six months of air, diplomatic and arms sanctions
he has yet to agree.  "There seems to be no real imminent liklihood of Gaddafi
handing over the supsects," said Paul Wilkinson, an expert on terrorism and the
1988 attack on the Pan Am Boeing 747 Jumbo jet.  "Since the West clearly has no
evidence that the regime is going to deliver the demands of the UN resolutions
it seems to me well overdue that they should consider the next step - that of
increasing the sanctions," said Wilkinson, who is professor of international
relations at St Andrew's University.  The Foreign Office said Libya had shown
movement on secondary Western demands, such as handing over some details of its
links to the IRA.  On the key demand of handing over the two men for trial in
Scotland or America, a spokeswoman said: "They continue to talk about trials in
other places and we remain totally of the view that a trial must be in the
United Kingdom or the US "The ball is in the Libyan court. It's for them to
comply. We are determined to keep up the pressure." Further measures against
Libya were not ruled out.  "We are not going to sit back and do nothing," the
spokeswoman said. "We have always said that nothing is ruled out for the future.
The measures we have taken so far don't rule out further measures if Libya
remains obstinate." The next opportunity to broach the subject of further
sanctions could be after next month's meeting of a UN sanctions review
committee.  However there were no guarantees the Security Council would endorse
new measures, such as an oil embargo, which experts believe would logically be
the next step in efforts to force Libya to comply.  Wilkinson attributed the
lack of new action by the West in part to the distraction of crises such as the
civil war in Yugoslavia and Iraq's defiance of UN resolutions since the end of
the Gulf War.  The Foreign Office, which has previously spoken of deadlines for
Libyan compliance in terms of "weeks and not months", refused to say how long
the West was willing to wait before taking new measures against Gaddafi.  Reuter
tc


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 15, 1992, Sunday

TELEVISION / Time to put a sock in the sound system

BYLINE: By ALLISON PEARSON

SECTION: ARTS PAGE; Page 22

LENGTH: 1166 words


IT WAS a safe bet that some Britons would not observe the silence for the
glorious dead last Sunday. But, all things considered, it was a shame that the
BBC's man at The Cenotaph was among them. ''Forty-five seconds.'' David
Dimbleby's voice rang out. Out over the stooped rows of pensioners, burnished
medals swinging from blazers and macs. Out over the politicians with their
poppies and the soldiers with their chinking spurs. Out into the mournful pewter
day and into a million thoughtful living-rooms. What did it matter? A glitch, a
microphone left on, a glimpse of the infinite gubbins that underpins the outside
broadcast. Well, it mattered a lot.

Dimbleby wasn't just the commentator, he was the Voice of the occasion. And,
where necessary, its silence, too. That evening, a BBC2 announcer apologised for
the ''technical difficulties''. This was welcome, but beside the point: it
wasn't that Dimbleby had been heard speaking, but that he had been speaking at
all. What was lost was the sense of collective memory that gives the moment its
poetry. They shall not grow old (''Camera two''), as we that are left grow old
(''Thirty seconds''). At the going down of the sun (''Get Di in, can't you?'') .
. . We will remember them. At the Cenotaph for Radio 4, Tom Fleming was drawing
pictures on the ether to make stones weep.

Enniskillen (BBC2) would have been a highlight of any week, but was especially
poignant in this one, showing that for the suddenly, savagely bereaved,
remembrance is not a problem: what the people of this town wouldn't do for a
little forgetting five years after an IRA bomb killed 11 of their neighbours.
They have the day by heart: ''She said I've some very bad news for you, now.
'Alberta's dead, Gerry's dead, Kit's dead.' ''

Philippa Lowthorpe's film named names till they stuck in your head like a
ballad. Three stout British Legion gents sat facing the camera as if awaiting
some civic portrait: they introduced themselves, identifying the victims they
had known. Cut to three ladies elbow-to-bosom on a settee: ''My name's Lily
Irvine and I was injured in the bomb.'' ''I'm May Stinson, I knew 11 people who
were killed.'' The Enniskillen band takes up the story, passing it from man to
man: ''We heard a muffled dull thud.'' ''Dropped our instruments and ran.''
''See the bricks flying.'' ''Children were shouting on their mammies.'' Piecing
together the shards of a common memory. I have never seen anything like it; but
then neither had they.

This film was extraordinary for its faith in the ordinary, and in the truths
that are buried there. Sermons in scones. There were no soldiers, no
politicians, no perpetrators. A kitchen clock ticks, a chicken is basted, potato
peelings fall into a bowl - ''like solder weeping off the soldering iron'' in
Seamus Heaney's great phrase. Any old Sunday before it became that bloody
Sunday. By focusing on the warp and weft of everyday, Lowthorpe showed us what
the tearing of that fabric might mean.

The film brimmed with subtle touches: Mrs Wilson recalled early-morning piano
practice of Marie's exam piece. The tune played softly as the camera followed
the sheet music the way mother and daughter used to. At the re-run Remembrance
service the rain slewed down and umbrellas flapped over the mourners like crows.
A young minister who lost six of his congregation looked up before his third
funeral in three days: ''Right, Lord, what's it going to be this time?'' Down a
country lane thick with creamy hawthorn, the band come practising: the jolly
parping almost makes you smile. The women pour tea and bite their lips. And so
it goes.

Enniskillen set you thinking; not about the Irish question, but about the Life
question and its intractable mysteries, like loss. It made the case, as if it
needs restating, for the woman film-maker. I doubt a man could have made this
film; I doubt a man would want to. Television is full of directors who carry
their cameras in a holster: shoot from the hip, through car windows, stick a
mike in the face, get that story, boys. But there is another way, and we don't
see enough of it by half.

The Borrowers (BBC1) slips down a treat in Sunday's teatime slot. Mary Norton's
books about the six-inch folk make spooky reading and that frisson remains in
this beautiful, ingenious adaptation. Pod (Ian Holm) is ''borrowing'' from the
doll's house when a puppet falls on him. He jumps, then relaxes into a
thank-goodness smile. Only then do we see the boy's eye at the window. A
double-whammy, in short.

Two other series began that made you glad the nights were drawing in. The Life
and Times of Henry Pratt (ITV), a funny, inky portrait of a Yorkshire childhood,
had some critics lazily citing the Hovis ad. It was certainly the best thing
since sliced bread or even Inspector Morse, with which it shares some pleasures
and a director, Adrian Shergold. Maggie O'Neill left behind the grim wife of
Friday on My Mind to give a wickedly good Auntie Doris complete with airs and
squirrel stole. Joanna Lumley also broke the mould, playing the pouting,
poisoned Patsy in Absolutely Fabulous (BBC2), Jennifer Saunders's comedy about a
dipso fashion PR (Saunders) and her reproving daughter. The laughs around the
mother-daughter reversal got a bit close to the bone, and there was rather too
much Young Ones puking. But a zippy script and fine performances make it one to
watch, not least for Jane Horrocks as Bubble, the assistant with wasp hot pants
and an accent you could spread on your Hovis.

News at Ten's (ITV) new look was a lot like the old look but with a less catchy
version of the signature tune and a reshuffle that leaves Trevor McDonald as the
sole anchor in front of a bank of screens which looks like a Radio Rentals
window. The Focus on Britain slot, introduced by a shamefully under-used Julia
Somerville, dips into issues that would be better treated at length. There is
lot of what you might call fixing the brand identity: ''Here's ITN's political
editor, Michael Brunson''; ''Over to ITN's Penny Marshall.''

On Thursday, ITN's Alastair Stewart interviewed ITN's Michael Brunson outside
John Major's No 10 because now that Alastair has lost his desk job they have to
find him something to do. The Independent on Sunday's television critic thought
this was the daftest thing she'd seen on the box for quite some time.

The emphasis on ''human-interest'' stories may signal relegation for ITN's
excellent foreign coverage. On Thursday, Trevor trailed stories for the second
half: Right to Die (soccer fan in coma), Low Profile (Duchess of York subdued).
But the weightiest item, the British arms-to-Iraq scandal, went unpuffed.

This approach reminds me of an old piece of Fleet Street advice: ''A hundred
Pakistanis killed in a train crash equals five Frenchmen immolated on the Eiffel
Tower equals one Briton losing a plimsoll in Belgium.'' I think ITN's Alastair
may be just the man to find that plimsoll.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 1992

WARPED LOGIC OF ONSLAUGHT

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 289 words


THE onslaught against a betting shop crammed with elderly men was the result of
a ruthless and calculating strategy of the younger leadership now in charge of
the Ulster Defence Association.

From the vantage point of Britain, much of the violence appears indiscriminate
but there is a pattern and reasoning behind it, however warped its logic may
seem.

The loyalist community is angered at the extent of the IRA's bombing campaign
which has reached the smaller, mainly Protestant, towns of Northern Ireland
which have been rarely troubled before. Around 1,600 homes are estimated to have
been damaged since January.

Whether the UFF massacre will encourage the Catholic community to call on the
IRA to alter its campaigns is uncertain. Some Social Democratic and Labour Party
politicians did blame the IRA publicly for the earlier betting shop deaths.

It is more likely that the UFF attack will inflame feelings within the
republican community. In previous times such an attack would probably have
prompted a counter-retaliation by the Irish People's Liberation Organisation
which disintegrated last month under the pressure of internal feuds and IRA
shootings. The IPLO had become preoccupied with drug dealing.

Its absence may mean that the IRA will hit back against loyalist paramilitaries
as they did in November 1991, killing four men, most of whom were not involved
in paramilitary activity.

In the meantime there appears to be no sign that the IRA bombing campaign will
be discontinued. That it has been redirected may be proof that the large number
of Royal Ulster Constabulary roadblocks which ring the centre of Belfast are
concentrating manpower on one area and leaving others vulnerable.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 1992

TERRORISTS LEAVE BOMB VAN AT CANARY WHARF

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 213 words


AN attempt to bomb Britain's biggest building was foiled last night after police
disarmed a van packed with explosives.

They sealed off a large area of the Isle of Dogs, east London, after two men
parked a transit van 20 yards from the 800ft tall Canada Tower in Canary Wharf.

When security guards challenged them they threatened them with a handgun and
made off in a yellow van parked nearby.

Bomb squad officers were called in and blew the doors off the transit van,
parked under the Canary Wharf Docklands Light Railway station. A large explosive
device was found inside which was made safe.

Anti-terrorist branch officers later found the getaway vehicle about two miles
away in Bethnal Green.

John Allen, deputy security manager at Canary Wharf, said: "Two security men
were checking suspect vehicles. They approached one of the vehicles, a blue Ford
Transit.  A man was challenged. His face was covered. He pulled a handgun on
them."

Police evacuated Canary Wharf and surrounding business premises and sealed off
all roads to the Isle of Dogs.

Staff at the Daily Telegraph offices in the building were evacuated. They were
transferred to the nearby print works and an emergency edition of the paper was
published with a blank front page.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 16, 1992

Lockerbie relatives call for Libyan oil embargo

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 331 words


AMERICANS who lost relatives in the Lockerbie crash are to meet in Washington,
DC, today to call for action to bring those responsible for the bombing to
justice.

They are demanding that an oil embargo be imposed on Libya to try to force
President Gaddafi to hand over the two accused to be tried in the US or
Scotland.

They also want a congressional investigator to be appointed to look at
allegations that Syria and Iran were involved.

They claim that although indictments were issued a year ago in the US and
Scotland for the arrest of two Libyans accused of the bombing, virtually nothing
has been done.

"The terrorist act was a historic event, an international tragedy, yet no-one
has paid for the crime," said Mrs Susan Cohen, whose daughter, Theodora, 20, was
among the 270 who died. "This is unworthy of Britain and America."

Mrs Cohen and her husband, Daniel, will travel from their home in New Jersey to
Washington for the rally and news conference, organised by the Families of PanAm
103 group.

She will go to the Washington meeting with a letter she received from US
President-elect Bill Clinton.

Writing to her seven weeks before he was elected, he expressed his sympathy for
"the frustration you and the other PanAm 103 family members have encountered in
your efforts to see that those responsible for this terrorist act are brought to
justice".

The UN sanctions have had little effect, he said, and the US should make it
clear that if the two suspects are not handed over, it will press the UN to
broaden the sanctions to include an oil embargo.

The Libyan accused, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi and Al Min Khalifa Fhimah,
are described in the indictments as "members of the Libyan intelligence
services". They are alleged to have placed an improvised explosive device on a
PanAm feeder flight from Frankfurt to London where it was transferred to the New
York-bound jumbo which blew up over Lockerbie on December 21, 1988.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 16, 1992

Security guards face gunman as second terrorist attack in London fails Canary
Wharf bomb plot foiled

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


SECURITY guards last night thwarted an attempt to bomb Britain's biggest
building.

In what was the second bomb plot to go wrong in London at the weekend, they
challenged two men, one armed, who fled from a transit van packed with
explosives at the 800ft Canada Tower on Canary Wharf, in Docklands.

The men escaped in another van, found later by police two miles away in Bethnal
Green, east London.

Police evacuated a large area of the Isle of Dogs after bomb squad officers used
a robot to blow the doors off the first van to investigate. A large explosive
device was found inside.

The guards at Canary Wharf had spotted the blue transit van as it pulled up at
about 8pm under the railway station. When they went to investigate two men got
out, and one, his face covered, produced a gun. No shots were fired.

Buildings nearby were evacuated, including the offices of the Daily Telegraph,
and roads were sealed off.

A hunt was already under way in London for a terrorist bomber on the run
following the shooting of a police officer, and a similar incident with a lorry.

Detectives believe a major IRA bomb attack was thwarted when two uniformed
officers stopped the lorry carrying a "vast" quantity of explosives and other
bomb-making equipment on Saturday.

One of the officers, PC Ray Hall, was injured when he was shot in the head and
back by the two terrorists in the lorry as they tried to escape on foot.

A man was yesterday being held at Paddington Green police station under the
provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

In Northern Ireland the outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters have vowed more
terrorist attacks after one of the worst periods of violence this year.

Three civilians and a police officer were killed over the weekend, and the
centre of Coleraine devastated by an IRA bomb.

Among the victims was Mr John Lovett, a 72-year-old Second World War veteran,
one of three men murdered in a UFF gun and grenade attack on a bookmaker's shop.

Sir Hugh Annesley, Northern Ireland's Chief Constable, will meet other police
and Army chiefs this morning.

The UFF, regarded as the terrorist wing of the Protestant Ulster Defence
Association, says it will counter IRA attacks and claimed the murders at the
betting shop were in retaliation for the IRA bomb in Coleraine.

One person was critically ill and another said to be in a serious condition,
among 12 people, including two Protestants, wounded at James Murray's betting
shop in the Oldpark Road district of North Belfast.

A gunman fired more than 40 shots and then another man flung a grenade among the
dead and wounded.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 17, 1992

THE CAPITAL COPPERS ON AS USUAL;
IRA bombs, police arrests and the propaganda blitz: Duncan Campbell reports

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 851 words


"SHORT on sleep, long on memory," was the motto given to the anti-terrorist
branch by the former commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir David McNee.
After last weekend, there can be little doubt about the lack of sleep. But how
long will the memories of the 93 officers of the branch have to be? And is there
an inexhaustible supply of badly-sprayed lorries rumbling through the capital
packed with explosives or munitions?

When the IRA's bomb went off outside the Old Bailey on March 8, 1972, its
unexpected nature ensured that the rest of Britain took notice. Few of those who
heard the blast can have imagined it would still be echoing through the capital
more than 20 years later.

Now scarcely a week passes without an explosion or a seizure, a hijacking or a
shoot-out. The events are greeted with a shrug, they seem to represent, like
parking problems and pollution, the price that is paid for living in a large
city. The blue and white police tape and the fuzzy Tannoyed London Underground
apology are now almost as much a part of the London landscape as the Routemaster
or the black cab.

The deaths - there have been four in the capital this year - are personal
tragedies, but sadly people are murdered in London almost every other day and
the power of sudden death to shock diminishes in a world where images of mayhem
from Bosnia to Pietermaritzburg to Somalia flash daily across our television
screens.

But how inevitable is it? Last weekend, Sir Hugh Annesley, chief constable of
the RUC, told the Guardian that for too long the anti-terrorist operation on the
mainland has been too fragmented: MI5 has the lead intelligence gathering role
and it works with the Metropolitan police Special Branch; outside London,
provincial Special Branches, of varying competence, collate their own
information; the anti-terrorist branch shoulder the operational role.

"There's a lack of cohesion about the anti-terrorist thrust on the mainland,"
said Sir Hugh. And he resented the idea that intelligence gathered by the RUC
might be wasted on the mainland.

His views were echoed by Commander George Churchill-Coleman in a farewell speech
before he handed over command of the anti-terrorist branch to David Tucker two
weeks ago. He, too, called for a defined national structure to combat the
"professional terrorist".

Certainly there seems to be powerful logic here. The weekend discovery of more
than a tonne of explosives in Stoke Newington, north London, came after
patrolling uniformed officers had spotted a suspicious-looking lorry. The bomb
that would have blasted Canary Wharf was spotted by alert security men. Many of
the major recent successes of the security forces have been the result of what
is still called "good coppering", vigilance, curiosity, the sort of the thing
probationers have drilled into them at Hendon police training college.

Few, if any, would appear to have come as the result of intelligence gathering.
MI5's recent dismal record and its dire performance in the Gulf war, when the
most unusual suspects were rounded up, are not impressive. It should be
remembered that, if there are breakthroughs as a result of informers, then the
authorities are hardly likely to announce the fact, being content to let the
public and the IRA believe in chance or what the IRA called yesterday "sheer
ill-luck".

It would suit the intelligence gatherers to reassure the IRA units on the
mainland that they are impenetrable and thus encourage them to drop their guard,
believing that they have only to keep their fingers crossed as they drive across
the city.

And indeed what is often forgotten is that behind the bombs and the arrests, the
final, crucial war is a propaganda one: on the one hand to convince the British
people that the United Kingdom should quit Northern Ireland and on the other to
convince the IRA that, whatever their temporary successes, their members will
eventually end up in Long Lartin or Durham or a Roman Catholic cemetery.

At present this propaganda war is conducted at a fairly mundane level. The IRA
claims responsibility for a bomb or, in yesterday's case, an attempted bomb,
apologises occasionally when some passer-by has been blown to smithereens and
warns that the bombing will continue until the British leave. The authorities
then condemn the attack, accuse the IRA of being nothing but cowards and common
criminals and pledge that Britons will not be diverted from going about their
normal business.

The problem with this approach is that neither do people accept apologies for
passers-by being killed in blasts, nor can it be accepted that the IRA are
common criminals or cowards; if they were, they would have been the victim of
informers or would have cracked.

"The IRA said last night that bombing attacks on the British mainland would go
ahead . . . That, it is believed, would mobilise public opinion towards
demanding a British withdrawal from Ulster," says the statement. What should
give both sides pause is that that statement was made on December 13, 1979.
Short on memory?

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 18, 1992

Insurers criticised over bomb cover

BYLINE: Eric Baird

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 379 words


TABLE MO ST of the leading insurers came in for strong criticism yesterday,
following attempts to exclude cover for terrorist damage from standard policies.
It is reckoned that such a move could cost British companies as much as £400m in
extra premiums.

The initiative appears to have stemmed from the Association of British Insurers,
which advised its members to exclude terrorist bombings from policies covering
big commercial premises.

It is the result of growing concern among the major insurers about the
continuing campaign by the IRA, including the discovery of two massive bombs in
London last weekend.

An ABI spokesman said insurers had been under mounting pressure from reinsurers
to withdraw such cover. He reminded that a bomb in the City of London last April
had caused an estimated £800m of damage to offices and the Baltic Exchange, and
claimed that direct insurers could not afford to accept such large risks without
reassurance.

"Faced with the reality of reinsurance cover being unlikely to be available, ABI
has prepared this model terrorism exclusion wording for use by insurance
companies," ABI chief executive Mike Jones said in a statement.

"The businesses who think they are going to be concerned and who see themselves
short of the necessary cover must start talking to their brokers sooner rather
than later," he added.

Mr Jones thought the Government could not ignore the impact of the latest bomb
attacks on the insurance industry, pointing out that in Northern Ireland it
compensated property owners directly for damage.

He emphasised that small businesses and private homes in mainland Britain would
still be covered by their insurance policies againt terrorist bomb damage, with
most insurers having put a ceiling on such claims of around £500,000.

Criticising the association's move as "a panic reaction" Mr Nicholas Balcombe,
managing director of loss assessors Balcombe Group, said he believed it was "a
cynical move" to protect insurance companies' income in the wake of recent
terrorist acts.

He felt that they should give customers time to cope with the proposed changes
and thought it "rather improbable" that the international reinsurance market
would be unwilling to cover such risk.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 18, 1992

Bombshell from insurers over terrorism cover

BYLINE: Harry Conroy

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 913 words


TABLE Jus t as London breathes a sigh of relief after the interception of two
huge IRA bombs, insurance companies say they will remove cover against terrorist
attacks.

MAJOR British companies will no longer have the "strength of insurance" around
them in the event of terrorist attacks. The announcement by the insurance
industry that they would no longer offer cover against damage caused by bomb
attacks and other acts of terrorism has shaken British industry.

Individual companies, no matter their size, could be in serious financial
difficulties if they were the subject of a successful attack and had to meet the
bill from their own resources. The possible effects of the decision were
emphasised by the timing, coming so soon after two major terrorist attempts were
thwarted in London.

The reason behind the decision is that the insurance companies themselves can no
longer "lay off" the risk involved in such attacks as the reinsurance companies
say they will no longer accept the business. The decision was brought about by
the blast which shattered the Baltic Exchange in the City of London earlier this
year, resulting in £800m worth of claims. This is more than all commercial
claims resulting from terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland since the present
troubles began in 1969.

Leading insurance companies suffered heavy losses, even after recouping the
liability they had spread among reinsurers. The list of losses reads like a
who's who of the insurance world -- Commercial Union £15m, Royal Insurance £11m,
General Accident £6m, and Sun Alliance £42m.

Since the Baltic Exchange explosion, the insurance companies have been pressing
the Government in private to accept that the Government would need to compensate
business for losses suffered as a result of terrorist attacks but have had no
success, despite the fact that the Government compensates businesses for losses
incurred following terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland.

A spokesman for the Guardian Royal Exchange explained the dilemma facing
insurance companies: "The bomb in the City in April of this year cost the
industry in the region of £800m. This single incident cost more than all the
bomb damage in Northern Ireland in the last 20 years or so.

"The decision we made was driven by the reinsurance market who told us that they
would no longer be willing to accept the risks involved."

This was confirmed by a spokesman for the world's largest reinsurance company,
Munich Re, who, speaking from their Munich headquarters, made it clear that they
were no longer prepared to accept the high risk of terrorist attacks in London.
They said: "The damage done by terrorism far exceeds normal projections and we
have written a letter to British insurance companies to say that they must
exclude terrorist attacks from their policies."

Faced with this position and the Government's unwillingness to lend any
assistance, the British insurance companies were forced to make their
announcement which has potentially disastrous consequences for British industry
and commerce.

As one insurance company stated yesterday: "We are not an extension of the
social services. We must try to make a profit for our shareholders and if we
were faced with the losses which could result from another major bomb explosion
we could go out of business."

The Association of Insurance and Risk Managers in Industry and Commerce has
called for urgent action to prevent terrorists "achieving one of their major
objectives".

Ms Liz Taylor, chairman of the association, said: "We are arranging an urgent
meeting between ourselves, the CBI and the insurance industry. We do not want to
be confrontational with the insurance companies but a solution must be found
which does not enhance the success of the IRA. After all, are they going to talk
about not offering cover for hurricane damage."

Despite their public posture, the Government must be concerned by the decision
which the insurance companies have made. But yesterday a spokesman for the
Department of Trade and Industry repeated that the Government believed that the
question of insurance cover was a matter to be dealt with between the companies
and their insurance brokers.

However, the reality is that the Government cannot stand by and allow British
industry to be undermined by the threat of terrorist attacks.

If companies cannot insure their property assets to cover such risk, then many
could face severe financial difficulties. How, for example, would a business be
able to use property assets as security against a loan? What would happen to
property values in general and what effect would plummeting property values have
on balance sheets? And how could Britain continue to attract major businesses
from overseas if such concerns knew in advance that their assets would not be
insured against terrorist attack?

It is impossible to believe that the Government will stand by and allow such a
situation to arise. They have some leeway as the insurance compaies will
continue to provide cover under existing policies but when the policies are
renewed the cover against terrorist attacks will be removed.

Next week's meeting between the leaders of the CBI and the Association of
British Insurers will be attended by Tory MP Mr John Greenway, chair of the
Commons all-party group on the insurance industry, and insiders are hoping that
this will be the start towards finding a solution.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 22, 1992, Sunday

Question Times: The IRA

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 2625 words


Q How did the Provisional IRA get its name?

A Until 1969 there was only one IRA, but late that year a split developed. Most
of the old leadership stayed on in the smaller Official IRA. The larger section
became the Provisionals, the name being a reference to the provisional
government declared by those who rose against Britain in Dublin in 1916.

The Provisionals said the old leadership was too Marxist but also insufficiently
militant. It was accused of trying to forge links with Protestants and of
failing to defend Catholic areas of Belfast in the riots of August 1969.

The Official IRA still lingers on though it has largely given up terrorist
violence and concentrates instead on running clubs and rackets. Over the years
two other splinter groups have emerged, the Irish People's Liberation
Organisation and the Irish National Liberation Army. The first degenerated into
drug-dealing and has just disbanded after the IRA shot some of its leading
members. The second has a tiny disorganised membership and is no longer taken
seriously.

Q How did the IRA start?

A The IRA claims lineage run ning back through the 19th-century Fenians, past
the rebels of 1798 and back into the green mists of almost anyone who ever took
up arms against the British.

In this century it claims direct descent from the 1916 rebels who laid the basis
for the south's independence. The 1916 Proclamation of Independence is the
nearest the IRA has to holy writ: ''In the name of God and of the dead
generations from which she receives her old tradition of nationhood, Ireland,
through us, summons her children to her flag and strikes for her freedom.''

The rebels refused to recognise the limited form of home rule originally granted
by Britain and fought, in the bitter civil war of the 1920s, against those who
favoured a compromise treaty with the British.

Over the decades most of those who had opposed the treaty swallowed their pride
and, like Eamon de Valera, slipped into mainstream political life. The IRA
became the refuge of the diehards. At times, such as during the 1940s,
membership was down to a couple of dozen, but the outbreak of the troubles in
1969 brought a huge expansion.

Q Do they believe in God?

A Most do, some don't. Many IRA members go to Mass, but others have not seen the
inside of a church for years and attendance at Mass in some of the strongest IRA
areas is low. Even the deeply religious IRA members ignore church advice on
political matters and reject the pronouncements of the Irish Catholic bishops on
terrorism. In previous decades the Church excommunicated IRA members, to no
great effect. Some of those excommunicated in the 1920s went on to become
pillars of society and indeed of the Church.

Q What does the IRA want?

A In two words, Brits out. It be lieves that Ireland's endemic violence,
together with many of its economic and other problems, are the direct result of
the British presence.

It wants Britain to admit defeat and declare its intent to withdraw from
Northern Ireland. It then wants talks on the best way to effect a withdrawal;
and later it wants Irishmen of all persuasions to sit down and decide together
on how to run Ireland in the aftermath of a British pull-out.

After withdrawal, the republican theory goes, the border will melt away and
nationalists and Unionists will live in peace in a Brit-free Ireland. The IRA
says it would not attempt to seize power, and that Ireland's precise form of
future government would be decided democratically. Not everyone believes that: a
British minister once warned that the IRA's goal was ''a new Cuba off our
western coast''. But although the IRA went through a flirtation with Marxism in
the Seventies, today its language is less and less left-wing. It is also
softening its anti-EC line to take account of the fact that most Irish
nationalists are enthusiastically pro- European.

Q Does the IRA have an intellectual elite?

A The IRA's leadership shades into that of its political wing, Sinn Fein.
Although few of those at the top have any post-school education, the republican
movement contains some sharp thinkers and able debaters, for example Gerry
Adams, Martin McGuinness, Danny Morrison and Mitchel McLaughlin. Republican
publications are literate and of a high standard.

Almost all IRA members are working class. Many received their political
education behind bars, where republicans continually debate and discuss their
cause. The Maze prison near Belfast has the best educational record of any UK
jail, largely because of the IRA prisoners who take A-levels and Open University
degrees in political studies.

Q How many members does the IRA have?

A The security forces estimate around 500, though this is a hard core of
activists who can depend on a much wider circle of second-rank supporters and
sympathisers. Over the last 20 years 5,000 or more have passed through the ranks
before being imprisoned, shot or retired for various reasons.

IRA numbers are deliberately kept down on the principle that every twentieth
member is likely to be an informer working for the police or Army. Recruits are
generally in their teens or twenties. When they apply, they are given a ''cold
bath'' - a stern lecture pointing out that they may well end up imprisoned, or
shot by the SAS.

Sinn Fein has several thousand members. A small proportion of these are also in
the IRA but for the most part they are drawn widely from the working-class
Catholic population. Both the IRA and Sinn Fein have a fair sprinkling of women.

Q How many IRA members are active in Britain?

A Nobody knows. The most re cent security force estimate is about 25, but this
seems to be based not on hard intelligence but on the number police calculate
must be needed to sustain the British campaign at its present level. The present
increase in the volume of bombings suggests that more than 25 people may be
active.

QHas the IRA's British operation been penetrated by the police, the Army or MI5?

A All the signs are that it hasn't. The RUC in Northern Ireland, and the Gardai
in the Irish Republic, pass on lists of people who are missing from their homes
in Ireland and who may therefore be active in Britain.

But police in Britain do not know how the IRA members slip into England: if they
did they would either pick them up or launch close surveillance operations on
them. They don't know how the Semtex plastic explosives and guns are brought
over. They also don't know where, in or around London, the IRA members live.

In Northern Ireland the security forces use informers to penetrate the IRA
structure, but this is not possible in England: the IRA picks its English teams
very carefully, and is not going to send over people capable of being turned by
the Metropolitan Special Branch or MI5. This means the RUC's most valuable
anti-terrorist weapon is simply not available here.

Q Is the present IRA campaign in Britain different from those in the past?

A Yes. IRA bombs have been going off sporadically in England since the early
Seventies: there were the Birmingham and Guildford pub bombings, explosions
which killed soldiers in Hyde Park and Regent's Park, and the bombs at Harrods
and the Grand Hotel in Brighton.

But most of those were one-off hit-and-run attacks, which were followed either
by arrests or by withdrawal of the IRA unit.

The difference now is that the IRA is intent on waging permanent war in England,
and has established a structure that is capable of absorbing occasional losses.
Hindsight suggests that the organisation took a strategic decision in the
mid-Eighties on how to use the large quantities of Semtex and other materials
that had been supplied to it by Colonel Gaddafi's regime in Libya.

IRA commanders decided they had enough equipment not only to step up their
campaign in Northern Ireland but also to wage a large-scale campaign in Britain.

A Semtex find in Cheshire in 1987 held up their plans, and it was not until
mid-1988 that the bombing of Army premises at Mill Hill in north London heralded
the start of the present campaign. Since then the IRA has had its successes and
setbacks, but it has kept up the pressure with a stream of attacks.

Q Why this increased emphasis on bombing Britain?

A The cliche that one bomb in London is worth 20 in Belfast is correct. In
Northern Ireland last year there were 230 explosions, only a handful of which
rated any detailed mention in the British media. Almost any bombing in England,
by contrast, will attract coverage.

Since the IRA is trying to affect British public and hence political opinion, it
makes tactical sense for it to strike in Britain as much as possible. In four
years it has exported to Britain many of the features of Northern Ireland
terrorism, including bombings of various kinds, shootings, mortar attacks,
incendiaries and so on.

The theory is that the public will realise that bombs will be a permanent
fixture of life in Britain so long as the troops remain in Northern Ireland. The
public will then, the IRA hopes, put pressure on British politicians to bring
the soldiers home. Yet four years of a sustained bombing campaign has not
noticeably increased troops-out sentiment in Britain. Told that it hasn't
worked, the IRA replies that it hasn't worked - yet.

Q How is the IRA organised?

A The traditional terms such as brigades, battalions, chief of staff and so on
are still used, but the IRA has learnt over the years to be as flexible as
possible. For one thing, this hampers the security forces, who tend to think in
terms of hierarchies.

Teams in the Republic of Ireland supervise the hiding of weaponry, while others
specialise in moving it across the border. In the north, quartermasters
distribute weapons to the ''active service units''. Intelligence units choose
and check out targets for attack.

An ''engineering department'' develops new types of weaponry, including bombs,
boobytrap devices, mortars and grenades. Although technically these are
home-made weapons, British Army experts have a healthy regard for their
effectiveness.

There is also a ''security department'' whose job is to ferret out security
force informers and agents planted in the IRA ranks. Further sections deal with
tasks such as finding sources of weapons abroad and working out how to get
supplies into Ireland.

A finance section, a sort of IRA treasury, deals with raising money and
allocating it to other departments. A seven-person ''army council'' oversees the
whole operation. There are, no doubt, other units unknown to the security
forces. For example, the unit that ferried in the Libyan supplies in 1985-87 was
unknown until accidentally uncovered by French customs.

Q How easy is it to convict IRA members?

A Over the years thousands of IRA members have been jailed, some for life and
some for a few years. At present there are approximately 650 IRA members in jail
in Northern Ireland, more than a hundred of them serving life sentences for
murder. When those held in the Republic, Britain and the Continent are added,
the figure rises to about 750.

These are a mixture of core activists and second-stringers. The security forces
have two decades of experience in dealing with the IRA, but the terrorists have
learnt how not to incriminate themselves under interrogation, how to intimidate
witnesses and how to avoid leaving forensic evidence. Many of them operate in
boilersuits and gloves, bathing after missions to remove lead particles.

Q Is it true the IRA is also a community police force?

A In some areas of Northern Ireland, particularly those where the security
forces find it most difficult to operate, the IRA acts against those deemed
guilty of ''anti-social behaviour'', such as joyriding, burglary, sex offences
or other crimes.

''Community policing'' in this context is a euphemism for shooting youths in the
knees, or in extreme cases the elbows and ankles as well. Enforced exile is
another alternative, with people sometimes ordered out of the country on pain of
death.

Over the years the republican community has come to regard such methods as an
alternative form of justice. In many cases, non-republicans have asked the IRA
to intervene against elements felt to be beyond the reach of the police and
Army.

Q What is the true level of IRA support, north and south?

A A difficult question to answer, but one measurement is the vote for Sinn Fein,
which gives an idea of the numbers prepared at least to tolerate IRA violence.
Sinn Fein received 78,000 votes in Northern Ireland in this year's Westminster
election, which amounted to exactly 10 per cent of the total vote and 30 per
cent of the nationalist vote.

This is well down from its high point in 1983 when it won 102,000 votes, more
than 40 per cent of the vote. In the south, the Sinn Fein vote has dwindled
almost to vanishing point - 1.2 per cent.

It also has to be understood that those who support the IRA have the power to
impose certain rules upon it. Many of those people, for example, approve of
killings of soldiers or policemen but frown on civilian casualties. The IRA
knows it has to pay attention to such judgements.

Q How does the IRA raise its money?

A The IRA has become a multi- million pound business: all the figures are
guesstimates, but it is reasonable to suppose it raises and spends perhaps
pounds 5m a year.

Only a little of this money comes from sympathisers in the United States; other
funds come from clubs, pubs, taxis and video piracy. There are suspicions that
the IRA has a lot of money stashed away on the international money markets.

Some ''protection'' money is extorted from businesses but it is used for what
the IRA regards as the cause rather than for personal gain. If IRA leaders were
keeping the money for themselves, the 78,000 voters would disappear overnight.
For similar reasons, the IRA has never been tempted to go for the easy money
available in, for example, drug-pushing. And it tends to extort from the larger
businesses rather than from small concerns that would get community sympathy.

Q Will the Government ever talk to the IRA?

A You can never say never. Gov ernments have held talks with it in the past, and
IRA leaders claim to be confident that they will some day be back at the
conference table.

Against that, it has become crystal clear over the years that the IRA is not
interested in compromise. Talks would be for one of only two purposes: to
discuss a British withdrawal or to discuss the terms of an IRA withdrawal,
should the IRA ever decide to call off its campaign.

There is certainly a British instinct to put an end to its involvement. Britain
has little selfish interest in remaining in Northern Ireland: the province no
longer has any military or strategic importance, it represents a constant drain
on the UK economy, and it brings nothing but trouble and bad publicity.

There is, however, the moral argument that a government should not capitulate to
terrorism and that it should respect the democratically expressed wishes of the
majority in Northern

Ireland.

Those who fear that a British pull-out would destabilise Ireland and lead to
much worse bloodshed include the northern Unionists, many northern nationalists,
and almost all southern Irish politicians.

The IRA has successfully sustained its terrorist campaign and its durability is
not in question. But it has united the British and Irish governments in a
determination that terrorism should not succeed; after 20 years all the signs
are that the IRA is no closer to achieving its aim of forcing British
withdrawal.

(Photographs omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 28, 1992

GOVERNMENT MAY HELP PAY BOMBS DAMAGE BILL

BYLINE: PAULINE SPRINGETT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 460 words


THE Government is considering a proposal to foot part of the bill for damage
caused by terrorist bomb attacks in mainland Britain in a bid to quell growing
anxieties in the insurance and property industries.

Under a proposal to be put formally to Michael Heseltine, Trade and Industry
Secretary, next week the Government will be asked to step in with financial
assistance for insurers when claims top 300 million pounds.

Insurers are threatening to withdraw such cover from commercial buildings policy
as renewals come up from January 1.

Details of the scheme are contained in a letter to members of Britain's main
association of insurers and risk managers.

Tory MP John Greenway, chairman of the Commons all-party insurance and financial
services committee, said yesterday he had asked the insurance industry to agree
to create a fund to pay terrorism claims, with the Government picking up the tab
for any extra loss.

Mr Greenway added: "My advice has been for the insurers to provide self-help
first and then for the Government to come in with the balance."

A DTI source said: " At this stage the Government feels it is a matter for the
insurance industry but we are open to suggestions."

The exact level of government support has still to be decided but it is thought
the insurance industry will provide between 250 million pounds and 350 million
pounds annually.

The Government is strongly resisting pressure from the insurers to introduce its
Northern Ireland Compensation scheme in mainland Britain as it is worried about
cost and the political implications. The Government has paid out 680 million
pounds under the Northern Ireland scheme in the past 20 years. The insurance
industry now estimates the cost of last April's bombing in London to be about
800 million pounds.

These huge figures have frightened insurers, who fear being wiped out by one or
more massive claims. But a government source said: "The insurers are not going
to get a Northern Ireland scheme extension - it would be like writing a blank
cheque and the taxpayers would suffer."

Victor Rance, general insurance manager at the Association of British Insurers,
one of the industry bodies considering the plan, said: "There is no way the
industry can expose itself to this sort of political risk. It would put normal
claims payments in jeopardy. If anyone should be responsible it should be the
Government."

Mr Greenway put his proposal last week to representatives from the CBI, the ABI
and the Association of Insurers and Risk Managers in Industry (Airmic). Roger
Miller, Airmic's chief executive, then wrote to his members saying that a plan
for a tripartite agreement between industry insurers and the Government was on
the table.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                           November 29, 1992, Sunday

'Jackal' tells of bomb plot at royal charity concert

BYLINE: Chester Stern, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words


THE IRA plotted to assassinate the Prince and Princess of Wales at a charity
concert.

A huge bomb was to have been placed at the Dominion Theatre, London, where
Charles and Diana watched Duran Duran and Dire Straits perform in July 1983.

The terrorists meticulously planned every detail but the murder plot failed
because the man due to plant the bomb got cold feet at the last moment.

The full story has been told for the first time by the IRA's most notorious
killer Sean O'Callaghan who is serving 539 years in Belfast's Maze prison for
brutal terrorist crimes.

The 38-year-old former Sinn Fein councillor was dubbed The Jackal when he came
to Britain during the 1983 General Election to stalk former Labour Home
Secretary Roy Jenkins.

At the time he appeared in the square of his home town, Tralee, proudly
displaying a copy of The Mail on Sunday which exclusively revealed his
assassination mission.

The purpose of the publicity stunt was to deny he had been in England, but last
night O'Callaghan confessed our report had been accurate.

He had slipped back to Tralee by flying first to Paris and then to Dublin.

O'Callaghan was hunted by Anti-Terrorist Squad detectives across Europe for five
years until the day he walked into a Kent police station in 1988.

He then confessed to a catalogue of crimes including the murders of a woman
soldier and a police inspector.

Now the man who has a son and daughter by two women with whom he had
relationships while on the run, has made a series of dramatic admissions
including:

* Playing a major part in planning the bomb attack on the Grand Hotel in
Brighton during the 1984 Tory Party conference.

* His key role in the bid to kill Charles and Diana at the concert in aid of the
Prince of Wales Trust.

* The murders of several members of the security forces in Ulster including a
woman in the Ulster Defence Regiment.

O'Callaghan has always been regarded as a close friend and associate of John
Downey who is still wanted by Scotland Yard for the 1982 Hyde Park and Regent's
Park bombings of the Horse-guards and the Royal Green Jackets band.  He slipped
out of Tralee in 1985 suspected by the IRA of informing on them and stealing
terrorist cash. Using a series of false passports he kept one jump ahead of
police by hiding in Holland, France, Germany, Australia and the United States
before giving himself up.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           December 3, 1992, Thursday

IRA bombs put pressure on MI5 takeover

BYLINE: by Christopher Elliott and Michael Hornsby

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 697 words


MOVES to speed up the handover of primary responsibility for fighting IRA
terrorism from Scotland Yard's Special Branch to MI5 were urged last night in
the face of the sustained bombing campaign.

Frustrated members of the anti-terrorist squad and provincial Special Branch
officers are concerned that, although the first steps towards the new system
were taken on October 1, it may take up two years for a real difference to be
felt. One officer said last night: ''If someone was to ask me whether the new
system was working I would have to say, 'what new system?'''

Frustration has been heightened by the discovery of a blue Transit van packed
with half a ton of homemade explosives at 7.30 on Tuesday evening in Stephen
Street, off the Tottenham Court Road in the West End of London. The van was
found after a series of coded warnings at 7.05pm that four bombs, planted
between Tottenham Court Road and Oxford Street, were due to go off within half
an hour. Police would not comment yesterday on whether the detonator had failed.

It was the fifth big bomb left in London in the present campaign using homemade
explosives. The other four in the City of London and at Staples Corner in April;
in a Volvo lorry stopped in North London on November 13; and in a Transit van at
Canary Wharf 72 hours later contained about a ton each.

Between 16 and 18 tons of fertiliser would have been used to make the bombs,
designed to cause maximum damage in a manner that more precise commercial
explosives such as Semtex cannot. It is the nitrate within the fertiliser, that
is extracted by using coffee grinders and detonated by a small explosive charge,
that provides the power. The question for the security services and the police
is whether that manufacturing process is being undertaken on the mainland or in
Ireland and then shipped over.

About 2.5 million tons of ammonium nitrate fertiliser, which has been banned in
Northern Ireland for 20 years, are sold in Britain every year. According to Jim
Reed, the director-general of the United Kingdom Agricultural Supply Trade
Association (UKASTA), 200 to 250 companies with some 1,000 retail outlets sell
fertiliser.

Most farmers place orders by telephone with their local merchants and have the
fertiliser delivered. It is most commonly delivered in 500 kilogram bags.

Mr Reed says there is no legal bar on ''cash and carry'' sales to buyers who
turn up in person at the merchant's premises; however, UKASTA members have been
under standing instructions since the City bomb to take note of customers'
names, addresses and vehicle registration numbers of customers that they do not
know. These intructions were recently renewed.

''I think you can take it that any strange men with Irish accents asking for
fertiliser would be pretty swiftly reported to the local police,'' Mr Reed said.
''Local merchants would have a good idea of all the farmers in their area.'' He
said, however, that total security was difficult given the volume of the
supplies.

One theory is that fertiliser is being stolen and then processed in deserted
farm buildings, possibly in the Home Counties to allow close access to London.
The police currently believe that explosives are being prepared in Ireland and
then shipped over.

In the seventies, the IRA delivered explosives to the heart of London using
haulage firms that had legitimate daily business there. But there are risks for
the terrorists using homemade explosives. The last three bombs have been
captured virtually intact, providing important forensic evidence for the police.
With each failure, the IRA, as a result, will be more determined to succeed and
may switch tactics again, firebombing stores or attacking other cities.

Yesterday Paul Condon, who takes over as Commissioner of the Metropolitan police
on February 1, said that there was no ''quick fix'' to combating the Provisional
IRA's terrorist campaign on the mainland.

''It is a long-term issue. There is not a new commissioner or formula that is
dramatically going to have an impact,'' he said. ''There has to be realism about
what is going to be achieved without turning London into a fortress.''

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 4, 1992

TARGET-SWITCHING AIMS TO BAMBOOZLE POLICE

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 491 words


THE use of bombs in a crowded city centre marks a further intensification of the
IRA's mainland campaign, and points towards a return to cruder shock tactics.

The intention was probably to instil terror and damage buildings rather than
cause injuries.

The IRA's history is littered with examples of miscalculated fatal bombings.
Since Christmas 1983, when a vehicle packed with Semtex exploded in a side
street beside Harrods, in west London, the IRA has generally avoided using car
bombs or similar devices in busy shopping areas.

That attack, which killed five and injured 80, prompted republican claims that
those responsible had acted alone. Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein,
expressed regret at the deaths and injuries. The IRA's ruling Army Council
subsequently admitted that Harrods, rather than the passers-by, had indeed been
the target.

But for the rest of the 1980s the Provisionals' efforts outside Northern Ireland
were directed against selected establishment figures and military bases in
England and Europe. The resumption of attacks on commercial premises with
incendiaries and bombs has been characteristic of the Provisionals' tactics in
the 1990s.

There will undoubtedly be disputes over any warnings given. In some ways
England's experience of the IRA campaign has been worse than that of Belfast.
Four civilians have been killed by explosions in Covent Garden and the City of
London this year. Over the same period no one has died as from similar bombs in
Northern Ireland.

The higher casualty rate may be due partly to the IRA being more reckless on the
mainland because it is less vulnerable to criticism from its Northern Ireland
supporters. Any passers-by killed are hardly likely to be Sinn Fein voters.

At the same time ignorance of the detailed geography of mainland cities
contributes to inaccurate warnings. That is compounded in England by slower
response times of emergency services less used to bombs.

Republican sources counter claims that their volunteers allow too short a period
for evacuations by alleging that the police distort details about warning calls.

The use of bombs on the streets of Manchester is, nonetheless, consistent with
the IRA's habit of continually varying its weapon and targets to keep the
security forces guessing and wrong-foot them.

The purpose of the disruption, however, never varies. As a recent Provisional
statement in Republican News declared: "The IRA remain capable and resolute in
their determination to visit the consequences of British occupation of Ireland
right back on Britain's own doorstep."

Causing bomb damage costing hundreds of millions of pounds - as in the City of
London immediately after the general election - may be a means of forcing the
Government to reassess the financial cost of the link with the province.
Alternatively it may simply reflect increased risks in attacking the army and
police.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 4, 1992

Terror lasts but a moment, then courage thrives

BYLINE: Allan Laing

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 718 words


THE IRA tried to bomb the heart out of Manchester yesterday but failed miserably
in its evil intent. It merely inflicted a temporary paralysis.

It was a curious, almost bewildering experience to enter the city centre
yesterday afternoon when the streets should have been teeming with office
workers and Christmas shoppers.

The area effectively had been evacuated. Thousands of people had been led to
safety after the two early morning explosions. All that remained were shuttered
shops, deserted pavements, and an eerie silence, broken only by policemen
shouting orders through megaphones.

Shop by shop, office block by office block, small squads of explosives experts
searched throughout the day for a further two bombs which, the IRA claimed, had
been planted in the vicinity. The devices did not exist. The ruse was simply
part of the bombers' disinformation campaign.

The police cordon which covered three square miles at the height of the
emergency slowly shrank over the day as yet another building, another street,
was declared safe.

Sixty-four people were injured in the explosions, the first of which occurred
shortly before 9am at the height of the rush hour.

Mercifully, the injuries were slight -- a combination of shock and superficial
cuts from flying glass. The bombs are believed to have caused millions of pounds
of damage to many buildings.

In Manchester, there was fear and there was panic and there was revulsion, the
inevitable companions to the outrage of terror. Beyond that, there was defiance
and there was courage.

Until yesterday, the people of this, the sixth largest city in Britain, had
escaped relatively unscathed from the bomber's evil hand. However, Manchester,
like every other urban centre in England, is not a fortress, and no amount of
secret intelligence from the police or vigilance from the public can prevent the
IRA from striking when it so wishes.

Frustrated by failure in London, it has moved the terrorist machine northwards
to softer targets.

Cynically, the terrorists had issued their usual "warning" when it was too late.
A man with an Irish accent telephoned the Manchester offices of the Samaritans
and then the BBC to say that four devices had been planted in various parts of
the city centre. The call came seven minutes after the first explosion.

That blast happened at 8.40am behind Kendal's department store in Deansgate.
Within minutes, police began the evacuation.

In a vicious and ironic twist, many of those who were evacuated were guided
straight into the path of the second bomb in Cateaton Street, near the city's
cathedral. It was not one of the locations which the terrorists' mouthpiece had
mentioned.

Manchester's assistant chief constable, Scotsman Jim Paterson, said: "I think it
is absolutely deplorable but clearly a regular terrorist tactic, to place bombs
and then give warnings that don't allow us time to respond properly.

"In fact, on this occasion, an explosion went off before the warning was
received. That is almost beyond belief."

Today, Manchester, a bullish, vibrant city which, like Glasgow, is trying to
project a modern international image, will attempt to return to normal.

Businessmen will continue to put together their package to try to bring the
Olympics to the city. They pointed yesterday to the example of Barcelona which,
despite a history of terrorist attack from the Basque separatist movement, was
able to convince the Olympic authorities that the city was a suitable venue.

Mr Bob Scott, chairman of Manchester 2000, the body which is bidding for the
Olympics to come to the city, said: "The explosions which occurred today are
obviously a cynical attempt to disrupt the economy and people of the city during
the run-up to Christmas.

"We would like to express our sympathy to those who have been injured. While the
incidents are distressing and worrying in themselves, we don't believe that
there are any long-term implications for the security of the 2000 Olympic Games,
should our bid be successful.

"We are confident that the police and the security forces of the entire nation,
mindful of the threat posed by terrorist activities worldwide, would remain in a
state of constant alertness both before and during the games."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 4, 1992

IRA's twin blast aimed at city's rush-hour crowd. Warning call 'intended to
mislead'

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 918 words


TWO terrorist bombs which rocked the centre of Manchester yesterday, injuring 64
people, were condemned by police last night as an IRA attempt to intimidate
innocent civilians.

"There is not much doubt in anyone's mind this is the IRA," said Scotland Yard's
National Anti-Terrorist co-ordinator Commander David Tucker.

"Anyone in their right mind recognises this is an attempt to intimidate anyone
going about their business and doing their Christmas shopping," he told a news
conference in Manchester.

No warning was given before the first explosion in the height of the rush hour
at 8.40am.

The 2lb device exploded in Parsonage Gardens, near Deansgate in the city's
commercial district, injuring six people and seriously damaging a nearby office
building.

The second blast, 90 minutes later in Cateaton Street, close to the Arndale
shopping centre, claimed the bulk of the casualties, most of them workers
evacuated from nearby offices following the first blast.

Dozens of people were ferried to local hospitals, mostly suffering from shock or
cut by flying glass, but police last night confirmed no-one had suffered serious
injuries.

Seven minutes after the first explosion, the Samaritans received a call from a
man with an Irish accent claiming to be from the IRA, said Greater Manchester
assistant chief constable Jim Paterson.

The caller used a codeword and said bombs had been planted in four places in the
city -- including Parsonage Gardens.

In that warning, and a second phoned to the BBC a few minutes later, he said a
device was planted in Cathedral Street -- not Cateaton Street.

"I think it is absolutely deplorable but a fairly regular terrorist tactic to
place bombs and then give warnings that do not allow us time to respond
properly," said Mr Paterson.

"It is almost beyond belief that terrorists could continue to do that. It must
have been deliberate targetting of innocent people on their way to work."

Mr Paterson said he "did not accept whatsoever" any suggestion that the police
had failed to act properly -- 100 officers were at the four sites within 30
minutes of the warning.

"The people who placed the bombs placed them -- particularly the second one --
in an area they gave us no warning about," he said.

Mr Tucker, newly appointed to the anti-terrorist post, said both devices, each
containing 2lb of high explosives, had been planted in ornamental garden areas
near offices.

It was unlike the methods used in recent terrorist outrages in London, which
involved home-made explosives but there was a similarity in the IRA tactic of
using misleading information.

Asked if it was the start of a Christmas bombing campaign, he replied: "I don't
know, is the answer. It is the continuance of a campaign."

Earlier, the Right Rev. Colin Scott, the acting Bishop of Manchester, told how
office and shop workers, evacuated after the first blast, were sheltering in the
cathedral when the second device went off nearby.

"They were pretty shaken. Having already experienced one explosion, they thought
they were safe in the cathedral," he told the BBC's television news.

He condemned the actions of the bombers, saying: "I think it is a cruel and
cynical attack on innocent civilians.

"I can see no way in which the problems of Northern Ireland can be solved by
murdering and maiming civilians."

Business leaders estimated that the disruption caused by the closure of large
parts of the city centre following the blasts will cost them £3m.

For the 500 shops in and around the Arndale Centre, it meant the loss of trade
on an important late-night pre-Christmas shopping day.

Recession-hit stores hoping to attract shoppers with new Christmas displays
found themselves deserted as the city centre turned into a ghost town.

Hundreds of other businesses and offices were forced to remain empty -- their
staff unable to enter sealed-off areas.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Peter Imbert, Britain's senior policeman,
spoke of his revulsion at the IRA's refusal to give up its bloody campaign which
achieved nothing but misery.

Sir Peter was a senior member of the Bomb Squad in the seventies during the last
intensive terrorist mainland campaign.

He said yesterday: "It is almost pathetic that one cannot get through to them to
show them they are achieving absolutely nothing.

"The only conclusion is there really has to be a realisation, whether through a
political settlement or indeed exhaustion, that their bombing campaign is going
to achieve them nothing."

The latest IRA bombs in London and Manchester came as the insurance industry
warned Mr John Major of the "serious implications" of next year's withdrawal of
cover against terrorist attack.

Pensioners and holders of life insurance policies would be among those hit by
the impact on business and City institutions, the Association of British
Insurers said last night.

It called on the Government to fill the gap created by the abandoned cover,
perhaps by compensating firms in the way it has long done in Northern Ireland.

This was "crucial to the well-being of the UK economy", it said.

The ABI's letter to the Prime Minister came three weeks after its announcement
that terrorism risks would be excluded from industrial and commercial policies
from their first annual renewal after January 1.

Continued on Page 2

Continued from Page 1

IRA bombs aimed to

intimidate shoppers

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: This is the moment the second bomb exploded, injuring shoppers and
office workers, some of whom had evacuated the area of the first blast.Picture:
SIMON PENDRIGHVictims of the second blast near Manchester's main shopping
complex receive first aid and comfort.Picture: ROBIN JONES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            December 4, 1992, Friday

BUSINESS FEARS AS TERROR COVER ROW IS DEADLOCKED

BYLINE:  Andrew Stevens, Press Association Economics Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 704 words


The Government and insurance chiefs appeared to reach deadlock today over who
will foot the bill for terrorist attacks on mainland Britain after the industry
withdraws from the market next year.  Downing Street officials said they
expected insurers to find a solution while the industry insisted it would not
provide cover because the risks were too high.  President of the Board of Trade
Michael Heseltine is to have further meetings with insurers and businessmen but
has offered no new plans.  "There will be further conversations. I shall come
back to the insurance world and have further discussions and explore how we can
make progress," he said on BBC Radio 4's PM programme.  The CBI joined the row,
warning business could be "devastated" by terrorist attacks if the Government
refused to foot at least part of the bill.  Big public companies would face
substantial losses if forced to bear damage costs on their own, it warned.
Pensioners and life assurance policyholders are also in the firing line,
according to the Association of British Insurers, since these funds invest
heavily in property and property companies.  Falling asset values would affect
income and cut benefits for members, the ABI said.  Cover was no longer viable
because underwriters, both international and domestic, were not willing to share
the risk, it said in a letter to Mr Major on Thursday.  ABI chief executive Mike
Jones said the perceived threat of terrorist damage in Britain was so great that
the world reinsurance market did not have the capacity to cover it. "It is not
just a matter of premiums. We are saying that the insurance industry worldwide
cannot and will not underwrite this risk," he said on the same programme.  "In
the circumstances, Britain's insurance companies - if they are to stay solvent -
have to withdraw the cover which they cannot reinsure themselves," he said.  The
risk of a business being bombed in mainland Britain was now classified as being
in the same league as a bombing in Northern Ireland, he added.  After January 1
next year, insurance cover on terrorist-related payouts for commercial policies
will be cut to a ceiling of £100,000 in each of five categories - building,
contents, interruption to business, damage to computers and engineering.  The
Government currently picks up the damage bill in Northern Ireland but not on
mainland Britain.  In the past 20 years about £620 million has been paid out -
less than the estimated £800 million of damage caused by a single bomb in Baltic
Exchange in the City of London in April.  The CBI warned that the consequences
of no insurance cover would be "frightening".  Mr John Pollard, an insurance
consultant and representative for the employer group, said: "There are several
buildings in the City of London alone that are worth more than £400 million
each.  "Imagine what it would do to a balance sheet if the company had the bear
the costs of damage," Mr Pollard said.  And the City of London renewed its plea
for insurance cover not to be scaled down.  Michael Cassidy, chairman of the
policy and resources committee of the Corporation of London, said: "The
corporation is anxious that the City maintains its status as one of the world's
leading financial centres.  "It feels that the Government must resolve the
insurance position to ensure that a framework is provided within which
businesses can proceed with confidence."

Alf Morris, Labour MP for Manchester Wythenshawe, said tonight he would ask Home
Secretary Kenneth Clarke to introduce an insurance scheme for victims of
terrorist attacks.

Later Michael Heseltine, President of the Board of Trade, suggested the door was
not entirely closed.  He said on BBC TV and radio interviews: "There is a
willingness to discuss these matters further. But what we are not prepared to do
is to be put in a corner or pinned down one way or another." Mr Heseltine said
it must be right to seek a market solution wherever practicable to these
problems.  "But it would be irresponsible to try to answer complex problems of
this sort with a 'yes' or a 'no'." He admitted the costs involved must worry
him.  Mr Heseltine agreed the matter was urgent and that solutions had to be
found.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 5, 1992

THIS WEEK: HOW THE IRA HIT THE MAINLAND;
94 people were injured by terrorist bombs, and Norman Lamont's reputation took
another battering over Treasury help with legal fees

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK AND JACK MASSARIK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1043 words


THE IRA's campaign to drive Britain from Northern Ireland was brought home to
ordinary people with a vengeance this week when 94 civilians were injured.

Manchester's city centre was rocked by two bomb blasts on Thursday, which came
without effective warning as people made their way to work. The city's
commercial heart remained deserted for most of the day. In Belfast 27 people
were injured in a similar but all too familiar city-centre bombing. A half-ton
van-bomb failed to go off in London's West End. The incoming Metropolitan Police
Commisioner, Paul Condon, warned against turning the capital into a fortress in
the face of the IRA's most sustained bombing campaign in England since the
1970s.

Twenty thousand job losses were announced on the same day, the Royal Mail
accounting for more than two-thirds of them. Union leaders and Labour said the
cuts were being made to slim down the Post Office for privatisation. The
Cammell-Laird shipyard on Merseyside will close early next year with the loss of
900 jobs, bringing an illustrious 160 years of shipbuilding to an end. Amid all
this the City detected signs of recovery as the pound surged against the mark
and the Halifax Building Society announced that house prices had stopped
falling.

The Chancellor, Norman Lamont, survived another round of damaging disclosures
when it was revealed that the Treasury paid 4,700 pounds of his legal fees for
the eviction of a sex-therapist from his London flat. Labour attacked the
official explanation that the then Permanent Secretary to the Treasury, Sir
Peter Middleton, authorised the payment because the legal action related to Mr
Lamont's official duties. An inquiry is being conducted by the Comptroller and
Auditor General, Sir John Bourne.

Mr Lamont's battered reputation was recovering from the leaking of his unpaid
credit card bills. The wine merchant Threshers, owned by Whitbread, loyal
contributors to Tory Party funds, said that two employees had "made up" the
story about Mr Lamont buying champagne and cigarettes in Praed Street,
Paddignton. The employees were suspended.

The South-west suffered its worst floods for a decade as storms swept the
country. One man died and an avalanche of slurry from a coal tip descended on a
school six miles from Aberfan, reviving memories of the 1966 disaster.

Pressure mounted for intervention in Bosnia. European Community heads of
government will discuss the crisis at next week's Edinburgh summit. Calls for
direct military action are growing because of Serbia's continued breaches of the
United Nations' no-fly zone over Bosnia. At the Arab summit in Jeddah there were
threats of breaking the UN arms embargo to assist the beleaguered Muslims.

The Government announced it will accept a further 4,000 refugees from former
Yugoslavia. A meeting of EC immigration ministers hosted by the Home Secretary,
Kenneth Clarke, agreed on steps to speed up the processing and repatriation of
asylum-seekers with claims that are "manifestly unfounded".

Thomas Courtney, a 46-year-old Harley Street doctor, was jailed for seven years
for raping two women and indecently assaulting two others.

Russia's Constitutional Court said President Yeltsin acted illegally in banning
outright the Communist Party after last year's attempted coup, but upheld the
ban on its top leadership bodies and their seizures of dachas, sanatoria and
other property. President Yeltsin demanded that Russia's supreme legislature,
the conservative-dominated Congress of People's Deputies, surrender much of its
power and stop trying to wreck his free-market reforms. Inflation is running at
2,000 per cent in the former Soviet Union.

Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor until sovereignty is transferred to China in
1997, set a three-month timetable for finalising his proposals on democratic
reform. The local stock market crashed eight per cent to its lowest figure since
1989 after Beijing warned that contracts, leases and agreements not approved by
China would be invalid after the transfer.

On Thursday night the United Nations Security Council authorised a multinational
force composed mainly of American troops to protect the distribution of aid in
Somalia - the first time the UN has agreed to use force to safeguard the supply
of humanitarian aid. While 1,800 US Marines waited offshore for orders to land
yesterday, Pakistani peacekeeping soldiers shot dead a Somali gunman and wounded
two others at Mogadishu airport when they were fired on by Somali militia.

The bodies of two British women tourists were found on a remote beach in South
Africa. Police said they strongly suspected that Elizabeth Over and Julia
Godwin, both aged 30, had been raped but fought back against their attackers.

Sunnie Mann, the wife of the former British hostage Jackie Mann who was held
captive in Beirut for more than two years, died of lung cancer in a Cyprus
hospital. She was 78.

The Long Room and the courtroom upstaged action in sport. In the Long Room at
Lord's, David Gower's supporters among the MCC membership voted 1084 to force a
meeting next month and take a vote of no confidence in the England selectors.
Gower, omitted from England's forthcoming tour of India, is in Australia,
gratified and slightly embarrassed.

In Columbus, Ohio, Judge Joseph Kinneary set a world record when he awarded
Harry "Butch" Reynolds $ 27.3 million in damages against the International
Amateur Athletic Federation. Reynolds, who still holds the 400 metres world
record, was banned by the IAAF for allegedly failing a drug test, a ruling he
said which cost him a fortune in lost earnings and legal fees. But the IAAF hit
back yesterday by threatening to sue Reynolds for libel and further extend his
ban for alleged drug-taking beyond December 31. Reynolds's lawyers have
threatened to hound the IAAF as far as the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games to get the
money, but the federation said: "It has been suggested that the results of these
proceedings in some way vindicate Mr Reynolds. They do not."

Paul Raymond, the king of Soho's soft-porn industry and property developer,
ousted the Duke of Westminster as Britain's richest man with an estimated
personal fortune of 1.5 billion pounds.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 5, 1992, Saturday

Security alert as IRA admits bombings

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and MALCOLM PITHERS

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 572 words


THE IRA in Dublin yesterday admitted carrying out the Manchester and London bomb
attacks this week, as police and the security services remained on high alert
for the campaign in the weeks before Christmas.

Security sources warned that the terrorists were likely to change tactics again.
The overnight switch from using huge lorry bombs in London to smaller,
indiscriminately placed Semtex bombs in Manchester was evidence of a new more
flexible strategy. One senior source said: ''If we ask people to look for
lorries carrying bombs, then we find that within a couple of days they are
planting them in shop doorways or left in bins.''

The Government yesterday refused to give assurances that it would pay the
insurance bill for terrorist attacks in Britain - as it does in Northern Ireland
- despite pleas from the CBI. Insurers have insisted that they will not provide
cover because the risks are too high.

The pre-Christmas period is traditionally a time of heightened activity and last
year saw a series of incendiary bombs planted in shopping areas.

Early yesterday morning, a soldier on guard duty at an ammunition compound in
Catterick army camp in North Yorkshire fired five shots at two or three men,
believed to be armed, entering a restricted area.

Police and the Army said it was impossible to establish whether the intruders
were IRA members or poachers, who are common in the area. A police spokesman
said that if the intruders were poachers they should contact the police, who
would treat them sympathetically.

The shooting led to an alert and precautions around the camp were tightened as
police were called in to search the area.

A number of military bases have been attacked in the current campaign and a
return to such targets would be a typical move. Catterick, which houses 20,000
troops who do regular tours in Northern Ireland, is a recognised target and
soldiers are on a permanent state of alert.

In Manchester, the city centre was reopened after the injuries and destruction
caused by Thursday's bombs. Apart from damaged buildings and small areas around
the bomb sites, the public was able to return to shops and businesses. Only one
of those injured was detained in hospital overnight.

The IRA statement issued in Dublin said: ''Active service units of the IRA
carried out this week's military operations aimed at government and commercial
targets in London's West End and Manchester.

''In both cases adequate and clear warnings were given. Until the British
government recognises Ireland's right to national self- determination, attacks
such as these will continue.''

Usdaw, the shopworkers' union, yesterday called upon the Government and
employers to introduce better training and emergency procedures for spotting
suspect packages and dealing with bomb alerts and evacuations.

Michael Heseltine, President of the Board of Trade, said that he would be having
further discussions with insurers. The CBI warned that business could be
''devastated'' unless the Government was prepared to take responsibility. Mike
Jones, chief executive of the Association of British Insurers, said: ''It is not
just a matter of premiums. We are saying that the insurance industry worldwide
cannot and will not underwrite this risk.''

After 1 January, insurance cover on terrorist-related payouts for commercial
policies will be cut to a ceiling of pounds 100,000.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 7, 1992

LETTER: CONNECTING THE TOLERANCE OF TERRORISM WITH THE BOMB NEXT DOOR

BYLINE: AUSTEN MORGAN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 270 words


ON November 23 you published an article (The bomber next door) by Ronan Bennett
apologising for the IRA. Ten days later, the IRA bombs Deansgate in Manchester -
ironically the spiritual home of the Guardian. There was no direct connection
between these two events, but there is an indirect one.

The IRA believes it can sicken enough British people with its bombing campaign,
to - eventually - force a government in London to withdraw from Northern
Ireland. We (including Irish people like myself) are all potential targets in
this strategy of indiscriminate terror.

The IRA has, at times, pursued another strategy, seeking political support in,
and around, the Labour Party. That party's commitment to a united Ireland does,
arguably, encourage Irish republicans in their belief that their day will come.
A section of the Labour Party did openly consort with Sinn Fein in the 1980s,
and I have met too many English people in London willing, because of misplaced
guilt, to tolerate IRA bombs in Britain.

"It will only end when we pull out," they say, indulging their alienation from
their own society.

A united Ireland will only come about by consent and after the IRA, and
protestant paramilitaries, are politically defeated. The authorities in both
islands will, meanwhile, do their best, and worst, to control political
violence.

Giving space to Ronan Bennett to sneer at those who defend democratic politics
looks like intellectual support for irrational violence. Did the Guardian leave
its liberal conscience behind in Deansgate when it moved to London?

Austen Morgan.

London N8.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 7, 1992, Monday

Bomb decision threatens property deal

BYLINE: By HEATHER CONNON and PAUL DURMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS AND CITY PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 600 words


withdrawal of insurance cover for terrorist activities is threatening a deal
being negotiated between one of Britain's largest property companies and a
German investor.

The threat to the sale confirms the industry's warning that the decision by
insurance companies to stop paying for bomb damage could deter foreign investors
from buying property in Britain. The property company negotiating the German
sale, which preferred not to be identified, said it was a big stumbling block
and, unless a solution was found, the deal could collapse.

The London investment property market has enjoyed a fragile recovery in recent
months, sparked mainly by foreign investment. German institutions alone are
expected to spend more than pounds 500m this year on London property. DIFA, one
of the country's largest funds, paid pounds 73m for Finsbury Circus last week.

Michael Heseltine, President of the Board of Trade, indicated on Friday that he
was prepared to discuss the problem with the Association of British Insurers but
the ABI warned that time was running out. Tony Baker, ABI spokesman, said: ''We
are not hanging about, it's too important. Something has got to be arranged
because of the implications for the UK economy, for businesses, for property
values, for life and pension funds and for the continuing solvency of
industry.''

The insurers say they will be forced to stop offering companies cover against
terrorist attacks after the end of this month.

Most insurers accept that the Government is unlikely to extend the arrangements
that apply in Northern Ireland - where the Government picks up the bill for all
bomb damage - to the mainland. But they want to persuade it to act as a
reinsurer of last resort, paying for claims that are too large to be covered by
commercial reinsurers.

This means they would almost certainly have picked up the tab for much of the
bomb damage at the Baltic Exchange in April, estimated at pounds 800m. But
repairs following the Manchester bombs, where damage is estimated at more than
pounds 4m, should be covered by commercial insurers.

The lack of cover also threatens to bankrupt businesses whose premises are
damaged by bombs as many insurance policies stipulate that tenants must pay for
repairs if they are not covered by insurance.

Meanwhile, analysts at Smith New Court have warned that insurers will face a
window of disadvantage for much of next year. This is because many insurers will
continue to be exposed to the cost of bombings even though they are unable to
renew their own reinsurance cover.

Most insurers renew their reinsurance treaties at the year end. Yet much of the
cover the insurers offer their own corporate clients comes up for renewal at
different times throughout the year.

Smith New Court's Steven Bird said this meant that a repeat of last year's City
bombing could prove many times more expensive for the direct writers. The
insurers would have to bear the full cost of the damage, instead of passing most
of it on to the reinsurers, as happened after April's bomb.

Insurers were last week playing down the extent of the overhang, which extends
into next year.

Moreover, Royal Insurance pointed out that some reinsurance is arranged to cover
a particular property, and so will expire at the same time as the insurer's own
direct exposure.

Francis McWilliams, the Lord Mayor of London, has also written to the Prime
Minister expressing concern over the future of the City if insurers refuse to
cover terrorist attacks. He has asked John Major for support on underwriting
costs.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 9, 1992, Wednesday

Government will continue to pay Ulster bomb costs

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK and PAUL DURMAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 505 words


AS CONTROVERSY continues over possible compensation payments for IRA bomb
attacks in Britain, the Government said yesterday that it will continue to pay
for terrorist damage in Northern Ireland.

The expected damages claim of pounds 750m for the bomb at the Baltic Exchange in
the City of London last April - including rebuilding and business interruption
claims - is bigger than all the property compensation payments in almost 25
years in Northern Ireland.

Because of that massive loss, insurers will start to refuse cover for terrorist
damage to commercial property in Britain from the new year. They argue that the
Government should pay.

In Northern Ireland, a total of pounds 657m has been paid for terrorist damage
caused by almost 10,000 explosions since 1969.

Until this year, insurance against terrorist attack in Britain was regarded as a
minor and relatively trivial part of the cover which insurers provide. Yet the
cost of the Baltic Exchange incident is a third of the pounds 2bn or so of
premiums which industry pays each year for protection against all other forms of
risk.

Faced with this scale of potential loss, the insurers - already weakened by
years of heavy losses - say they cannot afford to offer substantial amounts of
cover against terrorist attacks.

Without insurance, major companies will be left at the mercy of the IRA. The
cost of replacing a multi-million pound factory or office block could threaten
to break even the largest companies.

Claims experts in Belfast said privately yesterday that they had been surprised
by the City of London bill. One source pointed to a bombing in January that
caused serious damage to Belfast's largest building, the 20-storey Windsor
House. Claims from the various occupants are expected to be about pounds 1m.

An earlier bombing of the same building several months ago produced claims that
totalled well under pounds 1m. Claims of more than pounds 5m are rare.

Since the Seventies, the Government has assumed the responsibility of meeting
criminal damage claims in Northern Ireland. While there have been complaints of
excessive red tape and slowness in payments, the system is generally thought to
work.

On top of those for criminal damage, payments for criminal injury have totalled
a further pounds 220m. The damage bill for 1991-92 was pounds 33m, but that has
risen sharply recently as the IRA has placed renewed emphasis on attacking
commercial targets in Northern Ireland. About pounds 47m has been paid out since
April.

The 1992-93 estimate was pounds 38m, raising the question of whether the extra
money would come from London or be taken from the overall Northern Ireland
budget, which this year stands at pounds 7,460m and includes money for education
and other services.

The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew, offered
reassurance yesterday when he said that under a new arrangement with the
Treasury, only some of the additional money would come out of the local budget.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 12, 1992

GOVERNMENT FACES BLAST AS INSURER DROPS TERROR COVER

BYLINE: PAULINE SPRINGETT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 411 words


PRESSURE on the Government to take over as insurer for damage from terror
attacks on mainland Britain increased yesterday as the investment arm of
Scottish Amicable announced that its entire 1.2 billion pounds property
portfolio will be left uncovered as from January 1.

In a letter sent yesterday to its 400 tenants, Scottish Amicable Investment
Managers warned that its property insurer, General Accident, has been unable to
find cover for terrorism damage.

Under normal commercial lease agreements, it is the landlord's responsibility to
find cover but that of the tenant to pay for it. Scottish Amicable is in the
unfortunate position of having a bulk policy which is renewable on January 1.
Some 400 million pounds of its portfolio is in central London's high-risk zone.

David Hunter, the company's property director, said: "The Government have not
yet grasped that this is a tenants' problem - it does not just affect property
owners but all businesses and pension fund holdings."

He added that he considered the centre of London at particular risk, because of
the high concentration of buildings. The Corporation of London has already said
that it too has renewals due on January 1, potentially leaving one-third in
value of the City's properties without terrorism cover.

The Scottish Amicable letter suggests tenants should write to the trade and
industry secretary, Michael Heseltine, "to express [their] views", as others
have already done.

Yesterday Howard Davies, director general of the Confederation of British
Industry, warned that a solution must be found urgently and outlined several
options.

Meanwhile, the Association of Insurers and Risk Managers in Industry and
Commerce (Airmic) is working "around the clock" with representatives from the
Lloyd's broking market and the ABI to find a solution next week.

A spokesman admitted the Lloyd's building is insured in the commercial market
and not by the Lloyd's market. "The cover is led by Sun Alliance but the renewal
is not due until May," he said. Lloyd's site is a major IRA target and stands
opposite the Commercial Union building wrecked in the Baltic Exchange bombing
this year.

- Prudential, Britain's largest life assurance company, is pulling out of
commercial lines business in the UK, following its exit from commercial broker
business earlier this year. The company recommends its commercial policyholders
to renew with Provincial in 1993.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 14, 1992

ROYAL REFORM KEY TO REAL RECOVERY;
The UK is beset with structural problems which cannot be tackled effectively
until the state's relationship with the monarchy ceases to be an excuse

BYLINE: WILL HUTTON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1452 words


THE morning the royal separation was announced trains were running late on the

Bakerloo Line because of signal failures. Surfacing to hail a taxi there was a
habitual London sight; a man begging inside the door of a boarded-up shop and
another rummaging in an overflowing refuse bin. The taxi soon hit gridlock;
there was an IRA bomb scare. This is Britain in December 1992.

Nor is it going to change, even if a so-called recovery is beginning. London
Under

ground's cash limits, set in the Autumn Statement, imply reduced investment and
the deferral of modernisation plans into the next century, and the combination
of social security laws, youth unemployment and housing policy that has produced
such homelessness is equally embedded. And who sees an end to IRA terrorism and
a settlement in Northern Ireland? London mornings are going to get no better for
years.

But amidst this decay there are signs of the new - paradoxically signalled by
the fractures in the House of Windsor and the improbability of any upturn being
other than inflationary and unsustainable. Economic and constitutional crisis
are not accidental. They are profoundly linked - and as Britain's pre-democratic
state structures creak under the strains of their incapacities so it becomes
clearer that they offer neither the instruments nor culture with which the
British economy can be reorganised. And that reorganisation must be the
precursor to any sustained recovery.

But it is in part because Britain's state structures are pre-modern that
attempts at governmental economic initiatives have been so disappointing,
convincing the Conservative Party that a pro-free enterprise position implies
the disengagement of the state from economic intervention.

By international standards this is hardly proven and even by the standards of
British history it is not very robust; protection and managed finance
characterised the industrial revolution and recovery from the 1930s recession -
but such episodes are regarded as exceptions rather than the rule.

Thus economic policy under the Conservatives has been essentially destructive in
its institutional aims; the object has been to create an atomistic world of
competing individuals and firms - and nationally determined wage bargains,
regional investment incentives, and publicly owned monopoly assets have been
broken up, dismantled and privatised.

Yet the appeal to self-regulation, independence and voluntarism upon which this
crusade has depended has profound roots. Culturally and constitutionally the
Conservatives' attack has been supported by the notion that firms individually
and in association are sovereign bodies; that is what they are obliged to be by
law and how they define themselves in practice. It is not only City bodies that
insist on the right to regulate themselves; British horse racing and newspaper
publishers make the same claim. The state is seen everywhere as an intrusion
upon the provenance of independent bodies; independence and freedom are
portrayed as unqualified independence together with freedom from the state
rather than rights that have accompanying responsibilities.

Thus Mrs Thatcher and Mr Major's calls for freedom and choice have had a
resonance unique to Britain; and reinforced by free market economics a potent
ideology has emerged absolving us all - and especially the middle class - from
no more than securing the very best deal. The more public institutions have
deteriorated from neglect, the more interest 40 per cent of the electorate has
had in escaping the public domain, empowered by tax cuts and the acceptability
of private schooling and health. The officer class are jumping ship.

Non-intervention, notions of individual sovereignty and economic exit have gone
hand in hand, but with wider results that are baleful. The point about
production and exchange is that they take place under conditions of structural
uncertainty; and this the price mechanism alone cannot mediate.

THUS in financial relationships institutional investors may use their power to
secure high dividends that are irrational on wider economic grounds; but which
the market alone cannot unravel, and the same is true of other markets.
Behaviour has to change, law and institutions must be reformed; but how is that
to be achieved amongst autonomous companies and self-governing organisations
which resist state initiative as bureaucratic interference and acknowledge no
wider responsibility?

What was always an uphill struggle has been abandoned completely, and we are
left with unreformed market failure - regionally, industrially and financially.
Worse, short-termism is further entrenched because longer-term success is so
elusive. Thus employees press for the highest immediate wage claim, investors
for the highest dividend, bankers for the most recoverable loan, government for
the most effective near-term spending cut, and so the economy slithers into the
vortex, unable even to sustain a durable upturn without collapsing into
inflation or a difficult-to-finance balance of payments deficit.

At heart the private failure originates in the conception of self-governance and
its public obligations; but that in turn is inextricably linked to failure in
the public domain.Enter the House of Windsor. No account of British
parliamentary democracy, characterised by the discretion of the executive branch
of government and above all by notions of sovereignty is complete without the
monarchy. It is the monarchy and the affection in which the royal family has
been held that has legitimised the whole quasi-feudal structure; and equally it
is the fact of monarchical power that dynamises the structure and obstructs
notions of reform. Her Majesty's ministers continue to assemble in her
parliament to do her pleasure; and from that all else flows.

In particular it is the unqualified notion of the relationship between a
sovereign House of Commons (a sovereignty borrowed from the monarch) and a
subject people that informs notions of what is constituted by good governance.
For example, a sovereign body of shareholders meet in an annual parliament to
examine the stewardship of directors to whom they have delegated complete
discretion to maximise their profits. No other responsibility is admitted; and
no other authority needed. Shareholders are monarchs of all they own.

The model is breaking down. When managers had secured some independence from
their owners's demands the system functioned less relentlessly; but now that the
stewardship of company assets is permanently on sale in the stock market via
takeover managers are bound to short-term profit maximisation again and there is
growing restlessness about the implications for investment, production and
employment.

NOTIONS of self-regulation too are breaking down; whether in the sale of life
assurance products, newspaper reporting or redress against the police the public
want better than a resort to self-regulating bodies run by the offending
interests themselves. To rebuild private constitutions of governance requires a
reconstruction of the public domain. As long as the House of Windsor sanctified
the British system there could be no movement. Yet now it seems the enchantment
is cracking, with the royal family unable to bear the load of modernity any more
than nineteenth century trust law can accommodate the demands of modern pension
funds.

Prince Charles and Lady Di could not make their marriage work in part because it
had to be impossibly perfect to correct all the other fault lines in the system.
If a medieval constitution allowed too much centralisation, the corruption of
the honours system and the emergence of a one party state, at least there was
the saint-like princess and honourable prince to excuse it with their grace and
popularity. No more. The royal family's travails gravely weaken the feudal state
of its dignifying elements just as the urge to democratise it grows more
pressing. All around the evidence that the status quo must give is growing.
Ideas of independence, the common interest and social obligation need to be
reinvented; and this will open the way to solving problems as disparate as
Northern Ireland and a disintegrating rail system.

To unravel the Irish issue requires a redefinition of Britishness; a functioning
rail system requires the acceptance of taxation and subsidy to further common
ends. That requires a new constitutional settlement which, in turn, requires a
redefinition of the royal family's relationship with the state. The change must
come; without it our lot will be bombs, division and disintegration.

When institutions decline, page 19

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 18, 1992, Friday

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 266 words


IRA violence in Britain and Northern Ireland will not lead to political change,
Labour leader John Smith said today during a visit to Ulster.  Just before he
arrived in the Province for meetings with trade unionists, church leaders and
security chiefs, terrorists attacked a police station at Markethill, County
Armagh. The IRA fired three mortors but only one exploded and nobody was hurt.
Damage was also minimal.  Mr Smith said in Belfast at the start of his
discussions: "My message to the IRA is that they will not achieve political
change by the use of terrorism. The whole of the United Kingdom, all the parties
and the vast majority of its people are totally united in resisting terrorism.
"To make political change in this country is by democracy ... there is a
unanimity of purpose throughout the UK in resisting terrorism. Resist them we
must do and resist them we will." Security throughout Northern Ireland
particularly in and around Belfast, where security chiefs believe the
provisionals are trying to set off a huge bomb, has been intensified
considerably in the run-up to Christmas.  Mr Smith was told of the continuing
threat by the church leaders and trade unionists.  There is speculation that the
IRA may call a traditional ceasefire.  But Mr Smith said the organisation's
political wing must renounce violence totally before they could enter into any
sort of discussions.  He said: "If violence and the threat of violence was
removed from the scene, then of course all sort of possibilities emerge. But it
is the defeat of violence which is the crucial objective."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          December 19, 1992, Saturday

Smith aims to regain Labour initiative on economic policy

BYLINE: By Philip Webster, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 431 words


JOHN Smith has chosen the economy, Europe and the constitution as his priorities
for next year as the Labour party's new policy-making machinery moves into
operation with the aim of having a programme ready by 1995.

A new party body, known as the joint policy committee and chaired by the Labour
leader, has approved the establishment of two committees on Europe and the
constitution, which will report to next year's party conference. A fresh
appraisal of economic policy, being conducted by Gordon Brown, the shadow
chancellor, will go to the 16-member committee, regarded as one of the most
powerful within the party.

The moves are intended to respond to internal criticism of a void in Labour's
economic platform since the general election. Much of it has been caused by the
government's decision to espouse many of Labour's policies, particularly in the
recent Autumn Statement.

Mr Brown is drawing up plans for national and international intervention to
boost the economy. His work will go to the committee, which is charged with
looking at Britain's economic prospects and agreeing priorities for policies on
taxation and public spending. The committee, whose members include Harriet
Harman, shadow chief Treasury secretary, is seen as an important political
device to control Labour's spending commitments and blunt Tory attempts to
saddle Labour with a high-spending tag.

Labour intends to concentrate on two or three areas of policy each year rather
than making global policy statements that face amendment and overhaul.  Reports
will go before the new 100-member policy forum and then the annual conference.

Mr Smith is trying to avoid a repeat of Labour's experience in the last
parliament, when Neil Kinnock's policy review effectively reached its climax
with the publication of Meet the Challenge, Make the Change in 1989 and was
gradually overtaken by events before the April election. The aim of the new
procedure is to have a more flexible approach so that the policy-making process
reaches its peak as close as possible to an election.

IRA violence will not lead to political change, Mr Smith said in Belfast
yesterday. Just before he arrived for meetings with trade unionists, church
leaders and security chiefs, the IRA fired three mortars at a police station at
Markethill, co. Armagh. Nobody was hurt.

''My message to the IRA is that they will not achieve political change by the
use of terrorism,'' Mr Smith said. ''The whole of the United Kingdom, all the
parties and the majority of its people are united in resisting terrorism.''

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Times Newspapers Limited

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 20, 1992, Sunday

Political Commentary: Sir Patrick walks the tightrope

BYLINE: By DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 1265 words


''I WILL not give you any idol, or idea, creed or king,'' Belfast-born
Protestant Louis MacNeice wrote 13 years after the partition of Ireland, ''I
give you . . . the laughter of the Galway sea . . . the toy Liffey . . . the
vivid chequer of the Antrim hills.''

There is, perhaps, an unconscious trace of MacNeice's ''Train to Dublin'' in the
speech Sir Patrick Mayhew made to the University of Ulster last Wednesday. Just
as MacNeice's poem linked physical landmarks of Ireland, North and South, so Sir
Patrick repeatedly used the phrase ''the island of Ireland'': precisely that
used by Unionists to confront the inescapable physical wholeness of Ireland
without prejudice to the political past or future.

But Sir Patrick went further: in his lengthiest speech since becoming Secretary
of State for Northern Ireland, he went out of his way to pay tribute to the
nationalist tradition in Ireland, naming with admiration Daniel O'Connell,
Parnell, Wolfe Tone. He even quoted approvingly the IRA hero of the 1920s, Ernie
O'Malley, for recognising ''the cultural riches'' of the country he fought
against.

On the face of it, it is surprising that in the middle of an IRA bombing
campaign Sir Patrick should make a speech which, while reasserting the wish of
the Northern Ireland majority to remain in the United Kingdom, described the
nationalist aspiration as ''no less legitimate''. The reaction was predictable.

The Daily Telegraph reported on its front page that Sir Patrick had made ''major
concessions'' to the IRA; Ian Paisley reportedly told Sir Patrick's staff that
it was a ''wicked'' speech by a ''wicked'' Secretary of State. Even the non-
sectarian Alliance Party was critical. In public the party's leader, John
Alderdice, described the speech as ''superficial and disappointing''; in private
to the Northern Ireland Office Dr Alderdice said, by all accounts, that he
regarded the speech as a betrayal.

There was, however, a ritual element in the attacks; it is important to see what
Sir Patrick was not doing. Three years ago Sir Patrick's predecessor, Peter
Brooke, used an interview to say that the IRA could not be defeated by military
means alone. But because he failed to say explicitly that any talks in which
republicans were represented could only proceed after the IRA had renounced
violence, he provoked a furore which for a few hours looked likely to cost him
his job. Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland now operate on a twin track:
the search for a solution through the constitutional political parties on the
one hand; the pursuit of a security policy designed to contain the
paramilitaries on the other. But, periodically, they also feel the need to send
a message to Sinn Fein in response to its frequent calls for direct talks with
the British government. Sir Patrick was therefore careful not to make the same
mistake as Mr Brooke did in 1989. Instead he underlined ''that there can be
absolutely no question of our dealing, directly or indirectly, with anyone who
still espouses violence''.

On the question which lurks permanently in the penumbra of British government
policy towards Northern Ireland - whether to treat with the IRA - Sir Patrick
was therefore unequivocal. Certainly the speech was crafted to encourage those
in the republican movement who, from time to time, in Sir Patrick's words,
''voice their wish for a peaceful solution''. But he did no more than reinforce
the status quo; the British government will not talk to the republicans until
the IRA has laid down its arms; the IRA leadership shows no signs of readiness
to do that until the British serve notice that they will withdraw from Northern
Ireland. Nothing in Sir Patrick's speech, or in Sinn Fein's dismissive response,
changes that.

Indeed, Sir Patrick partly directed his message, made on the very day of two IRA
bombs in London's West End and on the eve of an anticipated IRA Christmas
ceasefire, at those who tolerate or support the terrorists, tacitly or
otherwise. He hoped that they would reflect on what the collapse of the IRA
could mean: the end of emergency legislation; the return of the British Army to
their garrisons as before 1969; normal policing; and the social and economic
improvements that would follow from all that. So, far from being a
''concession'', this was more an elegant statement of the obvious.

Similarly, nothing Sir Patrick said, for example about the willingness of the
British government to see a united Ireland brought about by democratic consent,
goes beyond British policy as expressed in the Anglo-Irish agreement. Yet, as a
former attorney- general, he weighs his words with care. He does not make a
24-page speech for the sake of it.

There are two points worth underlining. The first is that Sir Patrick reaffirmed
his commitment to resuming talks on a constitutional settlement. There remain
formidable obstacles, not least the post-election instability in Dublin. Sir
Patrick almost certainly hopes that a coalition led by Fianna Fail will prevail,
since in opposition Fianna Fail would be tempted to resist a constitutional
settlement made by its enemies, particularly one involving the removal of
Articles II and III of the Irish constitution. These lay explicit claim to
sovereignty over the North. It is also unlikely that devolution talks could
resume in earnest before the May local elections in Northern Ireland. But Sir
Patrick has served notice that he has not given up.

The other important strand in Sir Patrick's speech was more philosophical. He
pointed out, perhaps more clearly than any previous British minister has dared,
that a continued presence in Northern Ireland offers no economic advantages to
Great Britain. This is not simply the pounds 2bn a year public expenditure in
the province; he also reminded his audience that the EC single market means that
any theoretical advantage of access to Irish markets ceases to exist. The
sub-text of his message to the nationalists is that imperialist motives are no
longer reason enough for Northern Ireland to remain imprisoned in the British
state: it is there because of the dire consquences if the British withdrew
without a lasting settlement. This is the background to his warning that ''
'Brits Out' means the ethnic cleansing of a million human beings''.

Sir Patrick's post is a lonely one. For too long the Westminster wisdom has been
that Northern Ireland was not a job worth having. The image of Reginald Maudling
as home secretary, gratefully accepting a whisky before his aircraft was off the
tarmac at Aldegrove and exclaiming ''What a bloody awful country'' is burnt into
the folk memory.

Nor does the Anglo-Irish question play any significant part in the intellectual
life of Great Britain. Many, perhaps even a majority, of newspaper editors
regard Northern Ireland as a ''switch- off''. These days bien pensant,
politically active north Londoners are more likely to discuss Scottish
devolution than what remains the United Kingdom's most intractable
constitutional problem.

But against this uncongenial background Sir Patrick made it clear last week that
he has not given up. There is no quick fix, no terrible beauty to be reborn;
only the plodding, frustrating search for a politically acceptable settlement.
He used his speech to signal to the minority community in Northern Ireland that
the search was in good faith. Given the awesomeness of the task it is, at least,
a mercy that Sir Patrick is probably the only Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland ever who actively sought the job.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 1992

NO HEADING;
If journalism is history's first draft, the Guardian's regular Eyewitness
despatches convey that with unparalleled immediacy . Over the next twenty pages,
a variety of Eyewitnesses - some Guardian journalists, some active participants
- recall the events of 1992

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN TABLOID PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2919 words


Brooke's nemesis

Just hours after an IRA bomb blast killed seven Protestant construction workers
in County Tyrone, Peter Brooke - then Northern Ireland Secretary - appeared live
on the Late Late Show singing two verses of My Darling Clementine. Ulster
Unionist MPs protested so strongly that Brooke felt obliged to offer his
resignation. Maura Connolly, programme executive of the Late Late Show, recalls
the events of that day.

The Late Late Show goes out, absolutely live, for two hours on a Friday night.
Peter Brooke was already scheduled to appear on the show that evening. During
the day, he had had a number of appointments en route between Belfast and
Dublin.

Shortly before he arrived at the studio, ITN contacted us to say that an IRA
bomb had just gone off in Northern Ireland. They were looking for a reaction
from Mr Brooke and asked if he could be interviewed by them while appearing on
the Late Late Show.

They only wanted something short, just a few minutes, so we decided to
co-operate. The time of the interview was synchronised with a spot on the news.

Mr Brooke responded live to questions posed by an ITN reporter. It was only that
small part of the programme which was supposed to be broadcast as an official
statement.

Unfortunately, a number of other stations pirated the whole show. They taped it
all, without permission from either ourselves or RTE. They then used excerpts
from it completely out of context.

As a personality profile, which is what was intended for the Late Late Show, Mr
Brooke's performance was perfectly acceptable. His rendition of My Darling
Clementine, out of context with the rest of the interview and portrayed as some
sort of statement, definitely wasn't. It was extremely unflattering - not to say
unfair.

Labour defeat

Neil Kinnock led the Labour Party during its fourth consecutive defeat at the
polls in April.

My immediate thought on getting confirmation of the fact that we had lost, was
for all the people around me. They had put so much effort into trying to secure
victory and suddenly they found themselves facing a very unsure future.

Within hours, of course, my thoughts had turned to the rest of the country.
What I said at the time was that I thought Britain deserved better, and I think
that now a lot more people understand what I meant.

I had guessed two days before the election that we were going to lose, so I
suppose I had had some sort of preparation. My instincts told me that there was
a definite movement taking place - and it wasn't in our direction. I've been a
political activist for 35 years and you develop a sense of smell or sensitive
bones or something like that, which warns you what's going to happen without any
firm proof.

My individual feelings were completely overlaid with the circumstances and
people within which I found myself. It would be ridiculous to describe my mood
as anything other than sad and grieving, but for the opportunity which I thought
the country had missed, rather than for myself. No good political leader, in
that situation, could possibly reflect on their personal position.

Only after about 24 hours and an endless stream of messages, telephone calls,
cards, flowers and other expressions of support, did the defeat actually begin
to sink in. I think the flood of letters from people wishing to communicate
their feelings and offer their comfort grew to around 30,000.

On the Saturday after the election, our daughter Rachel received an
unconditional acceptance into university. As with any normal person, the joy and
relief of securing a future for your children completely preoccupies you.  It's
not that I was looking for something to take my mind off what had happened, it
was just such a strong demonstration that a fulfilling life existed for me
beyond defeat. That realisation offset a lot of the loneliness I would otherwise
have felt.

I am aware that a lot of people in my situation have felt extremely isolated and
I know just how lucky I am to have the people around me whom I love, and who
love me in return.

Miners' rally

On October 13, the government announced plans to make 30,000 miners redundant by
shutting down 31 pits. Dennis Skinner, a former miner himself, is a Labour
backbench MP on the national executive of the NUM.

It was like another Black Wednesday, except that it was Tuesday. The NUM had
already been tipped off about the closures, but we only had definite information
about one pit.

You can imagine the impact when I discovered that nearly every pit in the
north-east was to close. Neil Clark appeared on TV to make the announcement,
quickly followed by Michael Heseltine, who tried to tell us that there was no
alternative - just as Thatcher had done years ago. The speed at which the pits
were to be shut down was staggering: all 31 were to go by the end of the
financial year.

Equally astonishing, however, was the tremendous support which we received.
When we returned to Sheffield for a conference on the Friday, there was a
revival of that spirit we thought we'd lost years before. But it was just a hint
of what was to come during the weekend.

In all my life, I've never seen anything like it. With only a small amount of
media coverage - because Tony Benn, Arthur Scargill and myself were to speak -
10,000 supporters turned up. A different kind of chemistry was at work, with
lots of people there admitting that they had voted Tory all their lives, but
saying that they never would again.

I'll never forget one stuttering businessman - he just stood up and talked about
British industry going down the pan. He declared that he detested the Tory
Government he had helped into power.

While I was making notes for my speech, I'd remembered stories from the Bible
I'd heard at school. I compared the NUM to the returning prodigal son and Major
to Pontius Pilate, washing his hands. I pointed out that even Judas got his 30
pieces of silver - the government were threatening not to pay redundancies. I
finished off with: "Now we're off to London to slay Goliath!" and got a standing
ovation.

The rally ended with a song from a choir of little school kids. As it finished,
40 tiny hands shot up in the air to the words "Let's fight!". I have

never experienced

such exhilaration.

Pit closures

Paul Holland, 30, a development worker, had been employed at the Shirebrook
Colliery for 14 years when he heard that the pit was to close. He is married
with two children, Sarah,6, and Liam,3.

When I heard I just felt like chucking myself off a bridge. We heard on the
Tuesday - I got a telephone call to come to the pit. Everyone was held back at
the pit until two o'clock when they told us the government's decision. I was
devastated. We thought our pit had got a chance to stop open. People kept coming
in and out of the office all day trying to find out what was going on. I went to
tell the wife - she wasn't pleased. Before I even got to the house to tell her
Kilroy was set up interviewing people at the top of the lane.

We thought the first to go would be the development workers, so I figured I
would be on the dole by Friday. Then we got the stay of execution. I reckon we
will find out what's happening by the end of January, but I think Shirebrook
will close.

Compulsory redundancy pay is about pounds 20,000, but I couldn't pay off my
mortgage with that. The welfare rights people said we couldn't buy our own house
as that would be seen as spending assets. By law you are spending the assets to
get supplementary benefit, so they can stop any supplementary benefit for two
years

We won't be able to afford our monthly payments soon: I figure we will be
repossessed in a couple of years.

So the money's no good, what we want is jobs. They keep saying there will be
retraining for other jobs, but there are trained people on the dole. I've never
done anything else since leaving school.

This place will be a ghost town if the pit closes. The knock-on effect will wipe
out the industrial estate nearby. The day of the announcement of the pit
closures, Davisons, a local engineering firm, laid men off.

After the Commons

The popular MP for Greenwich, Rosie Barnes, lost her seat for the SDP at the
last election. Now secure in her new job as Director of the Birthright
organisation, she is able to regard that night with some degree of detachment.

I didn't think I would lose beforehand. I thought it was going to be very close
and that I had a good chance of winning.

It wasn't until I arrived at the count - around 11.30pm on polling night - that
I realised I was going to lose. My husband was waiting outside for me, and shook
his head as I approached. As the polls were being counted and the slips piled
up, it became apparent that we were losing. I was devastated: I had put
everything into being an MP, serving the constituency, trying to do my best for
the SDP. I had fought the election to win. I was heartbroken that night.

Within a short period of time I became more philosophical. What is good in these
difficult times is that all my old team are now fully employed, doing jobs they
enjoy, so it worked out for everybody in the end. I spent the Saturday after the
election catching up on sleep and coming to terms with the result.

On Sunday I looked at the classified ads in the Times, thinking that I had to be
positive. I saw the Director of Birthright post advertised and immediately felt
that this was just the job for me.

The Currie explosion

Birmingham MP Peter Snape went head-to-head with Edwina Currie on Central TV
during the election, but got more than he bargained for when she couldn't
restrain her frustrated anger after the show.

Edwina Currie and I were on a programme for Central TV, as part of their
election coverage, and she hadn't exactly overpowered the studio audience. I
think she was quite worried at the time - the opinion polls were showing that
the gap between her and the Labour candidate was closing fast.

There's always been ill-feeling between us, because we're both MPs in the
Central TV transmission area and they're always putting us on political
programmes together.

We were in the entertainment suite afterwards. Everyone else was sat at the
other end of the room, watching TV, but we were stood at the table with the cold
buffet and drinks on it. I said to her that if she was defeated at the election,
she shouldn't imagine that the joy would be confined to the Labour benches, and
that there were plenty of people in her own party who hated her just as much as
we did.

I was turning away when she picked up this carafe of orange juice, about a pint,
and threw it over my head and shoulders. I can't remember the expression on her
face. She put the carafe down, and I just walked away. I thought the behaviour
so absolutely typical of her. In the dressing room, someone who saw the incident
brought me a towel and I dried myself as best I could and drove home.

If she had been a man, she'd be minus a couple of front teeth. She was very
close to ending up in that great Central Office in the sky. Still, at least I've
never had to appear on television with her again.

Bomber Harris

Robert Blackley is a veteran of Bomber Command. He watched the Bomber Harris
statue being unveiled.

Shortly after the service in St Clement Danes Church, London, the Queen Mother
came out into the Strand to unveil the statue. There was already a bit of a
demonstration, but no more than had been expected. Most of the people there,
probably a couple of thousand, were entirely unaffected by it all.

However, just as the Queen Mother started her speech, two different groups of
people started shouting: "Murderer, mass murderer". She hesitated a little, as
if she were trying to concentrate, but the demonstrators were too far back
(about 20 yards from the statue) to be able to stop anything - even the RAF
band.

The whole episode lasted only about five minutes. The police were pretty active
and did a very good job in subduing the troublemakers.

Unfortunately, as some of them were being led away, one man managed to spray red
paint or dye over part of the crowd. Even though it caught my face, clothes and
medals, it didn't spoil the day. I was there out of respect for Sir Arthur
Harris.

Green party exodus

The membership of the Green Party - which reached 19,000 after it captured 15
per cent of the vote in the 1990 European elections - has slipped back to around
8,000 - the 1987 level. Its leader, Sara Parkin, and five of its 11-strong
executive stood down within the last four months

I resigned because I felt that the Green Party had become a liability to Green
politics. Our electoral system requires a highly efficient Green Party, which
not only gives voters confidence, but which can work in conjunction with the
activities of the pressure groups. The Green Party was no longer fulfiling that
role. In fact, it was so far away from doing so, that it was causing more harm
than good.

The decision to stand down was something I had been considering since before the
last European elections in 1990. We did so well on that occasion, however, that
suddenly the Party - and myself in particular - were very much in the public
eye. To leave then would have caused too much damage.

Instead, I watched with dismay as we persistently failed to capitalise on that
success. Finally, after an enormous amount of heart-searching and discussions
with friends both in and outside the Party, I handed in my resignation.

By that time, most of the pain was already over. I felt more relief than
anything else. 80-90 per cent of my work had become terribly unpleasant. People
kept writing to me to express their disappointment with the Party and I could no
longer pretend that joining wasn't a waste of their money and effort.

On a national level, it was an easy decision to make. What I regret is the harm
that I caused to some of the extremely good local parties, whose

leaders and councillors I still greatly respect.

Black Wednesday

On September 16, Black Wednesday, sterling came under intolerable pressure on
the foreign exchange markets. By the end of a day in which the Chancellor had
raised interest rates twice, the Government was forced to abandon the European
Exchange Rate Mechanism and let the pound float. David Simmonds, chief economist
at Midland Bank, recalls the day in the forex market.

Black Wednesday was a curious day. Because of the sheer volume of business, it
was also the most hectic day anyone can ever have spent in a dealing room
anywhere. You knew that you were taking part in something that had never
happened before.

As an economist, it's my job to be down on the floor. That day however, I was
being filmed at work by an ITN crew. Not that it felt as if we were doing any
work. There was nothing routine - nobody really knew what was going to happen
next.

It was mad, extremely hectic, everyone was standing up. At times, dealing just
stopped. It was hard to get prices on anything, there was a great deal of
uncertainty. Some people panicked.

There had been signs - the Italian devaluation on the Sunday, the fall in German
interest rates on the Monday - but the sheer speed combined with the
unprecedented amount of activity could not have been anticipated.

Even the big devaluation in 1967 was not as unexpected. Apparently people had
seen that one coming all summer. It really was a unique event, and now that
we've come out of the Exchange Rate Mechanism, it can't ever happen again.

Channel 4 in court

Ben Hamilton was the researcher on Box Productions' Dispatches documentary for
Channel 4, which alleged collusion between members of the security forces and
loyalist terrorists in Northern Ireland.

This year for me just got better and better. It began with the threat of the
sequestration of assets of both Box Productions and Channel 4, as well as
possible individual prosecutions under the Prevention Of Terrorism Act.

By the summer, Lord Justice Woolf had ruled that no further prosecutions could
be made against us under the Act. It was a great outcome for me, but not so good
for any future productions exposing government wrongdoing where confidential
sources are involved.

After the ruling, certain people (particularly the Sunday papers) tried to
denigrate the programme. They came up with nothing that caused any real concern,
just some half-truths and ambiguous statements. It damaged their credibility
more than ours.

Then suddenly, and for entirely bogus reasons, I found myself arrested for
perjury - a stunt which spectacularly backfired on the people who orchestrated
it. I was frightened, shaken, confused. I couldn't believe it was happening.
Most of all, though, I was frustrated because I had better things to do.

Of course, the effects of the programme were not what we had planned. Nobody
wanted to end up in court. We wanted a fair and serious investigation of the
information we had uncovered.

I hope that what we have done will give other broadcasters more confidence to
tackle sensitive subjects and get the right answer. We must be allowed to ask
what the authorities are up to.

I certainly haven't been intimidated by events. In fact, I feel even more
determined and look forward to my next opportunity to bring a sensitive issue
into the public domain.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:52:10

